Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Stuart Davidson — Head-Business Development & Investor Relations, Centamin Plc
Pierre Louw — Chief Financial Officer, Centamin Plc
Andrew Pardey — Chief Operating Officer, Centamin Plc
Brock P. Salier — Analyst, GMP Securities Europe LLP
Cailey W. Barker — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Stephanie Bothwell — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International (United Kingdom)
Yen Yee Voo — Analyst, Nomura International Plc
Bart Jaworski — Analyst, J&E Davy

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Centamin Q3 Results Conference Call. Throughout the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode and afterwards there will be a question-and-answer session. Just to remind you, this conference call is being recorded.

And today, I am pleased to present Andy Davidson. Please begin your meeting.

Thanks very much. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. I have Andrew Pardey, Chief Operating Officer; and Pierre Louw, Chief Financial Officer also on the line from Egypt. And I'd just give a brief overview and then Q&A. But apologies if you can hear ringing in the background. It's the fire alarm test system that's playing up this morning. We'll try and get it stopped. Apologies if that distracts anybody.

So, Q3 gold production was up 15% on the second quarter to 93,624 ounces. And we saw in the quarter really three drivers. Firstly, both open pit and underground grades improving steadily through the quarter. And secondly, mining rates from both the open pit and underground as well setting another record on both fronts. And thirdly, the ramp up in the expanded plant continuing well with a record quarterly throughput and nameplate capacity achieved in September, and that was just four months after commissioning began in May.

Of course, you would've seen last week subsequent to the quarter end, we've revised our full year 2014 production guidance to 370,000 to 380,000 ounces. Despite the strong exit rate from the third quarter, we saw lower than expected plant productivity in October and also in the areas of the underground mine that are currently underdeveloped and we encountered some locally complex structures which offset some of the high-grade ore mineralization so we're starting where that was coming through at the end of the third quarter.

As a result of that, we have reduced our expected fourth quarter grade from the development ore in those areas. However, despite those short-term impacts, I think it's important to note some significant positive development. Firstly, despite the reduced forecast, the Q4 expected productivity levels imply output at the full, the expansion, post-expansion rate, the target rate of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces per annum.

And as Josef noted today in the release, in his comments, [indiscernible] (02:33) have occurred so soon after commissioning activities started in the second quarter represents really a solid achievement for the operations. So I think that shouldn't be overlooked.

And secondly, on the exploration front, we've had further positive results from the Sukari underground drilling which I've noted on page 6 of today's result. And that follows on from the results that we announced from the first half drilling program in the interim results.

And these results really continue to lend further support to our expectation of continued growth of the resource to reserve mine life and our confidence really in the underground mine – the ability of the mine to sustain higher-grade ore delivery to the plant over the medium and longer term. So I think that sort of points towards the stability of the operation over the medium and longer term.

Thirdly, I referred to the positive development recently and as foreshadowed really in previous announcements, the government approval was received recently for the required increase in ammonium nitrate usage for the open pit. And that allows us to scale up material movements from the open pit towards the planned levels for the expanded operation and, therefore, puts the operation as a whole on a secure footing going forward.

So, with that said, I'm getting back to the Q3 results. And cash cost of production in Q3 was $771 an ounce which is down slightly on the second quarter. The cost to-date and further expected productivity gains in the fourth quarter means we've been able to retain our $700 an ounce full-year cost guidance despite the downward revisions for the full-year production number. So, that's another positive we feel. Obviously, the fourth quarter cash cost will be substantially better than the third quarter.

The third quarter basic earnings per share were $1.39, which is up 40% on the second quarter. The cash flow generation remained strong. EBITDA, just under $38 million in the quarter which is up 16% on the second quarter, and cash from operations at $31 million, which is up from $20 million in the second quarter.

So, there remains strong potential for further growth in Sukari. And as it was noted in the second quarter, the capital-intensive phase of this growth has now largely been complete, and we're looking towards free cash flow generation commencing in the second half. I think you're starting to see that come through. Obviously, we're expecting it to come through to a greater extent as we go forward. But in the third quarter, we had in an increase in our cash, and liquid assets total to $140 million at the end of September from $133 million at the end of June.

And also, really, in recognition of the transition out of the investment phase, the operation capital-intensive phase, and the move towards free cash flow, the board declared an interim result, as you recall, and made an interim dividend of $10 million or $0.87 a share. And this was paid out in early October.

So, I think that will do as a wrap, a summary. And I'll hand that over now, operator, please, for any questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from the line of Brock Salier from GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good morning, Andy. The first question comes on those undergrounds drill results. I saw there was sort of anywhere from 30 to 200 meters under the current development. How long do you expect the turnaround before areas that far from current development are actually coming out into the production?

Hi, Brock. Thanks for that. Maybe one for Andrew or definitely one for Andrew. Andrew?

<A – [07BDDB-E Andrew Pardey]: Look, some of those results are, I'd say, months away from where development will go through those areas. They vary in areas sort of three months out from development schedule out through to 18-plus months.

Perfect. Thanks very much. And Andy, you've already mentioned the 4Q costs, obviously implicit to your guidance coming in under $700. Can you comment, now the expansion is splitting down, what is the potential for cash cost to be sustainably under $700 going forward in the medium to long term?

Well, maybe I'll make it a brief comment then maybe Pierre can elaborate. But I think our initial target is 450,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces per annum. Obviously, you know very well and you're very bullish on our production profile, our outlook beyond that as we continue to optimize the project going forward but that's sort of an objective for the medium term, really.

So, I think with the 450,000 to 500,000 ounces per annum in mind, $700 is a good number to use for the life of the operation looking forward [indiscernible] (08:09) the foreseeable as a sort of ballpark figure. Obviously, we're working through the budget process and the guidance process for next year. So, we'll have more to say on 2015 guidance in a few months' time. So, that's probably all we can say on that at the moment really.

But, Pierre, maybe there's something you can add to that?

I think, yes, just looking at the Stage 4 process plant [indiscernible] (08:35) down now and we're getting to understand the process plant and the cost associated with it, I think I'm more and more comfortable with [indiscernible] (08:43)

Thank you very much.

Yes. I think as well, Brock, look on a per-tonne basis, the Q3 versus Q4 and you're seeing some – I think when you work the numbers through, you're seeing some productivity where efficiency, cost efficiency increases on Q2. The dollar per tonne costs on mining and processing both came down on the second quarter. So I think broadly with – that's the trend we'd expect to continue.

Understood. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brock. Okay, any other further questions? Operator, are you there? Sorry. Operator, are you there? Call for any other questions, yes? Right. Okay.

Do I need to ask you a question, Andy?

Yeah. Where's the operator for the questions? Okay, right. I'm guessing we either have a technical problem or there really are no further questions, so I guess we'll just sit and wait for a while.

I'm just [ph] phoning the accounting (11:50) to see if there is a problem.

Apologies for the delay, everyone. We have been disconnected. However, our next question comes from the line of Cailey Barker from Numis. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, Andy, about the wait.

Hi, Cailey.

Just a question – a couple questions. One is just going back to the costs in – that we're going to expect in Q4. I mean, for you to get under the sort of $700, that would imply that the strip ratios are going to remain low. Is that a fair assumption and presume that, say, your stripping will increase more like next year than this quarter.

Andrew?

Yes, that is correct. The pit's down in the lower stages, as people would have seen from the site visit. So a very low strip ratio for the remainder of this year.

Okay. Thanks. And Andrew, what could we expect for strip ratio-wise now for next year?

Next year, you're going – the next year strip ratio with the CapEx frequency, that strip ratio would be around 4.5:1 to 5.5:1.

Lovely. Thank you. And then, just my sort of second question was on – in terms of the underground. Obviously, grade, you hope to get back up to that sort of 8.5 grams per tonne level. What about throughput, I mean, productivity level. So are you hoping to sort of sustain this sort of 250,000-tonnes-a-quarter type level and through into next year?

Underground production. Yes. We're expecting to maintain those sort of tonnages coming out from the underground.

Great. Lovely. That was all for me. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Cailey.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Vikas Chaudhary (14:43). Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Morning, gentlemen. First of all, I'm really disappointed in the sense that EBIT guidance for production, as you may recall at the half-yearly conference, I did raise some questions, you know, how realistic it was. I mean, it is very positive that we are expanding, but I would actually hope the management is a bit more realistic with their ambitions. I mean, the way the share price is now is just a reflection of where the things are. And just to build on that, again, looking at this, this cost guidance is at $700. So far, that is roughly 10% above what the guidance is. So is there something the management would be actually looking at perhaps to revise?

No. Look, just to your first point, there's never a good time, obviously, to downgrade guidance. And really, the first point to make, I suppose in relation to the timing of this is we did have a strong exit rate from the third quarter. The productivity levels as we left the quarter in end of September beginning of October were strong on all fronts, as we've noticed. And you can see the average sort of numbers in the comments I made earlier.

So really, we felt at that time, that's four to six weeks ago, there's a good realistic chances of closing it on guidance. So that was the thought process then, obviously, things have changed through October and that's the reason for our change in expectation.

With regard to costs, obviously, we've got productivity gains in the fourth quarter. We had a strong uptake implied in the fourth quarter and in terms of ounces produced. And that's obviously going to translate through to the cost per ounce as well. And together with the efficiency gains, they are coming through, a part of the ramp-up in the operation, sort of the efficiencies of scale, if you like, then that's going to bring costs we expect back into line with the $700 an ounce for the full year. They're somewhat back-end weighted for the fourth quarter, but as is production and it should come out. And it says – as we say, there's no change to our $700 an ounce full-year expectation for those reasons.

Right. Well, I mean, again, it remains to be seen. I mean, the lowest you have achieved in the year, it was in the first quarter, I believe, that was $693-odd. But, as said, that remains to be seen. Well, my other quick question is looking at my notes, I believe at the half-yearly conference, that the whole force of the court case may be concluded by March or April next year. But looking at the language now, I mean, are you envisaging it may take much longer than that now? if you make a comment on that please?

I don't think we've already given a date such as that; March, April. The fact of the matter is we've never had a time line. We've never had a timetable, I should say, for the court process. And we've always alluded to the fact that there's potential for the court process to be lengthy, and we've done that since the start of the appeal process the beginning of last year.

It clearly is lengthy; it clearly is a bureaucratic process. We remain of the view very strongly that we expect a positive outcome. We continue to enjoy the full support of government. We continue to operate. We have done through the whole process. We continue to believe that the court case is a distraction. I understand the effects on the share price and the headline risk to it. And we would like it resolved as well, as soon as possible. But as I've said, we've not been to give guidance on – specific guidance on timing of when the court process is likely to be resolved. That remains the case.

I appreciate that. I mean, one can never gives solutional guidance or solutional deadline in court matters. But I recall very clearly the whole force that it may get concluded. There may be a hearing in about March or April to conclude the matter. But just looking at the language, I mean, are we expecting that it may take much longer in the foreseeable future? That's all I'm trying to ask.

As I said, there's no change to our expectation of the fact that we haven't put a timetable, can't guide on timing. So there's been change to that.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (19:24) from Schroder. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Hi, Andy. Thank you for taking the call.

Hi there.

I was wondering if you can give us briefly an outlook on gold prices, where do you think they should bottom and where is the marginal cost producer operating at right now?

I'm sorry. I would love to give you an outlook on the gold price that you could depend on or hold anymore weight, versus any other forecast you might see but...

Just maybe your thoughts would be appreciated.

I'm sorry. I didn't catch that last bit.

Just your thoughts would be appreciated. Just very briefly.

Well, very briefly on the long-term – very briefly, medium and long term; bullish. But I have no idea what it's going to do in the next few months.

Thank you. And what about the marginal producer, where do you think is their gold price is assumed at?

Again, I don't think really it's our place to comment on – in this kind of forum on our peer group. It's really a call for our results. So probably the question better directed, in any case, to some of the analysts out there that covered the peer groups. But I think just generally...

Okay.

We are in a very competitive cost position. We do focus very strongly on costs. We believe we're very much in the lower half of the peer group, and we'll remain there. We have an expectation for $700 an ounce of cash operating cost going forward. And when you translate that to an all-in, sort of, basis, I'd say we're in ballpark of $900 an ounce to $950 an ounce in the worst-case scenario for that going forward.

Essentially the worst-case scenario being base case production forecast noting that we have upside potential beyond that. But if an ounce is produced and therefore on cost per ounce but that's all to be delivered in the future. But I think on the current forecast, we are in a very competitive cost position.

Okay. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Stephanie Bothwell from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for taking the call. Two very quick, hopefully, financial-related questions from me, in the third quarter, you made $4.8 million in advance payment for the government. And can you give us an indication of what you expect for the rest of 2014?

And then secondly on the exploration expenditure, can you just confirm to us what you intend to spend on exploration for 2014? And in light of the current weakness in the gold price, on how you expect the exploration expenditure to sort of trend as we go into next year? Thanks.

Hi, Stephanie. I'll just deal with that last bit, actually because it's more sort of longer term. And Pierre can talk about the numbers in more detail. But I think just generally, there's no change to our exploration strategy going forward, either in Egypt with Sukari, which is very focused on the underground drilling, which is delivering significant returns to the exploration dollar spend in terms of further potential for high-grade additions to the resource reserve there – resource reserve base. Sorry.

And then also outside of Egypt, the main focus is Burkina Faso and we're pushing ahead there because we believe very strongly as we did when we acquired Ampella earlier this year. There is significant geological potential there. And short-term changes in the gold price in the interim haven't changed that outlook or our strategy or reasons or ability to continue to fund that.

But Pierre, perhaps you could talk a bit more about the actual sort of expenditure levels this year and next.

I think we've always been looking at spending around – difficult to say this, around $20 million in a year, an exploration around that region depending on what we find. And I don't think we will change it at this point. We will keep being bullish on exploration and spend the money to see if we can extend ore bodies.

Okay. Thanks. And then on the advanced payments, should we anticipate any further payments in the fourth quarter?

Go on, Pierre, sorry. I was just going to say that no decision has been made in that respect. But Pierre, perhaps you...

We haven't any – entered any discussion at this point with government at all. So, there's no question about that at the moment.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And perhaps just one follow-up on I think the point that Andy made earlier. So the $900 and $950 all-in, which I think that you talked about for base case production, just to confirm, is that on the 450,000 ounces to 500,000 ounces, that being the base case?

Yes. Stephanie, that's just really working through our disclosure that we had for sometime in the presentations and looking forward. You'll recall in our presentations, we've had that forward-looking CapEx guidance of $80 million to $100 million per annum when we were in the sort of steady state for the next year onwards, i.e. once we got through all of the expansion CapEx, as we have done now, really.

So, the 0.5 million ounces, that translate to $160 million to $200 million an ounce, a bit more ahead of SG&A and you're up at around $900 an ounce on top of it, the $700 cash operating cost and including the royalty, of course, [indiscernible] (25:42) So, I think in the region of $900, slightly above, but $950 might be a bit high even. But on that basis, yes, that's just working through the numbers that we can disclose. We don't disclose [indiscernible] (25:55)

Okay. I'm sorry. Just one very quick follow-up. Just remind me what percentage of your cost base is derived from oil, so energy cost.

Pierre? Pierre, did you catch that question?

Yes. I reckon we've been spending about 25% of our cost on energy.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much. [indiscernible]

(26:23) Okay.

Thanks, Stephanie.

Thanks a lot. Bye.

Our next question comes from the line of Yen Voo from Nomura. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Just two questions. First one is with now that Juneau Mine is suffering from current weakness in gold price and Centamin's free cash flow coming in next year, are you looking to more M&A opportunities? And secondly, on the current civil unrest at Burkina Faso, do you expect to see any difficulties in the licensing at the Batie West gold exploration? Thank you.

Hi, Yen. Just on – I mean on the M&A front, we're always looking at that. We're always reviewing. We're always looking at potential opportunities. We've got nothing imminent. No sort of – nothing that we would point to as suggesting we might do anything in the very short term. But we continue to look and do due diligence where necessary.

Okay.

Yes. Andrew, maybe some comments on the Burkina Faso?

We've got ongoing exploration. Hello?

Sorry. Go ahead.

Well, we can assess that we've got that big land holding there and we're systematically going through the process of exploring that. And we're also – we are on the outlook for other opportunities should the right thing to come up.

You mentioned that there would be a resource update in due course. Is that in the matter of months or are we looking to end of first half next year?

We're in no rush to do a resource update. We're focusing on the drilling and expanding on what we already have.

Okay. And so back on my question on the civil unrest at Burkina, you wouldn't see something similar that has happened in Egypt for Batie West?

Well, the small issue that happened in Burkina Faso, we saw no problems at all. The operation, we kept drilling down on-site and field. And all our usual supplies are still travelling to sites. And we saw no issues at all.

Okay. So far, so good. Fingers crossed. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Bart Jaworski from Davy. Please go ahead with your question. Your line is now open.

Morning, guys.

Morning, Bart.

First question on the October throughput rates that were a little bit lower than expected. Can you just give us a color why that occurred and did that correct in what you've seen so far in November?

Look in October, we've made a decision early October, we're going to reline the new SAG mill with a different set of liners. And so, we went ahead and we did that reline. And we didn't see the expected ramp-up that we were really hoping for with those liners. That's really what it was. It took us longer to get them settled down than what we were expecting.

Okay. Great. And I guess, given the Q3 lower underground grades than you guys were initially expecting, has that impacted your longer-term forecast for what you can get in terms of grades for the sort of medium to long term? And maybe if you can comment on the actual numbers you're expecting for, say, next year?

No. It's not going to really impact longer term what we've seen locally on the development levels [indiscernible] (30:20) We didn't see the grades that we expected from the drilling we've done in front. And it was basically, it's been a geologically complex area, more so than what we've seen in the other areas when we've gone through doing developments.

Okay. So, no change to that?

No.

Okay. I guess, just getting back to the Q4 cost question. Just back calculating things, it looks like if you're assuming 120,000 ounces, say, for next quarter, your cash costs would have to be sort of sub-$600, and is that realistic? First, am I sort of on the right track there? And secondly, is that driven by just purely low strip?

Yes. It's driven basically by the mining rates, yes, so the low stripping. And you would be looking – you're right with your calculations. You will be looking at approximately $70 million cost for the quarter.

Sorry, I didn't hear the last part there.

You would be looking at around about $70 million for the quarter.

Okay. Great. And Andy, the dividend in – the final dividend, when can we expect an announcement on that or is that still forthcoming?

Well, we hope to say more about that in the annual results.

Okay. And then lastly on the October 7 date that kind of came and went on the court case because of the holidays, was there a new date set for the next court case or maybe I missed that?

There was. It's in February. But we don't make any – again, it's a process. It's another hearing in the process, and that's for next year, and we're not expecting a resolution on that date [indiscernible] (32:14)

Okay. So February, do you have a date?

25th. 25th.

February 25 as the next one and then you expect at least another one after that?

As I said, we haven't been – it hasn't been stated that our next hearing will be held for a judgment, so as we've been with the previous hearing.

Yes. Got you. Okay. That's all for me. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Bart.

As there are no further questions, I will turn the conference back to you for the final comments.

Thanks very much and thanks very much, everyone, for joining us on the call and for your questions. And we look forward to speaking to you next time. Thanks a lot.

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your lines.