corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the CIRCOR International’s Second


Quarter 2007 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being rerecorded. At this time, all


participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will open to questions following the


presentation.


I will now turn the call over to your host, Mr. Dan [inaudible] from the Company’s Investor Relations


firm. Please go ahead, sir.


Company Representative


Thank you very much Kim, and good morning everyone. Welcome to CIRCOR International’s


second quarter 2007 earnings call. Our objectives today are to review the company’s recent


performance and provide an updated outlook on the full year 2007 with David Bloss, the Chairman


and CEO of CIRCOR; Bill Higgins, the company’s President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ken


Smith, its Chief Financial Officer. After their comments, we will go to the question and answers


session.


Before we start two administrative items; first, the slides we will be referring to you on today’s call


are available on CIRCOR’s website circor.com, under the link quarterly earnings on the Investors


page. Second, today’s discussion contains forward-looking statements that identify our future


expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and


other factors. For a full discussion of these risk factors, we advise you to read about them in the


company’s Form 10-K, which also can be viewed on the company’s website. Of course, actual


results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied from today’s remarks.


Now, let me now turn the call over to CIRCOR’s Chairman Mr. David Bloss.


David A. Bloss, Sr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dan. Good morning everyone. It’s certainly nice to report another quarter of record


results. EPS was $0.63 excluding special charges, up 58% year-over-year. Revenues were 166


million, up 15% over last year. Orders increased 18% over last year and backlogs ended at 374


million, up 28%.


Market conditions are generally strong across the board, allowing us to raise our expectations for


the second half. The energy markets remain very active, although order patterns in the North


American markets are being affected by wet weather conditions in places like Texas, Oklahoma


and Kansas. High dayrates are happening for rigs in Western Canada and distribution inventory


levels which are catching up to demand but in spite of this, the fundamentals remained strong and


the international project activity is healthy. And our aerospace, steam, and general process


instrumentation markets are trending up steadily.


Our earnings performance was led by a great mix of product shipments within our Energy segment


and the improved productivity of our operations in Oklahoma City, China and Italy. In the


Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Control segment we’re showing an up tick in operating results,


partly due to favorable sales volume and mix, the rest due to what I call a stabilization of our


manufacturing processes. We still have a lot of work ahead of us to get our performance where we


believe it should be. Bill will fill you in with more details later, but I can tell you that we have a lot of


talented people working extremely hard refining and revising our operational processes. A lot of


these people who are new to our organization, and have come to us because of our commitment to


operational excellence. Others have been with us a long time and they have been willing learn new
corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


ways of identifying and solving issues that have been around even longer. While it’s way too early


to claim victory, I can tell you that I have never been more confident in our business leaders and


their teams to get the job done and take us to a new level of performance, first in the eyes of our


customer and then ultimately in the eyes of our shareholders.


Now, I’ll let Ken and Bill take you through the details, then we’ll answer some questions after that.


Kenneth W. Smith, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks David and I’ll be referring to our presentation slides starting with slide number 3, which


shows the consolidated results for CIRCOR. And as David stated we had a very good quarter with


record levels in quarterly orders, earnings and then in backlog. We had double-digit growth in both


revenues and earnings showing significant margin expansion. For the quarter, the revenue


increase was led by our Energy Products followed by Aerospace and Thermal Fluid products each


benefiting from higher volume and price realization. Regarding operating income, we had very


good margin expansion particularly on Energy Products segment which drove the majority of the


improvement. Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Products had a quarterly improvement compared


to Q2 2006 excluding this year’s special charge for plant closing and while not shown in the slide it


also had a higher net margin this quarter compared to Q1 2007.


Regarding diluted earnings per share, we had significant double-digit increases compared to the


2006 periods and this quarter’s result excluding special charges was $0.07 over the top end of our


guidance that we provided in our May 2nd 2007 earnings call principally due to the timing of higher


than expected project related shipments. And free cash flow was positive this quarter and was the


direct result of increases in our profitability compared with the periods in 2006.


And I’ll now turn to slide number 4, which details the P&L in a bit more detail. Bill will discuss the


significant rise in the segments operating income in later slides, so I’ll add color in the other larger


categories of special charges, corporate expense, interest expense, non-operating expenses and


income tax.


First special charges, we had no special charges in 2006 periods however in 2007, the special


charges related to our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Products segment closing a small US


plant in Connecticut that manufactures components in its Hoke product line.


In Q1, we recorded severance in certain related cost and in Q2 we recorded the related facility


closing costs as we vacated the property and that facility closing is but one result of our actions to


raise the operating margin of the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Products segment. Second


regarding corporate expenses, we increased a bit essentially all the increase in 2007 periods were


related to corporate development costs directed at potential acquisitions. Regarding interest


expense, it was lower than 2007 period for two reasons. First, we paid off in October 2006, the


fixed rate debt which carried an 8 1/4% coupon and secondly, we paid down a good portion of our


revolving credit line during the second quarter of 2007.


The non-operating expense was largely recognized and unrecognized net losses on certain inner


company transactions as foreign currencies became stronger during 2007. And regarding income


taxes, the slide shows a larger increase for the quarter and year-to-date period. We earned a lot


more and thus incurred higher tax expense in 2007 and our tax rate for the full year 2007 is


expected to be 32% which is also the rate that we use in the first half of 2006 and the 32% tax rate


for the full year ‘07 is an increase from the full year ‘06 when the rate was 30.6% and this increase


in ‘07 reflects the loss of a US tax deduction for export sales that expired at the end of 2006 for all


US tax payers.