raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for standing by and welcome to today's CIRCOR International third quarter


earnings release results conference call. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Bert Hem [ph] from the company's investor relations firm. Mr. Hem [ph],


please go ahead.


Company Representative


Thank you very much and good morning everyone. Welcome to our third quarter earnings call.


Our objectives today are to review the company's recent performance and provide an updated


outlook on the remainder of 2005, with David Bloss the Chairman and CEO of CIRCOR, Ken Smith,


the company's Chief Financial Officer and Bill Higgins, the company's Executive Vice President and


Chief Operating Officer. After their comments, we'll then go to Q&A.


Before we start, two administrative items. First, the slides that we will be referring to today are


available on CIRCOR's website at www.circor.com under the link "Quarterly Earnings" from the


investors page. Second, today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that identify our


future expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties


and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors, we advise you to read about them in the


company's 2004 Form 10-K, which also can be viewed on the company's website. Of course,


actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the company's remarks.


Let me now turn the call over to CIRCOR's Chairman, David Bloss.


David Bloss, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you and good morning everyone. Let begin by giving you the headlines of our quarter,


which was mixed, but overall we felt was a fairly good one. EPS was at 27 cents a share, versus


21 cents a share last year, up 29%. On a year-to-date basis, EPS at 97 cents, versus 73 or a 33%


improvement. Revenues are about 109 million, up 22% for the quarter. Year-to-date, up 20%. Our


incoming orders and market share shows continued strength almost across the board in basically


all of our markets, with total orders up 18%, backlog at the end of the quarter, 30% versus last year.


Without acquisitions, these numbers are still up nicely, with incoming orders of base business up


13% and backlog's up 9%.


Our business units operating margin was up 40 basis points overall to 9.8%, but there's two


different stories to be told here and we'll get into that. It was lead by our Energy segment, which


was up 320 basis points, that's 10.4%, which included 80 basis points for special charges. These


results were obviously on strong volume and better pricing in the marketplace.


Obviously you noted that our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Control segment didn't perform as


well. Here its operating margins fell about 1.5 to 9.3% as a result of a number of factors, which Ken


and Bill and I will get into on the details, but a big portion came from 3 basic areas. One is the raw


material costs and availability. They continued to cut into our profits in spite of our price increases


and we've implemented more and I'll tell you about those. Number two was the cost of


implementing our lean initiative. This segment has more factories and therefore more work that's


being done in these locations to change our operating systems. And number three, we lost some


absorption from the inventory reduction that occurred during the quarter, which the majority came


from this group of businesses. And as you know, the inventory reduction is a big part of our near-


term strategy to reduce our inventories and improve our performance in that regard.
raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


These costs will continue for awhile until we get the flow of our factories realigned on a lean basis


and our inventories down where they need to be. We're going to do some significant structural


changes in how we operate, basically overhauling our operations. We believe that this will make us


a better supplier to our customers, more efficient and more possible business going forward. So


we feel strongly that we're doing the right thing. From a market standpoint, our primary markets


should continue to be in good shape as we enter 2006.


Now on the acquisition front, at the start of our fourth quarter '05 we closed one transaction, which


we announced, Industria. We have paid $10 million for an aerospace business, with 14 million in


revenues. The price was about 7.2 times EBITDA. The deal provides us with an extension of our


existing soldevard [ph] product line for the U.S. markets and it also gives us a better entry into the


European commercial military aircraft platforms; and in particular, Airbus. And we continue to look


at a number of other acquisition opportunities, which are out there, and hopefully the other


announcements will be on their way soon.


Let's get into the VPLs and for that, I'll turn it over to Ken and Bill who will go through that with you.


Ken?


Kenneth Smith, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Treasurer


Thanks, David, and I'll start with Slide Number 3. And this slide is on a U.S. GAAP basis. We had


a very nice double-digit growth in both earnings and revenues and for the quarter and 9 months


compared to the same period last year. As David noted, our Energy segment again lead the


revenue and earnings growth with significant shipment volume to large international projects.


Notably in the Middle East or acquisition of Mallard Controls in late April 2004 and of Loud


Engineering in January of 2005 also contributed to our results. In nearly all our other business


units turned in higher revenues as many of their markets continued to be healthy including the


general industrial markets. Overall, profitability significantly increased benefiting from the factors


listed on the slide. On the two acquisitions of Loud and Mallard have been accretive.


On free cash flow it's been reasonably good thus far in 2005 despite the working capital demands


of fulfilling higher customer order levels. And in the CapEx numbers, spending 6 million for two


new facilities and we will discuss cash flow more when we get to slide 5.


Now turning to slide number 4 which details the P&L, since Bill will dissect the segment


performance in later slides, I want to make note on this slide of special charges, corporate


expenses and income taxes.


First the special charge categories used by up [ph] to classify the incremental cost for closing and


moving facilities. The 2005 cost relate to the down-sizing of our SART business in France and in


closing and moving two small U.S. plants. The two U.S. plants are our Mallard Controls business


that we purchased in 2004. We are in the midst of moving that production from Texas to our KF


business in Oklahoma and will be completed in Q4 2005. The 2004 special charges relate to the


sale of a Texas warehouse used by our Energy Product Site.


Regarding corporate expenses, the Q3 change of $1 million above the same period a year ago


included 300,000 for Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 and audit fees. 300,000 for variable


compensation and another 300,000 for targeted consulting projects including income tax planning.


The year to date corporate increase of $3 million came from a $1.3 million increase in Sarbanes


404 and audit fees. One million for variable and stock based compensation, plus the consulting


projects that we're using to improve the company.


In income taxes we did reduce our effective tax rate by one percentage point to 34% for the year-


to-date 2005 period. We expect that we'll have more domestic tax credits this year and therefore