Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David C. Calusdian — Executive Vice President and Partner, Sharon Merrill
Scott A. Buckhout — President & Chief Executive Officer, CIRCOR International, Inc.
Rajeev Bhalla — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, CIRCOR International, Inc.
John E. Franzreb — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Jim V. Foung — Analyst, G.research, Inc.
Nathan H. Jones — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Matt J. Summerville — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Nicholas V. Prendergast — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Patrick Trucchio — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the CIRCOR International's First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call will be recorded. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for questions and comments after prepared remarks [Operator Instructions]

I'll now turn the call over to Mr. David Calusdian from Sharon Merrill for opening remarks and introductions. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and good morning everyone. On the call today is Scott Buckhout, CIRCOR's President and CEO; and Rajeev Bhalla, the company's Chief Financial Officer. The slides we'll be referring to today are available on CIRCOR's website at www.circor.com on the Webcast and Presentation section of the Investors link.

Please turn to slide two. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that identify future expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors, the company advises you to review CIRCOR's Form 10-K for 2013 and other SEC filings. The company's filings are available on its website at circor.com. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by today's remarks. Any forward-looking statements only represent the company's views as of today, April 22, 2014. While CIRCOR may choose to update these forward-looking statements at a later date, the company specifically disclaims any duty to do so.

On today's call, management will often refer to adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margins, adjusted net income, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow. These metrics exclude any pre-tax special recoveries and charges, restructuring inventory reserves, and intangible impairments. The reconciliation of CIRCOR's non-GAAP adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margins, adjusted net income, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow to the comparable GAAP measures are available in the financial tables of the earnings press release on CIRCOR's website.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Buckhout.

Thank you, David, and good morning everyone. We'd a strong start to the year with adjusted EPS up 50% to $0.78 including $0.03 of favorable FX. Our margin improvement initiatives continue to yield positive results. We increased our adjusted operating margins year-over-year by 230 basis points to 9.4%.

Revenues were up 3% over last year to $211 million. Our upstream large international project business showed strength in the quarter. Offshore platforms and FPSOs drove solid growth in our instrumentation and sampling business. We generated strong free cash flow of $14 million or 98% of net income, primarily resulting from margin improvement. As we've discussed in the past, a key driver of our margin expansion efforts is our ongoing simplification program. Restructuring programs in 2013 are largely complete, and on track to deliver annualized savings of $9 million with full run rate to begin in the second half of this year.

We're also focused on transforming CIRCOR into a growth company. As part of that transformation, we're investing approximately $7 million into accelerating organic growth. We're increasing the size of the sales force in growing markets, opening international sales offices in Brazil and Malaysia, and increasing our investment in new products. This investment in growth will be entirely funded by another restructuring program focused on reducing G&A, as well as closing three small facilities, one in North America and two in Europe.

Finally, last month we named Vince Sandoval as Group President, CIRCOR Aerospace & Defense. Vince joins us from TransDigm Group, where he was most recently the President of SIMCO, a division focused on the sale of electrical harnesses and sensors into the aerospace, commercial and military markets. Prior to TransDigm, Vince spent more than 20 years at Parker-Hannifin in roles of increasing responsibility. Vince brings a wealth of experience and improving operational performance in growing global aerospace businesses. We welcome Vince to the leadership team.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rajeev. I'll come back later to provide more detail on recent order trends and our guidance for the second quarter.

Thank you, Scott, and good morning everyone. We reviewed the results overall. So let's move right to the segments starting with energy on slide four.

Energy revenues of $163 million for the first quarter increased 3% year-over-year. As Scott mentioned, this was driven by growth in our upstream, large international projects business with continued strength in the North Sea, as well as growth in our instrumentation and sampling business. This growth was partially offset by a modest decline in the upstream North American short-cycle business, as distributors continued to reduce inventory levels early in the quarter. However, order rates did improve through the quarter, further supported by higher rig counts and more boots on the ground as we increased the size of our sales force.

Energy's adjusted operating margin was up 300 basis points to 13.8%, primarily due to increased volume, favorable product mix, productivity, as well as savings from restructuring. As I noted during our last earnings call, based on our backlog and booking expectations, we anticipate higher volume and improving margins in the second half of this year.

For the aerospace & defense segment, please turn to slide five. Aerospace & defense revenues increased 1% to $49 million from the prior year due to favorable foreign currency fluctuations. Organically, revenues were down 2% year-over-year in large part due to a decline in our French actuation business, partially offset by higher revenue from our defense businesses. This decline in France was a result of our decision to exit certain low margin built-to-print products, as well as a slower ramp up of new programs which were expected to replace declining legacy programs.

Aerospace & defense adjusted operating margin improved to 9.1% compared with 5.9% in the first quarter of last year, primarily due to restructuring savings. In addition, margins were up this quarter compared with the 8.4% in the fourth quarter last year as we put the incremental costs due to the supply [ph] part (06:42) behind us. However, we continued to work through some operational inefficiencies after the factory consolidations, and in launching our new landing gear programs, which will continue to put downward pressure on margins in the near-term.

Turn to slide six for selected P&L items. Our all-in tax rate for Q1 was 28.5%. Excluding the impact of special charges, the comparable tax rate was slightly lower at 27.9%. We expect our second quarter adjusted tax rate to be in the range of 26% to 27%, as we continue to profitably grow our businesses in emerging markets which helps to drive down our overall effective tax rate. Including the favorable FX impact, Q1 2014 adjusted earnings per diluted share was $0.78. This is a 50% increase compared with $0.52 in the prior year.

Slide seven shows a special adjustment that we recorded during the first quarter. These include a recovery of $2.2 million from a legal settlement, a net charge of $300,000 also related to a legal settlement, and $800,000 in costs related to restructuring actions announced in 2013. For Q2, we anticipate charges relating to restructuring actions to be in the range of $5 million to $6 million. As Scott mentioned earlier, we expect the actions announced today will result in approximately $7 million of additional annualized savings to be offset entirely by the investments in accelerating growth.

Turning to our cash flow and debt position on slide eight, Q1 was a good first quarter for cash flow. We continue to focus on working capital reduction to drive incremental cash into our business.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Scott to provide an update on our orders and guidance for the second quarter of 2014.

Thank you, Rajeev. Before I get into our guidance, let me start by providing you with an overview of our first quarter order intake as well as current market trends.

Let's start with energy. As a reminder, we compete in the upstream, midstream and downstream oil and gas markets, as well as power generation. Most of our revenue is in the upstream market today. And it's important to point out that approximately half of our revenue is project related which can lead to significant variation in order intake from one quarter to the next. For Q1, incoming orders were $160 million, down 8% versus last year. While activity in quoting remained strong, particularly in upstream and power, we had a number of large project orders in the North Sea and Brazil slide out of the quarter. We still expect to close on these orders. Market demand and pricing remain positive.

We saw improving demand in our upstream North American short-cycle business with orders up double-digit sequentially, although slightly down year-over-year. This trend is consistent with increasing rig counts in North America. As we discussed in our February call, we expect bookings in this business to improve in the second half of this year. Our first quarter performance gives us further confidence in this outlook.

Our instrumentation and sampling business continues to experience strong orders from upstream projects in Australia and the North Sea, as well as downstream pretrochem in the Middle East. Quoting activity in our power business, particularly for projects in emerging markets, remained strong. In addition, we believe our global MRO market share is increasing, driven by shorter lead times, better on-time delivery and a more effective mix of distribution partners.

In aerospace & defense, orders were down year-over-year to $40 million due primarily to our landing gear business which included the loss of the CH-47 program and the exit of certain unprofitable built-to-print product lines. Our French businesses saw lower year-over-year orders primarily driven by weak Asian demand from Airbus Helicopter. We expect a moderate increase in orders for the remainder of the year driven by a broad mix of aerospace products in the commercial markets. Domestic and foreign military orders including the Joint Strike Fighter Program and certain missile systems, such as the Hellfire and SM3 are also expected to grow.

That brings us to our guidance. We expect that second quarter revenue will be in the range of $220 million to $230 million. We expect to report adjusted EPS in the range of $0.88 to $0.94, which represents year-over-year growth of 9% to 16%.

Going forward, we will continue to focus on our top three priorities; growth, margin expansion, and strong free cash flow. We're looking forward to meeting many of you at our upcoming Investor Day on May 15 in New York City where we will discuss longer term targets for CIRCOR.

With that, Rajeev and I are available to take your question.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Franzreb with Sidoti & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Scott and [ph] Rajeev (12:24).

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, John.

I guess I want to start really with your new sales initiative. Do you have a specific targeted market that you're going after? You didn't really give us much color on if it's energy versus A&D. Can you just elaborate a little bit about the sales side of that initiative?

Sure. It's fairly broad, but I think that what I'll do is I'll outline the top three areas for you. As a general statement, we're not starting from zero in any of the areas that we're increasing our investment in sales. We're increasing our investment where we have seen and expect to continue seeing high activity. The three primary areas that we're going to invest from a sales force standpoint are Southeast Asia. It's EPC focused, it's oil and gas focused. We've been seeing a lot of activity, particularly, in large projects in Southeast Asia, and Asia broadly. And we think it makes sense to increase our footprint there.

I think it's important to understand that we're not just adding sales people. We're adding technical resources as well. So application engineers that partner and sit down with the EPCs and serve as advisors, upstream in the process of making a sale. So we talk broadly about adding sales. When we say that, we're including application engineers.

The second area is Brazil. I think, everybody knows how much money is being invested over the next 10 years in Brazil by Petrobras. We have an operation and existing facility in Brazil in Piracicaba. We don't have a presence in Rio, which is, say, the center of gravity for Petrobras engineering and procurement. So we will be – actually, we just opened an office in Brazil, and again we'll have a combination of technical and sales resources in Rio collocated there with the Petrobras engineering and procurement team.

The third area that we are increasing our investment is in North America. We have parts of North America, regions of North America that are, say – I want to say, uncovered, but not as well represented by us as it should be. So in terms of feet on the street, we'll be increasing the number of people representing North America in distributed valves and we also are going to be putting people on the ground to increase our presence from an engineered valves perspective in North America where we are relatively weak today. So I think those are the three primary focus areas from a sales force standpoint.

Okay. And Scott, how much of the $7 million is dedicated to the sales force increase compared to the increase in R&D? I'm assuming it's R&D into new products. And is that R&D increase should be viewed as a permanent increase, or is it some sort of temporary spike?

Yeah, that's a good question. So roughly, we will say between $4 million and $4.5 million is going to be on sales and engineers – sales people and application engineers. The remainder will go into R&D. The majority of that remainder will be in engineering – engineers. So we will have some engineers going into the markets where we are selling. And it could be Western Europe or North America, but we'll also have a decent percentage of them going into our Engineering Center of Excellence in India where, of course, we can add a lot more capacity – engineering capacity in India than we can in North America, for example. So it'll be a combination of split if you will. But the majority of engineering will go into engineers.

Okay. I guess – go ahead, I'm sorry.

John, just to add to that. I mean, this is not a one-time shot. We expect to – our R&D spend has been very low historically. And so we are taking that up a little bit here over the longer term.

If you look at our engineering, our R&D as a percentage of sales that we run less than 1% which, if you were to compare us to most engineering companies, that's very low. So we're being very careful and very specific with where we're investing here. But the focus is on new products and R&D engineers as opposed to other types of engineering.

Okay. And I guess one last question on this topic. How should we think about the incremental costs, when does it roll in or how do you expect to roll it in versus the incremental savings. The timing of the two, how does that play out in coming quarters?

Yeah, John. I'll take that. It's Rajeev. As we look at this, obviously, there are going to be some timing differences between when we do take the restructuring action and when we add the resources to drive the new investments here. But we do expect the restructuring savings profile to generally offset our investment for the remainder of this year. So we do expect those to generally offset.

Okay. All right. That's it, guys. I'll let somebody else...

All right. Thanks, John.

Thanks, John.

Our next question comes from Jim Foung with Gabelli & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning, Scott and Rajeev.

Good morning, Jim.

How are you?

Good. Great quarter, guys.

Thanks a lot.

Let me just follow up on the last theme here. Do you have a number in terms of how much you plan to spend for the year in terms of investments for growth?

Yeah. I think as you look at that $7 million, bulk of that will be this year. There will be some that moves into next year, Jim.

Okay.

But I would say, at least half of that will be this year.

Okay. So that's pretty much – do you think that's pretty much are you planning to spend [indiscernible] (18:35) in terms of...

Yeah. But it is also depends on timing of some of the things that we want to do. Obviously, if we can ramp up a little faster, we will, in terms of adding some people and getting some of the R&D projects off the ground. But conservatively, we're looking at it at that level.

Okay.

So Jim, just to clarify, we're talking about the incremental spend. Obviously, we already spent money on engineering and growth. So this is over and above what we have in the past.

Right. And then, I guess, on this incremental spend, when you think we could see that results in terms of some of this spending. How soon you think you might get some payback from this?

So we've actually done a lot of work on this. And there's a pretty broad range, I would say. It helps that we're now starting from scratch in any areas that we're investing. So for example, in Southeast Asia where we're opening this office to focus on EPCs, we already quote business in Southeast Asia. We already win business there and ship there. So we're expecting traction sooner rather than later. We expect to see incremental orders as early as the fourth quarter with it ramping up through next year.

Okay.

That was the way we've modeled it. And of course, it's a range on that. Maybe we could start seeing orders sooner, but probably won't be a lot later than the fourth quarter.

Right. Okay. Good. And then, let me just shift gear on your aerospace side. You talked about spending on the landing gear program and that's going to constrain margins on the aerospace segment. Could you just talk a little bit more about the landing gear program, and how much you think it can depress margins a bit?

Sure, Jim. This is Rajeev. You know that the landing gear program that we talk about, the three major lumps here, the CH-47 Chinook and that as you know ends in the next few months here. And then, the other two bigger ones are the Blackhawk with Sikorsky and then the A350. We do have some A330 business as well. The issue we're having here is after the consolidation of the facilities, we're also working through some of the operational issues. So we do see some pressure from that, and the fact that the new business is not coming in as fast as we had originally expected, just based on the profile of what we're dealing with from an OEM standpoint. So we do expect margins to probably be under pressure here. But it's not going to drop substantially, but we won't expect it to be higher than what you saw in the first quarter.

I would say flat to maybe moderate pressure. I don't think you'll see much drama here. But I think the upward trajectory for the next quarter or two. We just want to manage expectations here. There's a – we're absorbing a lot of costs with the launch of these new programs. And we're ramping up volumes now on the A350 that's starting to begin now and Sikorsky as well. So we're just anticipating some costs along the way as we ramp up. So we want to just manage the expectations here to basically roughly flat margins, maybe very slightly down but no big jumps up or down.

Okay, very good. And then, just on the energy side, I guess Scott, you alluded to the fact that major projects are kind of lumpy and you have more confidence in the second half of this year. Are you just seeing the big bounce of major project orders coming into the pipeline for that industry this year and you pick up some nice orders towards the end of the year?

We are and we track that pretty closely, Jim. So we look – we follow our quoting activity every month and every quarter, and so you'd still see a nice bounce. We're not very good. Actually, I don't know if anybody is very good at predicting when these orders close. But we're bullish on the remainder of this year on order intake for large projects in oil and gas.

The other area that we're excited about is much smaller than our oil and gas business. But we expect that it's going to grow over time as power generation. We mentioned on the last call that we're seeing good activity, particularly, in emerging markets. We still see that. We didn't close as many orders as we hoped in the second quarter. But the pipeline continues to grow. And we had a pretty big pipeline going into Q1, and we have a bigger pipeline going into Q2. So we're feeling pretty good about power generation as well right now.

Great. Thanks so much for your time. Thanks guys.

Thanks, Jim.

Our next question comes from Nathan Jones with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Scott. Good morning, Rajeev.

Good morning, Nathan.

Good morning, Nathan. How are you?

Good. Thanks. How are you?

Good.

Just on the R&D number. You're looking at $2.5 million to $3 million increase in investment in R&D which is only going to be about 30 basis points starting from less than 1%, which is still going to have you pretty significantly below other engineering companies. Should we be expecting further ramps in R&D as we go forward?

So I think the right way to answer this question is that we can only add so much capacity effectively at a certain point in time. So you're right, $2.5 million to $3 million isn't necessarily a big number, but it's quite a few engineers. And we have to make sure we have very good projects for them to work on. So a long answer to your question, yes, you should expect us to continue to increase our investment in R&D and new products over time. But there won't be any huge spikes up. We're going to absorb the capacity at, we'll say, a moderate level so that we make sure that we invest it well and it's effective.

So we're going to follow a disciplined approach here, Nathan, as we'd expect and make sure that there's good payback, as we look ahead.

We have some very specific projects, Nathan, that we're pretty excited about, new products that we want to launch late this year and in 2015, that if we increase the capacity and we do a good job here, we can accelerate the launch of these new products. So that's what we're focused on right now.

Okay, that makes sense. So we should expect increases in R&D, but not rapidly?

Correct.

Exactly.

That's correct.

And I think on the sales initiatives, I know we've talked about this before as being sell more of what you already have. I would also think that given these investments, there's probably still significant room to make further investments to sell more of what you already have. Is this kind of along the same things as the R&D, we should expect those to increase but not rapidly?

I think that's right, but I would maybe phrase it a little differently. I think in the past I've mentioned that we have an OpEx. We have too much OpEx at CIRCOR, too much SG&A. And that over time through simplification, through operational excellence, we're going to continue to reduce the G&A portion of that while we invest part of that back into sales and engineering. And so long answer to your question here. But yes, you should expect that over time we will continue to increase our investment in sales and engineering. But we also intend to more than offset that with reductions in G&A and other overhead types of costs as we simplify CIRCOR.

Understood. I think they have very good investments to make anyway to drive organic growth. Do you have any target that you're thinking about for the increased sales generated? Say, if you look at the $4 million to $4.5 million for sales and engineers, what kind of impact you're expecting that to have on organic growth rates and when you're excepting to realize those?

We have. We've done quite a bit of analysis around that, Nathan. So we have internally put some targets in place. We have also put in some process to kind of manage that and we watch that carefully.

Yeah. I don't know that we want to necessarily give a specific number, Nathan, but out long term goal is to grow better than the market and grow better than our peers. And I think if you look at our historic numbers, it would be hard for us to make an argument that we've done that. And so I'd rather not put a specific number on it. But to say that organic – we know that organic growth over the medium term is a big value creator for all of our investors. So we're going to keep focused on it.

Fair enough. And then, you talked about a few or a couple of few large orders slipping from an expectation that you would realize those orders in the first quarter. Is it now your expectation that you will realize those in the second quarter, or is the timing on that still uncertain?

We would expect it in the second quarter, Nathan. We'd expect to nail those down here pretty quickly.

Okay. Thanks a lot. I'll get back.

All right. Thanks, Nathan.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. Just in terms of CH-47, what would the revenue headwind be in 2014 and whatever carryover there will be into 2015?

Yeah. There shouldn't be any carryover into 2015, but the headwind into 2014 is probably about 10% of our aerospace & defense segment revenues.

We have headwind in the sense that we ship product in the first half of this year that we won't ship next year.

That's right.

So to that point, yes. So – and it would be a similar headwind because we're looking at about half a year left here, and then the first half of next year obviously, we wouldn't have.

And then how are you handicapping your ability to retain the aftermarket side of that?

It's actually – it's a little more difficult to penetrate that given variety of the way that business is being sourced by the army, or by the U.S. military. So it's going to be tough for us to really break into that market, Matt.

And then with respect to the short-cycle energy business here in North America. Scott, you mentioned that as the quarter went on, it got better. I guess I'm curious, did it start out like downside, then flat, then upside? And I guess, just a little more granularity on the magnitude of inflection maybe you're seeing there and what your expectation is for incoming order rates there in Q2?

What we did see Matt was that it wasn't really dominant spike up. It was up slightly, and then it improved throughout the quarter. So sequentially, we were up 20% versus the fourth quarter, and that kind of momentum carried towards the end of the quarter, and we are seeing that continuing to this month.

So on a year-over-year basis, though you're still down?

Correct.

Yes. Year-over-year we're down, but sequentially we were up substantially.

Got it. And then, with respect to pricing I think, there was a comment in the prepared remarks that pricing is still looking pretty good. Is that true for both the project side, as well as the short-cycle business?

Yes, that's true for both. And, you can keep in mind for the short-cycle business, while we do go on price aftermarket and short turn product, and we tend to get very good prices on that. For the most part, that business has a price list and it doesn't change dynamically like the large project business. So large projects, yes, pricing remains favorable. We're confident with the book log that we're – or the backlog that we're building right now. Short-cycle, there's really not much change from what we've seen in the past. We have a pretty good pricing there.

And then, just, with respect to the aerospace business, just thinking about margins. You mentioned some inefficiencies, some heightened level of RD&E spend. If we just lump all that together right now, how much headwind is that in terms of basis points? And I guess, when do you see that start to normalize?

Yeah. I like your second part of the question. We expect it to normalize probably towards the end of the third quarter. So there really is a couple quarters of headwind here. It could be 50 basis points to 100 basis points or so. This would be my expectation today, but things can change here as both favorably and unfavorably as we go through the quarter. But hopefully, out of the woods by the end of the third quarter.

And then just back to kind of the research and development engineering spend overall for the company. I think you mentioned Scott that that had been trending at 1% or below 1% of revenue which – that's a bit striking. I guess, where do you think for a company like CIRCOR that number ought to be and over what timeframe will you get at there?

So that's a – maybe it's easy to answer this way. So for an engineering company like CIRCOR, you would normally see R&D as a percentage of sales in the 4% range. For us the – again, I was wondering – I'm sorry. You won't see any dramatic increase in the short-term there. We will, in a moderated and careful way, increase our investment in R&D over years not months. But I think eventually you could expect that we want to be an engineering company. We want to be a company that launches new products regularly and gets the margins and growth that come with that. So over time, you should expect us to take it up to at least the average. But we also have the benefit, I guess, if you could call it that of having a significant amount of G&A to reduce over time and to fund that. So you'll see the mix change over time. So I think we're talking about 4%, but years not months or quarters.

Have you done any work in terms of what CIRCOR's historical vitality index looks like and where you want to take that?

No. It's not measured today, but I can look back and see the products that we've launched over the last few years and it would be a very low number. It would be something that – we're just starting to measure it. So I think maybe over time, we'll start reporting that. But right now, there wouldn't be much to report. So we're not – it's not something that we're going to be sharing soon.

And then just, my last question. In terms of the sourcing procurement strategy that you've kind of laid out going forward. Have you made any progress there yet and when can we start to hear about meaningful reductions in your direct spend?

We have been seeing some effect already, Matt, in the numbers here. And our expectation is to give you a little more color around that on May 15, on what we think the longer term target should be and how that will factor into our overall numbers.

But I think, just from a process standpoint, we're making very good progress. We used to not be able to measure material productivity at all. We now have a commodity data warehouse that's up and running. So we can track what we spent last year and what we're spending this year by SKU for all of CIRCOR, which is a big step up. Obviously, if you can't measure it, it's hard to drive the numbers. So – and we have a plan for this year. So we have a stack of projects. We know when they're going to cut in, when the savings cut in and so we're tracking it monthly and quarterly already. So we're making good progress and we'll put some numbers out there for you on May 15.

Sounds good. Thanks guys.

Thanks a lot. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Nick Prendergast with BB&T. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. Just clarifying the Chinook here. You said that it's 10% of your order book there in that segment. Is that correct?

Of revenues for that segment, yeah.

Okay. So revenue-wise then, we're looking at a 10% headwind in Q3 and Q4, because there should be a little bit in Q2. Is that about right?

That's right.

Okay. And then, finally, on your tax rate you're guiding the 26% to 27%. Is that a good run rate for the remainder of the year?

It is, at this point. It may come down, and not depending on how the kind of a portion between the U.S. and international income ends up, Nick, but at this point that's the way I'd look at it. If it changes obviously, we'll let you guys know next quarter.

Right. Okay, well that's it from me. Thanks.

Terrific.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Charley Brady with BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed with your questions.

Hi.

Good morning, Charley.

Hi, this is actually Patrick for Charley Brady.

Hi, Patrick.

Hi, guys. Just on the energy side. How much were orders from the large projects down year-over-year?

The orders, overall, were down in the mid-single digits. But for that piece of business but no, it wasn't dramatic. But there were a couple of nice big orders that did move to the right.

So I think that sequentially they were down obviously a lot. We had a big quarter in Q4. But if you remember, Q1 last year was a low quarter for us to begin with. So we had a relatively easy compare. And so just keep that in mind how lumpy this business is. Q4, we had a tremendous quarter in that business which – so sequentially it's a bigger number.

Got it. And on the distribution side of the business, was that up or down for the year? How much was that up or down?

For orders?

Yes.

Yeah. The orders we just said were down year-over-year.

On the distribution side?

Slightly...

Slightly.

Slightly low-single digits.

Low-single digits with year-over-year.

Okay. And I guess, moving into the second quarter. Do you expect the energy orders to be up year-over-year? I guess what are your general expectations?

We do, we do. We do expect the energy to be up by year-over-year.

Okay. And what do you guys mean by solid order intake for the year? We're talking about 1%, 2%. I have 6% here. Any color, it would be great?

Yeah. I think solid would be mid-single digits.

Okay. And just very quickly on the margin improvement for both of the segments and on the energy side. What do you guys attribute that to, the 300 basis points. Is that a better mix or how much was it from restructuring and A&D side? How much of that was from restructuring?

Okay. I'll take that, Patrick. The energy margin, let's start with that, were up about 300 basis points as you know, year-over-year. And two big items there, the favorable product mix from international project business was probably just under half of that, and then the restructuring savings was predominantly the remainder. So those two factors were key on that. The aerospace & defense margins were restructuring driven, but we also exited some of the unprofitable built-to-print type of business so that helped margins. And we also did get some sourcing savings in that number as well.

Okay. Anything on the viable?

I mean we were up, as you know, 320 basis points for aerospace & defense quarter-over-quarter. And I'd say majority of that was restructuring and probably a third for the other two pieces I mentioned.

That's fair. Okay, great. Thank you. That's all I have.

All right. Very good.

We have a follow-up question from Nathan Jones with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Hi again, guys.

Hello, again.

You did talk again about some destocking in short-cycle energy business, I think, at least partially driven by some distributor consolidation. Are you seeing that [indiscernible] (39:54) finished. Should we still be expecting some in the second quarter, and when do you think that runs off?

I think the destocking is pretty much done. We've started to see more of a rebuild than a destock. So it seems to have run its course through the first quarter here, Nathan.

Do you think there was any potential other issues there, and perhaps there's some inventory restocking that needs to be done?

There usually is with these distributors. I don't know if history is going to repeat itself, but we've seen that happen in the past. Maybe they're little more disciplined this time around. But there could be, there could be. We're not taking that into our expectation, though

So some other companies that play in this industry have talked about increasing well completion rates which should be driving demand for you in that business. Are you beginning to see the ramp-up in that, or is that just part of your expectations for that ramp-up in orders that you're looking for the rest of year?

We are seeing some more activity and we do expect more on the well completion side.

So yeah, Nathan, that's part of our expectation for the rest of the year.

Great, thank you. That's it from me.

Very good. [Operator Instructions]

We have another follow-up question from John Franzreb with Sidoti & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Can you remind me how much of pricing on large jobs is impacting 2Q results? And if I remember correctly, I thought any lingering pricing issues should be done by the end of the second quarter, is that still the case?

Yes. The pricing impact, lingering pricing impact as you mentioned should be [ph] down for (41:33) the second quarter, John.

All right. Will there be any impact in the second quarter?

No. There shouldn't be any significant impact from pricing. There will be an impact from mix associated with that whether it's aftermarket, or a new business. So I'd say there's two – there's – I'd say, there's three things that really affect the margins in that large project business, John. The first is as you asked about which is pricing. And as we win the business and as we put orders into our backlog, did we get good or bad pricing. So we feel pretty good about the pricing.

The second two pieces that affect the margin are – the first is spare parts. We get significantly better margins on spare parts than we do projects as you would expect. So the mix of the revenue that we drive in spare parts can vary a lot from one quarter to the next, and of course pushes our margins up and down proportionately.

The last piece is change orders. So when we win these new projects, we win them at a certain margin. And there's inevitably a certain number of change orders that come into the life of the project and we tend to get better pricing on change orders than we do on the original project. So that can also push margins up or down relative to other quarters depending on how many change orders we're managing through the quarter. So those three things can move it around quite a bit. But from a pricing standpoint, we feel pretty good about where we are.

Got it, got it. Again a couple of projects that were delayed in last two quarters, were they delayed due to change orders or something else?

Actually, the movement out of the first one to second quarter was associated with that. The orders were actually given to us and then the EPC has decided to revise the spec and the design and kind of pull that back to do that. And so that's why I responded to an earlier question where we feel pretty good about getting those orders signed up here in the quarter, because a lot of work has already been done on that.

In long term that's a good thing for us. So it's unfortunate that we had lower orders in the quarter. That's a good reason. So long term we feel good about that one.

Got it. That makes perfect sense. Thank you. And one last question. Which three facilities are being closed and what businesses are they associated with?

Yeah. We won't get into the names just yet, John, but two are in energy. There's one in Europe that's in energy, one in aerospace that's in Europe, and then one in the U.S. that's in energy.

Okay. All right. Thank you for the color guys. I appreciate it.

You're welcome, John. Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions in queue. I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.

Okay. Well, I guess, first I'd like to thank everyone for joining us this morning. We look forward to seeing you hopefully at our upcoming Investor Day on May 15 and speaking to you on our next quarter's call. Thank you.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.