corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to CIRCOR International’s Third Quarter


2010 Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call will be recorded. At this time, all participants


have been placed in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for questions and comments


after the prepared remarks.


I’ll now turn the call over to Mr. David Calusdian from Sharon Merrill Associates for opening


remarks and introductions. Please go ahead, sir.


David Calusdian, Sharon Merill Associates


Thank you, and good morning, everyone. On the call today is Bill Higgins, the company’s Chairman


and CEO, and Fred Burditt, the company’s CFO. The slides we’ll be referring to today are available


on CIRCOR’s website at www.circor.com, on the Investor Relations page.


Please turn to slide two. Today’s discussion contains forward-looking statements that identify future


expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors. For a full discussion of these factors, the company advises you to review CIRCOR’s 2009


Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including the 2010 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The


Company’s filings are available on its website at circor.com.


Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by today’s remarks. Any


forward-looking statements only represent the company’s views as of today, November 4, 2010.


While CIRCOR may choose to update these forward-looking statements at a later date, the


company specifically disclaims any duty to do so.


In today’s call, management will often refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted operating


margins. These metrics exclude any pre-tax special charges, as well as asbestos and bankruptcy


charges related to our Leslie Controls subsidiary.


The reconciliation of CIRCOR’s adjusted non-GAAP operating income, net income and free cash


flow to the comparable GAAP measures are available in the financial tables of the earnings press


release on CIRCOR’s website.


Frederic M. Burditt, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks, David and good morning, everyone. This is Fred Burditt. Please turn to slide three for the


highlights. Our third quarter results demonstrate the progress we are making improving our top and


bottom line results. Total revenues, which grew 23% year-over-year, came in at the high-end of our


guidance range. Revenue growth was primarily driven by continued strength of the short cycle


Energy business and early cycle Flow Technologies end markets.


On the bottom line, our earnings, excluding any Leslie bankruptcy and asbestos charges,


surpassed our expectations for the quarter, although there were some non-operational benefits in


the quarter. Nevertheless, we’re on a solid improvement performance trajectory coming through the


recession.


Our bookings performance for the quarter was particularly impressive. Total orders were up 51%


year-over-year, which includes 17% from acquisitions. Orders were strongest for our short-cycle


energy business, but were also up in all three segments. The only area of disappointment was the


late cycle large international energy projects, which we had thought would pick up this quarter, but


orders remained essentially flat.
corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I’d like to take a minute to provide a quick update on the progress of our subsidiary Leslie Controls’


pre-negotiated Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. We obtained the asbestos claimant votes


necessary for approval of the plan and last week, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court entered an order


confirming the plan.


We are now focused on obtaining district court approval and then winning any appeals that may be


pursued. At this point, certain of Leslie’s insurers have filed a notice of appeal. But we believe any


appeals are without merit. Leslie is continuing to conduct business as usual during the Chapter 11


process.


Now please turn to slide four. Revenues for the third quarter of $177.6 million were 23% – were up


23% from the third quarter of 2009 and up 6% sequentially. The year-over-year increase consisted


of 19% organic growth, 7% from acquisitions, partially offset by a 3% negative foreign exchange


impact.


Adjusted operating income, the lower right chart, at 15.8 million increased 31% from the third


quarter of last year and 37% sequentially from the second quarter of 2010. On a margin basis, we


came in at 8.9%, up 200 basis points sequentially as the Energy and Flow Technology segments


improved.


Our net income for the quarter was 10.4 million, compared with a net income of 8.4 million in Q3 of


‘09. Adjusted earnings per diluted share, which excludes special charges and Leslie asbestos and


bankruptcy charges were $0.69 for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $0.54 in the third quarter


of 2009.


Now, I’ll turn to segment performance, beginning with Energy on slide five. The Energy segment


bookings increased 95% year-over-year due to strong short-cycle business and the Pipeline


Engineering acquisition, we purchased in the fourth quarter of last year. Bookings were also up


sequentially by 24%. Our ending backlog at 153 million was up 34% year-over-year and 23%


sequentially.


Energy revenues increased 32% year-over-year from organic growth of 24% and growth from


acquisitions of 12%, partially offset by an unfavorable currency impact of 4%. Sequentially,


revenues were up 4%.


The segment’s adjusted operating margin was 11.1%, compared with 10.9% in the third quarter of


2009 and 8.3% in Q2. The third quarter of 2010 included a benefit of $2.3 million from a favorable


insurance recovery and a penalty accrual adjustment associated with a previously concluded


project.


Excluding this benefit, the quarter’s performance was mixed. While the short-cycle business


continued to improve strongly, the long-cycle business was below our expectations, as pricing,


volume and margins have not materially rebounded yet. We do expect sequential improvements to


be in the fourth quarter.


Now turning to Aerospace on slide six. Within our Aerospace segment, bookings increased 15%


year-over-year and 16% sequentially. Both increases were approximately 50% due to the


acquisition of Castle Precision Industry. We ended the third quarter with segment backlog of 152.8


million, an increase of 27% year-over-year and 30% sequentially.


Revenues were up 8% year-over-year, driven by growth from acquisitions of 9% and 2% organic,


partially offset by a 2% foreign currency decrease.