raw transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc
 
CIR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to CIRCOR International's first quarter


earnings conference call. Today's call will be recorded. [Operator instructions.] I would now like to


turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Curran McKeon from the company's Investor Relations


firm. Please go ahead, sir.


Curran McKeon, Host


Thank you very much and good morning, and welcome to our first quarter earnings call. Our


objectives today are to review the company's recent performance and provide its updated outlook


on 2005, with David Bloss, the Chairman and CEO of Circor; Ken Smith, the company's Chief


Financial Officer; and Bill Higgins, the company's executive vice president and COO. After their


comments, we'll then go to Q&A.


Before we start, though, two administrative notes. First, the slides we will be referring to today are


available on CIRCOR's website at www.circor.com, under the link Quarterly Earnings from the


Investor Relations page. Second, today's discussion has forward-looking statements that identify


our future expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties


and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors we advise you to read about them in the


company's 2004 Form-10K, which also can be viewed on the company's website. Of course, the


actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied from today's remarks.


Now, let me turn the call over to CIRCOR's Chairman, David Bloss.


David Bloss, CEO


Good morning, everyone. Thank you.


Well, as you can see from our first quarter earnings release, we're off to a good start in 2005. Our


markets appear to be in pretty good shape and, judging from our increase in revenues, orders and


backlog that we've reported.


Within our energy products segment, the North American petrochemical and chemical processing


spending activity has moved upward, although Canada is not as strong as we would like, but it has


improved as well. On the international project front, quotations remain very active, although our


shipments this quarter from our Pibiviesse operation was a lower percentage of the company's


overall total.


At Pibiviesse we've been working on some rather unique products for an Exxon Mobil project.


These products are the first of their kind, and their high-pressure, large-bore ball valves for


gathering and transmission lines for high pressure natural gas applications in the Persian Gulf.


Just to give you an idea of what I'm speaking about, here, the most difficult of these values was a


28-inch 7000 PSI ball valve – that's 28-inch diameter – 7000 ball valve – that ended up weighing


over 58 tons. It is made of stainless steel with Inconel overlays. These products took a lot of time


and effort and cost for us to develop because they're unique, and we expect them to have far-


ranging applications going forward in this region. However, it delayed our ability to finish and ship


other orders, which are now sitting in backlog, and which we hope to flesh out over the next two


quarters, therefore the mix of higher-margin products out of this operation, as a percentage of our


total energy products segment was lower than recent levels during this first quarter of 2005, but it's
raw transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc
 
CIR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


project backlog and activities remain very strong, and we expect margins to balance out during this


year, as indicated in our projections.


Within our instrumentation and thermal fluids control segment, the general instrumentation markets


have improved in North America and continue to be strong in Europe. Our steam markets are up


slightly as we've been able to secure U.S. Navy engineering contracts to help offset the decline in


product sales to this particular application. In addition, the other steam markets, including HVAC


and Powergen are showing some improved strength.


Within our aerospace operations, commercial activity is moving up, offsetting the decline in the


military switch revenues, which was better last year, due to the Middle East conflict. Also, all


results include the positive effect of the Loud acquisition for 2.5 months of the quarter. Loud


contributed to our bottom line, and its shipments are expected to increase in the second quarter.


Profitability for our instrumentation and thermal fluid control segments showed some strong


incremental earnings on revenue growth, and a favorable mix, as well as the realization of price


increases implemented in mid-to-late 2004. We're expecting that margins in this segment will


bounce around a little bit this year due to the mix of shipments and some additional cost increases,


but overall they should have a good year.


On a consolidated basis, we've had to continually absorb the high cost of compliance Sarbanes-


Oxley 404, which Ken will speak to in a few minutes. From a cashflow standpoint, we did use toms


cash this quarter. Besides acquiring Loud, we had to bring in more inventory to match our rising


backlog and order rates. Particularly our Pibiviesse operation had an increase in inventories, due


to a buildup of backlog – and a refer you back to my previous comments on our delayed shipments.


We expect that these inventories will be brought down as the shipments are made in the next few


quarters.


Our Lean initiatives are targeted to prevent inventory increases from happening, and to reduce our


obvious our overall inventory requirements in the long run, but, as you know, we're just getting


started on Lean transition, which Bill Higgins, our COO, is leading, so we expect decreases in


inventory going forward as we ship our backlogs and implement new processing systems.


At this point I'll let Ken and Bill take you through the details of our first quarter results. Ken?


Ken Smith, CFO


Thanks David, and I'll start with slide number 3. As David pointed out, we had a very solid quarter


[audio gap] double-digit order revenue growth versus first quarter 2004. After revenues, David


cited the major factors, including favorable market conditions and the customer price increases


instituted in mid-2004. Our only noteworthy revenue decline was the lower shipments to Middle


East oil and gas project that they described.


An overall profitability increase, benefiting from the factors listed on the slide. On free cash flow,


we had invested in inventory to help support our record backlog, and in CapEx, we completed the


purchase of a new facility in the Netherlands for nearly $3 million, and into which we plan to


consolidate certain of our smaller European instrumentation businesses in late 2005, and then in


2006.


Now turning to slide number 4, the Q1 change in segment operating income showed nearly a 25%


earnings increase on incremental revenue of $12 million. Regarding corporate expenses, the


change reflects the considerable cost to comply with section 404 of the SOX, which involved testing


of internal controls at 9 of our business units. We learned a lot from the first year of compliance,


and I will most certainly be personally focused on reducing our cost of compliance in 2005.