raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Circor International Second


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Today's call will be recorded. [Operator Instructions] I'll now


turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Kerwin McCann [ph], from the company's Investor


Relations firm. Please go ahead, sir.


Kerwin McCann, Investor Relations


Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to our Second Quarter Earnings Call. Our objectives


today are to review the company's recent performance, and provide its updated outlook at the


second half of 2005. With David Bloss, Chairman, and CEO of Circor; Ken Smith, the company's


Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Higgins, the compete Executive Vice President, and COO. After


the comments we'll then go to Q&A.


Before we start two administrative notes. First, the slides we will be reviewing referring to today are


available on Circor's website at www.circor.com, under the link Quarterly Earnings from the


Investor's page. Second, today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that identify our


future expectations. These expectations are subject to known, and unknown risks, uncertainties,


and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors we advise that you read about them in the


company's 2004 Form 10-K, which also can be viewed on the company's website. Of course,


actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, or implied from today's remarks. Let


me know turn the call over to Circor's Chairman, David Bloss.


David Bloss, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. Well we had a good quarter, and there are lots of things


going on here at Circor. We've started a number of initiatives designed to improve our operating


performance. Unfortunately, it cost money to do them, and we've included that in our outlook.


We'll take you through these items in detail in our discussion today.


Our second quarter results were up nicely as you can see from our press release. Revenues were


up 25, charges were up 56% with market conditions favorable across the board. The results were


at the high end of our own expectations. Pibiviesse was able to ship those unique new valves to


Exxon Mobil for their high-pressure gas systems. If you recall they're the ones that help up


production at our facility in the first quarter. Like I say, overall, our markets are in good shape if you


ignore the lumpy oil and gas business at our Pibiviesse operation in Italy. All of our other


businesses continue to show positive order trends versus last year, and out backlogs are up as


well.


Our Energy Products segment showed a 40% revenue increase, and a 94% operating income


increase with margins of almost 11%. Those of you who are familiar with the oil and gas industry


know that the quarterly order patterns are tough to follow because of the variability in large project


activity. If you recall, last year was a roller coaster ride for incoming orders with first quarter orders


extremely low followed by a big second, and fourth quarters, making the full year a record for us in


both orders, and in back log. This year we're seeing a more stable order of patterns, so even


though the quarter numbers show a decrease on a year-to-date basis, our energy segment is


ahead of last year's orders by 8% globally coming off of a strong last year with North American


markets up significantly, and the international project activity remaining very robust. As indicated in


the press release we have a number of letters of intent on hand for oil and gas project work, which


included about $15 million Euro of them a quarter end, but we will not record them as orders until
raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the specs are down, and delivery dates are established, which is our policy, which will occur in this


third quarter. Project shipments will remain rather up, and down quarter-to-quarter, but the terms


are good, and prospects for longer links to this cycle are looking good right now.


Our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls segment also did well with revenues up 15%,


operating income up 22%, and margins at 12%. Margins could have been better, but raw material


prices climbed up some more, and under absorption from inventory reductions at our


Instrumentation division affected this quarter's results. We expect some abatement of bar stock


steel costs increases coming in August, September, but inventory reduction, and the resulting effect


on absorption will continue as we apply leading manufacturing techniques throughout the company,


and drive our inventories down. Most product lines within this segment had higher orders, and


we're up 10% in total excluding acquisitions as the aerospace, the steam industry, and the


instrumentation markets are ahead of last year.


Free cash flow was good. We generated $12 million, and in incremental $4 million in CapEx for


new facilities, which Ken will speak about, and our balance sheet remains very strong with very low


leverage. Acquisition opportunities continue to come across our screen. At any time, we have


about 3 of the 4 that we are looking at. And today is no different than our history. We continue to


be focused on moderate sized, fold-in deals to existing business and have been patient and


disciplined in our approach about evaluating. Now, let me turn this over to Ken and Bill who will


provide you with a few more details.


Kenneth Smith, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice-President, Treasurer


Thanks, Dave. And then, I'll start with Slide Number 3. As David pointed out, we had a very solid


quarter, double-digit revenue growth, both for the quarter and the first half compared to the same


period last year. Our energy segment led the revenue growth with significant shipment volumes to


large international projects, notably in the middle-east. Our acquisition of Mallard Controls in late


April 2004 and of Loud Engineering in January 2005 also contributed to our results. And nearly all


our other business units turned higher revenues as their end markets continue to be healthy


including the general and industrial markets.


Overall profitability significantly increased benefiting from the factors listed on the slide including


leveraging our fixed costs on the higher sales volume. On free cash flow, it's been reasonably


good thus far in 2005 despite the working capital demands of fulfilling order – fulfilling higher


customers order levels and we'll discuss cash flow more when we get to Slide 5. Now, I'll turn to


Slide Number 4, which much details the P&L in more greater length including the non-operating


expenses. The special charges although modest in amount, are the incremental costs for closing


and moving facilities. The 2005 costs relate to the downsizing and relocation of a French business


and to closing and moving two small U.S. plants. In France, we are transferring our manufacturing


capability from France to another one of our European plants and we have accrued the severance


costs. The two U.S. plants are in our Mallard Controls business that we purchased in April 2004


and we'll be moving that production from Texas to our KF business in Oklahoma.


The French and Texas/Oklahoma changes are expected to be completed in the second half of


2005 and reduce our facilities' square footage by about approximately 75,000 second quarter feet


and although they will have a cash use of approximately $2 million, they will yield an annual cash


savings approximating at $1.5 million. Regarding corporate expenses, the majority of the change


for the quarter reflects increased compensation costs including variable compensation incentives.


It also includes relocations for new employees and a small increase for professional audit days. Of


the year-to-date corporate expense difference, half of the $2.2 million is for higher audit fees for


Sarbanes-Oxley 404, another 25% for variable incentive compensation increases compared to last


year, and the remaining 25% is for new hires including our new Chief Operating Officer, Bill, who is


with us today. Net interest expense was lower due to our annual principal payments of $15 million