corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the CIRCOR International’s Fourth


Quarter and Year-End 2008 Financial Results Conference Call. Today’s call will be recorded.


[Operator Instructions] I’ll now turn the call over to Mr. David Calusdian from Sharon Merrill


Associates for opening remarks and introduction. Please go ahead, sir.


David C. Calusdian, Executive Vice President and Partner, Sharon Merrill Associates


Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to CIRCOR International’s Fourth Quarter and


Year-End 2008 Conference Call. On the call today is Bill Higgins, the Company’s Chairman and


CEO, and Fred Burditt, the Company’s CFO.


Slides we’ll be referring to today are available on CIRCOR’s website at www.circor.com, under the


link Quarterly Earnings on the Investor’s page. Today’s discussion contains forward-looking


statements that identify future expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown


risks, uncertainties, and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors, the Company advises


you to review CIRCOR’s 2007 Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including its most recent 10-Q. All


of the Company’s filings are available on its website at circor.com.


Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by today’s remarks. Any


forward-looking statements only represent the Company’s views as of today, February 26, 2009.


While CIRCOR may choose to update these forward-looking statements at a later date, the


Company specifically disclaims any duty to do so.


I will now turn the call over to Bill Higgins, CEO for CIRCOR.


Bill Higgins, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks David and good morning everyone. During today’s call I’ll start by providing you our


financial highlights for the year and the quarter. Fred will then take you through our slide


presentation and offer additional details on the numbers. And then I’ll discuss our segment


performance and provide you with our perspective on what we see in our end markets. And we’ll


then go to questions.


Let me begin with a few comments on our full-year performance. 2008 was a great year in many


respects. Revenue increased 19% to a record $794 million over the year 2007 driven by growth


across our businesses. For the full year, adjusted operating income, which is operating income


excluding special and asbestos charges, grew 63% to $109 million. This equates to a 370 basis


point year-over-year increase in adjusted operating margin.


In addition, we ended the year with a strong balance sheet with 4% total debt-to-equity and $82


million in available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as 110 million


available through our line of credit. Also important, we benefited from our continuous improvement


programs and aggressive efforts to improve CIRCOR’s teams, our processes and our performance


to our customers.


For the fourth quarter, we ended the year on a strong note executing well. Adjusted operating


margin for the fourth quarter grew 210 basis points to 12.9% on a 16% increase in sales compared


to the fourth quarter of 2007. Adjusted EPS before special charges came in at $1.12, exceeding the


high-end of our guidance range.
corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Orders at year-end reflected the global slowdown. The Company received orders totaling 143.1


million during the fourth quarter of 2008 and is down 16% from Q4 of ‘07. 4% of the drop is due to


the backlog revaluation from currency changes. Our backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was


342.7 million, down 12% compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 and down 15% sequentially from


the third quarter of 2008. This reduction is the result of the worldwide economic slowdown, primarily


in the energy, HVAC and industrial process markets and I’ll provide more detail on our markets


later in the call.


So with that, I’ll now turn the presentation over to Fred.


Frederic Burditt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Bill. I will be referring to our presentation slides starting with slide number three, financial


results, which shows consolidated results for CIRCOR. As Bill discussed, we ended an excellent


year with a strong fourth quarter performance. For the quarter, consolidated revenues increased


16%, 21% organic and 1% from acquisitions, partially eroded by a negative 6% currency impact.


Organically by segment, Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls grew 9% and Energy grew


35% in the fourth quarter versus last year.


In our discussions today we will be referring to adjusted operating income and adjusted operating


margins. These metrics exclude pre-tax charges associated with open asbestos claims affecting


the Company’s Leslie Controls subsidiaries. These metrics also exclude special charges, which for


the fourth quarter include a pre-tax, non-cash goodwill and intangible impairment charge of 141.3


million.


This non-cash charge was required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,


primarily, as a result of the recent macro factors impacting global credit markets as well as a slower


industrial business condition. This impairment represents about 81% of our total goodwill and was


related to the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Control segment. Goodwill related to the Energy


segment was not impaired. I’d like to emphasize that these non-cash impairment charges do not


require any cash payments nor do they impact our operations, liquidity, or compliance with debt


covenants.


There’s a reconciliation of our adjusted non-GAAP operating income and net income to the


comparable GAAP measures available in the financial tables within our earnings press release and


available on our website. Consolidated adjusted operating income grew 38% to 26.1 million for the


fourth quarter of 2007. Instrumentation and Thermal Fluids came in with an 11.2% adjusted


operating margin down from 12.8% last year. Energy had a dramatic improvement to 20.1%


compared to 15.3% last year.


Adjusted earnings per share was $1.12 for the quarter, up 100% from $0.56 reported last year, but


down from $1.16 in third quarter 2008. Please note that the adjusted earnings per share excludes


after-tax impact of special charges, but includes asbestos charges.


Free cash flow for the fourth quarter was down 7.8 million year-over-year, a strong earnings


improvement was offset primarily by growth in accounts receivable associated with a 16% revenue


growth. Full-year free cash flow was strong at 47.3 million versus 42.5 million for 2007. The full-


year improvement resulted from the increase in growth and the profitability of our operations


partially offset by an increase in working capital needs and higher capital spending primarily


supporting our strategic initiatives and new products. I will now turn to slide four, net income and


EPS, which reviews the P&L in more detail. And since we will discuss the segment’s operating


income later, I will add color on the other categories.