raw transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc
 
CIR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Circor International’s Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Karan Makan [ph] from the company’s investor relations firm. Mr.


Makan [ph] please go ahead sir.


Karan Makan, [ph] Executive from the Investor Relations Firm


Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.


Our objectives today are to review the company’s review [ph] performance and provide an updated


outlook on the start 2005, Mr. David Bloss, the Chairman and CEO of Circor and Ken Smith, the


Company’s CFO. After their comments we will then go to Q&A. Before we start two administrative


thoughts. First the slides we will be referring to today are available on Circor’s website at


www.circor.com under the link quarterly earnings on the investor relations page.


Second today’s discussion contains forward looking statements and identifying our future


expectations. These expectations are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors. For a full discussion of these factors we advise you to read about them in the company’s


2003 Form 10-K, which also can be viewed on the companies website. Of course actual results


could defer materially from those anticipated or implied from today’s remarks. Now let me turn the


call over to Circor’s Chairman, David Bloss.


David A. Bloss, Sr., Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Karan [ph] and good morning everyone. We have got quite a few things to cover with


you regarding our fourth quarter results today. First I will provide you an operational update and


then Ken Smith our CFO will take you through the financials. Now I will brief you on recent


acquisition of Loud Engineering and also addition of Bill Higgins, our new Chief Operating Officer


who is here with us today.


Well from an operational standpoint we made progress during the quarter. Our consolidated


revenues, incoming orders, backlogs were all up sequentially and compared to the fourth quarter of


last year. We continue to implement price increases to our customers to respond to the higher


metal cost, right now we are about 1 to 2 percentage points behind in recovering these cost


increases and not all of our competitors have instituted similar increases but a majority of them


have. We are expecting some additional raw material cost increases in ’05 but we should more


modest compared to last when stainless steel price is more than doubled. And we will need to rely


on internal cost reduction and possibly additional selective price increases to offset any additional


material price increases if they occur. The Tomco Products, [ph] in the Spartanburg, South


Carolina facility and the SSI move into our Walden, New York plant gave us some problems last


year and caused some temporary higher manufacturing cost and these are now under control.


Our acquisitions in late 2003 and early 2004 of the DQS, TSI sampling systems and of the Mallard


Hydroseal safety control valves are all performing at or better then anticipated. Market conditions


have improved in some of our businesses during the fourth quarter. The HVAC and process


steam-related valve orders were stronger both in the US and in Europe. Our Aerospace orders


were less then last year’s Q4 because of the higher level of orders for switches for military


armaments application that we received in late 2003 those are not repeated this year because they


were fully supplied during the year.
raw transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc
 
CIR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The big headlines for us in the fourth quarter and as far as markets are concerned was the


resurgence of orders for oil and gas projects internationally. While domestic activity in chemical


processing and the related MRO activity in North America improved our Pibiviesse subsidiary in


Italy experienced one its best quarters in its history. Quotation activity announced project levels


continued to be strong and we visualize favorable market conditions well into 2006 for Pibiviesse. I


am sure all of you have read, most of you read recently in the Wall Street Journal about the gas to


liquids activity going on in the Persian Gulf and in Qatar and Pibiviesse is one of the selected


vendors for the severe service gathering systems for those high-pressure systems they can go up


to a 150 bar or 7000 psi and that requires a very unique applications and engineering capabilities,


which Pibiviesse has. And as a result we are focusing our capacity on the high pressure sever


service environments where the engineering content and competitive factors allow us to achieve


higher margins. So, from an operation standpoint we feel that we are in much better shape now


then this time last year.


Moving on, during the quarter we’ve recorded non-cash charges to earnings of approximately 7.1


million pre-tax primarily related to the write-off of slow moving inventory. We disclosed that earlier


in the quarter. As we continue to procure inventory from lower cost suppliers in Asia and East


Europe and consolidate our facilities in the US and Europe and challenge ourselves to reduce


inventories in warehouses we have to take a fresh look at our past practices and really cost justify


the amount of inventory we are carrying, leaving us to a decision to change our practices and


dispose of slow moving inventories. This will provide us the benefit of eliminating the rent, the


insurance and warehousing cost and free up space for manufacturing. As an incidental benefit it


also allows us to receive a tax deduction it reduces our income tax payments in 2005 upon the


disposal of that inventory. Our business practices are being revised to prevent the recurrence of


these types of over sparking situations in the future.


That’s it for my initial comments. Now I’ll turn it over to Ken Smith.


Kenneth W. Smith, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Treasurer


Thanks David. I’ll now start with slide number 3. As David pointed out, we had a very solid quarter,


double-digit orders, and revenue growth versus Q4 2003. Although, I’ll speak in more detail about


each segment, we had good operating earnings leverage in the segments from the incremental


revenues. Price increases of customers and our foreign sourcing of lower cost inventory had


helped both segments. Corporate expenses, however, rose in the fourth quarter and for the full


year 2004 for cost to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 on internal controls.


In 2004, our initial year of compliance external fees for compliance rose $3 million. Earnings per


share includes the cost of the non-cash inventory charge that Dave spoke of and free cash flow


regained traction and had a good quarter at over one times net income.


Now, I’ll turn to slide number 4. The Q4 segment operating income increased, was 128 million on


incremental revenue of 10 million. The non-cash charge of 7.1 million is notable as David


mentioned for 2 reasons; first, the avoidance of continued carrying cost, and second the free cash


flow that we expect to realize on planned disposal on reduced income tax payments.


Special charges in the fourth quarter of 2003 related to cost for our 4 facility consolidations, all of


which were completed in the first half of 2004. The 2004 special charges were primarily for


warehouse consolidations. Corporate expenses, period-to-period differences shown on the slide 4


are due to our Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance. We have outside auditors performing the testing


of financial controls and at Circor, we are not testing at one location but 9 of our largest businesses


in a major way, each of which has different ERP systems and financial controls. And I’ll firstly be


focused, in 2005, in reducing that cost. Net interest expense was lower due to our annual principal