corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the CIRCOR International’s Third Quarter


2007 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call will be recorded. At this time all participants have


been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open to questions following the presentation.


I will now turn the call over to your host Mr. Curhan McCann from company’s Investor Relations


firm. Please go ahead sir.


Company Representative, Investor Relations


Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to CIRCOR International’s Third


Quarter 2007 Earnings Call. Our objectives today are to review the company’s recent performance,


provide an updated outlook on the full year 2007. With David Bloss, the Chairman and CEO of


CIRCOR, Bill Higgins, the company’s President and Chief Operating Officer and Ken Smith, Chief


Financial Officer.


After their comments we will then go to Q&A. But before we start, two administrative items. First,


the slides we will be referring to you today are available on CIRCOR’s website at www.circor.com


under the link Quarterly Earnings from the Investor Relations page. Second, today’s discussion


contains forward-looking statements that identify our future expectations. These expectations are


subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. For a full discussion of these


risk factors, we advise you to read about them in the company’s Form 10-K which also can be


viewed on the company’s website. Of course actual results could materially -- differ materially from


those anticipated or implied from today’s remarks.


Let me now turn the call over to CIRCOR’s Chairman, David Bloss.


David A. Bloss, Sr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. Let me begin with the highlights for the quarter and Ken and Bill will take


you through the details. As you saw in our earnings press release our fully diluted earnings per


share for the third quarter was $0.62 and included some unusual transactions such as the non-cash


charges connected with my pending retirement as CEO in February of ‘08, along with a gain of the


sale of our interest in a small business in Denmark, and some European tax benefits. If you net


these items out, our EPS was $0.59 up $0.03 above the high end of our previous guidance. Orders


for the quarter were up 33% over last year and backlogs ended at 396 million, up about 39% to


reach another record for us.


Our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls segment was a mixed bag again this quarter. The


various markets served by this segment either remained strong or improved. The general


instrumentation market increased the most followed by thermal fluids primarily seen, while


aerospace markets remained healthy although our incoming orders for this market dropped due to


the timing of large annual orders for landing gear which were received last quarter.


The operating margin for this segment took a step backwards to 7.1% this quarter after showing


improvement in the second quarter. Our actions to improve the operating performance of this


group, particularly the general instrumentation business, are beginning to take hold but at a slower


pace than expected.


Our expectations for this business remain positive as some price improvements in this market are


beginning to be seen. This segment’s performance has also been negatively affected by our higher


legal costs associated with asbestos litigation involving our Leslie Controls subsidiary. Because of
corrected transcript


CIRCOR International, Inc.
 
CIR
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the increased activity of these claims, the average quarterly cost of defense and settlements


incurred by Leslie has increased by approx – from approximately $600,000 per quarter in 2006 to a


little over a $1 million per quarter this year. In spite of this cost increase, we continue to expect


operating profits for the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Segment to improve to around


9.5% in the fourth quarter of this year.


Our Energy Product segment continues to enjoy a robust global oil and gas market even though


our North American distribution business was softer this quarter as expected because of distributor


inventory adjustments and a slowdown of activity in Western Canada. The profitability of this


segment of our company was much better than expected with a record 17.4% operating margin.


I’ will now will turn the call over the Ken Smith for further details on the quarter.


Kenneth W. Smith, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks David and I’ll be referring to our presentation slides starting with slide number three, which


shows the consolidated results for CIRCOR. We had a good quarter with solid quarterly orders,


near-record earnings, and a record backlog to start the fourth quarter 2007. And as evident we had


strong growth in both revenues and earnings showing nice margin expansion.


For the quarter, the revenue increase was led by our Energy Products and Aerospace Products


each benefiting from higher volume and price realization. Regarding operating income we had very


good margin expansion particularly on our Energy Product segment, which drove the majority of the


improvement. Regarding diluted earnings per share, we had significant double-digit increases


compared to the 2006 period and $0.03 of the Q3 2007 EPS came from the three special items


David described and which are noted on the right side of slide number three.


This quarter’s results excluding the three special items, was $0.03 over the top end of our guidance


that we had provided in our August 2, 2007 earnings call. Principally due to the timing of higher-


than-expected project-related shipments by our Energy segment. And the related Energy


segment’s profit, more than offset the lower margin in our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid


Products segment, and the higher corporate expenses. Free cash flow was a positive $11.5 million


as working capital leveled out and profitability was strong overall.


Now to slide number 4, which details the P&L in more detail. Bill will discuss the significant rise in


the operating income of the segments in a later slide, so I will add color on the other items on this


slide.


Beginning with special charges, the 2006 special charges were principally for a non-recurring


expense for freezing our US qualified pension plan in July of ‘06. And as you recall since that


freeze we’ve now channeled our retirement money into our 401(k) program via higher company


contribution. The special charges in Q3 2007 are primarily the non-cash charges related to David’s


pending retirement.


And in the year-to-date 2007 special charge amount, there is an amount for our Instrumentation


and Thermal Fluid Products segment closing in the first half of 2007, a small US plant in


Connecticut in which we manufactured components for the Hoke product line. And that facility


closing is but one of the many actions we’re taking to raise the operating margin in the


Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Products segment.


Next, corporate expenses which increased. The Q3 2007 increase essentially represents higher


litigation costs associated with a lawsuit that commenced five years ago in Canada, and has now


gone to trial. This suit against the small group of former employees who we believe unlawfully took


disclosed proprietary information in order to commence a competing business in Canada. While we