raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the CIRCOR International Fourth-Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to your host Mr.


Curran Mckan [ph] from the Company’s Investor Relations firm. Please go ahead, sir.


Company Representative


Thank you very much and good morning everyone, and welcome to our Fourth-Quarter Earnings


Call. Our objectives today are to review the company’s recent performance and provide and


outlook for 2006. With David Bloss, the Chairman and CEO; Bill Higgins, the Company’s Chief


Operating Officer; and Ken Smith, the Chief Financial Officer.


After their comments we’ll then go to Q&A, but before we start, 2 administrative notes. First, the


slides we’ll be referring today are available on CIRCOR’s website at www.circor.com under the link


Quarterly Earnings from the Investors Page. Second, today's discussion contains forward-looking


statements that identify our future expectations. These expectations are subject to known and


unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. For a full discussion of these factors, we advise you


to read about them in the company's 2004 Form 10-K which also can be viewed on the company's


website. Of course actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied from


today's remarks. Let me now turn the call over to CIRCOR's Chairman, David Bloss.


David A. Bloss, Chairman, CEO and President


Thank you, Curran [ph]. Good morning, everyone. Let me begin by giving you the headlines of our


2005 year which we felt was a fairly good one considering the changes that are going on internally


and resulted in our highest full-year results with revenues of 450 million and net income of a little


over $20 million. For the year, earnings per share excluding special and unusual charges


increased 29% on revenue growth of 18%. Earnings per share in the fourth quarter was up 10%


compared to last year excluding special and unusual charges on Q4 revenue growth of 13%. Our


incoming orders excluding our 2005 acquisitions showed continued strength within the


Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls segment where orders were up 2% for the quarter and


for the full year up 6%. Backlog for the entire company was 142 million at December 31, 2005,


which was within $1 million of being our highest ever.


As we indicated in our press release, our orders and backlog for 2005 exclude some large project


letters of intent on hand. These should be booked as orders in the first and second quarters of


2006 as the specifications are finalized. Taken all together, this suggests a good start for 2006 for


us. Cash flow was also a good number for us. We generated $10 million of free cash flow in the


fourth quarter and about 28 million for the year, up 29% over last year and equally 1.4 times net


income. Obviously our operating margin was under some pressure during the fourth quarter, and


we will be drilling down into the details with you during this call. To start let me remind you that in


the second half of 2005 we went into full implementation mode for our transition to lean after


training and start-up in the first half of the year. In Q4 we had expected to begin seeing some


improvements in production capability in some of our key plants and on completing some facility


consolidation projects this past quarter. However, we now realize that these changes are more


deep and more difficult and take longer than we originally expected. Therefore, this plus some


added cost and constraints on the supply of key components contributed to our lower-than-


expected earnings.
raw transcript


CIRCOR International Inc
 
CIR
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


A portion of the supply problem also lies on our shoulders, not on our suppliers. We are making


significant changes in our manufacturing and business processes as we transition ourselves to


operational excellence. We have just completed our first year of this process. As I said, really in


the first 6 months we are getting ready and training. And it will and is affecting all aspects of our


operation as well as how we communicate and schedule our production and that of our suppliers.


As we look back, we could have done a better job of planning and implementation. But these are


fixable problems. The changes we are making in the way we operate are significant and are


designed to improve our competitiveness and financial performance over the long term.


In response to these current issues, we are strengthening our supplier management processes,


expanding our sources, sourcing from low-cost countries and redirecting our lean initiatives to focus


on these manufacturing constraints. We will also be initiating further facility consolidations and


rationalizing the manufacturing of certain product lines along the way.


During this call Bill Higgins will be providing more detail about our lean initiatives and will give you


for the first time some specifics on our objectives and expected timing of achievement. It's going to


take us a couple of more quarters to finish this phase of our operational changes then we expect


the cost benefit line to be in our favor going forward.


On the acquisition front, we closed on two transactions which we announced earlier this month.


The Sagebrush Pipeline Equipment Company in Oklahoma, and the Hale Hamilton Group in the


U.K. These additions expand our end market presence in the United States and Europe. Bill will


talk about each one later. With that I'll turn it over to Ken and Bill.


Kenneth W. Smith, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, David, and I'll start with Slide number 3. The P&L amounts are on a U.S. GAAP basis.


We had double-digit growth on ever key measure for the quarter and the year. Revenue growth for


the quarter came from our energy product segment and our aerospace acquisitions allowed


engineering in January of 2005 and industrial in early October 2005.


For the year, revenue growth came from energy products segment, acquisitions, and the


instrumentation businesses within our instrumentation and thermal fluid products site. Overall


profitability increased, benefiting from the factors listed on the slide, and our acquisitions have been


accretive.


Turning to Slide number 4, which provides more detail of the P&L. Bill will discuss the segment


performance in later slides so I want to make note on this slide of slow moving inventory, special


charges, corporate expenses, and income taxes. First, the slow moving inventory in Q4 2004 we


did record a non-cash charge, primarily for related to slow moving inventory that we had


accumulated, and subsequently disposed of in 2005. Second, the special charge expense in 2005


relates to the downsizing of a thermal fluid products business in France, and over on our energy


products segment we closed two U.S. plants of our mailer controls business and move that


production from Texas to our KF business in Oklahoma.


The 2004 special charges related to the sale of a Texas warehouse used by our energy products


segment. Third, regarding corporate full year 2005 increase of $3 million stems from higher staffing


including our COO, who's leading the lean manufacturing initiative, variable comp expense, cost for


due diligence on deals we ultimately passed on, and some consulting projects, which included


income tax plans. And fourth, regarding income taxes, we did reduce our effective tax rate in the


fourth quarter 2005 to a full year 2005 tax rate of 32.2%. That's a reduction from 35% that we


started 2005 with and down from the 34% annual rate we adjusted to in the third quarter, 2005. In


Q4 2005 we lowered the '05 rate to the 32.2 level based on Q4 events including the increased


benefit of batch drugs [ph].