Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James M. Culligan — Director-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
James R. Boldt — Chairman, President, CEO & Head-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brendan M. Harrington — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Risk Officer, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brian D. Kinstlinger — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Vince A. Colicchio — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Director & Senior Portfolio Manager, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Bill O'Loughlin — Investment Advisor, O'Loughlin Financial Group

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the CTG Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, your conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. James Culligan, Director of Investor Relations at CTG. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Lowes, and good morning, everyone. We certainly appreciate your time and interest in CTG. On the call today, we have CTG's CEO, Jim Boldt and Brendan Harrington, Senior Vice President and CFO. Jim and Brendan are going to review the results for the fourth quarter of 2013, and then update you on the company's strategy and outlook. We'll follow with an opportunity for Q&A. If you don't have the news release discussing our financial results, you can access it at the company's website at ctg.com.

Before we begin, I want to mention that statements in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, and predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statement is contained in our earnings release as well as in the company's SEC filings. You can find these at our website or the SEC's website at sec.gov. Please review our forward-looking statements in conjunction with these precautionary factors.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Jim to begin the discussion.

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our fourth quarter earnings conference call.

You saw in our news release, our revenue decreased when compared to last year as we continue to experience delays in healthcare project starts, as hospitals deal with low reimbursements from the government and as we experienced a reduction in spending from a significant staffing customer. Our focus on expense control partially offset the impact from lower than forecasted sales revenue in the quarter, the net of which caused our earnings per share to come in at the low end of our guidance.

I'm going to talk more about our results and what we see for the 2014 first quarter and full year, but first I'm going to ask Brendan to start off with a review of our 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results. Brendan?

Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. For the fourth quarter of 2013, CTG's revenue was $102.7 million, a decrease of $5.2 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. Fourth quarter 2013 had 65 billing days, one more than the fourth quarter of 2012. Solutions revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 totaled $40.4 million, a decrease of $4.9 million or 10.7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily due to lower revenue from Electronic Medical Record project.

As a percentage of total revenue, Solutions revenue was 39% compared to 42% a year ago. Staffing revenue in the quarter decreased by $0.3 million or 0.5% to $62.3 million, reflecting reductions in staffing from a large client offset by higher demand for technical resources from several other clients.

Fourth quarter revenue from IBM, our largest customer was $22.4 million compared with $27.9 million in fourth quarter 2012. As a percent of total revenue, revenue from IBM decreased to 21.8% in the 2013 fourth quarter compared with 25.8% of total revenue in the 2012 fourth quarter.

Revenue from our European operations was $20.9 million, a 14% increase from $18.3 million recorded in last year's fourth quarter. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations during the fourth quarter of 2013 increased consolidated revenue by approximately $900,000.

On a local currency basis, our European revenue increased by 8.7% compared with the 2012 fourth quarter. Excluding the effect of the etrinity acquisition that we closed in February 2013, European revenue increased by 10.4% in U.S. dollars or 5.4% in constant currency.

Direct costs as a percentage of revenue were 78.3% in the fourth quarter, the same as in the fourth quarter 2012. SG&A expenses decreased approximately $900,000 from the fourth quarter of 2012 and remained at 15.8% of revenue, primarily as a result of fewer non-billable personnel and lower incentive compensation expenses.

The billable travel expenses included in the fourth quarter 2013 revenue and direct costs were $2.8 million. The billable travel expenses for the fourth quarter of 2012 totaled $3.2 million. Fourth quarter operating income was $6.1 million, a decrease of approximately $300,000 or 4.8% year-over-year. Operating margin in the fourth quarter was 5.9% of revenue, the same as last year.

The year-over-year decrease in our operating income was due primarily to decreases in our health solutions revenue, offset by the lower SG&A expenses. Net income in the fourth quarter was $3.7 million, a decrease of $320,000 or 8% compared to the fourth quarter 2012 excluding a gain from life insurance proceeds recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. On a per diluted share basis, net income was $0.22 for the quarter, a $0.02 decrease compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, after excluding the gain from life insurance proceeds.

A decrease in the earnings per share is due to lower operating income and a higher income tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2013. The tax rate for the 2013 fourth quarter was 38.4% compared to 35.8% in the 2012 fourth quarter, excluding the effect of the life insurance proceeds. This lower rate in the fourth quarter 2012 was primarily the result of the reversal of certain tax reserves that did not occur in the fourth quarter of 2013.

We expect the tax rate in the first quarter 2014 to be between 39% and 41%. The higher estimated rate in the first quarter is a result of certain federal tax credit laws not yet being extended for 2014. We expect the tax rate for the full year 2014 to be between 38% and 40% compared to 35.6% for 2013.

The higher estimated rate in 2014 is a result of certain federal tax credits related to 2012, which were recorded in 2013 because the legislation relating to those 2012 tax credits was not passed until January 2013.

The 2013 fourth quarter results include equity compensation expense of approximately $0.03 per diluted share, net of tax, while the fourth quarter 2012 included equity compensation expense of $0.02 per diluted share, net of tax.

Our head count at the end of the fourth quarter was 3,700, a decrease of 100 people or 2.6% compared to the end of the third quarter 2013, and 200 fewer than at the end of the fourth quarter 2012. Of the 3,700 employees at the end of the fourth quarter 2013, 91% were billable resources.

At the end of the fourth quarter 2013, we had no debt and $46.2 million of cash on the balance sheet compared to no debt and $40.6 million of cash at the end of fourth quarter 2012. Both the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2012 ended between U.S. biweekly payroll dates.

Our days sales outstanding were 62 days at the end of the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with 68 at the end of the third quarter 2013. The decrease in DSO was due to the timing of the cash proceeds received at the end of the comparative quarters. Our cash provided from operations in the fourth quarter of 2013 was approximately $18.2 million, as compared with $11.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, related primarily to changes in working capital. In the quarter, we had $1.1 million in capital expenditures and recorded depreciation expense of $820,000.

We repurchased 116,000 shares of CTG common stock during the fourth quarter of 2013 and 59,000 shares in the first quarter of 2014. Our current repurchase authorization is for approximately 1.1 million shares. As it remains accretive to our earnings, we intend to continue our repurchase program during the remainder of 2014. Jim?

Thanks, Brendan. In aggregate, revenue declined by 5% in the 2013 fourth quarter with our Solutions business decreasing 11% to 39% of our total revenue. The decline in Solutions business came from our healthcare vertical where our hospital clients faced with a reduction in income and cash flow due to the sequester cuts to Medicare as well as other reductions in government reimbursements have reduced spending.

On our conference call at the end of October, we mentioned we had received two RFPs for Electronic Medical Record projects for which the hospitals had not decided what IT services firms will be awarded those projects. We received one new RFP for an EMR project since that call. We've won one project, which will start up in the first quarter of 2014 and are still waiting a decision on the other two RFPs as to what IT services firm will be chosen for those projects. When we started the fourth quarter of 2013, we had 15 active EMR projects. During the fourth quarter, there were no projects that started or ended. Therefore, at the end of the fourth quarter 2013, we had 15 active EMR projects.

In the short-term, we believe that our EMR business growth will be constrained due to hospitals having to deal with the reimbursement cuts that have occurred. We've seen hospitals go through cycles like this before where they had to delay capital spending. It occurred in 1998 when the U.S. government balanced the federal budget by reducing Medicare and Medicaid payments. After a period of time, the government realized it was beginning to bankrupt smaller hospitals and increased reimbursements.

Again, in the first half of 2009, hospitals stopped launching new projects as the tax-exempt bond market where most hospitals finance their long-term capital needs virtually disappeared. When this credit crunch eased, CTG's business recovered. So the markets again constrained in the short-term. Long-term, we still think there's a significant opportunity for growth in our EMR business.

There are many hospitals that do not currently have EMR application, and others that have applications that will not meet the more stringent standards that are about to be imposed. There'll also be a lot of work required for hospitals that have met the requirements of meaningful use Stage 1 to meet the requirements of meaningful use stages 2 and 3.

The health information exchanges will have to be built to facilitate the exchange of records, and we're positioned in Europe to participate in their adoption of EMR when it occurs. Given the work that needs to be done, we're optimistic in the long-term about our EMR business. Fortunately for CTG, EMRs are not our only healthcare offerings and the acquisition of etrinity and our other healthcare offerings continue to have a positive impact on our business.

We've recently seen an increase in the number of RFPs we are receiving for healthcare outsourcing engagements. In the current tight provider spending environment, we see excellent opportunity for us in application outsourcing as it creates significant immediate savings for hospitals without them making a large financial investment. CTG also has an outstanding reputation in this area and these engagements are typically for multiple years providing an annuity-like revenue stream.

Our SaaS offerings added approximately $0.06 to our earnings per share in 2013 with all of it being generated in the first three quarters. We had forecast $0.03 to $0.05 in earnings per share in the fourth quarter from these offerings. However, our FWA client, a small payer concerned about what impact pursuing these claims might have on their relationship with their provider network has not processed the FWA claims that we identified.

The current challenge we're facing in the sale of this product is the problems that have occurred with federal and state insurance exchanges with the implementation of the Accountable Care Act. For example, one FWA engagement we anticipated closing in the fourth quarter did not happen because our clients dealing with one of the states that has issues and has shut down all non-essential projects until they're comfortable that the exchange is functioning properly.

Having covered healthcare, I'd also like to talk about the other three vertical markets on which we focus. Our technology service provider market, which is all lower margin staffing business, declined in the fourth quarter 2013 based upon a reduction in a significant customer's need for external IT resources. Our financial services vertical had another excellent quarter. Most of the revenue gain in financial services came from our European operations. Our energy business revenue was flat when compared to the fourth quarter 2012.

Turning to our staffing business, its revenue declined by 0.5%, when you compare the fourth quarter 2013 to the fourth quarter 2012. The decline in staffing business from a significant customer, I just mentioned, was almost totally offset by an increase in demand from other clients.

Looking forward to the first quarter of 2014, we're forecasting total revenue to be in the range of $98 million to $100 million. It's worthwhile to note that there are only 62 billing days in the first quarter of 2014 versus the 65 billing days in the fourth quarter of 2013, and the 63 billing days in the first quarter of last year. We're forecasting earnings per share in the first quarter 2014 to be in the range of $0.18 to $0.20 per diluted share.

For the 2014 full year, we currently expect a revenue range of $410 million to $420 million or a 1% decrease at the midpoint of our guidance when compared to 2013. Based upon our revenue forecast and the anticipated mix of business, we expect our 2014 net income per diluted share to be in the range of $0.90 to $1 per share, or a 3% increase from 2013 at the midpoint of our guidance.

We thought it'd be helpful if we spent some time explaining how we set our guidance for 2014. For our staffing business and our traditional IT solutions business, we set the guidance the same as we have in the past in that we've estimated engagements that we are currently working on, as well as engagements that we anticipate will be signed later in the year.

As the technology is similar, we've grouped three of our new offerings together and are calling them data analytics. The three data analytics offerings are our big data offering, and our two SaaS offerings, which are our clinical decision support systems for chronic kidney disease and our [indiscernible] (15:13).

For these data analytics offerings, we've only included engagements in our guidance for the year in cases where the client's given us a verbal commitment that they want to proceed and we're negotiating the contract with the client or where we've executed a letter of intent on the project.

Currently, we've included in our forecast for 2014, approximately $6 million of revenue for these contracts that are in process, and associated earnings per share for these projects of approximately $0.17. We do believe that we will sell more than $6 million of data analytic services in 2014, but cannot accurately forecast this business because these offerings are still in the introductory stage of the product lifecycle and we don't have enough history to accurately project which opportunities will be closed.

In addition, because of their high margins, a small amount of revenue from these offerings has a large impact on our EPS. If you think about it, it's only February of the year and in the first two months, we've sold $66 million of these offering, twice as much as we sold in 2013. As the year progresses, we'll adjust our guidance accordingly for additional wins.

As to our quarterly estimates in the first quarter 2013, the government extended the R&D credit retroactively to January of 2012, which increased our EPS in that quarter last year by $0.02 per share. In addition, in the first quarter of 2013, we earned $0.02 from our data analytics offerings and we're not forecasting any income in the data analytics area in the first quarter of 2014 as we anticipate that the data analytic projects included in our guidance will begin in the second quarter of 2014.

The data analytic projects included in our guidance with respect to the beginning of second quarter should increase our EPS by approximately $0.06 per share per quarter causing the EPS for the last three quarters of the year to be considerably higher than in the first quarter of the year.

Looking at our revenue guidance for the year, we currently think our healthcare business will decline by approximately 11% in 2014. That assumes the government's reduction and reimbursements will continue throughout 2014 limiting EMR starts. Offsetting some of the decline in EMR revenue are expected increases in our revenue from other offerings such as outsourcing, ICD-10 and consulting services tied to healthcare reform.

For our non-healthcare solutions business, we're projecting a revenue increase of approximately 3%. We're forecasting a 3% increase in our staffing business in 2014. We continue to remain optimistic about CTG's long-term growth potential while we're going through a transitional period at this time. Longer term, we expect our healthcare business to return the growth as the EMR work is completed. In the short-term, we expect to see growth in outsourcing ICD-10 and healthcare IT consulting work.

In addition, we positioned CTG to participate in the adoption of U.S. package software by European hospitals. We're pleased that we've already been able to line up $6 million in data analytics sales for the year, and we'll adjust our guidance for further wins as the year progresses.

If we look at how CTG is positioned in healthcare, one of the world's fastest-growing industries, you can see why we continue to be optimistic in our future long-term growth opportunities.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions if there are any. Operator, would you please manage the question-and-answer period?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Brian Kinstlinger from Sidoti & Co. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Brian.

The first question, I guess, I was a little bit confused, the data analytics business, how much did that contribute in revenue and earnings in 2013? Did you give those numbers?

No, I didn't, but it was $3 million in revenue in 2013 and $0.06 per share.

So why on twice the revenue – I'm sorry. No, that's okay. So when you say you booked $6 million through February for the year, are those new wins you won in January and February? Are you talking about what you won last year?

No. They actually would have been sold. The customers made their commitments in January and February of this year. We haven't signed the final contracts with them but they've – as I said, they've either given us a verbal commitments that they're going to go through with the project and we're actually negotiating the contract with them or we've actually gotten a signed memo of intent with the detail of what they want us to do.

And can you talk about which products, I mean, have you had another fraud, waste and abuse win? Have you had a new medical IT management win and just sort of give us a sense of where that extra revenue is coming from?

Sure. One is actually a big data and the other one is fraud, waste and abuse.

Okay. And then the customer that is concerned about going after their claims, have they walked away from the contract or are they expecting you – have they given you a timeline of when they might start to go after those claims?

No. The way the contracts are set up, we'll reimburse when they actually receive the money back. So they have to process the claims that we give them, but they're not required to process the claims and I don't think any payer would kind of contract like that in advance, if they have to process the claim whether they agree with it or not.

The clients are not disputing that we're right. I mean, they've pretty much signed off that we're correct that the claims would fall under a fraud, waste and abuse and that there is recovery. They're concerned about their provider network and the impact that it'll have on them and they just have stopped and are trying to decide what they want to do.

And so have they not decided whether they'll move forward at all with going after [ph] these claims? (21:28) Have they communicated what their plan is?

No, they have not.

And so how do this alter your view of the business in total basically, the small-to-medium size hospitals that don't have the clout that the larger hospitals have.

Well, it isn't hospitals, it's payers.

I meant payers, sorry.

Okay.

Sorry. Sorry, yeah.

It's altered our view on – we're now concerned that smaller payers won't do it. Medium and large payers, we think will do it because the provider actually needs them. Actually, the fraud, waste and abuse, we decided that we'd try another market. The fraud, waste and abuse that I mentioned that we are expecting to sign up shortly, that is included in our guidance is a very large employer with a self-insured plan and we can't think of why an employer wouldn't want their money back if there was claims that were paid that shouldn't have been. So we're trying that market.

Okay. And then I guess the last question, and I'll get back in the queue, as I have others. Can you go over – maybe outline for your EMR projects, how you expect them to expire or end complete throughout the year? I mean – and I guess, the reason I'm asking that is, do you have to replace that revenue or will there be more work at those contracts as you move forward?

Well, that's the reason that our healthcare revenues declined. In 2013, we had just over $60 million of EMR revenue and almost all of them are two-year projects. So we're assuming that $30 million of EMR projects will end and they're ending because we almost always come in on-time and on-budget but they're ending because we did a good job.

Once we finish that client with – project with that client, the client doesn't need our people anymore. We've actually train their people in order to maintain the applications as part of the project and there aren't as many – and so we're assuming for 2014, which I guess is your question, that there'll be about $30 million of projects that end. And then either end we are expecting to see some new projects start like we just have a project that's starting up in February.

So as the hospitals deal with this reimbursement problem, they're not all going to come out of it at once. They seem to be coming out of it separately and we expect to start some up and not that many. So we're going to end about $30 million in EMR projects. And then, either through new EMR or we think we're doing a fair amount of outsourcing in 2014 as well as ICD-10 work, we'll get about $15 million in new business, so that the drop is really because there aren't that many EMR projects that are starting up.

Let me just take a second because this is actually a good area to talk about because it's key to our guidance this year and talk about what we see happen in the hospitals and why they still seem to be somewhat disarrayed. And I'm going to use their [ph] own name (24:36) obviously, but we have a very good well-run hospital system. It's over 1,000 beds and after the sequester hit, kind of in March and April of last year, they realized that it wasn't going to go away.

So they made an announcement in early June that they were going to lay off 1,000 people which is a big deal for a hospital system that size and that they were going to lay the people off in June and July. That was going to cause them to lose money in June and July, but by the fourth quarter, their revenue would be back and they would've righted the organization and they'd be back to profitability.

When October came, the government put through a new series of rules in order to shift the cost up to the hospitals and away from the government. They didn't announce why, but I suspect that was in order to be able to fund part of ObamaCare that they did this.

The one that hurt the hospitals the most is called the two-night rule. CMS' position is that there's no reason that a patient ever should be admitted to a hospital for one night. And if the patient is admitted to a hospital, they won't reimburse for it anymore. So this hospital who had actually planned out to get profitable by the fourth quarter of the year announced in December that because of the changes in the rules, they were still not profitable and they were laying off another 250 people to try and get profitable by the first quarter.

So, it hasn't been one hit that the hospitals have taken, it's been a series of hits that they've been taking. Some of them, like the hospital that's starting up in the first quarter actually have kind of related themselves so they can get their financing. Recently, we've been talking to a hospital that literally stopped their EMR implementation mainly because of financing that is now saying, hey, we think we've got the financing and we can start back up again.

So what we think will happen this year is, individual hospitals may start up EMR project, but until the government does something about the reimbursement screen or until they, each individually, get their profitability back, we just don't see the whole market coming back quickly.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Vince Colicchio from Noble Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Vince.

Good morning, Jim. If the EMR business picks up surprisingly in the second half of the year, and let's say you add up – there's an opportunity to add two or three normal-sized projects for you guys beyond what you're expecting, do you have the people you need to do that? How would that play out?

Yeah. Actually, we have heard of some of our competitors in 2013 revenues being down 40% to 50%. So, there are people in market now. That's not a problem anymore. Almost all of our competitors except for us have done pretty substantial downsizing, so getting the people for EMR projects would not be an issue.

Okay. I know you did some thinking on new service lines in the healthcare side, have you begun to sort of develop something internally towards that? Do you have an acquisition pipeline or a modest foot area that maybe in?

We do have people looking for acquisitions whereas some people would be investment bankers. We're very specific though. We're either looking for data analytic type companies or the other area that we think would be of interest would be revenue cycle. We don't have currently a huge book of revenue cycle, we do some. We think that once ICD-10 goes in, that there'll be a couple of years that hospitals have to spend in – really in education and getting the doctors used to the new codes, so their documentation is right, so the coders know to bill the correct amount. So we think once ICD-10 finally hits that that'll be a good market.

Okay. And what are your current thoughts on the EMR deadline for this year?

Which EMR deadline, I'm sorry?

The October deadline for EMR you said. Sorry, yeah.

Yeah, well, I think that the government may stick with that. I mean, if you look at the requirement, it's actually a [ph] jurk. (29:02) So – and I'm doing this from memory, I don't have it in front of me. But if you reach meaningful use 1 and got the reimbursement from the government in 2011 and 2012, then you have to reach meaningful use 2 on October 1, 2014.

If you reach meaningful use in 2013 then you have until October 1, 2015 and it kind of goes on like that. So it's the very early adopters that have to get to meaningful use 2 this year, not all the hospitals that have reached meaningful use 1. So their work will probably spread out over the next two to three years.

In terms of analytics software, nice pickup, obviously, early in the year. What is your sales pipeline of opportunities looks like versus say, six months ago? Is it significantly better?

Yeah, the pipeline keeps building, there's no doubt about that. And I think the fact that we've already sold $6 million in on two months really is an indication that the problem really we're having with that is, our traditional business like the EMR business, if we have as an example 10 customers at a time that are going to do an EMR project in the next year, we usually figure maybe half of them will actually start in the next year and of those, we'll get 77%.

And we've been very – pretty accurate actually on our quarterly guidance. The last quarter before the fourth quarter of 2013 that we were below the midpoint of our guidance was October 2012, so it was 12 years ago. The problem that we're having with the data analytics is two-fold, really. One, the guidance is being based upon an individual client's performance and that's one client, no probabilities, that's what's in the forecast so it's a very narrow focus versus the rest of our business, which is based upon lots of clients.

And the other problem, and I guess this is also a good part of it is the profitability. I mean for every $1 million in a quarter that we get from data analytics, it adds about $0.025 to earnings per share. So to be off even $2 million in a quarter, makes a huge difference on a company whose earnings per share are in the $0.20s or so. So we've just – we truly believe that we are going to land some other data analytic clients this year.

But depending on which one we pick, it has a huge impact on our EPS forecast for the year. So we think we're better off to go in with what we believe we're going to close based upon our current negotiations with customers and then change our guidance as the year goes on and we know that means we're going to have to change what we've been doing in terms of guidance.

In the past, we've tended to wait till the end of a quarter to announce when we sign a deal because we haven't included items if there's anything significant that we close we'll actually issue a press release when we close it, and most likely, re-do our guidance for the year.

Okay. I'll go back in the queue. Thanks, Jim.

Okay. Thanks, Vince.

Thank you. And our next question is from Rick D'Auteuil from Columbia Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Rick

Good morning. Trying to – so just to get some clarity on the – what you're calling data analytics now, so to drill down in the fraud, waste and abuse piece of it. You had a client at the beginning of last year, you signed a new client midway through the year that was supposed to start in the fourth quarter, well – originally it was supposed to start I think in the third quarter but didn't and then it was the fourth quarter and that's the one you're referring to that isn't processing the claims?

Correct.

Okay and then there was a large opportunity that was in the pipeline that you expected to sign formally in the fourth quarter and you may have made a reference to it, but what happened to that?

That was a large payer, and that particular payer is involved with one of the states that is still having problems with their exchanges. And basically, they shut down all their non-essential project until they get that worked out. So we were basically put on hold.

I mean. And that's not in your guidance at all, for this year?

No.

And what is your expectation that that still happens at some point or...

The client is still telling us that they want to do it. But it goes back to if we or we'd be back to setting the guidance based upon what we think one individual client is going to do.

Okay.

And it's not in our guidance for this year, no.

Is there progress being made with that one state?

Our understanding is yes, but it's still behind where they need to be. Some of the states are actually – the press has been more focused on the federal exchange obviously. Some of the states have actually had more problems than the federal.

Okay. Why would you believe that that large payer won't do what the second customer did?

Well, the larger payers are not as dependent on the provider, it kind of flips at some point. This will be considered – we group them into four groups: so small payer, medium-sized payer, large payer, and then the mega payers.

When you get to the large payer, the provider needs the payer more than the payer needs the provider. It is our understanding from talking to people in the industry. One small, 10-person physicians practice can't look at a payer or a large payer if they were just not going to do business with you anymore because they're going to lose a lot of customers if they do that and it doesn't hurt the large payer as much as it would a small payer.

Okay. Have you been following these RAC Medicare changes that – I know you guys aren't involved with that but it relates to CMS and what the government is doing?

I follow them somewhat and we actually have people who obviously that follow them fairly closely.

It sure feels like the providers are pushing back hard with lobbying and having some success.

Yes.

Okay. And actually this 10 – this two-day rule really hammered those guys, too. So is there a – you don't feel the same is true in the non-government reimbursed space?

Well, the biggest changes that have ever happened probably to health care are occurring now and the payers – Obama originally wanted a one-payer system, right. He didn't want private insurance and the payers are having to justify kind of their existence. I mean in the past, if they – administrative cost and profits are probably for the larger guys at least maybe 10% of healthcare plus what they process. So now the pressure is coming under them with these exchanges et cetera to become more efficient.

In the past, they've always looked to reduce their administrative cost which again is only 10%. The bigger opportunity actually is for them to reduce their payment cost because if they can do that and get more efficient that they're the reason that their processing plans goes up immensely. So we still think that there's an opportunity in it. As I mentioned before, the FWA that we won, we decided we try a different market with the self-insured plan. And being a – having a self-insured plan and actually using our implication on our own plan. I can't see why a company wouldn't want the money that they paid that they didn't have to, back.

Yeah. No, I get that. So to drill down more, what happened to client number one? Are they still doing business with you or...

Well, they're out there, but this business works very different than the rest of our business. Mostly these clients, remember, they're doing an audit. So we might do a year or two years for a client and once we're done with that, they collect those claims. They're done making those payments. They may not have us run the application for another year or two.

Really? Okay. It sounds lumpy, you don't do – I mean, they're obviously doing more – bidding more claims or getting more claims all the time, but you're saying no, you view it in 12-month increments?

Right or some – yeah, probably 12 months would be the least. We have been redesigning, actually it's pretty much on our end done, the application, so we can do it more real-time as people are processing claim because the small payers are telling us that if they could catch – or we're catching real-time, they're doing adjudication of a claim and deny it as you're processing the claim, it is a much easier sell for them than waiting a year and going back to the provider.

And there's a clear way that you get paid on to that scenario too?

Yeah. Same – we're telling them it's the same whether we do it by the year or more real-time.

And then there were several others – I think, six or five other that we're beta testing in fraud, waste and abuse and we're still in the pipeline. What's the status of those?

Of the original six, we won one which is one of the ones that you mentioned, so that brings it down to five. Two of them told us that they just weren't going to pursue it at this time. So they basically said we can come back later on. And the other three, we're still pursuing and they're still talking to us.

Okay. And there's nothing that would indicate that they're likely going to contribute to 2014, those other three?

Well, two of them are telling us that they want to do something but they're not to the point that they're saying yes, go ahead, give us a contract or we're going to do an RFP or whatever. So, there would be significant changes to our EPS if we put them into our guidance and we don't want to do that until we get them to the point that they're saying yes, we're going to do this with you and give us a contract and start negotiating.

Okay. And then, ICD-10 still has October 2014 deadline, is that correct?

That's correct.

So what – your original belief was hospitals were a mess on this and it was going to be a much bigger task than they were contemplating and we're eight months away from that deadline. So, what is going on out there as it relates to that?

Well, we have three ICD-10 projects that we're involved in and running. And we have other projects where the hospital said, no, we think we can do this ourselves but we need Project Managers and high-end consultants to help. So, we're providing people to some of those hospitals as well. I really don't think that the healthcare system is going to be ready by October 1 to do this. I just don't because I doubt any of the small hospitals would have done anything and even some of the larger ones are hoping that they get a postponement.

When you still – because of these additional changes to CMS, I mean, and I'm just picking a hospital that I – they're going for financing, so I happen to know what their numbers are, they lost. These are 1,000-bed hospital system that used to be profitable, probably had a 2% to 3% operating margin before the government started reducing spending.

They had lost $6 million in the second quarter. They lost $15 million in the third quarter. They haven't released their fourth quarter numbers, but everybody thinks they're going to lose money. Some of the hospitals that we do business with have violated their debt covenant. So we know that they're working with some of the funding agencies to get out of their problem.

So, in the end, when you talk to the CEO of a hospital and say, you're going to get killed if you don't have ICD-10 funds some of them look at you and say, I've got to figure out how to make payroll. I've got to get the bond guys out of here, work up some deal with them.

Okay.

It's a weird situation because we've never have been in a situation before about the payers are not in jeopardy, but have a lot of stress under them because of this ObamaCare and the exchanges and everything. And the providers, the government significantly reduced their reimbursement. We're starting to see smaller hospitals file for bankruptcy. There's one in Western New York, for instance, that's going to close its doors in March because they just can't – they can't handle all these changes.

My recollection was that ICD-10, if that deadline stays intact, that is a very onerous on people that haven't upgraded to – I don't know hospitals that haven't upgraded to that.

That's correct. We can actually map on ICD-9, ICD-10 because almost all of the 10 codes are an explosion of the nine codes. So expense for instance is one code in ICD-9, there is 80 codes in ICD-10.

The problem is when you do the mapping you don't have the documentation to prove that you did the most expensive of code reimbursements, so you have to map to the lowest. So – or currently they're getting paid kind of on the average of those 80. They switched to only getting reimbursed for the lowest reimbursement and in models people have run their hospitals will lose at least 3% of their money, their revenues if they're mapping to keep themselves going.

The alternative is you're going to shut the hospital down because they can't bill anybody. So it'll be terrible. CMS is big in their heels and so far they've said they're going to stick with the date. It wouldn't surprise us quite frankly if we get close to the date and they postponed it, so....

It sounds like – I mean they've already done that, what three times or...?

Yes, three times. Yes.

Okay, all right. Thank you.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question is from Bill O'Loughlin from O'Loughlin Financial Group. Please go ahead.

Jim, good morning, Brendan, to you as well.

Morning, Bill.

Three or four comments, if you could be kind enough to clarify it. Most people on the call probably are not aware that yesterday, Governor Cuomo announced that IBM is going to locate 500 people in Buffalo and basically duplicate the Silicon Valley Complex that he has successfully done in Albany, New York. And in that article, Jim, this morning, for the benefit of the people who are on the call, the top IBM executive on location who will oversee this big initiative, said this, he said that genomic mapping and medical records are two areas where IBM is doing work.

Given the fact that CTG is doing genomic mapping and medical records, can you envision IBM, and I don't see why not, buying CTG? It's only $1 billion purchase and IBM could swallow you like a cup of coffee and you could have now the capital, the people, the global name to do what is not happening now and that's my second questioning.

There's 7 billion people in the world, 320 million in the U.S., I don't see how with what you are doing with end-stage renal disease on your SaaS system and will also be able to do if you had the people to do it, coronary heart disease, mental health, diabetes and drug addiction, why you couldn't instantly have a global presence and bring in massive amounts of new business and learn – and have your sales force learn to drop what we used to call in the investor business the sitters and spitters who are waiting to do something, but don't do it, and learn to just put those people on the backburner and go after all the new business all over the planet that you could have, in my opinion, if you had the human capital and the financial capital to do it.

Can you give me any thoughts and views on how 7 billion people in my opinion would love to hear what you're doing and probably have no idea and how you might tap into that market of China and India, and Europe, and South America that I don't think your sales force has any ability to even call on now?

Well, first, I have absolutely no idea if IBM will ever buy us or not and even if I did, I couldn't comment on it, but that would just be absolute pure speculation. I don't – IBM obviously has been working on genomic sequencing [indiscernible] (47:08) records. We've actually done that for a client in town. This is all public, as you know, Roswell Park. So, we obviously have capabilities. I'm sure IBM would say their capabilities are larger than us. I honestly don't know, we – because their marketplace is so small at the moment, we have never actually seen them, a customer.

We think that the genomic offering is going to be significant over time, particularly the ability to tie in the EMR records and we're probably third in the world in IT services work, electronic medical records and we've already successfully helped the client do genomic sequencing. So, we have the right skill sets to be able to do that and actually are doing it for that client.

So, I think that the opportunity is huge. Our own belief is – you talked about China, et cetera, most of the money being spent, virtually all the money – I shouldn't say all, but the vast majority of the money being spent on genomics is in the United States currently and it's because the state and the federal government are financing research in that area, also the big pharma companies are also doing research.

And we think that the announcement that IBM and UB made long-term, firstly it's great for Buffalo, I mean it's fantastic for Buffalo, but long-term we think that actually will be good for CTG, because if we have used the UB research particularly in the past that develop things like our end-stage renal disease offering. If they can tie in genomics to medical records, then that creates even a more viable database for people to use to develop systems like that to help doctors treat patients with certain diseases. So, long-term, probably good for CTG. I don't see why it wouldn't be.

I mean no news or opinion, Jim, on your initiative with Roswell Park, the local cancer hospital and the genomic sequencing project you're working on and would hopefully expect a partnership to be announced between Roswell Park and CTG. Is there any hope that that'll be announced relatively soon?

I really can't comment on that, but the lead in that project is Roswell. It isn't CTG. We agreed with Roswell quite some time ago that any announcements or news would be given by someone at Roswell, not by someone at CTG.

No. I used to be an IBM representative and the one thing they stressed to us is patience is not a virtue. You've done a terrific job in taking CTG from staffing into truly a healthcare potential behemoth of a company, but I have to wonder if your sales force works with too few prospects too long and doesn't learn to drop them and move on to people that would probably be able to sign up in a month that they knew what you were doing. And I have to – I suspect that may be the case, they hope that something will happen, and ObamaCare stultifies it.

Forget ObamaCare, it's a global market. Isn't there something that you could do with a big bang in Europe or other countries with all that you're working on that truly could help solve the biggest problems in the world which is healthcare, healthcare costs? Truly, in many case, save millions of lives with what you're doing, but people don't know about it. And I think your sales force, in my opinion, needs a good cattle prodder to really get out there and say, look guys, if you're not going to close these accounts, put them on the back burner and forget them and move on to new fertile ground of businesses that have money around the world that could take advantage of your services?

I don't think that's the issue. Genomic sequencing, for instance, the offering, we're still waiting for state approval to be able to use certain aspects of that, but there isn't actually something that we could go out and sell tomorrow. The other offerings are all brand new technologies.

What the end-stage renal disease, for instance, is exactly what you said. I mean, it's the ability for us to be able to put a system in that not only significantly reduces costs for the payer. I mean, it'll at least avoid an emergency room visit which is probably $30,000 to $40,000. But also for the patient, the specialist has the ability to stimulate the neurons and keep the kidneys from failing.

So we have developed things that will do that, but this is brand new technology. No one's ever done that before. When we patented that application, our attorneys told us that was the first time anybody patented an application to use human blood work for any kind of a decision support system. So this is new technology. It takes longer to sell.

Just in conclusion, CTG is on a cusp of greatness and I don't believe someone like Obama or ObamaCare or the U.S. economy or whatever, some budget from some hospital or groups of hospital should slow you down. I think your salesforce needs to be re-motivated, re-tooled, re-built, and probably re-strengthened to say, look, we've got to go out and sell this. We've got the answers to some of the greatest medical problems in the world. We are not going to have the patience to wait for those who want to sit and think, let's go out and find people that want to act and do it.

And that's my point, is to go out and – nobody knows how many losses – how many losses you have, they only can count the wins, and the wins are evident in sales and earnings. The losses are irrelevant. You just have to go for the wins. And, I think my own instinct is there is not enough sales people working on enough wins. They're just regurgitating and revisiting those people who think and think and wait. And that's what I'm concerned about as an investor.

Bill, in the first two months – the applications that you're talking about are the data analytics.

Right.

In the first two months, we've sold $6 million, twice as much as last year. We just haven't included any future wins in our forecast going forward. And we will when we get those wins, we'll definitely adjust our guidance.

You've done a terrific job with CTG. You're not a salesman, you weren't meant to be, you are a CEO. But I would really hope that you could revisit the fire in the belly of your sales force and get them to work with more prospects, not fewer and drop and let – put on the back burner of those people that want to wait for God knows whatever that may never materialize.

It's a big world and we're global and you could be a behemoth of a company, you could be the salvation of many people's lives. You could be globally known. You could be on the front page of Forbes with what you're doing and I'm concerned not enough people know about it. But I do appreciate you listening.

Okay. Thanks, Bill.

Thank you.

Thank you and we do have a follow-up question from Brian Kinstlinger from Sidoti. Please go ahead.

Brian.

Yeah. Jim, you mentioned two of your beta customers weren't going to pursue. What was the reasoning for that?

I'm sorry.

Yeah you said, of your five beta – six original beta customers, two said they didn't want to pursue. What was the reasoning behind that?

They actually didn't give us reasons. They basically – we talked to them for a couple of years. They kind of admitted that we ran samples for them to show how much we could save and they just said we don't want to – we just don't want to pursue that at this time, so they didn't actually give us a reason.

And where do they fit, small, medium, large or mega?

Large, large, all Mega.

Large. Not all mega – not mega, just large.

Large or bigger.

Got it. And can you maybe quantify pipeline in terms of number of people you're talking to in both [indiscernible] (55:31) IT management, are we talking about 10 or 20, are we talking more like 50 or 60?

I don't actually have the number in front of me. The problem with giving that number out is that if someone – the way our system works, if somebody goes in and talk to somebody for the first time, it would actually pop up as one. I expect it would probably be in that range closer to 20 than 60, but I really don't know the number.

Okay. And then, have you been able to convince any Stage 2 issue in RFP? I think a while back, you had mentioned that state need to have a competitive procurement. Have any been convinced?

Not for what we are selling, no.

Okay. And then finally, you've mentioned outsourcing contracts as an area that you can grow. I think you were bidding on a couple of large contracts that you expected to be adjudicated in January. Did you mention what happened to those?

Yeah. We bid, and these are big contracts that we would have gotten either in the fourth quarter of 2013 or the first two months of 2014. So, we bid on seven contracts. We won three. Two of the customers told us they're on hold. We're doing the outsourcing because they're doing some other project, and we think they're keen to their financing and they put those projects on hold. So they're going to come back to us on those two. And in two, we're still waiting for them to make a decision. So, the three that made decisions to go forward, we won all three of them.

Thanks, very much.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our final question will come from the line of Vince Colicchio from Noble Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, Jim again. Europe grew 5% organically in constant currency, the driver there, was it staffing or was it your EMR clients and then also on EMR side, are you starting to see a pipeline build or is this still too early?

More of the hospitals in Europe are getting interested but they're not to the point that they're ready to sign contracts and part of their problem is they have to get financing or they have to get either financing or capital, but basically state-supported organizations so they're going to have, most of them will probably have to go to the state and somehow they're capable to do that.

There's very little revenue at the moment from EMR in 2013, initial contract that we got was the consulting contract, just to help them kind of get the project organized and do some quality checks at the beginning so there isn't much revenue. Most of the increase in Europe actually was in financial services, which has been growing and the other area that's growing for them is government – the European Union. It's basically rebuilding Washington DC 200 years later. And most of the growth actually in Europe was in Solutions, it wasn't in staffing.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

Okay.

And there are no further questions in queue. Please continue.

Thank you. CTG is formally established in healthcare, one of the fastest-growing major U.S. industries. While in the short term, our hospital clients have to deal with the reimbursement reductions imposed by them, by the U.S. federal government, they still have significant long-term information technology needs.

We have offerings to meet the IT needs of providers and payers including Electronic Medical Records, fraud, waste and abuse, ICD-10 conversions, accountable care organization, genomic sequencing, IT driven medical management models for chronic diseases and big data, all of which are expected to be in strong demand for several years. As such, we remain very excited about CTGs long-term future growth prospects. I would like to thank you for your continued support and for joining us this morning. Have a great day.

Thank you. And, ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be made available for replay after 10:30 today through February 28. You may access AT&T Executive replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 306731. International participants can dial 320-365-3844. Again, the numbers are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code, 306731.

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive TeleConference. You may now disconnect.