Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James M. Culligan — Director-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
James R. Boldt — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brendan M. Harrington — CFO, SVP & Head-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Richard G. D'Auteuil MBA — Vice President, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Vincent A. Colicchio — Senior Research Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets
Matthew J. McCormack — Senior Research Analyst, BGB Securities, Inc.
Frank Sparacino — Vice President, First Analysis Securities Corp.
Steve Shaw — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the CTG Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] . As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr. Jim Culligan, Investor Relations for CTG. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Kay, and good morning everyone. We certainly appreciate your time and your interest in CTG. On the call today, we have CTG's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Boldt, and Brendan Harrington, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Brendan are going to review the results for the second quarter of 2011 and then update you on the company's strategy and outlook. We'll follow with an opportunity for Q&A. If you don't have the news release discussing our financial results, you can access it at the company's website at ctg.com.

Before we begin, I want to mention that statements in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future are forward-looking statements.

It's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in our earnings release as well in the company's SEC filings. You can find these at our Web site or the SEC's Web site at sec.gov. Please review our forward-looking statements in conjunction with these precautionary factors.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Jim to begin the discussion.

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our second quarter earnings conference call. As you saw in our earnings release, in the second quarter of 2011 we were at the midpoint of our guidance for both earnings and revenue.

For the full year at the midpoint of our revised guidance we anticipate a revenue increase over 2010 or 19% and an increase in EPS of 35%. Our revenue and earnings continue to grow as demand for our services expands both as a result of the continued need in the United States for staffing services and as the healthcare industry invests in electronic medical records.

I'm going to talk more about our results and what we see for the 2011 third quarter and the full year, but first I'm going to ask Brendan to start us off with the review of our financial results. Brendan?

Thanks, Jim. Good morning. For the second quarter of 2011, CTG's revenue was $98.3 million, an increase of $17.2 million or 21% compared with the second quarter of 2010. On a sequential basis compared with the trailing first quarter of 2011 revenue increased 2.5% and was 4% higher per billing day.

Solutions revenue in the second quarter of 2011 was $36 million an increase of $9.7 million or 37% compared with last year's second quarter. As a percentage of total revenue, Solutions revenue was 37% compared with 32% a year ago driven mainly by an increase in revenue from more profitable EMR work.

Continued strong demand in the quarter increased staffing revenue by $7.5 million or 13.7% to $62.3 million. Second quarter revenue from IBM, our largest customer, was $29.5 million compared with $25.6 million in the same period last year. As a percent of total revenue, IBM decreased to 30% in the 2011 second quarter compared with 31.5% of total revenue in the second quarter of last year.

During the 2011 second quarter, the company's current national technical services contract with IBM was extended for 3 months from June 30, 2011 to September 28, 2011. As part of this NTS agreement, the company provided services as a predominant supplier to IBM's integrated technology services unit and as sole provider to the systems and technology group business unit. We expect the NTS agreement to be renewed in September 2011, and also that the company will continue to derive a significant portion of its revenue from IBM throughout the remainder of 2011 and in future years.

Revenue from our European operations was $17.3 million, a 20.3% increase from the $14.4 million recorded in last year's second quarter. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations during the second quarter of 2011 increased consolidated revenue by approximately $1.9 million or 2%. The recovery in Europe continues to lag that of the U.S. as indicated by the lower growth rate of our European business, which was 6.6% on a local currency basis as compared with the second quarter of 2010.

Direct costs as a percentage of revenue were 78.9% in the second quarter compared with 78.1% in the second quarter of 2010 and 79.4% in the trailing first quarter of 2011. The increase in direct cost as a percentage of revenue in the 2011 second quarter is mainly due to an increase in employee benefit cost, primarily unemployment insurance.

SG&A expenses as a percent of revenue decreased to 16.3% from 17.6% in the second quarter of 2010. This improvement reflects the operating leverage from higher revenue and continued discipline in controlling costs.

Second quarter operating income expanded at a greater rate than revenue and was $4.7 million, up $1.2 million or 34% year-over-year. Compared with the trailing first quarter of 2011, second quarter operating income increased $78,000 or 1.7%. Operating margin in the second quarter increased to 4.8% of revenue, a 50 basis point improvement from last year's 4.3%, and unchanged from the first quarter of 2011. Compared with last year's second quarter, our operating margin benefited from an increase in the profitability of the solutions projects due to a higher proportion of EMR work, cost controls and the additional operating leverage.

Net income was $2.8 million in the quarter, an increase of 49% from $1.9 million in the second quarter of 2010 and unchanged from the first quarter of 2011. On a per diluted share basis, net income was $0.17 for the quarter, a 42% increase from the second quarter of 2010 and unchanged as compared with the 2011 first quarter. Both the 2011 and 2010 second quarter's results include equity compensation expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share net of tax.

The tax rate for the 2011 second quarter was 38.9% compared with 44.3% in the 2010 second quarter when evaluation allowance related to severance costs in our European operations caused a higher than normal rate. We expect the tax rate for the full year of 2011 to be between 37% and 39%.

Regarding our head count, we added approximately 100 employees in the second quarter. Of the 3,700 employees at the end of the second quarter of 2011, 90% were billable resources.

CTG's financial position continues to be strong. At the end of the second quarter of 2011, we had no long-term debt and $13 million of cash on the balance sheet. Both the second quarter of 2011 and 2010 ended between a U.S. payroll date.

Our day sales outstanding was 62 days at the end of the second quarter of 2011, an increase from 57 days at the end of the second quarter of 2010 and equal to the 62 days at the end of the first quarter of 2011. The increase in the accounts receivable in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter of 2010 was related primarily to the change in the mix of business.

Our cash provided from operations in the second quarter of 2011 was approximately $2.8 million as compared with cash provided from operations of approximately $6.7 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in the cash provided from operations in the comparative quarters was primarily attributable to the timing of payments for life insurance premiums, income taxes and employee compensation at the end of the comparative periods.

We had 626,000 in capital expenditures, and recorded depreciation expense of $543,000 in the quarter. We repurchased approximately 44,000 shares of CTG common stock during the second quarter of 2011. And during this most recent self-imposed blackout period prior to releasing our earnings, we repurchased approximately 16,000 shares under our 10b5-1 plan.

As of today, our repurchase authorization is for approximately 1.1 million shares. Because it remains accretive to our earnings, we intend to continue our repurchase program during the second half of 2011. Jim?

Thanks, Brendan. In aggregate, our Solutions business increased by 37% in the second quarter of 2011. Our percentage of Solutions business, which is more profitable than our staffing business, was at its highest level in more than a decade. The growth in Solutions work is primarily coming from EMR projects and is continuing to drive margin expansion. Overall, our healthcare business was up over 30% over the second quarter of last year.

On our conference call at the end of April, we mentioned that we bid on 4 RFPs for electronic medical record projects, but that the hospitals have not decided what IT services firms would be awarded those projects. Since that call, we were notified that we had won two of those projects and lost two of projects.

When we started the second quarter of 2011, we had 17 active EMR projects. During the second quarter, in addition of the two projects that started that I just mentioned, we started a project that we had announced that we had won in first quarter of the year, and three projects came to an end. That means at the end of the second quarter 2011 we once again had 17 active EMR projects.

As the size of the new projects that we have been winning are significantly larger than the sizes of the engagements ending, we remain very optimistic about our EMR business, add to that the RFP that we received in the second quarter, which the client has not yet picked an IT services firm, and the EMR engagements our sales force are pursuing, you can see why we have every expectation that our EMR business will continue to grow.

Longer term, we believe medical informatics will be a major opportunity for growth in serving the healthcare industry. We have a solid head start in this opportunity, having already developed three solutions for the healthcare market that employ medical informatics to identify ways to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare delivery. These offerings are now commercial, and we're actively marketing them.

Currently, we see our new offerings for ICD-10 and accountable care organizations, known in the industry as ACOs, as our next major revenue growth opportunities. Our ICD-10 offering supports conversions in the United States from ICD-9, the current U.S. standard for diagnostic and billing codes, to ICD-10, the international standard, which the federal government is requiring providers and payers to adopt by October 1, 2013. We currently have one ICD project for a payer underway. Our ACO offering supports the formation of accountable care organizations to improve the quality of care and reduce unnecessary costs, a concept conceived as part of healthcare reform.

Demand for our EMR offering remains very strong now, and we expect that to continue for quite some time. Going forward, however, we believe that the mix of the offerings we are selling will begin to change. Hospitals need to start their ICD-10 conversion projects or they will not be ready to be go live with the new codes on the October 1, 2013 conversion date. We believe that in the latter part of 2011 we will see hospitals needing support with their ICD-10 assessments.

In 2012 and 2013, a larger part of our revenues will be derived from ICD-10 project as hospitals begin implementing the changes they need in their environments to accommodate the ICD-10 codes.

Another trend we see emerging has to do with the smaller hospitals. As you know, we've been focused on the 500-bed to 2000-bed hospital market and have not been actively marketing to the 100-bed and less hospitals, which constitute approximately half of the hospitals in the U.S. Unfortunately, most of those hospitals have been slow to implement their EMR projects due to their limited capital.

In general, these smaller hospitals often lack the financial resources to implement EMRs or to fund the ICD-10 conversion and do not have adequate capital structures to form their own accountable care organizations. Recently, some of our clients have begun acquiring smaller hospitals, and while we've finished the EMR work for the larger system we're being engaged by the larger systems to implement EMRs at their newly acquired hospitals. As such, we're beginning to access the smaller hospital market without having to go through the normal sales cycle.

As the dates approach for the EMR penalties and the ICD-10 conversion, we expect to see more of the smaller hospitals be acquired by the larger hospital networks and, as a consequence, we see the potential for more EMR work at multi-hospital organizations where we have already completed their initial implementations.

Having covered healthcare, I'd like to also talk about the three other vertical markets where we focus on. Demand from the technology service provider market was very strong during the second quarter 2011, and we expect demand to continue to be strong during the year. As to our financial services and energy verticals, we depict those businesses as stable, and we're not expecting that to change in the near future.

Turning to our staffing business, which generates most of its revenue from the technology service provider market, it increased by 14% in the second quarter 2011 when compared with the second quarter of 2010.

Looking to the third quarter, we're forecasting revenue to be in the range of $98 million to $100 million or a 17% increase in the midpoint of our guidance over the last year's third quarter. We're forecasting earnings per share in the third quarter 2011 to be in the range of $0.16 to $0.18 per diluted share, or a 31% increase from the midpoint of our guidance over the third quarter of last year.

For the 2011 full year, we expect a revenue range of $390 million to $396 million, or a 19% increase at the midpoint of our guidance over 2010. Based upon our revenue forecast and the anticipated mix of business, we expect that income per diluted share in 2011 will be in the range of $0.67 to $0.73 or a 35% increase from 2010 at the midpoint of our guidance.

When you compare CTG to companies both in and outside of our industry, we had a strong second quarter in 2011. We're expecting 2011 to be another excellent year for CTG with strong double-digit revenue and earnings growth.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions, if there are any. Operator, would you please manage our question-and-answer period?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We do have a question from the line of Rick D'Auteuil, Columbia Management. Please go ahead.

Hi, Jim and Brendan.

Good morning.

Did the status of the taxes assignment, has that ever reached the second and next stage?

No, it hasn't. The – we did complete the study. We helped them ascertain how many HIEs they need, where they should be, et cetera, and that was completed really in the fall of last year. It then went to the legislature, and they have not yet disbursed the rest of the money they got from the federal government to the HIEs to start their projects. But the HIEs are definitely getting ready for it. We've been talking to them about what they need to do in that.

And so is that a – you're saying 2012 ramp or...?

I think that – well, it's hard to say it. It could happen in the fourth quarter or more likely it's probably 2012.

Okay. Is there any other states that you're working with at this point?

Not at the statewide level, no. We have been engaged by HIEs and other states and are doing proposals for them. But Texas is really the main state where we actually kind of did the assessment for the entire state.

Okay. Going back so the ICD-10, what – is your training – I mean, on the EMR projects you need to – you need to either find people with those skill sets or you need to train people to staff those assign – those projects. Is the same true of the ICD-10, or is that – can you draw from a broader technical base that's out there?

Yes, for certain skill sets it can draw from a broader base. But for a lot of it, really the base is smaller. There were a lot of EMR projects for instance, Kaiser Permanente had the largest project out on the West Coast for Epic. So there were lot of people trained that had done some EMR work.

When you look at the ICD-10, to do the assessment you need some high level people, some of whom have to be familiar with the ICD-10 code. So that's not a particular problem doing the assessment. Once you get into the actual remediation, a lot we think of the work will be in doing version upgrades because hospitals aren't always on their latest version, and there will only be a migration path most likely from the latest version to the ICD-10 compliant version. We've done implementations for years. There are lot of people in the industry that know the implementation part, that should be – that there should be a good pool of people available to do that part of it.

When you look at the actual ICD-10 coding part of it ,there aren't as many people available and it's a tough skill set to train for. We actually think, and we've read some on it, that to train someone on the ICD-10 codes, all 69,000, it takes about nine months. We don't think that people have to be trained on all of them. What we'll most likely do is train people on codes for one specific department. The radiation department tends to use codes that are associated with radiation, not all of the codes that are in the system. So you can end up with a mix of people, and it's – I think the labor market for healthcare just in general is tight now and probably going to get tighter as they start to do the ICD-10 conversion.

So is your competition in that niche similar to the EMR niche? Have you seen these same folks?

Yeah, definitely it's going to be the same six players we see. And I suspect some other people try and enter the healthcare market who aren't there now using the ICD conversion as their point of entry.

Were you – are you aware of who won those other two EMR assignments? Was it one of those five competitors, or...?

No.

No.

It wasn't – we have noticed the pattern and I don't know if there's anything we can do about it. The two that we lost were both university systems that are controlled by the state, and the state procurement people sent out the RFPs to solutions companies, and we're suspecting was probably all seven of us. They also sent them out to staffing companies, and when they get to bids back the staffing companies' hourly rates were lower than the solutions companies. So they both picked staffing companies to do their implementations.

Now we know that it will cost them more money in the end because they don't have a methodology in order to do the implementation or what to do when there's a problem with the software, what people have done in the past. But if the state procurement people are just looking at rates, the small, local and sometimes even national staffing companies will always send in rates lower than ours.

Okay. But, they don't even have the team leaders to lead the projects, do they?

Sometimes, no they don't.

Okay.

It's not something that I would recommend somebody do. But clearly, if you go back and look at the other ones we've lost in the past I think that's the fourth time that has happened to us, that they pick – that the procurement people have just looked at rates and picked the staffing company.

Okay. How about, what's – we haven't talked about large physician practices, are there any of those that are in the pipeline?

No, actually right now we're concentrating more on large hospitals because our revenue from those will be larger than if we do a large physicians practice. So we have done large physicians practices in the past, but given that resources are so scarce and that CIOs are still demanding resources with experience, we think we're better off to put our people to the larger hospital projects.

Okay. And how do you feel about your staffing levels given the pipeline and – specific to healthcare, given the pipeline of potential RFPs? I mean, maybe you can even update us on that, what is pipeline of bids that you're looking at?

Well, we still have a pipeline which is very healthy. We so far have been able to staff every position. There's not one position yet that I'm aware of. I'm actually very proud of our recruiting people. They've done a tremendous job being able to recruit. We do have some advantages.

So when we recruit people, we point to the fact that our class ratings are better than anyone else's. Therefore, if you come to us you can eventually, even if you're leaving CTG, which we hope they don't, point to the fact that you know the best methodologies or at least know parts of it. In the fact that there are people working for staffing companies where when they end an engagement, they won't keep people on the bench where we in our Solutions business will. So, we have been able to attract people still from other companies to come with us.

So right now, at least in the near-term, we think that we've got all the positions that we need staffed. But there's quite a bit of work even in the projects that we've just won that hasn't been staffed up yet. So we got ways to go yet.

And then, you mentioned class ratings, what – can you update us on those, because I think they change from time-to-time?

Right, we still continue to be at the top of class ratings, and often it's significantly more and sometimes double the rating that one of our competitors will be rated at.

And that is one of the key factors in the RFP process or the decision process?

Yeah, it is. First, we point to the class ratings, and most hospitals believe them because they actually submit their data to them. And then secondly, we point to the price, because we are smaller, and our corporate office won significantly less than a large aggregator who we compete – one of the large aggregators who we compete with. We're able to bid less than they do, but still point the fact that our quality's number one.

Okay. And just on the staffing side of the business, what are you seeing with bill rate, pay rate and margins there?

Well, let me break that up, because it's different. On the staffing side of the business in Europe because of the system that they have in some countries where everyone gets at least an inflationary raise each year, we did see some bill rate increases there in at the beginning of this year, probably just slightly less than 3%. And then in the United States, things have been very tight for technical workers, and we think that – I don't think that it's going to be huge. But we think that as we go along we'll probably see some modest inflation in both bill rates and wages as we go forward.

And not asking to get in any specifics, but does your IBM negotiations contemplate that, too?

It's definitely a factor in the IBM negotiations. I mean, if we can't pay a competitive rate then we can't get people, and IBM needs the people. So they are probably in a better position than anybody in the world to know what's happening to the prices of technical workers in the United States. So they're well aware of the fact that rates are going up.

So back into overall staffing, do you expect given the tightness of the market maybe some expansion in margin there, or what do you...?

I really don't. I think in aggregate we're at about a 3% margin now, and I think that's probably where we're going to be long term. I think what's more probable is that the bill rates will go up, but most of that money – we'll maintain our 3% margins, most of the money is going to have to go in increased wages on the staffing side of the business. For the Solutions side of the business, particularly the healthcare side of the business, based upon what's happening in the shortages, we think it can happen over the next couple of years. I think that's where we might see some margin expansion.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

And the next question comes from the line of Vincent Colicchio, Noble Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Vince.

Hello, Jim, couple of questions for you. You said your EMR project size is growing. Should that relate to the new projects you won, and also you know what you're seeing in the pipeline. Question is, why is that happening? Is it your targeting, or is it – is competitive positioning a factor? Any detail is helpful.

I think it's more competitive. We're still in our 500 to 2000 hospital range. But the projects that were falling off tended to be between 500 and 1000, and a lot of the new projects we're taking on, and even the ones in the pipeline, are 1,500- to 2,000-bed hospital chains. So it almost doubles – if the size of the hospital's twice as much, it almost doubles your work effort so we're definitely seeing a favorable mix increase to larger hospitals.

Shifting gears towards the ICD-10 side, there's going to be more training involved in that side of things. Does that mean that margins would be lower on ICD-10 versus EMR?

No, I don't think so. I think the margins will be as high in ICD-10, and if there are the shortages that we anticipate, they could be higher than they are today too.

To what extent do you think your existing base of EMR clients will become ICD-10 clients?

Well, quite frankly we're hoping 100% of them will be. I mean, they all need to do the ICD-10 conversion. As we're finishing the EMR projects, we're actually approaching them and asking them if we can give them a quote and an assessment. So we expect to be able to convert a lot of those clients over and get their ICD-10 work.

And the new project you announced, was that an EMR client?

I'm sorry the new project...

The new ICD-10 project that you...

No, it isn't. It's a payer, and it's been an existing client. And actually we proposed I think last year on their ICD-10 work.

Okay. What was the utilization rate on your billable professionals of the solutions business? Is that something you can disclose?

It's running very close to around 88%, and 88% assumes a person has kind of normal vacation and holidays, et cetera. We're not experiencing much bench time at all. If a person finishes on an EMR engagement, for instance, we immediately transfer him to another one.

And so are you able to – as you ramp up hiring, is it easy for you to maintain? Will that rate decline as you ramp up hiring for some new areas such as ICD-10?

Well, clearly in the second quarter we do have some ICD-10 bench time if you want to call it, or marketing time I guess depending on how you look at it. If you look at our SG&A expense for instance between the first and the second quarter, the fact that we're starting up this new ICD-10 and accountable care organization offerings is causing the SG&A to go up. At the same time, we're hiring billable people and they're sitting on the bench or helping – they're actually helping doing proposals and things like that. But they're not billable, so we're getting more bench time out of them too. It probably will go up again perhaps in the third quarter. By the fourth quarter we think the number of assessments will utilize those people, in the next then they're going to be fully utilized.

Okay. And lastly, any movement of new clients or improvement in pipeline for your proprietary products?

No. We've got a lot of betas and people that we're talking to, but we didn't actually sign any new of the new products contracts for those in the second quarter.

Yeah. Thanks, I appreciate it.

Thanks.

The next question comes from the line of Matt McCormack, BGB Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Matt.

Yeah, good morning. In terms of the trend of the larger deal in the EMR space, could you also talk about the average life of those deals and how much longer I guess the larger deals will take to fully implement?

Good question, but actually it takes the same amount of time. If it's an 800 bed hospital or an 1800 bed hospital, it's going to take them two years to finish the project.

Okay. So the net number of active projects this quarter was the same as the first quarter. So those other projects you've had for two years are now are starting to roll off?

That's correct, yes. And the new projects we're adding are larger, but in the first quarter you have a project, you only have a couple of people on them, so we haven't really seen the revenue growth from them yet.

Okay. And then as you look out, as it relates to this year and your guidance, I mean, should we expect that number to grow throughout the year, or in terms of your current portfolio are you are expecting a few to start rolling off as well?

We started six new projects in the third quarter of 2009, three of them pretty much have rolled off in the second quarter. We may have another three roll off either in the third or fourth quarter, but we're pursuing additional RFPs. So I'm hoping that the number of RFP will offset any jobs that are ending. If that does happen, our revenues definitely are going to increase because the size of the jobs often are double the size of the jobs rolling off.

Okay. And then can you talk about the pricing environment with those deals, with the EMR deals? And then specifically you mentioned that staffing companies are starting to surface, so are other solutions providers seeing – lowering their price to try to be more competitive versus the staffing providers? And I guess how are those dynamics playing out?

We have not seen any of the solutions companies lower their prices whatsoever. Actually its going the other way because of the shortage people are raising their prices, because they're harder to find. The staffing companies that do this actually have been around for years. They're not brand new. They're just getting a lot of these university jobs because it's totally based upon the bill rate of the individuals, and they're lower.

And to your knowledge, have any of them been successful at doing this?

Not to my knowledge, no. But most of the projects that they've gotten have been in the last six to nine months, so you don't really find out a project went bad until towards the end.

Right, okay, so that could be an opportunity down the road. Switching gears, you mentioned the IBM contract. Can you talk about this negotiation being possibly different than in the years passed? It sounds like it's just a three month extension, and I think normally – how long do you expect I guess to resign or...?

I don't really, I wouldn't really describe it as any different than it's been in the past. IBM came to us in the middle of June, and basically procurement's been very busy. They're growing at a rapid rate, and asked – said that they wanted to extend the contract for three more months to give them more time to take a look at it. They've done this in the past, but it hasn't been for a long time. I think it was a decade ago was the last time that they did it ask for a little bit more time to go through the contract, so it's hard to tell until you get to the end exactly what'll come out, but we really expect that our revenues from IBM and our profit levels will end up about the same level as they are now.

Okay. And then in the release you talked about share repurchases. I guess, could you just – I mean it sounds like there's opportunity to invest in the solution side, and so could you just kind of talk about the logic of buying back shares rather than reinvesting it into the Solutions business?

Right. We are investing some, certainly more now than we were last year even in the first quarter in building out our new offerings. And when I say building out, the methodologies et cetera are already in place, the people are working on bidding on assessments, et cetera, to get projects started. That actually gets expensed, that isn't capitalized. It's not something that you can capitalize.

Right now we don't have any significant products that we're developing. We're waiting until we get more sales of the products we've already gotten. So there's not really much of an investment to use our cash for. Our depreciation probably runs a little less than our amortization. We're making money obviously, so we've got free cash flow, and we're using it to buyback our own stock. I mean, we could let it build up I guess on the balance sheet.

Someday I would like to buy something in the healthcare space, a healthcare solutions company, but there's not much available at the moment. So I expect that we'll continue to buy back our stock as long as it makes sense. We think it's a good thing for everyone the company usually waits until there's maybe a little pressure on the stock price. So we get – from the company standpoint, we get a good price because maybe the price has dropped a little. And from our shareholders' perspective they get some additional liquidity.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Question comes from the line of Frank Sparacino, First Analysis. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, Frank.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of questions. I'd be curious if what you've seen in terms of the impact with Stage II meaningful use now being likely pushed out a year, if that's had any impact in terms of what the hospitals are doing?

No. Most of our hospitals are still struggling to get up to Stage I. We haven't really had any significant engagements to work on Stage II yet. I think everybody breathed a sigh of relief because it's going to take some work to get up to Stage II as well.

So when you talk about some of the projects ending, what I'm curious about is I assume most of those are just hospitals completing a Stage I meaningful use. What's the intention for Stage II and Stage III? Is that for you to get reengaged again, or what do you think will happen?

We should get reengaged. The hospitals that – the majority of the hospitals we've been dealing with know that they have to go to their ICD-10 conversions next. So we've had some hospitals flat out telling us that they need to take a small breather because they've got projects that have been on hold for a period of time. But they're looking to do their ICD-10 assessment next and then they've got to do ICD-10 work, and then they're going to flip back and do the meaningful use too.

So I think this probably answers my next question, but so when you look at your comments earlier about the business sort of shifting, the mix of the business shifting, are you assuming that the overall hospital IT budget stays the same and those dollars are now reallocated? Or you don't see the overall pie in terms of budget dollars actually getting bigger to accommodate for ICD-10?

We actually think that dollars will get bigger, that between ICD-10 and what they have to do for their ACOs, et cetera, that they're actually are going to have to budget more money for that in total. Plus they've got meaningful use – the second phase of meaningful use that they've got to plan for. So we think in general hospitals are going to have to spend more on IT going forward than they have in the past.

Okay, then – and maybe lastly just around your comments in the small hospital market. As you're getting pulled down to that market place, I assume basically the health system is dictating, let's say in this case Epic or maybe even Cerner, that that's the system that's going to be rolled out in terms of some of the smaller hospitals? Or is it the small hospitals are actually independently able to choose and go through an RFP processes and select a different vender? Or is it pretty much standard there?

No, it is definitely the former. The larger hospitals systems put in Epic. As an example, the smaller hospital may have hit something like Meditech, and they're going to convert all their systems over to Epic.

In those instances are the large hospitals, Jim, just basically subsidizing the cost for the small hospitals?

Absolutely, yes. The small hospitals don't often have the cash even to be able to do it. Even a 1000-bed hospital has probably got a couple hundred million dollars of cash on their balance sheet. They usually can do the work for the smaller hospitals. We really think this is a win-win, quite frankly, because if you look at the smaller hospital, they don't have the money for their EMRs, and they can't afford the penalties.

They don't – the ICD-10 conversion, if they're behind and doing their version upgrades could cost them a fortune, they don't have the money for that and there's nothing that they can finance it and all the work really is basically in services. And then they can't become an ACO at least on their own.

When you look at the larger hospital chain, if you go to a smaller – the smaller hospital may be losing cash, maybe 1% 2% of their total revenue, you don't need a standalone CFO, CIO, IT department, et cetera because you're going to use the larger system's generally applications. So you probably can get the smaller hospital to at least a breakeven just by acquiring it, having it merge into the larger hospital system. And then you have the referral patterns – I mean, the estimate in the industry is that's $1.6 million of additional business every time you can have one doctor switch their referrals from one hospital to another one. So obviously the larger systems, which is 100% of the docs' referrals into their system, or close it, and they make their money off of that. So everybody wins in this scenario.

Okay. Good. Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] We do have a question from the line of Steve Shaw, Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Good morning.

What were some of the cost controls that were helping drive the SG&A down as a percentage?

From a year ago, or...?

Yeah.

Must be from a year ago.

Yeah.

We actually when – one was in, for instance in our sales area. In 2009, in the first six months when healthcare cut costs, they couldn't launch any new projects because the tax-free exempt bond market was not there. We actually, when everybody else in the industry was kind of cutting their staffs down, we went out and hired the best sales people we could find from our competitors. So we actually beefed up our sales force so that it could – we had an adequate sales force for what we need today, and we actually – I guess if you did it by the math you might have said in 2009 certainly your sales force was larger than it should be. That's probably one of the more significant areas.

Another area is in our corporate office. Our corporate office does largely fixed cost, so as our revenues increase, we don't have to proportionally add to the corporate office. That's another large area where we've been saving and possibly picking up some margin.

And then I'm sorry, I don't know if you guys said this, in terms of the business mix, do you guys have an expectation for a hard number on the percentage split for the year?

Well, we think that the Solutions business this year will probably grow by about 27%, and the Staffing business probably about 14%. So the aggregate growth for the whole company would be around 19%. And if we did that for the full year, our Staffing would be about 64% of the business and Solutions around 36% of the business, right at the midpoint of the guidance, those numbers.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And no further questions at this time.

CTG is firmly established in healthcare, one of the fastest growing major U.S. industries. We have offerings for Electronic Medical Records, ICD-10 conversions, Accountable Care Organizations, and Medical Informatics, all of which are expected to be in strong demand for the next several years. We're therefore very excited about CTG's future. We believe the strength of our business, the growth opportunities in the healthcare market and our strategy and ability to execute it well provides CTG with strong growth prospects for the foreseeable future. I would like to thank you for your continued support and for joining us this morning. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 11.30AM today through July 31. You may access the AT&T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 175311. International participants dial 320-365-3844. Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844, access code is 175311.

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for using AT&T executive teleconference service. You may now disconnect.