Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James M. Culligan — Director-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
James R. Boldt — Chairman, President, CEO & Head-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brendan M. Harrington — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Risk Officer, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Matthew Joseph McCormack — Analyst, BGB Securities, Inc.
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Frank DiLorenzo — Analyst, Singular Research
Kevin Liu — Analyst, B. Riley & Co.
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets
Bill Sutherland — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Analyst, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Michael S. Needleman — Analyst, Preservation Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you for standing by and welcome to the CTG Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be an opportunity for your questions. [Operator Instructions] .

At this time, I like to turn the conference over to our host, Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Jim Culligan. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Tom, and good morning, everyone. We certainly appreciate your time and your interest in CTG. On the call today, we have CTG's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Boldt, and Brendan Harrington, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Brendan are going to review the results for the third quarter of 2012 and then update you on the company's strategy and outlook. We'll follow with an opportunity for Q&A. If you don't have the news release discussing our financial results, you can access it at the company's website at ctg.com.

Before we begin, I want to mention that statements in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in our earnings release as well as in the company's SEC filings. You can find those at our website or the SEC's website at sec.gov. Please review our forward-looking statements in conjunction with these precautionary factors.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Jim to begin the discussion.

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our third quarter earnings conference call. As you saw in our news release, we had an excellent third quarter with revenue at our guidance and earnings per share at the high end of our guidance. Revenue in the third quarter of 2012 increased over 2011 by 5%, the operating margin expanded by 140 basis points and earnings per share increased 28%. As we expected, our higher margin Solutions business continues to grow and increased 13% in the third quarter of 2012, while revenue from our lower margin Staffing business was approximately the same as it was in the third quarter of 2011.

I'm going to talk more about our results and what we see for the 2012 fourth quarter and the full year. But first I'm going to ask Brendan to start us off with the review of our financial results. Brendan?

Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. For the third quarter of 2012, CTG's revenue was $106.4 million, an increase of $5.3 million or 5% compared with the third quarter of 2011. Third quarter 2012 had 63 billing days, the same as in the third quarter of 2011.

Solutions revenue in the third quarter of 2012 was $44.2 million, an increase of $5.1 million or 13% compared with the third quarter of 2011. As a percentage of total revenue, Solutions revenue was 42% compared with 39% a year ago. A continued improvement in our business mix is mainly being driven by revenue growth from more profitable healthcare projects, Staffing revenue in the quarter increased $200,000 or 0.3% to $62.2 million.

Third quarter revenue from IBM, our largest customer was $28.3 million compared with $30.8 million in the third quarter of 2011. As a percent of total revenue, revenue from IBM decreased to 26.6% in the 2012 third quarter, compared with 30.4% of total revenue in the 2011 third quarter.

Approximately $1.2 million or 46% of the decrease in revenue from IBM in the quarter was a result of IBM spinoff of its retail business to another large company. Although this change lowered our revenue from IBM, the spinoff had no impact on CTG's overall revenue since we've retained the business with this new client.

Revenue from our European operations was $16.3 million or 2% increase from the $16 million recorded in last year's third quarter. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations during the third quarter of 2012 decreased consolidated revenue by approximately $2.1 million or 1.9%. On a local currency basis, our European revenue increased by 14.7% compared with the 2011 third quarter.

Direct costs as a percentage of revenue were 78.3% in the third quarter compared with 79.3% in the third quarter of 2011. SG&A expenses as a percent of revenue decreased to 15.8% from 16.2% in the third quarter of 2011. The billable travel expenses included in the third quarter of 2012 revenue and direct costs are $3,312,000. The billable travel expenses for the third quarter of 2011 totaled $3,074,000.

Third quarter operating income grew to $6.3 million, an increase of $1.7 million or 38% year-over-year. Compared with the trailing second quarter of 2012, operating income increased $180,000 or 2.9%. Operating margin in the third quarter increased to 5.9% of revenue, a 140 basis point improvement from last year's 4.5%. The year-over-year increases in operating income and margin were due primarily to the increase in the Solutions business in our sales mix and the additional operating leverage.

Net income was $3.8 million, an increase of $822,000 or 27%, compared to the third quarter of 2011. On a per diluted share basis, net income was $0.23 for the quarter, an increase of 28% compared to third quarter of last year. Both the 2011 and 2012 third quarter results include equity compensation expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share net of tax.

The tax rate for the 2012 third quarter was 39% compared with 35.3% in the 2011 third quarter. We expect the tax rate for the full year 2012 to be between 38% and 40% compared to the 37.6% in 2011. The increase in the tax rate in the quarter and in the full year 2012 is due to the expiration of certain federal tax credits that we realized in 2011.

Our head count at the end of the third quarter was 3,800, the same as at the end of the second quarter 2012 and 100 people or 3% higher compared to the end of the third quarter 2011. Of the 3,800 employees at the end of the third quarter 2012, 90% were billable resources.

At the end of third quarter, we had no debt and $29.4 million of cash on the balance sheet compared with $12.6 million of cash at the end of third quarter last year. Both the third quarter of 2012 and 2011 ended on a U.S. bi-weekly payroll date.

Our day sales outstanding was 60 days at the end of the third quarter, one day lower than at the end of the third quarter last year. Our cash provided by operations in the third quarter of 2012 was approximately $6.2 million as compared with approximately $2.8 million in the third quarter of 2011. In the quarter, we had $471,000 in capital expenditures and recorded depreciation expense of $672,000.

We repurchased approximately 38,000 shares of CTG common stock during the third quarter of 2012. As of today, our repurchase authorization is for approximately 550,000 shares. As it remains accretive to our earnings, we intend to continue our repurchase program, during the fourth quarter of 2012. Jim?

Thanks, Brendan. As I mentioned in aggregate our Solutions business, which is significantly more profitable than our Staffing business increased by 13% in the third quarter 2012. The Solutions business was 42% of our total revenue in the third quarter. The growth in Solutions work is primarily coming from healthcare projects and that is continuing to drive margin expansion. Overall, our healthcare business was up 17% over the third quarter of last year.

And at our conference call at the end of July, we mentioned that we'd received two RFPs for electronic medical record projects, which the hospitals had not decided what IT services firms would be awarded those projects. In addition, we received two RFPs for EMR projects in the third quarter 2012. Of those projects, we won one project and we still have three bids outstanding for which an IT services firm has not been selected.

When we started the third quarter 2012, we had 18 active EMR projects. During the quarter, we started two projects, one of which we'd won in the second quarter 2012, and two projects came to an end. Therefore at the end of the third quarter 2012, we had 18 active EMR projects.

Our EMR work continues to grow as the size and scope of the engagements continues to increase. As I mentioned before, we currently have a significant amount of opportunity for EMR business, but we increased our EMR revenue by 25% in the third quarter and we expect continued growth in EMR work.

Competition for the limited number of resources with EMR experience, challenges our ability to grow our EMR business to its full potential. Until the market begins to accept newly trained staff, the number of experienced resources that we can hire is going to be the limiting factor to growth in our EMR business.

Our Software-as-a-Service or SaaS offerings are beginning to contribute to our improved profitability while still only approximately 1% of our total revenue, two of our sales offerings, our IT medical and management, and fraud, waste and abuse offerings added approximately $0.02 to earnings per share in the third quarter 2012, when compared to the third quarter of last year.

Having covered healthcare, I'd also like to talk about the other three vertical markets that we focus on, our technology service provider market, which is an all Staffing business declined by 8% in the third quarter. As to our energy vertical, an increase during the third quarter of 2012, while our financial services business was approximately the same as it was last year. The lack of growth in the financial services business in U.S. dollars was a result of unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.

Turning to our Staffing business, its revenue was flat when you compare the third quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2011. While in U.S. dollars, our Staffing business did not show an increase when compared to the third quarter of last year, we depict our Staffing business as improving slightly in the third quarter of 2012. If you look at our Staffing business in local currencies, revenue increased by 3% in the quarter. The reason the Staffing business was flat to last year in U.S. dollars was the unfavorable foreign currency adjustments that occurred in the third quarter of 2012.

Looking at the fourth quarter of 2012, we're forecasting total revenue to be in a range of $108 million to $110 million or an 8% increase in the midpoint of our guidance over last year's fourth quarter. We're forecasting earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2012 excluding the gain from life insurance proceeds to be in the range of $0.22 to $0.24 per diluted share or a 15% increase in the midpoint of our guidance over the fourth quarter of last year.

For the 2012 full year, we expect a revenue range of $424 million to $426 million or a 7% increase in the midpoint of our guidance over 2011. Based upon our revenue forecast and the anticipated mix of business, we expect 2012 net income per diluted share excluding the gains from life insurance proceeds to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.89 or a 24% increase from 2011 at the mid-point of our guidance.

To sum it up, despite a slowing U.S. economy and Europe's financial problem, CTG is performing very well based upon our strategic focus on higher growth industries, particularly healthcare. CTG's earnings per share in the third quarter increased by 28% and we're in pace for another excellent year in 2012.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions if there are any. Operator, would you please manage our question-and-answer period.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matt McCormack with BGB Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Matt.

Good morning. I guess the first question in terms of the SaaS offering, can you – I don't believe you'd really discussed this much in the past, if there is any detail that you can provide, looks like for it to be $0.02 accretive you're looking at and of 1% revenue, you're looking at about a 32% net margin, so obviously very profitable. Is that just one client, is it in for – is it a – which – is it in full production, or are you just sensing it with one client? I guess, what is the possibility and how much can this grow to I guess is the question?

Okay. That's a very difficult question. But in terms of what it is currently, we have one client for both offerings, so two different clients. One of the clients is the – is the IT medical management model. It's the original client that we were working with to develop it. And under a grant from New York State, we're in the process of installing it in a couple of hospitals in Western New York.

We're also building a model out for other diseases. So we have the end-stage renal disease developed and that's actually being used by the same client. And then the other diseases that we're building it out for are congestive heart failure, diabetes, chemical dependency, and mental health.

The fraud ways and abuse also is with one client. I think we announced probably at the end of the first quarter that we had one small payer who'd signed up to use the application that is commercial. And so given the client, our findings and the client is now working through, pursuing, getting the money back from the providers for some of the claims that we've indicated. And we received our first payment; it's based upon what they say is the way that we're marketing, so we get a percent what they save. So we received our first payment end of the third quarter of the year that's the first time commercially that we've ever received a payment for it.

These two applications are totally new to us. For our existing offerings, but we think we have a pretty good method of estimating our future of revenue and profitability. If you look, for instance, at the midpoint of our guidance for this year, while many companies have changed the midpoint of their guidance that's been the same midpoint that we've had really since the end of the first quarter.

So for existing offerings, we have a pretty good method of, we know how many clients are interested, how many bids we're going to get, how many times we're going to win, et cetera. These are totally new to us, and we're also marketing clients that we've never really done business with before so. And the fraud ways and abuse site for instance, we're marketing that product to payers, which we have a quite experience with, but we're also marketing at this stage, and we've really never done any business like this before with state. In a year or two, we'll probably be able to come up with a pretty good model to estimate what the future is going to look at, but until we've done more history, that's just impossible to do.

Okay. And turning to the healthcare vertical, if I did the math right, it looks like for the quarter it was down slightly $1 million or $1.5 million sequentially. First of all, is that accurate and if it is what's going on there, is that mainly seasonality or something else?

See, it sounds like you did the math correctly and it is seasonality. We'd mentioned when we had the second quarter conference call that we'd worked a lot of overtime in the second quarter of the year and our people work a lot of overtimes when hospitals go live, because if anything needs to be adjusted or if anyone has any questions, our people have to be there on the spot to be able to deal with it.

In the third quarter of the year, this is for the whole company, we generally lose about 3% of our revenue just because more people take vacations. We also don't work much overtime including in healthcare in the third quarter of the year. It's, I don't ever remember a hospital scheduling a significant go-live of a hospital in the third quarter of the year, because people just – because of the summer time they want to be with their families, the weather is nice they don't, they don't work a lot – want to work a lot of over time, so we expect. And in their – in our guidance we have the fourth quarter, the less vacation time, we always experience less in the fourth quarter than the third quarter. And we have more overtime booked for the fourth quarter of the year.

Okay, okay. And then the contraction in the technology vertical, I mean, I guess could you talk about what the drivers are there? I mean, I think it's been – I think the demand for IT professionals has been pretty strong, so it's to be down 8%, I guess I was just curious, is there any color that you can provide there?

Right. And this is all public information, so almost all of our technology service provider business is really with IBM. The vast majority of it is with IBM. Our IBM business, if you do the comparison, Brendan gave out the number is down 8% when compared to last year, it's actually 8.2%. Part of that is because our business with them is down, the most of our business, about 75% of our business is with their Systems and Technology Group STG, that's their server group worldwide. And their business is off after you've adjusted for a divestiture that they did and exclude currency exchange fluctuations.

If you look at IBM's release from last week, STG was down about 9%, and that's not just the IBM's server business, if you look at any other server manufacturers, their business is down particularly in the European market. Because their business was down, they're launching less projects and that's really when they need our people. But the STG division used to have a component of it which was called the RSS, the Retail Store System business unit of IBM. And at the end of July of this year, that was sold from IBM to Toshiba and we still retain that business. We have the business with Toshiba, didn't go away actually, it's fine and growing a little bit, however it comes out of the IBM numbers.

So if you adjust it for there and said okay take the RSS business unit out of the 2011 quarter, IBM's business with us is down 4.4%, so part of it is just a switching classification in my mind. It's going from technology service providers into the other category and part of it's 4.4% is a real decline from IBM, and it's just based up on the fact that the business unit that we're serving, their revenue is off.

Okay, great. And then the last question, very strong cash flow quarter now $30 million in cash or so on the balance sheet. I know you haven't particularly been acquisitive. So just your thoughts on returning cash; I know there is a, I think a 500,000 shares authorized, but that's – that would only account for about $8.5 million worth of stock given the current share price and you're going to continue to be cash flow positive. So I guess what are your thoughts on returning that cash to shareholders?

Well, our first preference would really be to buy something to buy a small, a very small IT services company that has solutions for the healthcare market, something that perhaps would expand those geographically or something that would be an offering that we currently don't have or that would enhance one of our current offering.

Unfortunately, because of the large aggregators bought up most of them over the last three years, many of them for sales. So we're still looking, we're still hopeful that we will buy something, it just hasn't happened yet. And if we do buy something, our preference would be to use cash to pay for them.

In terms of the stock buyback, it's true there is about 550,000 shares left. Our Board has tended to give us authorizations in a million share increments. I haven't really talked to them about what happens when this authorization runs up, but I suspect that they would be favorable to at least considering increasing the authorization going forward, this is about the third or fourth authorization that we've actually had from them. So if we go back probably to 2007, we probably repurchased between $3 million and $4 million shares.

The other thing that I know the Board has been looking at, and I think that they'll continue to look at is the possibility of a cash dividend. Before 2008, very few, actually less than 10% of the technology companies with revenue – market caps our size actually paid a cash dividend, but more and more as we go out and talk to shareholders, more and more of them are asking if we'd consider our dividend, so I'm sure that our Board will take that under consideration.

Okay. Great. Thank you so much.

Question today comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning guys.

Good morning.

Good morning Brian.

The first question I wanted to talk about, first couple of questions on EMR, I'm wondering with the discussions you're having in hospitals that are not yet going to an implementation, what are they saying, what are their plans, what are the timelines, when do you expect to see a surge from some of those hospitals out there?

That's a difficult question to answer, because each one of the hospitals actually is looking at it differently. A lot of the hospitals decided that they were not going to avail themselves a [ph] VRR (24:10). Funding – the funding that actually came out of the hi-tech bill. So those hospitals that wanted to get their reimbursement from the government kind of jumped on the process early.

The hospitals now though are facing a potential penalty if they don't have electronic medical records by the beginning of 2015. And I suspect most of the larger hospitals that can afford to put in the EMR system, will probably do so and try and avoid that penalty, because it starts off at 1% of your Medicare and Medicaid, and it runs up – it can run up to 5% over a period of time, as the government sees fit. So I think that you're going to see the second batch of systems that – and this time they want to avoid the penalty instead of getting the payments are going to start their projects up. If you really wanted to be up and running on January 1st the 2015, you really start up probably January or first quarter of next year.

The other thing that we do know is that some of the larger hospital systems, who didn't start up are planning on starting up. There is one hospital system that's quite large for instance that we know is targeting January 1 of next year and the larger the hospital system obviously the more people that they need. So we think that the resources are probably going to be certainly tight through next year even maybe through 2014.

Do you think that the date that compliance starts will hold and do you think there will be announcement that A, we'll hold or B we're moving it, is it some hospitals don't necessarily believe that they will hold?

Some hospitals are very hopeful that they won't hold. The government in the past when hospitals as a group said that they couldn't do something, the governments has been pretty accommodative in moving the date. For instance the ICD-10 conversion date, while it's – it's needed for the system has been postponed three times. So lot of the hospitals think that the government is going to back off and perhaps not impose the penalty.

As to whether they move the date or not, first tell me who is going to win the presidential election, because you're probably going to get a different answer depending on who you assume wins the election. It's largely a political decision and really that can go just anyway from here.

I tend to think that the government is serious about it and I mean the Federal Government believes and there's a report out from them that it will cost the United States about $100 billion to provide everyone with an electronic medical records, and the report estimates that if everybody with – in the United States is having an electronic medical record, it would reduce healthcare cost by $200 billion or $300 billion a year. Government agencies pay for 55% of all healthcare in the United States because of the Medicare and Medicaid, the veterans, et cetera. So most of that – the majority of that savings would accrue back to the government, and as we all know the government is looking for ways to reduce the deficit. And getting healthcare cost to drop, because if you're eliminating duplicate payments would be the one that would definitely be politically acceptable. So I suspect that eventually they will use it, but the whole hi-tech bill was kind of a carrot in a stick, do it early you get paid, wait we're going to penalize you, that's pretty unusual for Congress, it's hard to tell whether they will actually enforce it in 2015 or not.

So, Jimmy brought the presidential race, so is it fair to say that you think that if Romney wins that there'll be extensions more so or maybe take us through if one candidate is better for your business or another, so we could figure out what we think about November?

Well, I'm not a political analyst, but certainly, Romney has indicated that if he were to become President, then he would try and have ObamaCare – that legislation overturned and certainly President Obama is in favor of it, and if you take a step back and say okay that makes sense, I suspect that Romney would be a little bit more accommodative to the hospitals particularly if they said we're not ready for this. Now even Romney faces the rising health care cost and the budget deficit, so again if he is a business person, if you can all – if you can reduce government cost by a significant amount by having hospitals use electronic medical records, and you got the tools to be able to do that, you probably would do it, but I think he'd be a little bit more accommodative than perhaps President Obama would be.

I've got two more. Sorry.

In terms of our business, healthcare costs are going up and all of our major offerings, the SaaS offerings and the electronic medical records are really designed to help reduce health care costs. So whichever Presidential candidate gets in, I suspect our healthcare business is going to be good going forward.

Okay. Now two other questions and I'll get in the queue and ask you some more. But the first one is, can you talk about pricing in EMR, especially once that large customer, potential customer [ph] hit in (29:46) January for the entire industry given it will be even less supply – is everyone raising prices at that point? And then second in the EMR side, you only have three projects that you bid on right now, that's small compared to I think sometimes in the past, so I'm wondering either a number that you expect to put out an RFP in the next six months, can you quantify that number?

Okay. In terms of the number in the next six months that's hard to say. We still have a pipeline of hospitals that say that they are going to – that they are going to put out RFPs. It's really the sizes of the systems like the one that I mentioned which is one of the top ten systems in the country. That particular hospital system going live with an EMR project is equivalent of 43,000 bed hospitals starting up their project at the same point of time. So when you look at the size of the systems that are talking about doing RFPs that dwarfs maybe the backlog that we've had in the past.

The healthcare cost, wages and bill rates have been increasing probably this year it is in the 5% to 10% kind of range I would think. I think that if the large system goes live that resources are going to even be more constrained and I would expect to see more wage inflation. Now everyone in our industry, when we have to give out an increase to one of our employees because we have to keep them at market, goes to the customer and says basically, look, you are going to lose this person, unless we give them this increase. So having wage inflation at the moment is probably more of a good thing for us than a bad thing.

Great. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Frank DiLorenzo with Singular Research. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Frank.

Mr. Lorenzo, your line is open. Mr. Lorenzo?

Hi, can you hear me?

Yes.

Hi. Thanks. Quick question on SG&A, looks like this year, you've done a nice job controlling your SG&A costs and going back to last year there was a little bit of spike in your fourth quarter. My question was with regards to the SG&A situation, if you think it will be well controlled, relatively flat going into this fourth quarter here and also into fiscal 2013? That was my first question. Thanks.

Okay. We did get a spike in the fourth quarter of last year. One – there are more days, so you'd expect the absolute amount of it to go up. We actually timed some of our SG&A expenditures, particularly on marketing and development, based upon what we think our profit levels are going to be. So when we got to the fourth quarter of last year, as we started it we realized that our profit levels would – were going to increase, last year in 2011 we went from $0.18 to $0.20 in the fourth quarter and we elected to put more into marketing and more into Solutions work automatically because the profitabilities were going up, our incentives also in total were higher in that quarter. Longer term in terms of a target if you will, and this goes back probably 11 years ago, we had targeted around 16% for our SG&A expense. And then we're shooting for 22% to 23% in terms of our direct profit and if we achieve that obviously we're going to hit an operating margin of 6% to 7% which has been our long-term objective.

Okay, that's helpful, thanks. Also, another question regarding your 18 EMR projects, you had announcement earlier in the month about an expansion of one deal, I was wondering if you can give us a little more color on your ongoing agreements, what the potential might be for expanded deals regarding your current agreements going forward? Thanks.

Right. I think you're going to see we have seen in the past, we often have been seeing an increase in the amount of work once we've won one of these deals. What happens is, just you can kind of understand it, and I'll use a 1000-bed hospital system because it's just easy math. You actually need about 75 people to do an EMR for a 1000-bed hospital system, 25 of those people are generally IT consultants from the outside, our people, and imagine you're staffing a pyramid, all of our people have at least one to three EMRs that they've done before and they will staff the entire top of the pyramid.

The client usually will estimate that they can provide the other 50 people, generally 25 of those are trying to get out of their IT department, their people need to learn those applications, if they don't, when we leave who is going to maintain them. 25 of those people, they try and pick out of their clinical area. Often what happens to a hospital while they think they can do it when they actually go and yank people out of clinical and take people out of IT, they discover that they are – that it's very difficult to do, that they can't totally staff their 50.

We've agreed to provide them with the 25 people and we do. They then come back to us with additional requirement and say look, can you fill these positions that we originally were trying to fill. I would love it if we could fill all those positions. The problem we are having at the moment is that because resources are scarce, we are filling some of those additional requirements but not all of them. So to the extent that the labor market is constrained and remains constrained for people with EMR skills, we'll probably get some of that additional revenue, but not all.

Thanks.

Okay.

And we have a question from the line of Kevin Liu, representing B. Riley & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Kevin.

The healthcare business outside of EMR, just wanted to talk a little bit about what you are seeing in terms of upgrades of clinical systems ahead of potential ICD-10 adoption and then also just anything with respect to growth in your application outsourcing piece?

Yeah. The – it's a good question, we are not seeing anything in terms of ICD-10. It was kind of funny, we actually get a lot of clients that had budgeted money to do remediation this year. And we are expecting to get it. As soon as the government delayed it a year, they took their money and they used it for another one of their projects. Most of our clients think that they can get their ICD-10 remediation done in about 12 months. So when we talk to our clients, most of them are talking about starting projects up in the second or third quarter of 2013 in order to get their ICD-10 compliant. And we still have a lot of clients out there that are hoping that the AMA is successful and gets the government to postpone the date again. I think that's possible, but I suspect this time that date is probably going to stick for a while.

In terms of our outsourcing, we had two relatively large, we call them transitional outsourcings, where the client was going to a new application and our people came in and maintained the old application until the new one was up and running and that actually ended in the second quarter of the year. We had expected a larger permanent outsourcing to start-up in August. Unfortunately, it was delayed. So it's actually starting up now in the month of October. So our outsourcing business was actually a negative. Revenues were negative in the third quarter, but we're expecting once this other outsourcing is fully staffed that it will pick back up again and we see a lot of opportunity in outsourcing going forward.

Our clients historically have not had much turnover in their IT departments and particularly because wages are rising, for people with IT experience they are seeing much more turnover than they have in the past. And we think that they're going to look to us to do outsourcing in order to address that.

Right. And then shifting gears a bit, you talked a little bit about the fraud, waste, and abuse earlier, but just wanted to get as much clear as possible around who within your organization has been put in charge of the initiative, are you guys looking to hire aggressively on the [ph] business side (38:50) just to bring on board more folks with relationships with the payers and kind of what does the pipeline look like in terms of how many payers you're planning on going after say in the next year or so?

We have a national sales force that calls on payers. So, on the payer side, we have certain geographies that I know they are looking to perhaps fill with a person that has a stronger payer relationships perhaps, but we already have people calling in on many of the payers. So we're pretty well set on that side. But the market that we're not as – is really well structured is actually the states. Historically we have not sold directly to state governments. We do not have as many people there with relationships, we do have relationships in a few of the states that we're marketing to. But that is an area over the next 12 months that we will probably increase our capability to. We currently have six betas for either states or payers underway – I apologize I have allergy problems.

So we have six betas for either states or payers that are underway and obviously the guys and girls are trying to close those. One of the things that we found though it's a much longer sales cycle than we are accustomed to. An EMR might be a lot of spadework to get in position to get an RFP, and then probably 60 days later you come to the end of it. When dealing with a state I think they tend more to think in terms of year cycles versus two months cycle. So we've got a good pipeline, everyone we've showed the application to has basically told us, yeah, you're right, it works. And now it's a matter of just closing more.

Okay, thank you.

Next question comes from the line of Vincent Colicchio with Noble Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jim.

Hi, Vince.

Just a couple, most of mine were answered. On the European business if you could talk about that a little bit, how visible is that, is that a short-term agreement, and is it just a matter of the EU staying intact and you'll see a nice flow of business there from the government, does the economy impact that, what are the factors we need to think about?

Sure. And let me just give some background of Vince's question. The increase in our business over in Europe is primarily related to business with the European Union. The headquarters for the European Union is in the Flemish portion of Belgium, that's where our European operations are headquartered and most of our European revenue actually comes from the Flemish part of Belgium. We're one of the largest IT services companies in that part of Belgium. And basically the EU government has rebuilding Washington DC 200 years later. Every month they announce that they open a new Government Ministry or Agency and that Agency needs IT support. So we've been selling more and more to the EU. The contracts tend to be longer in term, not shorter actually. Their contracts can go as far out as four, five years in terms of supporting some of the needs that they have. It's definitely a good market for us. We're a player in that market, obviously a recognized player. And I think that we have opportunities going forward as the European Union government has established to sell more and more IT services, so it definitely is a bright spot.

Our commercial business over in Europe has been somewhat weak because of the European economy and obviously we're being hurt by the foreign currency exchange, but I – this quarter, I'm pleased as punch this quarter that our European revenues in U.S. dollars were up a couple of percent. I don't think I've heard of another IT services company that can say that.

And on the Toshiba business, I know it's early Jim, but any sense for how secure that is?

We are one of their primary providers. That business has been going very well, actually its revenue is up. They are taking on more people and we believe we've maintained or perhaps even improved our position going forward. So we're pretty optimistic about it continuing into the future and growing.

Yeah. And last question Healthcare Solutions revenue as a portion of total revenue, does anyone have that number handy?

Healthcare, I have to look that one up.

33%, but just the Healthcare Solutions piece.

It's about 30%.

Okay. Thanks. Nice quarter guys.

Thank you.

And, next we'll go to the line of Bill Sutherland representing Northland Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Bill.

Okay. Thanks, Jim. I am a bit late but caught some of your commentary about the software sales. So is this – shall we think about kind of the same kind of impact for Q4, the two initiatives that moved the needle in Q3?

Yes. Actually in our guidance for the fourth quarter, we assumed that the profitability would be the same in Q4 as it was in Q3.

Okay. And [ph] Europe (45:01), are they contributing somewhat equally or disproportionally?

It is a little disproportionate. I really don't want to disclose the actual numbers for two reasons, actually one is we don't disclose profitability numbers for any of our offerings but in this particular case if I disclose the numbers that there's only one client. So I'm actually disclosing profitability for a client, so I'd rather not do that.

Okay. On the medical management solution, the grant funding I think is the primary source of funding there, and is that as far as you can see taking through 2013?

No. That project, the – there will be some revenue through the end of 2013, but the development of the application has to be finished by June 30th of 2013. And then in the last six months of 2013, the hospitals and the medical group are actually using the application on patients, kind of creating data groups, patients treated using the application, without the application, and then they are supposed to write white papers in the first quarter 2014 on how well the application worked.

So I'm just trying to understand, will it be – how are you thinking about this sequencing out as far as revenue if you – once you flow – once you finish development mid-year next year, will there be a drop-off while the commercial – real commercial revenue builds?

It's possible, but the end-stage renal disease application, the beta groups that was completed in the past – actually it was completed in 2011. And the beta groups are occurring between July 1st of 2012 and December 31. So in the first quarter of next year they'll actually – in the first quarter of 2013, they'll actually write the white papers and how well the application did in terms of end stage renal disease. So our hope would be by the third quarter of next year that we'd be in a position to – we certainly are now in a position to commercially sell the application. But then we'd be able to actually make sales and implement the application because the white papers would already be out and the application is done.

All right. Okay. Okay that's all I had. Thanks so much.

Okay. Thanks, Bill.

Rick D'Auteuil. Please go ahead sir.

Hi, Jim.

Good morning, Rick.

Good morning, I'm actually getting in the back of the queue, almost all my questions have been answered. Just to go back there's probably three or four years ago there was a big opportunity in front of you in European healthcare, the hospitals updating, or what is the status of that, I know it never really happened. But is that still out there or what's maybe bring us current on that?

Sure. The opportunity that Rick's referring to was the National Health System project in the UK, essentially a centralized national health system organization was putting U.S. software in all the hospitals or trusts that are call over there in Europe. And we were supporting a vendor, who was Fujitsu who was in the Southern region and doing installs. And actually we put the application it was sooner, it was being installed in the Southern region and we put it in two or three hospitals and as far as I know it's up and running.

Okay, this is more a political problem, it wasn't a technology problem, so political problems reasons their projects ended that there was that the central part of the National Health System had taken all the capital spending away from the hospitals and was controlling their project or estimated would cost more than $10 billion. They never run a project like that before and it was divided into five regions where you had different IT services companies and even different software being installed.

So, it isn't the way – if I was in-charge of running the project, I wouldn't have done it that way, it would have been one IT services company and it would have been one software.

At any rate there was change in the UK government, the NHS has released the money to the local hospitals now, so that hospitals or trusts are now in-charge of spending their own money. And we actually are talking to some of them about putting in U.S. software packages. The same is true in the continent of Europe, that the U.S. software is so much rather ahead than the software that they're using. They should be able to implement it and reduce cost. Epic, which is one of the software vendors, a private company, but certainly a big vendor in the EMR space opened an office in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands last November, and they actually installed their software in the two hospitals, the very first hospital that came live, so it's fully functional with it is reporting significant savings as a result of putting the software.

So Europe has the same, it's actually worse, the population is aging quicker than ours is. They have the same healthcare problems that we do in terms of cost rising. And we think that the European market starting probably now over the next couple of years is going to start to install U.S. software and we would like to be a large player in doing that.

So you've done – have you worked with Epic over there on the few opportunities that have gone forward.

No the first two hospitals they actually did the installs themselves. We do work with Epic, we work very well with them. We know the person who runs their European operations actually who was one of the guys that used to be in the United States. Epic, like all the software manufacturers would love to do all the services themselves. It doesn't work out that way because we do something a little bit different than they do. When they go into a hospital to install it, the doctors and nurses have to change their workflows in order to match up with the workflows that are already set up in the version of the software that they're putting in where we go in and change the software so that it matches their workflow. So we expect the European market will probably go to the way of the U.S. market that people will want the software adjusted so that works best in their environment.

How about available talent there that would help you to tackle that market?

Well that there – Europe does have some EMR packages. They're not perhaps as robust as the Epic package or what we're using in the United States, but there are some people with those skills – there are people with PAC skills and Radiology has stored images for a long period of time, it's called PACS. Those skills are very close to what we need when we did the installs in the U.K., 50% of the people on the projects were from the United States. There are consultants that for two or three year period moved over the U.K. and 50% of people that we've trained in the local area. So we suspect that in Europe we're going to have to do the same thing that's going to be a combination of expats from the United States plus locally trained people.

Good. So maybe that starts to pick up late 2013, do you think or...?

Yeah, it's quite possible. There are a lot of hospitals looking at that software today.

Okay. Thank you.

And next we'll go to the line of Michael Needleman. Please go ahead with Preservation Asset.

Gentlemen, a lot of the questions have been answered, but just a couple. On the fraud aspect as far as revenue guidance for the fourth quarter, I know you're not breaking it down those two SaaS products, but it's my understanding that you collect the revenue after the process or billing issues have been kind of found. How do you guide on revenues on that type of markets, if in fact you're receiving the revenues after the process and how do you have visibility in that process?

Yeah, I mentioned that before unfortunately we don't have a good model currently in order to be able to do that other than just talking to the customer and asking them, hey what do you think that we found you're going to push through. That's kind of the way that we're doing it currently. Eventually, we know exactly how much money we found in various categories and what we're starting to do is keep track of how much the payer is willing to go back to the provider and ask for their money back again. So eventually I think we'll have a model like we do for all the rest of our offerings.

So in other words, if I can interrupt and pardon me the process that you're guiding towards about the same amount of money for those two SaaS opportunities. Some of that is – it's not on a true SaaS basis, but there is some type of revenue that you think that you will achieve on that fraud businesses, is that correct?

Yes. Based upon talking to their customer and asking them what they're going to do in the fourth quarter

You've mentioned it a number of times in the whole process here about being, I guess the tour – not the tour, but hard to find people in the areas of the EMR as far as people that are capable. What exactly on the technology standpoint is required or needed that you're binding it's so difficult to find people that are able to put these in.

Okay, well we can train people to do this. We have done it. I just mentioned in Europe 50% of the people were newly trained. The problem at the moment is that the CIOs are saying, look I have to get this in, we're late to the game, I don't want to be late, and I want to see the resume of every person that's going to be on my project and all of the people that I will accept have to have at least worked on one EMR project before from start to finish. And it's generally a two-year process.

So what they're looking for people that understand hospital workflows and that have actually worked on one EMR project in the past.

Okay. And then just a follow-up, if I heard you correctly, you just mentioned that to install one of these is about a two-year process, is that correct?

Only in a 1,000 or 2,000 bed hospital system, that's correct.

So with the 18 that you currently have, would you kind of say that, I'm not asking for a percentage, but are more than half well into that process as far as these implementation of that program?

Well – yeah, I'm – I don't have the project sheets in front of me, but my guess is it's half.

Okay.

They usually figure it's about a half. For the last couple of years, we've been ending two projects in a quarter roughly and starting two.

Two is well, okay. And two last quick questions, if I might. The process of how you are able to – your utilization in the EMR, is it basically you're running what kind of utilization you guys running in that area?

If a person-in just a couple of weeks of vacation he has normal sick time et cetera, and takes the normal holidays, you get 88% utilization and that's roughly what we're running.

Okay. And then just to come back on the pricing, this is my last question. If it so tight right now with people from the standpoint that are qualified in terms of the customer, why are prices actually accelerating up more?

They are. One more, I don't know, but prices in both 2011 and 2012 have been increasing about 5% to 10% and we're not the only person out in the market. So the market kind of determines how much of an increase.

But they're all in the same boat are they not?

Yep, absolutely.

All right. Thank you so much gentlemen.

Thank you.

And next we'll go to the line of Brian Kinstlinger with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Couple of quick follow-up, first of all, you've talked about 5% to 10% price increases and 5% or 10% wage inflation. So you're not able to capture anymore margin, it still holds at about 10% for healthcare solutions in this part of your business as well.

No, that's not actually true. Usually what happens we'd – probably while a project is live, we don't capture anymore. So if we start a project with the customer, we'll keep the margins the same. As those people move to a new project, their rates generally tend to go up and often we will increase our margins at that point.

Okay. And then you talked about that large hospitalities like 43 one-thousand bed hospitals. If I calculate that right at 25 people per 1,000 beds, it's 1,075 people to the industry not just you have enough people given you're fully utilized basically outside a vacation, have enough people to meet that and what happens at that point when they want those people?

Well your calculation is correct. We think it'll probably take about 3,000 people in total, probably about 1,000 from the outside with experience. This has never happened before. I don't – the industry doesn't, I mean, no one, I don't believe that any of our competitors has anyone sitting on the bench right now. Everybody with EMR experience is already on an existing project and the industry in total could supply 1,000 people if we shutdown all the rest of the projects or half at least of the other projects probably. So it's – I think that it maybe the point that people start to accept fully trained people, but we have to wait and see how they come.

Is that being discussed with its customer?

No, because the RFP hasn't evened out with that customer.

Okay. And then just the last question, it's minor, but remind us on the other income line why you have cash and no debt and you have a net expense there?

We [indiscernible] (1:00:42) bank fees that just we're having the line available to us Brian and we got a three year commitment and then it's just the amortization of the fees.

There's also smaller items that hit that item that don't, that line item that caused it to be expense to. But the biggest, the biggest item in that line item is the cost that we paid to keep our revolver.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your final question today comes from the line of Bill Sutherland with Northland Capital. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Quick one, any completions likely in EMR fourth quarter, Jim?

They probably are quick, frankly. I usually figure that it's going to be two completions a quarter.

Okay.

The problem is that, although their customers have a date, often that date slides on and even when we hit the date often the customer will ask us to stand do optimizations, so.

Right.

But it's quite possible, we have a couple just like the other quarters.

And current [ph] probably it's been discussed (1:01:55), I know you don't have much visibility outside of this quarter, but is it your sense that they'll continue to try to bring in the claims next year as well or are they finding through their patch?

No, that the data that we process for them actually was old, I believe it was 2011.

Okay.

And they are very happy with the results. So they've given us every indication that they're going to continue with it.

Okay. Thanks again.

Thank you.

Do you have any closing remarks?

Yes. CTG is firmly on track for another year of double-digit earnings growth, our sixth in the last seven years. CTG is firmly established in healthcare, one of the fastest growing major U.S. industries. We have offerings for Electronic Medical Records, ICD-10 conversions, Accountable Care and Medical Informatics, all of which are expected to be in strong demand for several years. As such, we remain very excited about CTG's future growth prospects. I would like to thank you for your continued support and for joining us this morning. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&T Executive Teleconference service. You may now disconnect.