raw transcript


Computer Task Group, Inc.
 
CTG
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com • 6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
C o p yr i gh t © 2 00 1- 2 00 6 C a ll Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the CTG Quarterly


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will


conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the


conference over to our host, Mr. James Boldt. Please go ahead.


James R. Boldt, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our


Third Quarter 2006 Conference Call. Joining me is our CFO, Brendan Harrington. As for the format


of the call this morning, we're going to begin with a review of our financial results and talk about the


trends we saw in the third quarter as well as what we anticipate for the fourth quarter of the year.


Then we'll open the call for questions.


Before I begin, I want to mention that statements made in the course of this conference call that


state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations and predictions in


the future are forward-looking statements. It's important to note that the company's actual results


could differ materially from those projected. Additional information concerning factors that could


cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements as contained in our press


releases and from time to time, the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


Of the third quarter of 2006, CTG's revenues were 79.8 million. Net income was 832,000. Net


income per diluted share was 5 cents. And net income per diluted share excluding equity


compensation was 6 cents. Revenues increased 7% in the quarter while net income increased by


30%. Under the accounting rules that went into effect on January 1, 2006, the third quarter net


income includes $167,000 after-tax, non-cash charge for equity compensation. Revenues from IBM


were 26.9 million in the third quarter of 2006 as compared to 27.8 million in the third quarter of


2005. Revenues from our European operation were 14.3 million in the 2006 third quarter compared


to 11.4 million recorded in last year's third quarter. Foreign exchange fluctuations accounted for


approximately 5% of our 26% increase in European revenues in the quarter.


Once again, our testing offering did very well in Europe in the third quarter. On the balance sheet,


our day sales outstanding decreased to 61 days from 82 days in the third quarter of 2005 largely as


a result of a previously announced change to a cash discount option for a significant customer. Our


cash provided by operations was approximately $3.3 million in the quarter. We had $385,000 in


capital expenditures, third quarter depreciation expense of $642,000 in the third quarter. As


previously announced on May 12, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an


additional 1 million shares of company stock during the 2006 third quarter while adhering to the


SEC-imposed volume limitations. We repurchased 108,000 shares of CTG common stock. We


expect to continue our repurchase program in the fourth quarter of 2006.


As to our total employment, we were informed just before our second quarter earnings release in


the last week of July by a significant customer of an immediate reduction in their need for


approximately 350 CTG billable staff. At the time, we believed there was the extent of the reduction.


Later when the customer finalized its reorganization in September, there was an additional


reduction of another 100 billable staff. On the staffing side of our business, the reality is that


customers often choose us for our ability to quickly increase or decrease technical staff. The recent


change in this customer's requirements still leaves us with a significant net gain of 750 technical


staff since we began bringing on the expanded new staffing business at the start of 2005.
raw transcript


Computer Task Group, Inc.
 
CTG
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 64 6. 4 4 2. 02 7 0 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 1- 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)2


While the reduction equates to approximately $35 million of revenues on an annualized basis, we


expect to mitigate much of the impact on earnings through the increased level of higher margin


solutions business that began in the third quarter of 2006. Overall, we continue to be optimistic


about growth prospects for our strategic staffing business. As was mentioned in our earnings


release, we were among a small group of firms selected as a preferred staffing supplier as another


large technology service provider significantly reduced the number of its members. Although it will


take some time, we expect this opportunity should help us continue to build on our staffing


business.


On the Solution side of our business, we continue to see an increase in demand in some of the


high growth solutions we focused on. The areas of greatest demand continue to include testing and


information security in our Life Sciences, Financial Services and General Industry markets. In our


HealthCare vertical, demand continues to be strong for clinical transformation projects as well as


transitional outsourcing. As noted in our earnings release, we sold our largest ever HealthCare


transitional outsourcing engagement in the third quarter.


With respect to the national healthcare system project in the U.K., the project's progressing albeit


somewhat slower than expected. We have, however, been placing additional staff on the project.


We expect to do so for the remainder of 2006 and throughout 2007. As a result of our U.S. and


U.K. healthcare practices, we're beginning to be approached by companies in Europe for


assistance in development and implementations of hospital-related software packages.


In the fourth quarter of 2006, we'll use of the revenues generated by the 450 billable staff severed


during the third quarter. We anticipate that the new business that we're winning combined with


better utilization in the fourth quarter will offset the third quarter staffing reduction. Therefore, we're


forecasting revenues in the range of 79 to $81 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, an increase of 1


to 4% over the fourth quarter of 2005 and near the level of our third quarter revenues. Given the


revenue forecast, we expect that fourth quarter GAAP net income will be in the range of 4 to 6


cents per diluted share and that net income excluding equity compensation will be in the range of 5


to 7 cents per share.


For the full year, we believe that CTG's revenues will be in the range of 328 to $330 million, 11 to


12% above 2005 revenues. We expect net income excluding equity compensation to be 22 to 24


cents per diluted share, 57 to 71% higher than 2005. And the GAAP net income will be 18 to 20


cents per diluted share, 29 to 43% better than our 2005 performance.


Despite the reduction in staffing need from a major customer, we see a lot of opportunities going


forward to grow our strategic staffing business with other clients. Our decision to focus only on a


few high-growth industry verticals is paying off for us in this market. Though the broad-based


solutions business is not yet recovered, our niche marketing of select, in-demand solutions is


yielding favorable results particularly in our HealthCare vertical. You can see the positive impact the


increased concentration of higher-margin solutions business, and our goal will be to maintain our


profitability at the level of the second quarter despite the sequential quarter-to-quarter revenue


reduction.


We look forward to a similar trend to continue in the fourth quarter which affirms our ability to


effectively adapt to changes in the market and customer needs. With that, I'd like to open the call


for questions if there are any. Operator, would you please manage our question-and-answer


period?