Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James M. Culligan — Director-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
James R. Boldt — Chairman, President, CEO & Head-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brendan M. Harrington — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Risk Officer, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brian D. Kinstlinger — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Kevin Liu — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets
William Sutherland — Managing Director, Emerging Growth Equities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the CTG First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. For the conference, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions; instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

I'll now turn the conference over to Mr. James Culligan, Director of Investor Relations at CTG. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. We certainly appreciate your time and your interest in CTG. On the call today, we have CTG's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Boldt and Brendan Harrington, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Brendan are going to review the results of the first quarter of 2014 and then update you on the company's strategies and outlook. We'll follow with an opportunity for Q&A. If you don't have the news release discussing our financial results, you can access it at the company's website, ctg.com.

Before we begin, I want to mention that statements in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statement is contained in our earnings release as well as in the company's SEC filings. You can find these at our website or the SEC's website at sec.gov. Please review our forward-looking statements in conjunction with these precautionary factors.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Jim to begin the discussion.

Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our third quarter – for our first quarter earnings conference call.

You saw in our news release, revenue for the quarter was slightly below the low end of our guidance and EPS was at the midpoint of our guidance. The shortfall from the midpoint of our revenue guidance occurred in our staffing business. Revenue from our fraud, waste and abuse project for a small payer, for work that we performed in late 2013, helped earnings to reach the midpoint of our EPS guidance.

I'm going to talk more about our results and what we see for the 2014 second quarter and the full year. But first, I'm going to ask Brendan to start us off with a review of our financial results. Brendan?

Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. For the first quarter of 2014, CTG's revenue was $97.9 million, a decrease of $10.6 million compared with the first quarter of 2013. First quarter 2014 had 62 billing days, one less than the first quarter of 2013. Solutions revenue in the first quarter of 2014 totaled $38.6 million, a decrease of $4.1 million or 9.5% compared with the first quarter of 2013, primarily due to lower revenue from Electronic Medical Record project.

As a percentage of total revenue, Solutions revenue was 39%, the same as the year-ago. Staffing revenue in the quarter decreased $6.5 million, or 9.9% to $59.3 million, reflecting reductions in staffing requirement from a large client that began in the second quarter of 2013. These reductions were slightly offset in the quarter by higher demand for technical resources from several other clients.

In the vertical market then, which we primarily focus, revenue as a percentage of total company revenue in the first quarter was as follows: Healthcare decreased to 30.2% from 31.8%. Technology service providers decreased to 24.9% from 30.1%. Financial services increased to 8.1% from 6.6%. Energy was relatively flat at 6.2% compared with 6%, while general markets increased to 30.6% from 25.5%. First quarter revenue from IBM, our largest customer, was $21.5 million compared with $28.9 million in first quarter 2013. As a percent of total revenue, revenue from IBM decreased to 22% in the 2014 first quarter compared with 26.7% of total revenue in the 2013 first quarter.

Revenue from our European operations was $20.8 million, a 7% increase from the $19.4 million recorded in last year's first quarter. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations during the first quarter of 2014 increased consolidated revenue by approximately $0.8 million.

On a local currency basis, our European revenue increased by 3.1% compared with the 2013 first quarter.

Direct costs as a percentage of revenue were 78.6% in the first quarter compared with 79.2% in the first quarter of 2013. SG&A expenses decreased approximately $960,000 from the first quarter 2013 primarily as a result of fewer non-billable personnel and lower incentive compensation expenses.

The billable travel expenses included in the first quarter of 2014 revenue and direct costs were $2.5 million. The billable travel expenses for the first quarter of 2013 totaled $3.1 million.

First quarter operating income was $5.5 million, a decrease of approximately $700,000 or 11.4% year-over-year. Operating margin in the first quarter was 5.6% of revenue, 10 basis points lower than the first quarter of 2013.

The year-over-year decrease in operating income was due primarily to decreases in our health solutions revenue, offset by lower SG&A expenses. Net income in the first quarter was $3.2 million, a decrease of $891,000, or 22%, compared to the first quarter of 2013.

On a per diluted share basis, net income was $0.19 for the quarter, a $0.05 decrease compared to the first quarter of 2013. The decrease in earnings per share is due to lower operating income and a much higher income tax rate in the first quarter of 2014. The tax rate for the 2014 first quarter was 41.1%, compared with 33.2% in the 2013 first quarter. This lower rate in the first quarter of 2013 was primarily the result of the recognition of research and development tax credit for both 2012 and for one quarter of 2013 in the first quarter of 2013.

These credits were not recognized in the first quarter of 2014 since the legislation to extend these tax credits for 2014 is not yet passed. We expect the tax rate for the second quarter of 2014 to be between 39% and 41%. We expect the tax rate for the full year of 2014 to be between 38% and 40% compared to 35.6% for 2013.

Both the 2014 and 2013 first quarter results include equity compensation expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share net of tax.

Our head count at the end of the first quarter was 3,700, the same as at the end of the fourth quarter of 2013 and 300 fewer than at the end of the first quarter of 2013. Of the 3,700 employees at the end of the first quarter of 2014, 91% were billable resources.

At the end of the first quarter of 2014, we had no debt and $32.3 million of cash on the balance sheet compared to no debt and $30.7 million of cash at the end of the first quarter of 2013. Both the first quarter of 2014 and 2013 ended on U.S. biweekly payroll dates.

Our days sales outstanding were 65 days at the end of the first quarter 2014 compared with 61 days at the end of the first quarter 2013. The increase in DSO was due to timing of cash proceeds received at the end of the comparative quarters. Our cash used in operations in the first quarter of 2014 was approximately $9.3 million as compared with cash used in operations of approximately $7.1 million in the first quarter of 2013, with the difference primarily attributable to lower net income and changes in working capital.

In the quarter, we had $801,000 in capital expenditures and recorded depreciation expense of $837,000. We repurchased 211,000 shares of CTG common stock during the first quarter of 2014 and no shares in the first quarter of 2013. We also repurchased 50,000 shares in the second quarter 2014 in the time period leading up to today.

Our current repurchase authorization is for approximately 0.9 million shares. As it remains accretive to our earnings, we intend to continue our repurchase program during the remainder of 2014. Jim?

Thanks, Brendan. In aggregate, revenue declined by 10% in the 2014 first quarter. Revenue from our Solutions business, which represents 39% of our total revenue, also decreased 10%. The decline in our Solutions business came from our healthcare vertical where our hospital clients continue to delay or reduce spending in response to a reduction in income and cash flows due the sequester cuts to Medicare, reductions in other government reimbursement and the resulting reduction in inpatient days of care.

On our last conference call, we mentioned we had received two RFPs for Electronic Medical Record projects which the hospitals had not decided what IT services firms would be awarded those projects. Reflecting a slowdown in spending on new EMR projects, we received one new RFP for an EMR project in the last two months. We won one of these three projects, and one RFP was withdrawn by the hospital. We're still waiting the decision on one RFP as to what IT services firm will be chosen for that project.

When we started the first quarter 2014, we had 15 active EMR projects. During the first quarter, there were two projects that started and four projects that ended. Therefore, at the end of the first quarter 2014, we had 13 active EMR projects. In the short term, we believe that our EMR business growth will be constrained due to hospitals having to deal with the reimbursement cuts that have occurred. In the long term, there's still significant opportunity for growth in our EMR business. There are many hospitals who currently do not have EMR applications, and others that have applications that will not meet the more stringent standards that are about to be imposed on our meaningful use stage 2.

The health information exchanges will have to be built to facilitate the exchange of records and we're positioned in Europe to participate in their adoption of EMRs when it occurs. Given the work that needs to be done, we remain optimistic in the long term about growth prospects for our EMR business.

Fortunately for CTG, EMRs are not only healthcare offering; we've recently seen an increase in the number of RFPs we're receiving for healthcare outsourcing engagement. In the current tight provider spending market, we see an excellent opportunity for us in application outsourcing as it creates significant immediate savings for hospitals without them making a large financial investment. CTG also has an outstanding reputation in this area, and these engagements are typically for multiple years, providing an annuity-like revenue stream.

Our data analytics offerings added approximately $0.01 to earnings per share in the first quarter of 2014. We do not forecast any revenue or profit in the first quarter from our data analytics offering. We reported on our last call, we've done fraud, waste, and abuse work in late 2013 for a small payer, but the time of our last conference call was concerned about what impact pursuing these claims might have on their relationship with their provider network and had not processed any of the FWA claims that we presented to them. Later in the first quarter, the payer decided how they were going to proceed and paid us for a portion of the FW claim (sic) [FWA] (11:55) that we had identified.

Having covered healthcare, I'd also like to talk about the other three vertical markets on which we focus. Our technology service provider market, which is our lowest margin staffing business, declined in the first quarter of 2014 based upon a reduction in a significant customer's need for external IT resources. Our financial services vertical had another excellent quarter with most of the revenue gain coming from our European operations. Our energy business revenue was flat when compared to the first quarter of 2013.

Turning to our staffing business, its revenue declined by 10%, compared with the first quarter of 2013. The decline in staffing business from the significant customer I just mentioned was modestly offset by increase in demand from other client.

Looking to the second quarter of 2014, we're forecasting total revenue to be in the range of $101 million to $103 million. We're forecasting earnings per share in the second quarter of 2013 to be in the range of 21% to 20% per diluted share.

For the 2014 full year, we currently expect a revenue range of $393 million to $407 million or a 5% decrease in the midpoint of our guidance when compared to 2013. Based upon our revenue forecast and anticipated mix of business, we expect our 2014 net income per diluted share to be in the range of $0.83 to $0.91 or a 5% increase from 2013 at the midpoint of our guidance.

I would like to take a couple of minutes to talk about the change in our guidance. We mentioned on our last call that we expected our healthcare revenue to decline this year as we would have $30 million less of electronic medical record work. Offsetting their decline will be $15 million of new business related to outsourcing, ICD-10, and other consulting work. We still believe that our EMR business will decline by $30 million this year, if the estimate of the new business [indiscernible] (13:43).

For several quarters now, our ICD-10 business has been growing. When we set our previous guidance, we anticipated that the ICD-10 business would continue to grow as the October 1, 2014 conversion deadline approached. And after the conversion day, we would be engaged in revenue cycle management engagement related to the code conversion.

When Congress a couple weeks ago unexpectedly postponed the date of the ICD-10 conversion by a year, our clients postponed their projects, we literally had clients calling up and cancelling the open requirement. Primarily because of the postponement in the ICD-10 date, we've lowered our Solutions revenue guidance for the year by $5 million. Also the reduction in our EPS estimate for the year is related to the reduction in revenue guidance for our healthcare solutions business.

We also expected by now a pick-up in demand from a significant staffing customer that has had reduced requirements for the last two quarters. As we've not seen any pick-up in demand, we lowered our guidance for our revenue in staffing for 2014 by $10 million.

Consistent with what we've said on the last conference call for our staffing business and our traditional IT solutions business, we set the guidance in the same way that we have in the past, by estimating engagements that we're currently working on, as well as engagements we anticipate will be signed later in the year.

As a technology [indiscernible] (15:01), we group three of our newer solutions offerings together as our data analytics product suite. The three data analytics offerings are our big data offering and our two SaaS offerings, which are the clinical decision support system for chronic kidney disease, and our fraud, waste and abuse offering.

For these data analytics offerings, we've only included two engagements in our guidance for the year where the client has given us a verbal commitment that they want to proceed with the project. In addition, we have included the revenue that we received in the first quarter for the fraud, waste and abuse project that I mentioned at the start of the call.

Our forecast for 2014 for data analytics revenue remains at $6 million and the forecast earnings per share contributions from these projects was increased by $0.18 per share. We do believe that we'll sell more than $6 million of data analytics services in 2014, but cannot precisely forecast this business because these offerings are still in the introductory stage of the product lifecycle and we do not have enough history to project with reasonable certainty which opportunities will be closed.

In addition, because of their high margins, a small amount of revenue from this offering has a large impact on our EPS. We have included in our guidance that our new big data engagement that we've previously discussed will begin in the second quarter of 2014. As the year progresses, we will adjust our guidance accordingly for additional win.

Looking at our revenue guidance for the year, we currently think our healthcare business will decline by approximately 15% in 2014. It assumes the government's reduction and reimbursement of the hospitals will continue throughout 2014 [indiscernible] (16:32) EMR starts. Offsetting some of the decline in EMR revenue are expected increases in our revenue from other offering such as outsourcing and consulting services tied to healthcare reform.

For our non-healthcare solutions business, we're projecting a revenue increase of 5.3% in 2014. We're forecasting a 1% decrease in our staffing business in 2014. Although we're projecting revenue and earnings to decline by approximately 5% this year, we continue to remain optimistic about CTG's long-term growth potential.

While our healthcare business is going through a transitional period at this time, longer term, we expect it to return to growth as spending for large mission-critical work tied to reimbursement rates and regulatory compliance resumes. In the short term, we expect to see growth in our outsourcing and healthcare IT consulting work. In addition, we positioned CTG to participate in the adoption of U.S. package software by European hospitals.

We're pleased that we've already been able to line up $6 million in data analytics sales for 2014, and we'll adjust our guidance for further wins as the year progresses. Clearly, future sales of our high margin data analytics products will contribute significantly to CTG's earnings growth going forward.

If you look at how well CTG's positioned in healthcare, one of the fastest-growing U.S. industries, you can see why we remain optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions, if there are any. Operator, would you please manage our question-and-answer period?

Operatory: Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And one moment, our first question and it will go to Brian Kinstlinger with Sidoti. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks. Hi. How are you?

Good.

A question on EMR. I'm wondering, given some of the hospitals out there have systems in place that probably don't meet, as you said, the stringent requirements, what's your thought on, given the cost is so great, [indiscernible] (18:42) them to upgrade several versions at the software instead to maybe – maybe they'll use the systems integrator to build some kind of reporting application and other software programs to help them meet this mandate.

Well, I think if you were to do that, it would probably cost you about the same as if you switched to another EMR system that would work, because the EMR system captures the documentation while a physician is actually doing it and rolls it through the system. It also stores the data and allows you to share data, which is the part of the meaningful use that most of these applications that are out there are having a hard time. So I mean, given their choice, I think – I honestly believe it'd be cheaper to put in an existing EMR system that worked than try and figure out yourself how to create an EMR system.

The software that's out there, the larger people, I mean the Cerners and the Epics, et cetera, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the software, getting it to the standards that it needs to be. And I really don't see a hospital being able to kind of jerry-rig a system to be able to do that. But – not that somebody might not try doing that, but it would be very complicated.

And then, maybe talk about your expectations, I mean, on the analytics business. I guess in terms of the forward look of new business, has anything changed in terms of the pushbacks you're getting? Obviously, you get some pushbacks from fraud, waste and abuse or medical IT management. Do you think you're making progress at these clients? Or do you think you're sort of stuck to the stalemate trying to convince certain people to use it while others may be interested in using it at that same client. Just take us through, has anything changed in the last three months to six months in terms of their desire to take these applications?

I think what's changed really is that we've added some additional options to the fraud, waste and abuse application. So one of the additional options – the hesitancy that the small payers have, just so everybody knows, is that they have a provider network and if they go back a year or two years, then kind of hit them with claims, they're afraid that the provider network is going to get upset with them and leave their network.

For a larger payer, it's not as much of a concern because they're not that dependent on any one particular provider network.

What we've done is we've come up with an offering that is prospective instead of looking back. So instead of going to the payer and saying, okay, we're going to run these claims and get them to pay us a percentage of what you collect in the past. We'll run our application and we'll tell you what to change in your processing so that prospectively you can adjust. And from the payers that I've talked to, and I've talked to some of them personally, they are all kind of adamant that they have a lot better chance of changing the payment at the time of adjudication, that it's more difficult and it annoys the provider a lot more if they go back [indiscernible] (22:06).

Now the two payers, small payers that we ran this for actually did pay us money. They did find value with what we did. It's just that their hesitant to put all the claims through.

So for fraud, waste and abuse, we're kind of optimistic that as long as they're looking forward, they would be willing to go to a provider and basically telling them you're abusing the system or you're outright committing fraud here and we've got to stop you from doing that, then asking them their money back.

On the IT medical management model, I think that we're moving forward at the pace that we thought that we would. It's a brand new technology. I mean, it involves getting chief medical officers comfortable with it, also getting the finance department comfortable with taking established trends and then [indiscernible] (23:00). So they are the ones probably moving at the pace that I would have expected. And we're kind of going back to – I mean in fraud, waste and abuse, a lot of smaller payers, particularly in offering this [indiscernible] (23:12).

I wish to follow-up on the small payers. And the one that you recently collected money on, I just wanted to be clear, did they actually pay you for your service or did they actually pay you because they collected money – or sorry, they went after the money that was fraudulent or wasted or abused. And then in the future, when you look at it, will it be more real-time payment as opposed to lumpy where as they realize, they will deny a claim, that's when you'll get paid?

Yeah. I believe that they went back and actually collected the money, but only from certain providers. That's what we had been told they were going to do. So that's the answer to that part. I don't think this will ever be a smooth annuity-type business. It's always going to be lumpy.

Okay. And then the last question I have and I'll get back in the queue is, last quarter, you talked about, I think it was some larger payers who maybe one, maybe two, I can't remember, who decided not to move forward with the application. I'm wondering if you've had any feedback, since it's been a little bit of time now to understand why the large payers didn't accept the application.

Yeah, those are really the large payers or state and they didn't actually tell us; they just said they didn't want to pursue it now. I think one of them came back and said wanted to check sometime in the future.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Brian.

And next, we'll go to Kevin Liu with B. Riley & Co. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

For your guidance, what's inferred in terms of when your large customers starts to bottom out on the staffing side of things?

Well, we think it's kind of hard to predict, but as far as we can tell, our reduction is more than the reduction in the revenue. So we're assuming that we can adjust, but we wouldn't get very much advanced feedback on that. So for the year really, and I think that's pretty obvious with the customers of IBM. If you take IBM's revenue for the first quarter and annualize it on a daily basis because the first quarter has less days for the year and end up at about $88.4 million, as I recall. And that's really what we have in our projections for the year for them. [indiscernible] (25:52) last they were $100.9 million, so they'd be down $12.5 million this year.

We think that our other customers, our non-IBM staffing customers, will be up about 6.5% or $10 million, and if you net those out, the $2.5 million roughly is that [indiscernible] (26:14).

Understood. And on the solutions side, you talked about some of the ICD-10 related work and revenue cycle management stuff that would come after being pushed out. Would you expect all of those opportunities to be there for you in fiscal 2015 with kind of the new deadline? And also, just in terms of how you manage the staffing on that side of things, are there reductions or furloughs you could take as you wait for that work to come back?

Yes. First, we were kind of – we didn't see this one coming, quite frankly. Even the American Medical Association had signed off on a date. So they were the biggest lobbyer to change the date at one point. And it was really Congress who kind of forced the administration. CMS never changed their opinion. Congress – the House passed it, [ph] by taking it down to a law (27:03). Surprisingly, the Senate passed it 65-35 and then Obama signed it a day or two later.

The date hasn't actually been established as October 1, 2015, the Congressional law basically says that that code can't be used before that date. We assume that CMS is going to establish it as the date, but I don't think that's actually been done yet. I would assume that that business is going to come back in about a year and we probably will have to furlough people. I can't leave people for a year sitting on a bench. Fortunately, a lot of the people involved in that are high-end project managers and we hope to be able to place some of them in other accounts.

And as it relates to the revenue cycle management piece, that's not necessarily contingent on winning ICD-10 or are you guys able to build any sort of business around that as well in the near term?

So we are starting to build some revenue cycle management, but after the code changes, because the number of code is 10 times more than currently exists, we think almost every hospital is going to have to do some revenue cycle management just to get back to where they were. So we were expecting to see a pretty significant increase in revenue cycle management once the codes convert. But we are doing revenue cycle management, we just don't expect to see the work related to the ICD-10 code change happen this year.

Okay. And just one last one on the analytics side of things, how much of the $6 million do you get with the Q2 engagement? And then any sense on the timing of when the other big engagement you have would start?

In our forecast for the second quarter there's $0.04 per share for the data analytics. The other engagement is probably – I don't think it's in the forecast until the fourth quarter, actually.

Great. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Kevin.

Our next question is from Vincent Colicchio with Global (sic) [Noble] Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah, Jim, I'm curious, have you been actively looking at tuck-in acquisitions on the healthcare side, and if so, can you remind us all the areas that would involve?

We've been looking for quite some time, actually, for smaller acquisitions; as you referred to them, tuck-in type acquisitions. The two areas that we're looking at are data analytics, because we think that's a growth area going forward, and also revenue cycle management. We do have some people who do revenue cycle management, particularly after the ICD-10 code conversion we just see a lot more of that coming.

And In terms of a potential fix to the hospital situation, are there any people who are whispering that something is in the works or just sort of who knows?

Unfortunately, it's more of who knows. When this happened with the Balanced Budget Act, it really took voters complaining to Congress that they were bankrupting hospitals to get Congress to restore the rates beforehand. So there's not any talk right now about restoring the reimbursement. It's not just the sequester reimbursements. It's the CMS rules, like they won't pay for a one-night stay in a hospital. They won't pay the full price if somebody is readmitted to a hospital within 30 days. It's all that that is really hurting the hospitals right now.

I honestly think that they have to do something within the next year. That's just a personal – I mean, there's nothing to indicate that they're going to, but the smaller hospitals are really starting to have problems making cash flow. So it's just going to cause a huge problem if they don't let up.

And I know in Europe you had a good quarter of financial services. Does the EU-related spending continue to grow over there?

Yes, it does. We're in Belgium, in the Flemish part where they are establishing the European Union, and that work continues to grow as well.

And that should continue for the rest of the year?

We would think so. We think Europe is going to have a pretty good year.

Okay. And then, Brendan, I missed the cash from operations in the quarter. What was that number?

That was – used $9.1 million.

Okay. That's it from me for now. Thanks, guys.

Thanks.

And we'll go to Bill Sutherland with Emerging Growth Equity. Please go ahead.

Hi, thanks. Good morning. Most of mine have actually been covered. I wanted to follow up on Kevin's question about the quarterly phasing of data analytics. Just with that, the second one kind of coming in the fourth quarter, should that be disproportionately – as far as the total that you'd expect for the year of $0.18?

Yeah. The second quarter is the weakest, because it's actually scheduled to start off May 1, and the fourth quarter is actually the strongest.

Just noticed a little thing on the guidance, Jim, you widened the revenue range and narrowed the EPS. What's the thought process there?

Just going through scenarios, particularly on the staffing side of the business. It doesn't have as much impact on the EPS, but it does on the revenue.

That's what I figured. So on this whole ICD-10 thing, are you finding the administrators are – or I should say the financial officers in the hospitals are gleefully pocketing that into their budget or are they looking at other IT initiatives? I mean, is it – do you think it could help even though it doesn't sound like you have a major change in your other healthcare solutions pipeline right now; but do you think it could help it?

It may. But quite frankly, a lot of them are looking just at their cash flow and I can't...

Yeah.

...right now, even a lot of the larger systems, which is most of our clients, are losing money. They can't borrow any more money. They can't go to their [indiscernible] (33:48) and bond market. So they were forced into spending money on ICD-10 and as soon as the legislation changed the date they decided they'll spend it next year when maybe they'll have more cash.

I thought – just wondering the environment was a bit better for these guys.

For hospitals?

Yeah. I thought they were getting a little bit of access to the markets.

Individually, yeah. Look, we had a project start up, so as they right themselves, as they can get profitable again, they can go to the market. But most of them are losing money and they can't really [indiscernible] (34:16).

Okay. And finally, are you getting any visibility on healthcare pipeline in Europe or is it still just kind of early discussion phase with those guys?

Yeah. We did one project that we're doing some consulting work on and other than that, it's really just early discussion phase. I don't think that it may happen at this point in time in 2015.

All right. I think that's it from me. Thanks, Jim.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And to the presenters, there are no additional questions coming in.

Okay. CTG is firmly established in healthcare, one of the fastest-growing major U.S. industries. On the short term, our hospitals clients have to deal with the reimbursement reductions imposed on them by the U.S. Federal Government. There still is significant long-term information technology need. In addition, we're aggressively marketing our data analytics product to meet the needs of healthcare organizations to lower cost, improve outcomes and being business intelligent.

The demand for big data solutions like CTG is gaining momentum in the healthcare market. These products have the potential to significantly increase our future earnings, as such remain very excited about CTG's long-term growth prospect.

I would like to thank you for your continued support and for joining us this morning. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.