raw transcript


Computer Task Group, Inc.
 
CTG
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome CTG First Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


conduct a question -and answer time. Instructions will be given at that time [Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to


your host, James Boldt. Please go ahead.


James Boldt, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our


First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me is our Chief Financial Officer, Greg


Dearlove. As for the format of the call this morning, Greg is going to begin with a review of our


financial results. After his review, I will talk about the trends that we saw in the first quarter as well


as what we anticipate in the second quarter of 2005. Then, we will open the call for questions.


Greg, if you would start us off please.


Gregory Dearlove, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Jim, and good morning everyone. Before I begin, I want to mention that the statements


made in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions,


hopes, beliefs, expectations, and predictions in the future are forward-looking statements. It's


important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected.


Additional information concerning factors that could actual results to differ from those in the


forward-looking statements is contained in our press releases and from time to time, in the


company's SEC filings.


For the first quarter of 2005, CTG's revenues from continuing operations were $68.7 million. Net


income from continuing operations and net income were $0.5 million and net income per diluted


share was 3 cents. Our first quarter revenues from continuing operations were in excess of our


expectations. Our net income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share however,


were on the low end of our expectations due to higher than expected direct cost, increased


recruiting costs due to the hiring of approximately 200 more employees than planned and additional


costs due to our external audit, primarily relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. Our direct profit


percentage decreased to 24% in the first quarter, down about 3% from the first quarter last year


and our operating profits decreased from 2.3% last year to 1.4% in the first quarter of this year.


Excluding the impact of the accounting change in 2002, this is the fifteenth consecutive quarter that


the company has reported profitability from continuing operations. SG&A increased by


approximately $423,000 in the first quarter versus the same quarter last year and approximated


22.7% of revenue, an improvement of almost 2 percentage points from last year.


Had we not experienced the unexpected hiring costs and additional audit fees, SG&A would have


actually decreased quarter-over-quarter, in spite of the significantly headcount. Revenues from IBM


were $21.8 million in the first quarter of 2005 as compared to $14.2 million in the first quarter of


2004. Quarterly revenues from our European operations were $12.8 million in 2005 as compared


to $10.2 million in last year's first quarter. On the balance sheet, our day sales outstanding and


receivables increased to 88 days from 72 days in the fourth quarter of 2004 and from 71 days in the


first quarter of 2004. This increase reflects the timing of payments relating primarily to our new


business. We would expect the DSOs to improve significantly by the end the second quarter. On


April 20, the company closed on a new $35 million, 3-year revolving loan agreement with a new


bank group. Therefore, bank debt is now reflected as long-term. Our debt was just under $12.3
raw transcript


Computer Task Group, Inc.
 
CTG
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


million at quarter end, up from $4.7 outstanding at year end and up from the $9 million at the end of


the first quarter of 2004.


Our cash flows reflect cash used in operations during the quarter of approximately $6.2 million,


after recording depreciation expense of $709,000. We also made capital acquisitions of


$1,846,000 during the quarter. Total employment in the first quarter was 3,200 people, of which


approximately 87% were billable employees. Jim, that concludes the summary of the company's


financial results for the first quarter of 2005.


James Boldt, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Greg. We are obviously pleased first quarter performance as it represents the first quarter


in a long time that CTG has recorded a double-digit growth in revenue. As you know, we set a goal


of having double-digit revenue growth for 2005. And, a 12% increase in revenues in the first


quarter of the year and a projected revenue increase of 22 to 25% in the second quarter of the year


brings us a long towards achieving that objective. The significant increase in our Strategic Staffing


business that we announced with our fourth quarter earnings came on faster and stronger than we


expected. In the first quarter, we were able to add 700 or 33% more billable staff to our headcount,


causing our total headcount to increase by 28%.


That was 200 billable staff more than we predicted just a couple of months ago, which caused our


revenues in the first quarter to be several million dollars greater than we had anticipated. Most of


the additional business that we picked up was in our Strategic Staffing Group. And while we are


pleased with that business overall, the initial direct profit margins were lower than we had originally


projected. All in all, we are pleased with our first quarter results as the 700 billable staff that we


added puts us in a better position at the start of the second quarter than we had expected. As to


the individual business units, our Strategic Staffing business obviously had a good first quarter. We


incurred a considerable amount of transition cost in the first quarter and some of these costs, such


as the retention bonuses, will continue for several quarters. We see our Strategic Staffing Group


continuing to grow and its profitability increasing as the transitional costs subside.


Our HealthCare Group also had a good first quarter and continues to benefit from the 2 large multi-


year implementation engagements that began in mid 2004. Our HealthCare business grew at a


double-digit rate in the first quarter of the year and we expect to see that kind of growth continue


throughout 2005. Revenues from our Financial Services vertical declined in the first quarter of


2005 due to the termination of a large AMO engagement in mid 2004 with a customer that was in


liquidation. Over the last 6 months, we've introduced new offerings into both the Financial Services


and Life Sciences practices. The offerings are being well received and we expect to see both


Financial Services and Life Sciences revenues increase as the year progresses. Our European


revenues increased by 26% in the first quarter of 2005 versus the first quarter of last year. Of the


26% increase, approximately 6% was related to exchange gain while 20% related to growth in


services revenues. The areas that stood out in the first quarter of the year in Europe were our


HealthCare, Life Sciences, and our testing offerings.


We also saw excellent results from the investments that we made in 2004, particularly from our


Sarbanes-Oxley offering. That business did very well in both the fourth quarter of 2004 as well as


the first quarter of 2005. Once a company has initially complied with Sarbanes-Oxley, the company


is then subject to the quarterly testing requirements. As such, we have recently added a quarterly


testing offering to our Sarbanes-Oxley practice. As you know, we believe that the Staffing side of


our business returned to a more normal market, mid last year. In order to be ready for an upturn in


the solutions market, we re-hired Mike Coulson at the start to be our Senior Vice President of


Solutions Development. Mike had previously worked for CTG but left in the late nineties to become


the Chief Executive Officer of a venture capital firm specializing in the creation and launching of