Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James M. Culligan — Director-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
James R. Boldt — Chairman, President, CEO & Head-Investor Relations, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Brendan M. Harrington — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Risk Officer, Computer Task Group, Inc.
Bill Sutherland — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Matthew Joseph McCormack — Analyst, BGB Securities, Inc.
Frank DiLorenzo — Analyst, Singular Research
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Analyst, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the CTG's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the conference over to Jim Culligan, Director of Investor Relations at CTG. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Cathy, and good morning, everyone. We certainly appreciate your time and your interest in CTG. On the call today, we have CTG's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Boldt, and Brendan Harrington, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Brendan are going to review the results for the second quarter of 2012 and then update you on the company's strategy and outlook. We'll follow with an opportunity for Q&A. If you don't have the news release discussing our financial results, you can access it at the company's website at ctg.com.

Before we begin, I want to mention that statements in the course of this conference call that state the company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in our earnings release as well as in the company's SEC filings. You can find these at our website or the SEC's website at sec.gov. Please review our forward-looking statements in conjunction with these precautionary factors.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Jim to begin the discussion.

Thanks, Jim and good morning, everyone. This is Jim Boldt. I want to thank you for joining us this morning for our second quarter earnings conference call. As you saw in our news release, we had an excellent second quarter with revenue above our guidance and earnings per share excluding our insurance gain at the high-end of our guidance. Revenue in the second quarter of 2012 increased over 2011 by 9%, the operating margin expanded by a 100 basis points and earnings per share excluding the one-time insurance gain increased 29%. As we expected, our higher margin Solutions business continues to grow and increased 23% in the second quarter of 2012 while revenue from our lower margin Staffing business was approximately the same as it was in the second quarter of 2011.

I'm going to talk more about our results and what we see for the 2012 third quarter and full-year. But first I'm going to ask Brendan to start us off with the review of our financial results. Brendan?

Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. For the second quarter of 2012, CTG's revenue was $106.7 million, an increase of $8.4 million or 9% compared with the second quarter of 2011. Second quarter 2012 had 64 billing days, the same as in the second quarter of 2011.

Solutions revenue in the second quarter of 2012 was $44.3 million, an increase of $8.4 million or 23% compared with the second quarter of 2011. As a percentage of total revenue, Solutions revenue was 42% compared with 37% a year-ago. The continued improvement in our business mix is mainly being driven by revenue growth from our more profitable healthcare projects. Staffing revenue in the quarter remained flat at $62.4 million.

Second quarter revenue from IBM, our largest customer, was $29 million compared with $29.6 million in second quarter 2011. As a percent of total revenue, revenue from IBM decreased to 27.2% in the 2012 second quarter compared with 30.1% of total revenue in the 2011 second quarter.

Revenue from our European operations was $16.8 million, a 3% decrease from the $17.3 million recorded in last year's second quarter. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations during the quarter – the second quarter of 2012 decreased consolidated revenue by approximately $1.9 million or 1.8%. On a local currency basis, our European revenue increased by 7.8% compared with the 2011 second quarter.

Direct costs as a percentage of revenue were 78.5% in the second quarter compared with 78.9% in the second quarter of 2011. SG&A expenses as a percent of revenue decreased to 15.7% from 16.3% in the second quarter of 2011.

The billable travel expenses included in the second quarter of 2012, revenue and direct costs are $3,658,000. The billable travel expenses included in the second quarter of 2011, revenue and direct costs were $3,079,000.

Second quarter operating income grew to $6.1 million, an increase of $1.5 million or 31% year-over-year, reflecting the favorable effect of operating leverage and our higher margin Solutions work. Compared with the trailing first quarter of 2012, the second quarter operating income increased to $544,000 or 9.7%.

Operating margin in the second quarter increased to 5.8% of revenue, a 100 basis point improvement from last year's 4.8% and 40 basis points higher than the 5.4% operating margin in the first quarter 2012. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to the increase in the Solutions business in our sales mix and the additional operating leverage.

The Company received $423,000 of non-taxable proceeds from life insurance policies in the second quarter, which resulted in a non-operational gain of approximately $0.025 per diluted share. Excluding this one-time gain, net income would have been $3.7 million in the quarter, an increase of 31% from $2.8 million in the second quarter of 2011 and a 10% increase from the first quarter of 2012. On a per diluted share basis, excluding the one-time gain, net income would have been $0.22 for the second quarter 2012, a 29% increase from the $0.17 in the 2011 second quarter and $0.02 higher than the 2012 first quarter.

Net income including the gain from the insurance proceeds was $4.1 million, an increase of $1.3 million or 46% compared to the second quarter of 2011. On a per diluted share basis, net income which includes the gain was $0.25 for the quarter, an increase of 47% compared to the second quarter of 2011. Both the 2012 and 2011 second quarter results include equity compensation expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share net of tax.

The tax rate for the 2012 second quarter was 36.8%. Excluding the non-taxable one-time insurance gain, the tax rate was 39.4% compared with 38.9% in the 2011 second quarter. Both including and excluding the insurance gain, we expect the tax rate for the full-year of 2012 to be between 38% and 40% compared with 37.6% in 2011. The increase in the rate in 2012 was primarily due to the expiration of certain federal tax credits that we realized in 2011.

Our head count at the end of the second quarter was 3,800, 100 people or 3% higher compared to the end of both the second quarter 2011 and the end of the first quarter of 2012. Of those 3,800 employees at the end of the second quarter of 2012, 90% were billable resources.

At the end of the second quarter, we had no debt and $23.6 million of cash on the balance sheet. At the end of the 2011 second quarter, we had no debt and $30 million of cash. Both the second quarter 2012 and 2011 ended between a U.S. bi-weekly payroll date.

Our day sales outstanding was 61 days at the end of the second quarter 2012, slightly lower than the 62 days at the end of second quarter of 2011. Our cash provided by operations in the second quarter of 2012 was approximately $6 million as compared with cash provided by operations of approximately $2.8 million in the second quarter of 2011. In the quarter, we had $283,000 in capital expenditures and recorded depreciation expense of $656,000.

We repurchased approximately 204,000 shares of CTG common stock during the second quarter of 2012. During the third quarter prior to releasing earnings, we repurchased approximately 25,000 shares under our 10b5-1 plan. As of today, our repurchase authorization is for approximately 575,000 shares. And as it remains accretive to our earnings, we intend to continue our repurchase program during 2012. Jim?

Thanks, Brendan. As mentioned, in aggregate our Solutions business, which is significantly more profitable than our Staffing business increased by 23% in the second quarter 2012. The Solutions business was 42% of our total revenue in the second quarter. The growth in Solutions work is primarily coming from healthcare projects and is continuing to drive margin expansion. Overall, our Healthcare business was up 25% over the second quarter of last year.

On our conference call at the end of April we mentioned we had received four RFPs for electronic medical record projects for which the hospitals have not decided what IT services firms would be awarded to those projects. In addition we received two RFPs for EMR projects in the second quarter 2012. Of those six projects we won one project, one of the hospital systems decided to withdraw their RFP and will issue a new RFP shortly. One system decided not to engage an IT services firm and try and implement the EMR themselves and we lost the project for a state run hospital system that collected a staffing company with lower hourly rates.

That means we still have two bids outstanding for to an IT services firm that's not been selected. When we started the second quarter 2012; we had 18 active EMR projects. During the second quarter, we started two projects and two projects came to an end. Therefore at the end of the second quarter 2012, we had 18 active EMR projects. We also have one project that we won in the second quarter 2012 that will not start-up until the third quarter.

As we've mentioned before currently we have a significant amount of opportunities for EMR business. While we increased the EMR revenue by 30% in the second quarter and we expect further growth in EMR work, the limited number of resources with EMR experience challenges our ability to grow our EMR business to its full potential. Until the market begins to accept newly trained staff, the number of experienced resources we can hire is going to be the limiting factor to our growth in our EMR business.

Our other healthcare Solutions offerings continue to grow at significant rates. On June 29th of this year we announced that we had won four new contracts. Those contracts were for our outsourcing, IT medical management model, health information exchange and HealthEdge offering. These four contracts alone should increase our total healthcare business by 9% over the next 12 months. With contracts like these and opportunities for similar projects combined with our growth in EMR work, they reaffirm our belief that our healthcare business in total will grow at a 25% rate in 2012.

Having covered healthcare, I would also like to talk about the other three vertical markets on which we focus. Our technology service provider market, which is now our Staffing business, reported a slight decline in the second quarter. As to our energy vertical, an increase during the second quarter 2012; while our financial services business declined. Most of the decline in the financial services business was a result of unfavorable foreign currency fluctuation.

Turning to our Staffing business its revenue was flat when you compare the second quarter of 2012 to the second quarter of 2011. While in U.S. dollars our Staffing business did not show an increase when compared with the second quarter of last year, we depict our staffing business is improving slightly in the second quarter of 2012. Most of our head count increase in the second quarter came from our Staffing business, and if you look at our Staffing business in local currencies revenue increased by 2% in the second quarter. The reason the Staffing business was flat last year was the unfavorable foreign currency adjustments that occurred in the second quarter of the year.

Looking at the third quarter 2012 we're forecasting total revenue to be in a range of $105 million to $107 million or a 5% increase from the mid-point of our guidance over last year's third quarter. We're forecasting earnings per share in the third quarter 2012 to be in a range of $0.21 to $0.23 per diluted share or a 22% increase from the mid-point of our guidance over the third quarter of last year.

For the 2012 full-year, we expect a revenue range of $420 million to $430 million or a 7% increase from the mid-point of our guidance over 2011. Based upon our revenue forecast and the anticipated mix of business, we expect 2012 net income per diluted share, excluding the one-time insurance gain of $0.025 to be in the range of $0.83 to $0.91, or a 23% increase from 2011 at the mid-point of our guidance.

We thought it would be helpful to once again recap the assumptions we used to set our 2012 guidance. We continue to see significant growth opportunities in our healthcare Solutions business. We think our healthcare business will grow by approximately 25% in 2012. For our non-healthcare Solutions business we're projecting a revenue increase of approximately 8% in 2012. For the reasons I've mentioned earlier today we're not forecasting a change in our Staffing revenues for the year.

Our revenue forecast for the full-year takes into account the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on our European business. Given that the Euro and the British pound have dropped in relationship to the dollar, we're now assuming a 10% negative impact on our European revenue in U.S. dollars when compared to 2011 due to foreign currency exchange fluctuations.

To sum it up, despite a slowing U.S. economy and Europe's financial problems, CTG is performing very well based upon our strategic focus on higher growth industries particularly healthcare. CTG's net income in the second quarter of the year increased by 29% before the one-time gain and we continue to expect another excellent year in 2012.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions if there are any. Operator, would you please manage our question-and-answer period.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Bill Sutherland with Northland Capital Markets. Go ahead please.

Thank you, hey Jim.

Good morning Bill.

Brendan?

Good morning Bill.

So on the quarter, excuse me, the third quarter guidance, not that it's focused too hard on just a single quarter, but just Jim provide a little more of backdrop on the growth rate not being at the same level that we saw in the first half?

Okay. So probably a couple things that are coming into play. One, we always have a seasonal drop in the third quarter. We lose about 3% of our revenue just because people take vacation. Now for the last probably four or five years we've been able to make that up by getting additional business. But there is always some drop off in the third quarter. We've said since the beginning of the year if you go back even to our February conference call that we expect that the European financial crisis was going to backup and hurt the U.S. economy and it has done that.

I would think in the third quarter we'll probably see our staffing business perhaps off slightly. Now the fourth quarter of the year has one additional billing day, so the one additional billing day causes about a 2% increase just from having that additional day. So it will probably make it up in the fourth quarter of the year and we'll essentially we think be flat for the entire year. Part of our healthcare growth in the second quarter of the year was from overtime and we just don't get as many people to work overtime in the third quarter as we do in the second quarter because of vacation. So we probably see a slight dip there as well.

Well, I was actually – I didn't mean to confuse the question, I didn't mean quarter-over-quarter, sequential. I was thinking year-over-year, and it looks like the growth is just...?

Growing a little bit there?

Growing a bit, yeah.

Yeah, it's the foreign currency adjustments probably being even worse than they were in the second quarter of the year. As I said the staffing business may actually go negative slightly in the third quarter and then pick it back up again in the fourth quarter of the year. It's pretty much though what we – when we started the year this is pretty much what we expected that the third quarter probably would show the least amount of increase. If you look at last year the third quarter of last year actually was our highest revenue. So it's part of the comparison.

Right. But I was – yeah, I was thinking you've got a tougher comp and then was just thinking, particularly away from healthcare solutions, the other solutions business looked like it had been – that it had an unsustainable growth level through first half or extraordinarily high. Is that fair?

It's much higher than the industry. It's about what we'd expect. We expect for the year an 8% increase in the other solutions business and in this second quarter of the year it was 7.2%.

Okay. Can you update us on the ICD-10 implementation, the developments there and how that's developing for you?

Certainly. We do have one project that's ongoing and then we've done some assessments. The government's postponement of the deadline, the proposed date now has been moved from October of '13 to October of '14, has definitely slowed the hospitals down. We've actually had some of the hospitals that we thought would probably begin their projects by now, say that they had reallocated the money into more urgent IT needs in the short-term because of their longer term to do it.

We think that at some point the government, and I suspect it's probably this October 1st of 2014 date, is going to have to put their foot down and say we've got to make a change for a couple of reasons. One, CMS has run out of numbers so we're not tracking all the diseases the rest of the world is. It's also causing structural problems in billing. Probably the best example is in stents, in when ICD-9 came out in 1977 they didn't exist so there's one code for stents in ICD-9 or 80 codes in ICD-10.

So, currently when hospitals are billing for putting the stents in, they kind of get an average reimbursement. They may be putting in a much harder one, a much more complex operation, but they can only get the average reimbursement. So, they got to make the change at some point.

I think some of the hospitals that we've talked to said that they're kind of – are going to take it seriously because they think that CMS is going to eventually say this is it, though they know they've got a little bit more time. So, I think we're probably not going to see a tremendous amount of ICD-10 work in 2012, but starting in 2013 I think we'll start to see some of the larger hospital systems start to dissemble.

Okay. And then last one for me is just an update on the fraud, waste and abuse product offering.

We're still working with one small payer that we have a contract with to look for fraud, waste and abuse and they're still analyzing what they're going to push back to their provider network. They happen to be the payer that we used to develop the application and well, I guess, what we've learned from this is that smaller payers are much more hesitant to charge money back because they don't have the power in a particular market that one of the larger payers might. So we kind of refocused our efforts in the states and larger payers. We have about six I think datas going on, where we have data from – for a shorter period of time from – these are the state of the payer and we're analyzing it and giving them back data as to how much money they could expect to save.

Great.

Thank you.

Thanks again.

Question comes from Matt McCormack with BGB. Go ahead please.

Good morning Matt.

Hi, good morning. I guess just on the staffing side, I guess could you just talk about your visibility there both with IBM and the other U.S. businesses and then also if you could provide some insight into the staffing business in Europe, that would be great?

Okay. First the staffing in the United States, it definitely got slightly better in the second quarter then it had been. We saw a pick up, we added more people certainly in the second quarter. The IBM business, we're the sole provider to one of their divisions. So we're not losing market share – it's just how many people they need, and they go through periods of times when they start a lot of projects and they go through periods of time when they just don't start as many, and that's when our people are needed when they're starting up a new project.

So we think that the, going into the summer months, and the summer months are always tough because they're always, a lot of people are on vacation, a lot of project managers, so they don't take down as many staff. But we think that the slight increase that we saw in the second quarter is – it appears to be holding at least in the third quarter of the year. So, in United States we're seeing more demand than we certainly had in almost a year. The staffing business really fell off for us in August of 2011 and really didn't pick up in the United States until April of 2012.

Europe: in the commercial business in Europe staffing is a little weak; we'd probably expect that given the economy over there. Fortunately because we are headquartered in the Flemish part of Belgium or the new European Union's starting up, we are seeing demand from the European Union, a lot of their work solutions but some of it staffing. So actually I was pretty pleased if you look at the European numbers in local currencies it was up 7.8% in the second quarter. So given what's happening in Europe, I was very pleased that they were up that much in euros.

Okay. And then your – you mentioned that head count as of the beginning of the year was up 3% and I know revenue – or you put your revenue up 9% year-over-year, is that a – should we continue to expect to see revenue growth exceed head count growth? And is that a function of greater leverage on the solution side or should we see that these growth rates kind of equalize over time?

Well, certainly for this year it's going to continue and it is a function of the mix. One person on the solution side of the business bills two to three times what a person does on the staffing side of the business. So as our solutions business grows faster than staffing it doesn't take us many people to drive revenue growth.

Okay. And then you had mentioned in terms of the EMR wins and losses, I guess you mentioned the staffing company that you lost to – I recall few quarters ago there was maybe two other deals that you lost to the staffing agencies, is there any – do you have any I guess color or indication on how they've been in terms of their implementations for EMR? I know it's difficult for a staffing company to come in and do that type of work?

Right, we've heard that they have problems. Actually in the last five and a half years we have won 30 bids in our fees out of 40. So we've lost 10. I think nine out of the 10 were state run hospital systems where at the end of the day the state had to follow, or the hospital had to follow, the state rules of picking the person with the lowest cost. So virtually every time that we lose like this one, it's a state run or municipality run institution where the procurement says you got to pick the person with the lowest rate. And from what we've heard later on from – and sometimes we even hear this one, we're being told or CIO knows that it's going to cost them more money to do this and it's going to take longer et cetera, but they have to follow the state rules.

Okay. And then in terms of capital, obviously you've been buying back shares; you've talked for a while about the supply constraint in terms of qualified healthcare IT professionals. I mean are there any acquisitions that you think you could make in that area, are there any small $5-10 million revenue consultancies that you could potentially purchase to continue to grow that package?

Yeah, we have been looking. We've been actively looking for, particularly healthcare solutions business, not so much to pick up additional EMR people, but to actually expand our offering in some way, geographically or the offerings themselves. The problem with buying a small company or a staffing company, all the people that they have are generally on engagements, they don't carry a bunch. So you pick up the revenue, but all their people are already booked, so it's not like you pick a huge bunch of people that you can use on your projects.

Right, okay. All right, thank you so much.

Thank you.

We will go next to Frank DiLorenzo with Singular Research. Go ahead please.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Frank.

I had a couple of questions. One, about the potential, just looking at over the next 12 to 24 months, I think you'll provide us some, with some color on the potential for health insurance exchanges and sort of your thoughts there? I was also wondering about the recent Supreme Court ruling and the possible implementation of the Healthcare Act, if that has changed maybe your strategic thinking over the mid to long-term in any way? Thanks.

Yeah, I'll answer them separately. In terms of the health exchanges, these are exchanges that are going to be run essentially by the state to set up an ability for individuals to shop electronically to buy medical insurance and when we looked at healthcare reform, we decided that we would not build an offering for that. And really a couple of reasons, we like to have offerings where we either have relationships that we can use for, we have a differentiation that allows us to be better in the marketplace, and the health exchanges were going to be purchased by states and there are a lot of the large aggregators who have long relationships with states. We didn't have any particular differentiation so we decided that we would not pursue those and we haven't pursued that part of the market.

The rest of healthcare reform that we have, the biggest benefits I think in healthcare reform to us are going to be the products that we have launched in the last couple of years. And also we have an ACO offering that would help an entity set up an accountable cure organization with IT.

The reason for, there is a big change that's going to occur, we think. If you think about it, right now there is not an incentive for a hospital to figure out ways to reduce the number of days that somebody stays in a hospital bed, I mean, that's how they get paid. The more nights the people stay the better off the hospital system is. The medical management, the application that we built for end stage renal disease calculates an intervention point where the kidneys are just about to fail and by doing that the patient avoids going to an emergency room and avoids an overnight stay in the hospital. So a hospital today probably isn't going to purchase that application because it's not to their benefit. When the hospital is part of an ACO system that's their profit. There is going to be incentive to do that. The application also calculates the cost versus the progression of the disease and by doing that we've realized that when patients are being sent from a primary physician to the specialist it's costing more money.

The peers have taken the position that they want the patients to stay with their primary physician because their hourly rate is less. When you actually look at the cost versus the progression of the disease, you realize that if the patient were shifted earlier that that total cost would be less even though the specialist is charging more as the treatment is more effective. It also measures for all the doctors in a community, their cost versus the progression of the disease and by looking at all those elements, and routing people to more efficient, lower cost solutions, we think that we may be able to save 10%, maybe even 20% of the cost of treating end-stage renal disease by using the application, at least that's what our modeling has indicated.

So, today a hospital has no incentive to put that in because it would cost them revenue. As the ACOs are formed, that's going to be their profit. We think that that is the perfect market actually for that application. Even the fraud, waste and abuse, if you think about it, hospitals and physicians other than the states have been on kind of their case to reduce fraud, waste and abuse. They haven't really had a big incentive to do it because it lowers their revenue, it lowers their profitability. When they become part of an ACO and you're sharing the profit amongst the players, everyone in the ACO wants to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse because why should the person who is the perpetrator of fraud, waste and abuse get paid more of the money for treating the patient than the people who are honest about it.

And then the ACO offering itself to install IT systems I think we have it – we've the methodology, we have people to do implementations. We're not doing much of it now and it's going to be a while really before that kicks in. There's only about 60, I think 57 maybe ACOs that have been approved and they're in the conceptual stage, they're trying to figure out how they got a relationship with the physicians and how they're going to share revenues, and do they have enough dialysis centers inside their system or do they have to go out and buy them or contractually somehow agree that the dialysis center that they're using is going to share some of their revenue. They're far away from the IT systems, so I think it's going to be a while and I don't see a lot of work from the ACO offering in 2012 but '13, '14, I think that they're going to kick in too. So in terms of revenue growth I think healthcare reform is going to be good for CTG.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Next we have Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning. A couple, one of the EMR losses you attributed to the hospital taking it in-house and I know they generally have staff, but I wouldn't think they'd have sufficient staff without supplementing with outside resources. How are they suited to deal in a tight market for resources with obtaining that – those incremental people?

Not well, sometimes they will go out and try and get additional people from staffing companies. Most of the hospitals systems that we've seen this will go for about six to nine months, realize that it's not progressing the way they want and we often will see a subsequent RFP to do the project in. Even some of the larger hospital systems in the country have started and said we can do this ourselves and realized after working on it and really using a lot of money for six months to a year will go out and get somebody to come in and help them run the solution. So I suspect it's quite possible we will see an RFP from that hospital system again at some point.

Is it a financial decision that drove the decision to do in-house, I mean they did go outside with an RFP, but ultimately yeah.

I don't, I don't specifically know in that hospital because they did not tell us exactly why, they just announced they were going to engage a firm, but generally it is. They kind of get sticker shock. They happened to be around a 1000 bed hospital, so in total IT services was probably $10 million from most of the players at least and those probably had another $20 million for the software and the hardware and when they looked at the number that's a big number for a hospital system. So they kind of go through the rational that they can do this themselves a lot cheaper and they start on the process than realize they can't. I mean if you think about it, most likely no one in that hospital system has ever worked on an EMR project before and they don't have the methodology to install it.

You brought in an ICD-10 updates to an earlier question. My understanding is many of those projects are likely to be two years in duration. So even if you're talking October 2014 as the new deadline, don't these hospitals need to start something relatively soon?

I think you're right. Many of the hospitals because they haven't done their assessments don't realize how many version upgrades they have to do. I think in general the hospitals and maybe even the physicians believe that the AMA has been successful three times in pushing the date back and they're hoping for another date push back. We're not so sure that they're going to be able to get it again. Another problem is that ICD-11, the "who" has come out, real top organizations come out and said that it's going to be announced on January 1, 2015. So, not only with the USB-1 version behind there are going to be two.

Okay. And it doesn't make sense just to wait till that's out and just to leap – I mean ICD-10 and go right to 11?

Well it's possible. I mean, maybe that's the conclusion at the end of the day, but they won't issue what it is until January 2015. That means that if it does take two years to do an implementation , it wouldn't be live until '17. So, it pushes it out more than a couple of months.

And then, as it relates to that, at one point this year you thought ICD-10 was likely to be a more meaningful part of your growth this year in healthcare, that hasn't transpired. So do you have excess, do you have bench-time with people with those skill sets or you don't have them on the payroll?

We do have people with those skill sets, but they, they have multi skills, so most of them we put on other projects or the project that we have currently.

Okay.

The question is, are we carrying a large bench for ICD-10 people? The answer is no.

Okay. And the pipeline – so on the EMR side of the business, the competitive universe, I know you're only looking at certain size hospitals, but the other bigger competitors that provide the service, it's a feeling that they're all out with the projects that they've won over the last several years?

Yeah. We don't think anybody has a bench.

Okay. Okay, good quarter guys. Thanks.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from Vincent Colicchio with Noble Financials. Go ahead please.

Good morning, Vince.

Hey, Vince.

Yeah, good morning. Nice quarter, Jim. A couple for me, that weren't asked. Of your EMR pipe, the two deals that you're bidding on, are any of them on state hospitals and then also related to that hope you're – and then each of the market where you focus what percentage of the hospitals would you say are state hospitals?

Both are good questions. I'm trying to think of the names of the two hospitals that we bid on in the quarter that we don't even answer one definitely is not and I can't remember the name of the other hospital. So I'm going have to actually look at the sheet. No, neither one of them looks like it's a state hospital. So that was your first question, so neither one of those is state hospitals and what was your second question?

That the overall universe that you target in terms of the size of hospitals you go after what does the landscape look like it in terms of how many, what portion of those are state hospitals?

Well based upon the bids that we did over the last five years it was about 25%.

Okay.

So I will suspect that's probably the universe too.

Okay. And then how many EMR projects do you anticipate will be completed by you in the third quarter?

I don't know, there will probably be a couple. What – the reason we don't know there's always scheduled targeted go-live dates, but they often get pushed back and then the other problem it's a good problem they have I guess is often when the hospital goes live they have told us just focus in on meaningful use. So, as an example, one of the meaningful use requirements is to get 30% of the doctors to use CPOE, computerized physician order entry for prescription and so we just train 30% of the doctors, get them up and using it. So they meet meaningful use and then of course the hospitals says it's going to slowly, they just have 30% do it, go train the rest of the hospital, go in areas that we didn't have to do because for one reason or another to meet meaningful use for most of the hospital system.

So very often we get engaged to continue on to do further work to get more value out of the EMR system. So just because we've got a go live date doesn't really mean we're going to have a project then in a particular quarter. We seem to be averaging about two a quarter, if you go back for two or three quarters in the past that seems to be the average kind of internally that's what we're thinking. We have one project that is not counted in the 18 that we won and at the very end I think you might have found out that we won at the last week in June. It will start up in the third quarter and then we've got the two RFPs and probably get other RFPs that could potentially spread in the quarter as well.

And if could you remind me the margin on your EMR business and your non-EMR healthcare business how they compare?

Well, we've never actually given them out so that's probably why you don't remember them.

Okay.

The EMR has one of our highest offerings, highest margins of all of our offerings, but all of our healthcare offerings are significantly higher than our average solutions. We have some older solutions in other parts of the business that just don't have the operating margins that healthcare has.

Okay. And then what portion of your revenue guidance for healthcare for this year comprises booked business?

That's an excellent question. It's got to be at least 75%, I guess I'm looking at Brendan to see if he comes up with a different number booked.

In 75% range.

Okay.

Okay. So, fairly high obviously?

Yes.

And then one last one from me and I'll go back in the queue. Is the, the outsourcing of existing applications is that a large business for you. And is that a business that you've mentioned in your prepared remarks that's starting to improve is that, so I'm wondering if that's a new development and if you have a big pipeline for that kind of work?

Outsourcing is 6% of our total revenue and growing at a rapid rate. And what's happening is and it's not just the EMR people, but in all of healthcare. Hospitals are having a hard time retaining their people because there is so many new opportunities. And as they're experiencing more turnover they're looking to us, I mean if your hospital and you don't have dedicated healthcare recruiters in the IT space you don't have the list of people who have those skills in a particular community. So you advertise in papers and things like that.

But it's often very difficult to get some of those skill sets. So more and more of our current clients and particularly clients that are coming at the end of their EMR implementations are asking us about outsourcing. If you look, most of the wins in the country are for Epic, Epic probably has the most severe shortage of qualified people out there that are trained in EMR, and when you take your own internal hospital people and you put them on an EMR project, they work on the EMR project for two years. They probably can make 50%, or 100% more if they go work for a consulting company at that point. So our clients are starting to lose people. We have databases full of obviously Epic people and all of the skill sets required to run a hospital. So we're in a better position than they are to find people as there is turnover. I think that outsourcing in hospitals will probably accelerate over the next couple of years as they experience more problems with turnover.

Okay. That's – I'll go back in the queue, thanks Jim.

Okay. Thanks, Vince.

[indiscernible] (45:35) .with B. Riley & Company. Go ahead please.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, [ph] Liu (45:39).

Just, on the healthcare side, specifically EMR, the number of RFPs you currently have outstanding, does its typically drop off from the first half as we go to the back half of the year and, what are you expecting in terms of new RFPs coming through for the remainder of the year?

We've tried to come up with patterns for that before and there is no rhyme or reason. What's happening is, hospitals, large hospital systems have many different projects and when they get done in terms of some of the large ones, we're doing revenue cycle, when incentive money came out from the federal government and they're finishing their existing projects and then starting up the RFPs. So, we don't have much visibility into how many RFPs we'll get, obviously our sales people are out calling on customers. We've got a list of people who haven't done their EMR projects yet and we're expecting them to do an RFP, but what quarter it's going to come out in, we just don't have much visibility to.

Got it. And in healthcare, I think you said that the non-EMR related stuff was – or those deals you announced anyway, were going to contribute 9% of growth. I was just curious as you continuing to see growth on some of those newer offerings that you have and EMR continues to grow for you, do you expect EMR to still be north of 50% of the healthcare revenues or do you think that starts to tail off over time?

I'm sorry, I missed the end of the question, do we expect ...?

The EMR revenues to be over half of your healthcare business or do you expect that some of these newer categories can start to pick up in terms of the percentage of healthcare revenues?

In the next year I think that the EMR will still stay at close to 50% of our healthcare but over time obviously they're going to pick up. Particularly one of the offerings we mentioned in that is the IT medical management model as our staff offerings become more commercial. I'd expect them to kick in a lot more in terms of revenue. Same of ICD-10, by next year right I would hope that the hospitals will realize they're going to have to do this at some point and start their ICD-10 projects as well.

For this year, EMR probably will stay 50% of the total healthcare practice. The demand that we see at some point EMR has to peak and we'd love to tell people when that is, we've no idea. I mean it's probably the software vendors picked either '13 or '14. They get their revenue at the beginning of a project. We get our revenue over the projects, so if they're right and it's '14, or else it might be '15 or '16, in terms of the peak of the EMR. It's going to have a long tail. Even the federal government thinks that 30% of hospitals in the United States will not have EMR systems by 2019. So, there's going to be a lot of additional work a over period of time.

The demand that we're currently seeing for outsourcing in the next couple of years I think we will be able to offset, more than offset any decline that comes after the peak in EMR business because more and more when I go out and talk to CIOs of hospitals they're saying look – hospitals aren't used to tremendous turnover, I mean, they tend to have people sometimes for their entire careers. But because the markets become so hot and because they can make so much more money by leaving and going someplace else, they're experiencing turnover that they may never have seen in the past. And then when they go out in the market they can't find a replacement. So I think the – I'm expecting the outsourcing part of our business to grow substantially over the next couple of years and then also the Staff offerings.

I see. And I think this is the first quarter where you guys reported an increase in head count in a few quarters and I'm sure that's probably mostly due to rounding but how many of the head count additions are more so on the Solutions side as opposed to Staffing? And as we look forward to the back half and into '13, at what pace do you expect to continue hiring?

Actually we did add about 100 people during the quarter and so it wasn't rounding. I mean we really did add around 100 people and I didn't look up the exact numbers but I would guess probably 70% to 75% of them were on the Staffing side of the business. As I said before the revenue per person in the healthcare business is several times what it is in the Staffing business. So, we don't need as many people to increase revenues in the healthcare area.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

And we have a follow-up from Rick D'Auteuil. Go ahead please.

Yeah just on that topic first, so what has been the trend in the recruiter on head count on the Staffing side?

You mean the average hired per recruiter?

No. The number of recruiters that you're using?

On the non-healthcare?

On the Staffing side?

It's about the same number of recruiters that we had last year. We haven't changed substantially the number of recruiters from last year.

You guys tend to flex with where trends in the market with the market leveling off here, do you feel like you're overstaffed? Or how do you feel about your current position?

We – a year-ago, we probably would have continued to add recruiters but elected not to. So a year-ago we actually look at the average number of recs per recruiter and we have a target. So last year the recruiters hit more recs than they should have which means they should add to the number of recruiters. We -- and from the beginning of 2011, if you go back and look at our first conference call we said the Staffing business had to slow. So rather than bring on new recruiters and then lay them off we elected just to incur more overtime with the recruiters that we had. And now we're back in balance the number of rec the recruiters have is just about our target. So I don't really see us flexing the staffing recruiters and as I mentioned before actually the volume seems to have picked up in the last couple of months on the Staffing side.

Is the bill rate, pay rate spread steady too or are you seeing contraction there?

No actually I would say the reverse for the first time in almost 11 years we're seeing a slight amount of inflation. Now the margins are the same, but the bill rates are going up, the wages are also going up. But we think that less than 2% of programmers and analysts in the United States are unemployed at the moment . The market, when you go and talk to a person about a non-healthcare staffing engagement, they usually tell you they're looking at three or four offers now.

Okay. Okay, so on one of the other themes that we talked about on our prior call I believe is that the thought that some of the smaller hospitals are not going to be able to deal with their obligations to meet the deadlines on EMR and I guess ultimately some other things that might come up. And that was generating some consolidation and some of your customers that you've already done work with in healthcare have could be on the consolidator side, have you seen any of this, so that you're getting, maybe some assignments you're finished up, you're getting around to with an acquisition just to bring them up to the current requirements?

Absolutely. That's one of the reasons that projects haven't ended when they were supposed to when they acquire one of these smaller hospitals they want us to put in the same EMR system that the larger system has. So we're seeing that and when we talk to our clients they're pretty open about telling us but they're talking to other hospitals in their geography about merging.

Okay. So that trend is likely to continue then?

Yes.

And the good thing there is once they've done the first project with you it makes no sense to do an RFP for the second phase, right?

No absolutely not, because you want exactly the same methodology and EMR put into that new hospital.

Okay. Is there, has there been any lightening up on the customer side or the prospect side on requiring trained people as opposed to some folks that are newly hired into the EM, to do EMR work,? Is that ...?

No, no.

... that has nothing [indiscernible] (54:41).

We haven't seen any hospitals that will take newly trained or recently trained people. And we're stilling sitting with a tremendous amount of requirements that we can't fill because of that.

But it's interesting. Because – a couple of points they are hiring. You've lost in several assignments over time to staffing people. Some of that you've mentioned some of the state hospitals are doing it in-house. You would think that some money savings kind of decision and, you can almost present to responses to their RFPs one with up blend of newly trained or newly hired that might save them some money and yet that they're not even considering that. I would think when they're doing their own projects they're getting that anyway, right?

Yeah, but the RFPs are specific that they want experienced people. So the CIOs they know what the state rules are, right. They don't want people submitting newly trained people. The Staffing companies are supplying them trained people. They can do get a lower cost than we can because they don't have to maintain the methodology than some of the other that are delivery people, that they're delivering management structures that we do, because they're just providing the person in the hospitals as opposed to supply the methodology and the delivery oversight etcetera.

But ultimately if the hours get run up even at a lower bill rate they don't end up saving money in that area?

That's right.

Okay.

And it's really ironic to actually talk to CIO and have him acknowledge he knows that. But he can't do anything about it.

Your class ratings have been maintained?

You know they change every month. We spend a lot of time trying to make sure that we have very high class ratings.

Okay, thank you.

Follow up from Frank DiLorenzo. Go ahead please.

Thank you. There was a previous question about potential acquisitions on the Staffing side, but could you talk about if you are looking anywhere on the acquisition front aside from Staffing, any other areas, analytics or software solutions things of that nature? Thanks.

Yeah, the actual question I think was, have we thought of buying a Staffing company to get more people for our Solutions business and the answer is no, because there are people already on engagement that doesn't help you. The acquisitions that we would be looking at are all in the Solutions area, these are all healthcare, IT services companies that focus in on solutions for their customers. We really don't have any interest at all in buying the Staffing company that I think would help the company long-term. And really what we are trying to do is either buy something that expands our offering some or perhaps our geography some that makes more strategic sense for the company. You know we've seen some companies we haven't really seen anything yet that's a good fit for us.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. And gentlemen we have no one else in queue, please go ahead with any closing remarks.

Thank you. At mid-year CTG is firmly on track for another year of double-digit earnings growth our sixth over the last seven years. CTG has firmly established in healthcare, one of the fastest growing U.S. industries. We have offerings for Electronic Medical Records, ICD-10 conversions, Accountable Care and Medical Informatics, all of which are expected to be in strong demand for several years. As such, we remain very excited about CTG's future growth prospects. I'd like to thank you for your continued support and for joining us this morning. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 am today through midnight July 27th. You may access the AT&T Executive Playback Service at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 221720. International callers dial 320-365-3844 using the same access code 221720.

And that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.