Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matthew K. Smith — Treasurer, VP-Finance & Investor Relations, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
C. Robert Udell — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Steven L. Childers — Chief Financial Officer, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Frank Garreth Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
David Scott Goldman — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Barry Michael Sine — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Consolidated Communications Holdings Second Quarter 2016 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions following at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.

And now, I'll turn the conference over to your host, Matt Smith. Please begin.

Thank you, operator and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us today for our second quarter earnings call. At the end of the prepared remarks, we will open the call up for questions. Joining me on the call today are Bob Udell, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Childers, Chief Financial Officer.

Please review the Safe Harbor provisions in our press release and in our SEC filings for information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such forward-looking statements reflect among other things, management's current expectations, plans and strategies, and anticipated financial results, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

In addition, today's discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our earnings release for this quarter's results which has been posted to the Investor Relations section of our website contains reconciliations of these measures to their nearest GAAP equivalent.

I will now turn the call over to Bob to provide an overview of our second quarter results. Steve will then provide a more detailed review of the financials. Bob?

Thanks, Matt and good morning, everyone. I appreciate you joining us today. I will provide some highlights for the second quarter and then turn it over to Steve for a more detailed review of the financials.

We have had a solid first half of the year with consistent financial results and the announcement of two transactions, which were the acquisition of fiber-based Champaign Telephone Company and the sale of our ILEC in rural Iowa.

The second quarter results reflect our continued focus on our strategic objectives. Total revenues were $186.9 million and adjusted EBITDA was $78 million. Revenues were led by a year-over-year increase of 5.2% in commercial and carrier, data and transport services. Growth in our Metro Ethernet circuits was a strong 19% and our overall data connections increased by 3,000.

We're pleased with this performance during what has historically been a seasonally soft quarter. Our overall business in broadband revenues moved higher to 81% of total revenues. The dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 73.4% and the year-to-date ratio of 66.9% is on target with our plans.

Now let me turn to some more specifics for the quarter. Commercial and carrier revenues increased by 1.8% compared to the second quarter of last year. We are continuing to place more investments and resources towards this strategic area and we extend our fiber network, connecting to new buildings and towers. During the quarter, we added nearly 200 new fiber lit buildings with anchor tenants and 50 new fiber-to-the-tower sites under contract.

With respect to our equipment sales, revenue in the quarter was lower than expected at [ph] $10.4 million (3:35). As you know this revenue can fluctuate quite a bit given the nature of the hardware sales cycles, and the revenues are primarily driven from reselling Cisco equipment as a Gold Certified partner. Our strategy is incrementally shifting with a larger focus on the professional service and maintenance portion, which are among the more recurring revenue – more recurring revenue in nature, and carry higher margins.

On the consumer side, our strategy continues to focus on securing the broadband type into the home, with competitively priced speed options, and enhancing our position as the service provider of choice for home networking needs. We call this our connected home strategy, where we can help consumers with support for all of their devices and security. We developed a self-serve user friendly portal, that all customers can utilize to do such things as monitor their own bandwidth usage, view how much they were using from each device, and see how much bandwidth is available at their home if higher speeds are needed. This portal has been a very successful support and retention tool as well as a way to reduce operating costs.

Now, let me touch on CapEx. Our guidance of $125 million to $130 million for 2016 has not changed. We have a disciplined approach to our investment decisions with new build and expansion efforts requiring minimal internal rate of return thresholds and payback targets. CapEx tied to video is declining as we advanced our strategic shift to emphasize product profitability, and over the top video for our customers. This also allows us to allocate the video CapEx to higher margin commercial and carrier growth opportunities. The benefits from these capital investments of course produce better quality revenue over time.

Overall, we continue to operate with about two-thirds of our total CapEx as success-based investments providing a significant flexibility in our capital plans. Finally, before I turn the call over to Steve, let me discuss both the acquisition and asset sale we announced in the second quarter. We continued our fiber-based expansion strategy with the acquisition we made in Champaign, Illinois which closed on July 1. This transaction added 275 route miles of fiber and over 300 fiber lit buildings. We're excited about the pipeline of opportunities and we plan to use the scale and resources of our larger company to expand and grow in this market. Also in the second quarter, and consistent with our strategic focus, we announced the sale of our rural ILEC in Northeast Iowa for which we expect to receive approximately $20 million in cash proceeds. We're working through the final regulatory approvals and expect to close this transaction in third quarter.

So in summary, I am pleased with the consistent results we have delivered throughout the first half of the year and how our employees are engaged and committed to winning in the marketplace. We have the infrastructure in place to continue to capitalize on the data [ph] explosion (6:47) and deliver on our strategic objectives, including providing our shareholders with a comfortable dividend payout ratio.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Steve for the financial review.

Thanks Bob. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll review our financial results for the quarter compared to the results for the same quarter last year, I'll follow that by reiterating our 2016 guidance. So, starting with revenues. Operating revenue for the second quarter was $186.9 million as compared to $201 million last year. Revenues from equipment sales were down $9 million in the second quarter of last year included approximately $1 million in revenue from the Enventis billing company that we sold last October.

Excluding these items, revenues declined by $4.1 million, primarily due to continued erosion in legacy voice services and network access as well as the scheduled step-downs from CAF II and Texas USF. These declines were partially offset by our overall 1.8% year-over-year growth in commercial and carrier revenues.

Total operating expenses exclusive depreciation and amortization were $120.4 million, compared to $129.7 million for the same quarter last year. The $9.3 million reduction in operating expenses was primarily tied to a lower equipment sales and continued efficiency improvements.

These were partially offset by accelerated advertising, service cost related to storms in Texas as well as the non-cash impairment charge for the sale of the Iowa ILEC, as outlined in our release. Net interest expense for the quarter was $19.1 million which was a $1.3 million improvement to the second quarter last year. As a reminder, we significantly improved our cost of debt capital structure with a successful refinancing and redemption of our 1,078 senior notes that we executed in June of last year.

Other income net was $8.6 million compared to $9 million for the same period of last year. Cash distributions from our Verizon Wireless partnerships in the quarter were $7.8 million and $7.1 million for the second quarter of 2015. Weighing all these factors and adjusting for certain items as outlined in the table on our press release, adjusted net income was $10 million and adjusted net income per share was $0.20, this compares to $11.9 million and $0.24 per share respectively for the same year – same period last year.

Adjusted EBITDA was $78 million in the quarter compared to $80.3 million for the second quarter of last year. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $33.6 million. From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the quarter with approximately $24.6 million cash and $65 million available in our revolver. For the quarter, our total net leverage ratio as calculated in our earnings release was 4.2 times.

Cash available to pay dividends was $26.7 million, resulting in a comparable dividend payout ratio of 73.4% for the quarter.

Now, let me reiterate the 2016 guidance we provided last quarter. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $125 million to $130 million. Cash interest costs are expected to be in a range of $73 million to $75 million. And cash income taxes are expected to be in the range of $1 million to $3 million.

With respect to our dividend, our board of directors have declared the next quarterly dividend of approximately $0.39 per common share payable on November 1, 2016 to shareholders of record on October 14, 2016. This will represent our 45th consecutive quarterly dividend.

With that, I'll now turn it call back over to Bob for closing remarks. Bob?

Thanks, Steve. So the first half of 2016 continued our path of delivering on our strategic initiatives. We will maintain our focus on investing for the future, expanding the fiber footprint, and growing our strategic revenues, all of which provide long-term benefits to our customers, and shareholders.

So, with that, I'd like to open it up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] First question is from Frank Louthan of Raymond James. Your line is open.

Great. Thank you. On the equipment part of it, can you talk to us about underlying trends from your larger enterprise customers; are you seeing any correlation there with sales? And then, can you comment on some of the SEC proceedings, the set-top box proceeding, and present state of services in particular, to what extent do you think those impact your businesses? Thank you.

All right, Frank. Thanks for the questions. Let me take of course the EIS question first. We're seeing strong Metro Ethernet demand from our network customers and while the equipment business has been a good pull through with over two thirds of the equipment customers taking the network service from us, actually upwards towards 80%, the real issue there is – we've seen a softening in decisions partially because of the economy, maybe election year but they're slower than previous years in large equipment, big box purchases.

And that's partially I think related to the shift to the cloud. We're seeing a good ramp in our pipeline for cloud services and Cisco in particular shifting their strategy with more focus on supplying hardware and network equipment for cloud service providers.

So [ph] while (12:55) I can't comment specifically on their long-term strategy. I can say we're seeing those trend lines in the – and that's affected our equipment business, but not our network business, it continues to be robust with Metro Ethernet, the lead product and value added services like cloud helping us solve problems for our customers.

With related to the set-top box and the SEC proceeding there, we're on both sides of that issue, but mostly in favor of seeing the SEC regulate less and let the market work through the transition to over the top. We don't see that negatively impacting our business although we understand the plight of both the content providers and the large cable guys we happen to be aligned on winning less regulation when it comes to the set-top boxes. But I remind you, our strategy is primarily focused on the broadband pipe and adding value and making sense out of how our customers use that pipe and over-the-top video consumption is something we're investing in, our unified portal for consumers, makes it easier for them to digest and to get content where they want, when they want it and we see that as a more profitable forward path for us.

Okay. And on the Ethernet customers and network customers, are those primarily other carriers and were they large enterprise type customers? Where is the growth coming from in that business?

The growth on the Metro Ethernet side is coming from both. We're seeing a tempering on the fiber to the tower, but as you've heard across the industry, those extensions to new towers, largely out of our service territory had given us the cause to build fiber network, pass commercial and enterprise opportunities. The Metro Ethernet growth that we see is in the – is predominantly in the 500, 600 and up per month customer range and with some of that moving a little bit lower than that monthly recurring revenue on those customers that are expecting growth. So, overall it's a mix with I think the trend shifting towards more of the enterprise customer.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Our next question is from Scott Goldman of Jefferies. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Thanks. Actually, I have a few questions if I can squeeze them all in. I guess first for Steve, just wondering if maybe you can help us understand or frame what the impact of the acquisition will do to financials, as we go forward, you closed that July 1, so should get a full quarter impact going into 3Q?

Second, just on the Verizon Wireless distributions. Obviously, I think you may be aware of Verizon has shifted how they were securitizing some of their receivables and moving more to an asset-backed securities market which shifts, shifts how they recognize cash flow from some of that activity. And I'm just wondering if that has the potential to change what your distributions might look like or perhaps distributions are done off of different measure and not impacted at all?

And then lastly, what if you could just comment on the broadband revenue trends got a little bit soft this quarter, presumably it's probably just tied to the video office, but just trying to see if there is anything else we should be thinking about there? Thanks.

Okay. Scott thanks for the questions. Yeah, relative to the closing of the Champaign acquisition that we did close it in July 1. So, we talked about that in the past as being $10 million in revenue. So, we'll have a full quarter for that. I'm not prepared to give guidance on the margin for that, but [ph] you will see, (17:12) we'll pick up on that acquisition again, we think it really fits into our strategy well. The fiber focus, I think it's a template for what tuck-in type acquisition should look like for us going forward.

Relative to your second question with Verizon and on their cash distributions and the different ways, they're factoring or are looking at the [ph] collections (17:38) on the wireless, it's probably too early for us to tell that. I mean, since they went to the Edge program the last couple of years or last several quarters, well, can we say it that way, cash flow has been a little bit – [ph] actually not (17:53) volatile, but its fluctuated more than normal with that. We don't think we've quite caught up with that in the first half of the year. But I will say that past – for the last several years, our distributions the last half of the year are always larger than what they've been in our first half of the year on run rate.

So as you know, Matt sits on those, on the board for those partners and again we're still searching for information on what the distributions will be going forward relative to what are the factoring, securitizing or what; however they're trying to accelerate the cash flow piece.

And finally on the broadband question, I think your question is – you've seen some up and downs on – if you look at the table in the press release, the consumer broadband numbers are kind of up and down. And I think if you look at second quarter 2015 that's probably tight, when we tie it to our price increases and then also first quarter of 2016 is when we re-implement – or did some additional price increases. We're doing a lot better job, we're being a lot more aggressive on passing some of the video content increases in that. So I mean it's sort of like price increases and then may be as you mentioned the video churn. [ph] They have a (19:12) video subscriber account to be down over time.

So again we still think we have the right focus and the right balance on video profitability and growing broadband as Bob mentioned, with the emphasis on fatter, fasters types and just you know what we're used to sell. So we feel pretty good about that and how that [indiscernible] (19:34) into the work that we're executing on right now.

Great. And one follow-up to the Champaign, any guidance or help, maybe guidance is the wrong word, but help you can give in terms of how the revenue coming from Champaign might fall into your product buckets?

I would, Scott, that's a great question. I would say that 90% of it's going to be in a business from broadband side, it's not 100%, it's going to be very high. There's no commercial, I mean, I'm sorry – there is no consumer video piece for that, there is no [ph] subsidy of assets (20:10) or whatever. So it's primarily commercially focused.

Great. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Next question is from Barry Sine of Drexel. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Continuing on questions on M&A, wanted to ask more about the sale of the Iowa ILEC asset, if you can you give us the rationale for selling that business? Talk a little bit about valuation. I'm trying to get a handle on how to take those numbers out of a model. So I don't know if you can share any type of financials? And is that the sign of more to come, or do you see additional range ILEC assets around the edges of your properties you might continue to sell?

Hi, Barry, good you hear your voice. When you look at the strategy, that was really opportunistic, the neighboring providers approached us. We're not actively looking to divest of network assets, but it is distant from our core Minnesota and Central North assets and so when we looked at that and the opportunity of Champaign tell us an example to extend our fiber footprint in a contiguous way and our capital, very disciplined capital investment strategy. It just seems like a logical transaction to pursue. So, going forward we're going to be looking at assets like Champaign Tel, is it talking that makes a lot of sense, something not contagious with – be $100 million in revenue or greater and give us the beachhead for new expansions. But I wouldn't expect to see many divestitures, that's not part of our core strategy.

Hey, Barry, this is Steve. Just to add on to that to your question on that would help you with the model. I think about it maybe being – maybe $8 million in revenue and probably the EBITDA from – the way we're thinking about it give or take. I think these [ph] aren't (22:31) large transactions on the either side of them, that largely offsetting to Champaign Telephone Company business. Again this is – as Bob articulated, the rural ILEC nature of the property didn't fit our long term strategy, but Champaign acquisition does.

And – so you've talked about the asset sale bringing it about $20 million of proceeds, have you given the price you're paying for the Champaign already that closed now, did you pay it?

We – and I think we announced it as...

$13 million.

$13 million – sorry, [indiscernible] (23:09) $13 million was the purchase price for Champaign.

Okay. And then shifting gears I guess [ph] or used to be (23:18) the equipment revenue number has almost been a random number fluctuating so much, you talked a bit about some of the trends on the Cisco side; it sounds to me as if you also have a change in your philosophy towards that business. If we just look at that from a short-term perspective, the rest of the year, what kind of trends are we likely to see in that line item equipment sale?

Yeah. Barry I'll remind you, two years ago, we made the comment that we were going to evaluate that business long-term and the revenue stream is primarily driven by the resale of that Cisco Hardware and what it's given us is access to that resource that has helped us launch our cloud rollout – our cloud services and the four services we rolled out. So, we see the value beyond the hardware sales, but we – that said, we don't like the volatility of that business and we'll continue to evaluate how it fits for us as a whole.

Based on the results through June and what we see in revenue recognition for July, the sales funnel and full year results are more likely to be in the mid $40 million range versus what we previously thought it would be, the $50 million to $55 million range.

And a similar question on network access, obviously that's driven a lot by the regulatory process, any thoughts on what that looks like for the remainder of the year?

Barry, I don't, I guess looking at that – I would just – we're thinking about that as basically the current trend we're trying to protect the special access I guess on the minutes of use on a switch I would say it's probably [ph] got (25:07) the same trends you're seeing going down maybe 10% a quarter or something, is probably what we think about it.

And that's all part of the CAT, add that to the CAT 2 agreement we made with the SEC last year, that's a predictable step down that we've been offsetting with the long-term benefits of the Metro Ethernet and broadband growth. So it's not a surprise to us. That part has been predictable.

Yeah.

And overall, the EBITDA and cash flow characteristics of our business are consistent with our plan for this year.

Okay. Thank you, gentlemen. Those are my questions.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Udell, for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you all for joining us today. I feel – continue to feel good about our strategic position, and I'm very excited about the future. We hope you would join us again next quarter. And hope you all have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.