raw transcript


Consolidated


Communications Holdings,


Inc.
 
CNSL
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Consolidated Communications Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. Following managements prepared


remarks, we will hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded, today March 8, 2007. I would now like to turn the call over to Kirsten Chapman,


please go ahead ma’am.


Stephen Jones, Vice President – Investor Relations


Thank you, Molly. This is Stephen Jones, Vice President of Investor Relations of Consolidated and


thank you to everyone for joining us this morning. With us today on the call is Bob Currey,


President and Chief Executive Officer and Steve Childers, Chief Financial Officer. After the


prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I will now review the Safe Harbor Provisions of this call and then turn it over to Bob. This call may


contain forward-looking statements within the context of the Federal Securities Laws. Such


forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, management’s current expectations, plans


and strategies and anticipated financial results, all of which are subject to known and unknown


risks, uncertainties and factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those


expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Please see our public filings with the


Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking stipulated risk


factors. In addition, during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our


earnings release for this quarters results has been posted to the Investor Relations section of our


web site, contains reconciliations of these measures to their nearest GAAP. I’ll now turn the call


over to Bob


Robert J. Currey, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Steve, and thank all of you for joining us today. Once again, Steve Childers and I are


excited to report you on both our operational and financial results. We will go through the details in


a minute but overall, I’m very pleased with how the business performed and the results we


achieved in our first full year as a public company. Our goal continues to be providing high quality


broadband and voice services, generating strong sustainable cash flow to support the dividend.


We have, and will continue to focus on growing revenue per customer, improving our operating


efficiency, maintaining our disciplined expenditure philosophy while selectively pursuing


acquisitions.


Before commenting on our operational execution, let me provide a brief overview which Steve will


go into in greater detail later. Overall, we are very pleased that we delivered strong financial


results, for both the quarter and the full year. Revenue was solid at 82 million for the quarter and


321 million for the year. We’re pleased that we were able to stabilize line loss at prior unit levels


and maintain revenue. We continue to drive cost out of the business. EBITDA was strong at


almost 36 million for the quarter and 40 million for the year. The dividend pay out ratio, exclusive of


one-time asset sales, was 70.2% for the quarter and 76.6% for the full year. Including this quarters


results, we’ve generated accumulative available cash, under our credit agreement, of over $25


million.


Now let me talk a bit about some of our operational achievements. We grew total connections


sequentially by almost 2,400 in the quarter and we were up over 10,000 for the year. The key to
raw transcript


Consolidated


Communications Holdings,


Inc.
 
CNSL
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


this growth was our success in increasing broadband connection. In 2006, broadband connection,


or what we call DSL plus IPTV, grew by over 18,000 while access lines decline was just over 8,000.


DSL and IPTV will continue to help the top line by generating incremental revenue and improving


customer retention.


In terms of DSL, we had a phenomenal quarter, adding almost 3,400 new subscribers, surpassing


our fourth quarter performance from both 2004 and 2005. This brings the total subscriber count to


over 52,00 and represents a 35% increase year-over-year. For 2006, we had our best year ever


from a subscriber growth perspective and added just over 13,000 new DSL subs. This product


continues to perform well for us and our customers and we believe subscriber growth will continue.


Regarding IPTV, we are seeing nice progress in both Texas and Illinois. We added over 1,300


subs in the quarter, bringing the total subscriber count to almost 7,000. We passed an additional


17,000 homes in the quarter, primarily in our Conroe, Texas market, bringing total homes past


across both states to approximately 90,000.


Now let me talk a bit about the individual states. First, in Illinois we added over 800 customer


bringing the subscriber count to over 6300. We’re pleased with how the product is performing in


the market. Penetration of homes past in the three original markets we launched in 2005 now tops


26%. Customer perception is positive, network is performing well, and our triple play offering


continues to be well received. Of particular significance, 90% of our IPTV customers have taken


our triple play offer.


In Texas, as you are aware, we launched the product in our Conroe and Katy markets at the end of


the third quarter, so this was our first full quarter of operation. As I mentioned on our last quarter’s


call and consistent with what we did in Illinois we are doing a controlled launch to ensure that the


network and back office processes are in place.


Overall, the rollout is going as expected, the product is performing well, and subscriber growth is


consistent with what we experienced in Illinois at this point in the rollout cycle.


Also, word-of-mouth advertising is building and I am confident it will be a key component of our


success in Texas just as it has been in Illinois. At the end of the quarter the subscriber count in


Texas was roughly 600 and we passed over 54,000 homes.


Now just a brief update on the product itself; first, I’m excited to report that we just made IPTV


service available in Lufkin, Texas. We’ve been testing the service in Lufkin for the last 60 days and


the product has performed well. While service was recently made available we plan to initiate our


marketing programs next month. With the launch of this market we will be providing service in all of


our major markets and will pass just over 100,000 homes.


Second, we expect to launch high-definition service in the second quarter in Texas and early in the


third quarter in Illinois. In both states we will launch with a robust channel offering, including local


stations, ESPN, Discovery and a number of other Tier 1 channels.


Although HD is important in both Illinois and Texas the product matches itself particularly well with


the Texas market demographics. As you can tell, we are excited about this product; it’s a varying


[ph] offer, has lots of consumer appeal, contributes to the top line and, by adding to the


attractiveness of the bundle, has made a positive impact on customer retention.


Both DSL and IPTV, along with our other products have been key drivers of our success with


bundling. As a matter of fact, service bundles have increased approximately 18% year over year.