Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matthew K. Smith — Treasurer & Vice President-Investor Relations, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Robert J. Currey — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Steven L. Childers — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
C. Robert Udell — President, Chief Operating Officer & Director, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Frank G. Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Barry M. Sine — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC
Donna M. Jaegers — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Jennifer M. Fritzsche — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Sachin Shah — Analyst, Albert Fried & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Consolidated Communications Holdings Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd like to introduce the host for today's conference, Mr. Matt Smith, Treasurer and Vice President. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Amanda, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us today for our second quarter 2014 earnings call. At the conclusion of the prepared remarks, we will open-up the call for questions.

Joining me on the call today are Bob Currey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Udell, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Childers, Chief Financial Officer.

Please review the Safe Harbor provisions in our press release and in our SEC filings for information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, management's current expectations, plans and strategies, and anticipated financial results, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

In addition, today's discussion will include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our earnings release for this quarter's results, which has been posted to the Investor Relations section of our website contains reconciliations of these measures to their nearest GAAP equivalent.

I will now turn the call over to Bob, who will provide an overview of our second quarter results as well as an update on the Enventis transaction, which we announced on June 30. Steve Childers will then provide a more detailed review of the financials and discuss 2014 guidance. Bob?

Thanks, Matt, and good morning, everyone. We do appreciate you joining us today. I'm very pleased with our performance in the quarter. We remain focused on delivering strong results, while working through the diligence and other steps in reaching an agreement to acquire Minnesota-based Enventis.

We're excited about the transaction, on which I will update you after reviewing our quarterly results. For the quarter, revenues were $151 million, which were flat year-over-year and higher by 1% sequentially.

The growth was primarily driven by a year-over-year increase of 16% in our Metro Ethernet services and a 5.5% growth in our overall commercial revenues. The additional commercial sales resources that we added late last year are now fully ramped and we are seeing the benefits of that investment.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $71.4 million and the payout ratio a solid 66.2%. Broadband and business revenues continued to represent the primary growth areas of the company and are now 78% of our total top line.

With respect to connections, we added approximately 1,000 data subscribers and 400 video subscribers in the quarter. Combined, we now have a total of just over 370,000 broadband connections. We have reached an important milestone as we now serve as many broadband connections as we do voice.

We had another successful quarter with our commercial VoIP sales, which provide us with customer term commitments and in many cases, higher ARPU than traditional voice offerings. We also had an uptick in ILEC access line losses, driven by our VoIP sales success, and FCC mandated benchmark rate increases. We had another strong quarter of growth in our wireless backhaul sales with 41 new sites bringing our total under contract to 846 sites. While we've seen some price compression in the backhaul sector, recurring revenues and the length of the contracts provides for continued attractive return opportunities.

And finally, before I turn the call over to Steve, let me provide an update on the current status of the Enventis transaction. As a reminder, we announced the acquisition on June 30. We are excited about what our combined companies can deliver with a robust fiber network and strong demographics, providing ample opportunities for organic expansion. Together, we can be more competitive, and provide better products and services to our customers. The all-stock transaction provides Enventis shareholders with both a premium and a significantly higher dividend, while at the same time, providing our shareholders an improved leverage profile and a solid payout ratio.

Culturally, Enventis is a great fit. We have a lot of similarities in our histories and our strategies. A couple of weeks ago, Bob Udell and I met with the employees of Enventis and could not have been more pleased with the warm reception. You may be unaware, but they are doing some exciting things with fiber, broadband, and the suite of cloud services, and together we can do even more. We are looking forward to working with the Enventis team. Lastly, we have completed all of the initial regulatory filings and plan to file the S-4 within the next week to 10 days. We continue to target a close in the fourth quarter.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Steve for a financial review.

Thanks Bob, and good morning to everyone. This morning I'll review our quarterly financial performance and reiterate our 2014 financial guidance. As Bob stated, we are pleased with results for the quarter. Operating revenues for the second quarter were $151 million and were essentially flat compared with second quarter last year.

Increases in local services, data and video revenues were offset by declines in network access and subsidies. Total operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, were $89.6 million, which were flat compared to the same period last year. Higher video programming costs were more than offset by continued improvements in our SG&A expenses.

Net interest expense for the quarter was $19.7 million, which was down $1 million from the second quarter of 2013. The improvement was primarily driven by the lower overall cost of debt due to the successful refinancing of our secured term debt, December of 2013.

Other net income net was $9.1 million compared to $8.8 million for the same period last year. For the quarter, we received $8.7 million in cash distributions from our Verizon Wireless partnerships, compared to $7.7 million for the second quarter of 2013.

Weighing all these factors on a GAAP basis for the second quarter of 2014, net income was $9.8 million and net income per common share was $0.24. This compares to net income of $9.2 million and net income per common share of $0.22 for the second quarter of 2013.

As detailed in the adjusted net income per share schedule in the earnings release, after adjusting for transaction and severance cost as well as non-cash stock compensation, our adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share were $11.5 million and $0.29 respectively.

Adjusted EBITDA was $71.4 million in the quarter compared to $71.8 million for the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $25 million with approximately 60% being driven by success-based projects.

From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the quarter with approximately $4.9 million in cash and $62 million available under our revolver. For the quarter, our total net leverage ratio, as calculated in our earnings release, was 4.28 times to 1. Cash available to pay dividends was $23.6 million, resulting in a dividend payout ratio of 66.2%.

Now, let me discuss guidance, which excludes any impact from the Enventis acquisition. Our 2014 guidance on a standalone basis remained unplanned and unchanged with capital expenditures expected to be in the range of $97 million to $103 million. Cash interest costs are expected to be in the range of $75 million to $78 million and cash income taxes are expected to be in the range of $10 million to $15 million.

With respect to our dividend, our board of directors has declared the next quarterly dividend of approximately $0.39 per common share payable on November 1, 2014 to shareholders of record on October 15, 2014. This will represent our 37th consecutive quarterly dividend.

With that, I'll now turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.

So in summary, we had another solid quarter, and the announcement of the Enventis transaction has us very excited about our future. We are combining two strong businesses that provide significant cash flow to continue to invest in the business, to support our dividend and to improve the balance sheet. The larger company has greater scale, is more diversified and better positioned competitively in the markets that we serve. We will continue to deliver on this strategy, providing the best service to our customers and delivering results for our shareholders.

And with that summary, Amanda I'm ready to open it up for questions.

Thank you ladies and gentlemen. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Frank Louthan with Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Looking at your – your video subs is up a little bit. Last quarter you'd made a pretty significant push after some over-the-top customers being a little agnostic as to how they took to video. Are you still kind of making that push and how should we think about that. And could you comment on Windstream's announcement earlier this week on restructure, how would you view that? How do you think it may or may not work for you post the transaction?

Yeah, Frank, this is Bob Udell. I'll take the first part of that and Currey will take the second. With regards to video and specifically video subs, we're really pursuing balanced growth and our lead product is the data, the broadband connection with the customer. We include video and voice for those customers that want to take advantage of our bundling and while video is still interesting to us and we'll continue to pursue growth on that front, we think the over-the-top opportunity provides us better profitability long-term. So we're going to watch that demand trend closely. We're going to pursue continued growth in our packaging and channel lineup, but again they're all seeing programming cost increases and our focus on the consumer side is balanced growth and profitability.

And Frank on the Windstream REIT structure, I guess my comments would be, one, it's very creative, but Windstream is a different company and we don't know the issues that they were facing and trying to solve with that structure. We'll learn more about it over time, and it will be included on the list of many other things that we consistently consider to maximize shareholder value, but at this time our strategy is working, our focus will continue to be on execution, growing the business organically and completing and integrating Enventis and we'll look at that and learn more as time goes by.

Okay. Great and just a follow up if I can, can you remind us how your Verizon Wireless distributions are or are not impacted by any spectrum auctions? And then over time any potential to utilize your relationship there with Verizon to do wireless local loop technology, to replace access lines or so forth, to keep customers as that technology progresses?

Hey Frank, it's Steve Childers, thanks for the questions. On the Verizon Wireless distribution, I think the distributions will continue to be pretty much in line with how we've talked about them before; really don't see those being modified for the strategic reasons that you outlined. And I'll turn it over to Bob Udell for the second part of your question.

Yeah. Frank, with regards to wireless options for partnership, the Verizon investment is really an investment where we don't have a ton of influence on their strategy. And yet, we have some insights as to what their strategy is. I think that our best area of focus is to make the technology in the home including Wi-Fi as easy to use for our customers as possible. That's why we've invested in this unified sign-on portal for our consumer customers. We think that the Femtocells, which we continue to experiment with and looking for relationships that makes sense in order to bring the wireless and wireline communications together for our customers is worth continued investigation and analysis, but I don't see any short-term opportunities for wireless local loop replacement of our fiber-to-the-home or broadband pipe to the home.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Barry Sine with Drexel Hamilton. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, folks. I guess kind of a follow up on the first question. I noticed a bit of an uptick in terms of local residential line losses. Maybe you could talk about what's going on there, what trends you see, and then what is your go-to-market strategy currently? What kind of promos do you have in the market for voice, video, data bundles on the residential side?

Yeah, Barry, let me address the uptick in access line erosion. We are accommodating the FCC price floors and did some local rate increases over the last quarter; the lowest rate structure on local lines was in Texas. So a third of the customers that were affected by increases were in Texas and that increased access line loss over a seasonally higher churn period like last year versus this year, and really the price increases is what I think drove some of that increase this year.

With regards to our go-to-market, we're still leading with bundles. Roughly half of our customers have a two-service bundle, another 20% have a three-service bundle, and the remaining are single-service. And that's typically the breakdown. We really still benefit from a competitive offer with a high-quality service experience. And I think what we're doing is tweaking that bundle to focus more and more on the value of our dedicated speeds and broadband pipe, and how we facilitate the customers' use of that pipe.

What kind of price points are you offering in the market for double-play bundles and tripe-play bundles?

We're still for the lead offers in the $70 range to $85 range. Our video and Internet bundles start out at $50 and move up to $70, but our ARPU, our average revenue per customer is still in the $120 range when you have all three services in.

And then if I could shift over on to business services. I think you've made a bit more of a marketing focus over the last year, bumping up sales force. Could you talk about – you usually don't report the number of commissioned sales people. If you're willing to give that out, I'd be interested in knowing the number or at least talk about it qualitatively. What are you doing in terms of business sales force growth and then what are you seeing in terms of productivity. Typically when we see a company ramp a sales force up, productivity lags until they become more productive. And then where I'm going with that is, how can I use that information to think about modeling the company in business services revenue on a going forward basis?

I'll let Steve finish the answer and let me give you the qualitative view that won't necessarily break into new guidance statistics. But I would say that the way we look at growing the sales force is, we look at really strong performing markets, and we'll oversize the sales team in those markets. And we're seeing some great results in Kansas, in Texas and in California right now. We still see great opportunity in Pennsylvania. And our net revenue has been very solid there and Illinois is really surprising us with some positive results this year that based on the natural economy of the State of Illinois, we didn't really predict.

So the diversity of our markets is really serving us well. We're probably 15% up on commissioned sales resources that are in some stage of ramp versus last year. And so, you're right, I mean, the ramp lags and we rolled out Dallas as we talked about at the end of 2013, and it's trending nicely and we expect to be fully productive there as we exit this year. So the way to think about it is, we're going to open – we opened a new market this year, added some capacity to our existing markets from last year and those resources will be at the end of their ramp period and towards the end of this year and we'll probably look at expanding some more in 2014.

Okay. And then again shifting gears, my last question. Again, also on the Verizon stakes. Verizon has – their priority obviously for Verizon Wireless was the Vodafone transaction, which they've now completed. I'm wondering if they may be more amenable to cleaning up [ph] your (20:23) fragmented partnership structure, and obviously you have a very, very low tax basis in those Verizon assets.

But perhaps, have you thought about or would you be open to some type of, I don't know, for example, tax free asset swap for some of their wireline assets. Have you thought about that or is that likely to – or possible to happen over the coming years?

Well, Barry, I guess, here is our response. I mean, we are thinking – I mean we're drawing about $35 million a year of frontline free cash flow from those properties. We expect that to continue and growing and stable with the same kind of guidance that Verizon is giving on those earnings. So in terms of just an outright sale, to your point, we do have a very low tax basis. So if we did sell at a – I don't know what the multiple would have to be, I guess for us to really consider an outright sale to replace basically $35 million, $36 million in free cash flow. If Verizon were to make an offer, we'd certainly listen to that if it was meaningful, but we really enjoy the cash flow and the diversification strategy on wireless. In terms of using that as a trade for other Verizon properties, we have thought about that, but we've never had a serious proposal or consideration for any kind of trade.

Okay. Those are my questions. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Our next question comes from Donna Jaegers with D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Good quarter. Just a few quick questions since most of them have been asked. On the Texas rate increase that you mentioned, can you refresh our memories? I think your rates in some of those rural areas in Texas were like $10, $12 a month. How much did you raise them? And are you seeing a competitive response from cable, or where do you think those customers are going?

Hi Donna, it's Bob Udell. Let me go back to the rate floor. We were roughly $2.40 off the rate floor. So that's about the average of the increase that we made. I think, in most cases, the rate increase has drawn their attention to the access line that they maybe weren't using as much or considering it more a safe line. And so, I really believe they've done more to wireless or possibly some slight increase in churn of maybe a bundled customer. But I would tell you the churn we see when you analyze Texas as an example, has really been isolated to the access line. Our video subs and our data is really on par with churn for a seasonally busy move quarter, like 2013 was for second quarter.

Hey, Donna, let me jump in for just a second. The FCC mandated – they have mandated that you have a certain monthly subscriber rate to continue to receive the subsidy funding that you've received in the past. So, if you don't raise your rate, you lose the subsidy funding. So, we raised the rates [ph] in certain (23:25) markets, most of ours are above the national average anyway. So we raise those rates and increase the revenue obviously, but there's a minimal amount of erosion as a result of that.

The second part though of back to the line loss question is the VoIP strategy; moving some of our business customers to VoIP makes good sense, but when they're in the ILEC territory, it comes up as an access line loss even though you may be getting more ARPU and certainly getting longer-term. You're signing them into a contract. So, it was the good trade. The revenue trade-off for some temporary increase in the access line loss. I hope that helps.

Yeah. I understand, I mean the trade-off and I remember reading through the FCC notice or proposed rule making on that. Can you help us at all, I mean you had, what, 4.4% line loss in business, is about a third of that going to your own VoIP lines? Any sort of similar breakdown in the resi line loss of 5.1%?

I think roughly 25% is probably a good number to look at there on the resident – I'm sorry, on the business side. On the residential side, it's probably a little bit less and more just a single service disconnection versus, as I mentioned earlier, pulling from our bundled customers.

Right. Okay. And then on Windstream's REIT announcement, it seems to me that the barriers to doing that for you guys would be you need state regulatory approval and since your network is pretty much upgraded already, what do you offer to the states to make this in the public interest for them. And then on the debt side, you need to have debt that you could refinance in the near term. Does that make sense to you and do you see any other barriers to you sort of exploring this idea?

Donna, as I said, it's way too early for us to comment on that. I think even the last couple of days, there've been new nuances to it and further understanding and I can tell you my phone is ringing off the hook with bankers who know this better than anybody else. They want to sell you on the concept. And so, we're going to do a lot of listening and learning. And again, Windstream is a different company. I'm not aware of all the issues that Jeff is or trying to [ph] solve (26:44). And we're very comfortable where we are and we'll continue to obviously study this. But I don't want the team distracted. We're focused on execution, integration of Enventis and closing that transaction. And when we're done with that, in the meantime, a couple of us will evaluate that structure and know a lot more about it in 30 days than we know today.

Okay, understood. And then finally on Enventis, they came out with some pretty good numbers it looked like the other day. Their equipment business is growing like 15% year-over-year. Can you talk about how you view that, because that's not really a monthly recurring revenue item. It can be more lumpy, but obviously it's a good lead into larger business customers. So what's your philosophy on that whole equipment business?

Yeah. First, with respect to their release, the results are in line with what we expected based on our due diligence. So we feel good about that. The second, on the equipment business, we were really – our interest in learning more about their Cisco certifications, how they leverage that for their network opportunities, and so unfortunately I can't give you a concrete answer until we get more work done on understanding it, how they've integrated it. We've got a team of folks that are going up there for their third level of due diligence conversations. So the jury is still out. We want to learn more about it and see how we can leverage the strengths of what they've done with that Cisco relationship as well as their new cloud service rollout that's built on that EIS skill-set and base, but our initial impressions are very positive and it's not your typical equipment business.

Okay. All right. Great. Thanks a lot guys. Have a good day.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

Great. Thank you for taking the question. Good quarter. I'll be the one who asks the inevitable Google fiber question, but with a different angle. We recently travelled with AT&T and they were talking about how with their GigaPower offering which they rolled out in Austin. Google actually kind of did a lot of the blocking and tackling for them and made it easier from working with the municipalities to get service out and I'm just wondering if you're seeing the same kind of experience in Kansas City. Clearly you were there before they were, if I'm – I'm not sure I have that right, but I'm just wondering if Google in some ways has actually helped with your process and not only in the advertising of the service?

Yeah, Jennifer, Bob Udell. With regards to the timing, we were first in the form of Everest and then later SureWest through their acquisition in Kansas City, but what Google has really done is created an interest in additional broadband consumption, although average consumption isn't anywhere near a gig. The most beneficial aspect of their involvement in the market has been pole attachment agreements. They've created, just as AT&T suggested in your visit with them, a favorable fee structure in the municipalities where they've rolled out service, and I'm not sure all the municipalities expected that to be something they had to offer to all these other utility providers or service providers in their markets or in their towns and fortunately for us it's gone that way. So we're benefiting from that new trade of approach in Kansas City for sure.

Great, Bob, can I just follow-up separately on Enventis; with their 4,200 miles of [ph] route (30:49) fiber, and I apologize if you answered this in your prepared remarks, but are you able to have conversations with some of your customers and talking about your greater fiber reach and is that something I'd assume they're pretty excited about?

Yeah, we're having to do the natural control, if you will, of sharing too much or getting in each other's way, so that we can focus on running the businesses and producing the results that have been produced to this point, but I will tell you that there is dialogue going on. There is customer interests. We know each other on the wholesale side or carrier sales side from historical relationships, and the forums that support those. And so, yeah, our customers are interested, their customers are interested. There's already interest in our data centers as a diversity to regional weather and situations that their customers experience. So there is great amount of excitement especially on the fiber transport in the wholesale service side.

Great, thank you very much.

Our next question comes from Sachin Shah with Albert Fried. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Did I mishear you? Did you say that you expected the deal to close within 30 days?

No, in the fourth quarter, we expect the deal...

Okay.

Yeah.

Okay, I just wanted to clarify that. Okay, just on that vein, any update on the preliminary S-4, the Minnesota, Iowa SEC filings.

Yeah, this is Steve. We have made all of the state regulatory filings, particularly in Minnesota and Iowa that need an ILEC approval we've made and there are certain states that we need to make certificate or get certifications transferred. We've done all the preliminary filings from both federal and state. We've done the Hart-Scott-Rodino filing. We've already gotten approval for that.

So, the next hurdle is the S-4, and Bob mentioned in his prepared remarks, we expect to file that in the next week to 10 days. And we're still hoping this thing gets closed sometime in the fourth quarter.

Excellent. Congratulations, guys.

Thank you.

I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back to Bob Currey for further remarks.

Thank you, Amanda. And thank you all for joining us today and for your continued interest and support of Consolidated Communications. We hope you will join us again next quarter and thanks again and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.