Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jennifer M. Spaude — Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
C. Robert Udell, Jr. — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Steven L. Childers — Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc.
Gregory Williams — Analyst, Cowen Inc.
Eric Luebchow — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Michael I. Rollins — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Robert Williams — Analyst, Octagon Credit Investors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, my name is Tamika and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Consolidated Communications' First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I will now turn the call over to Jennifer Spaude, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Jennifer, you may begin your conference.

Thank you and good morning. I'd like to welcome everyone to Consolidated Communications' first quarter 2021 earnings call. On the call today are Bob Udell, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Childers, our Chief Financial Officer. Bob's comments today will highlight our strategic initiatives and progress with our fiber build plant. Steve will provide details on our first quarter financial performance and an update on guidance for 2021. Following the prepared remarks, we will open up the call for questions.

Before we proceed, I will remind you our earnings release, financial statements, and earnings presentation are all posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at consolidated.com. Please review the Safe Harbor provisions on slide 2 of this presentation. Today's discussion includes statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to certain risks and uncertainties.

A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Consolidated's filings with the SEC and our 10-Q will be filed tomorrow. Today's discussion will also include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our earnings release includes reconciliation of these measures to the nearest GAAP equivalent.

I will now turn the call over to Bob Udell.

Thank you, Jennifer, and good morning, everyone. We are excited to be with you today, especially pleased to update you on the early phases of our gigabit fiber growth plan. We have never been better positioned with a stronger balance sheet, a fully funded growth plan and a strong first quarter result to begin an investment here.

First quarter marked the official start of our transformation as we set out to achieve a five-year plan to upgrade at minimum 1.6 million locations. This will result in more than 70% of our total $2.7 million addressable homes and businesses across our footprint available to have gigabit broadband speeds or higher. We're off to a great start having upgraded nearly 46,000 passings to gigabit fiber capable services in first quarter. To put this into perspective, the first quarter number of fiber passings upgraded is 20 times the number we built in all of 2020. We're making great progress on fiber builds and network upgrades. And I'm proud of what the team accomplished in first quarter.

Our first quarter results reflect strong operational performance and execution, which produce stable revenue and a very fast start to our fiber build. Starting with our consumer channel, broadband revenue grew 2.6%. This is the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year broadband revenue growth. The consumer data ARPUs grew 7% and we added more than 3,800 fiber broadband connections, a 10 times increase over the same period last year. With our build rate in first quarter, we are on track with our overall plan to upgrade at least 300,000 locations in 2021 as outlined on slide 6 of our investor deck. The gigabit fiber upgrades were primarily in Northern New England, California and Texas. Crews constructed 770 miles of new fiber just in the first quarter, placing 288 fiber count or larger cables to meet the high capacity needs of our consumer, commercial and carrier customers for years to come.

Our near-net regional fiber networks provide for very attractive costs per passing. For first quarter, we had a cost of passing of approximately $350 and it's in line with our expectations. These early upgrades are very attractive and benefit from a large amount of aerial fiber across our Northern New England markets. We believe this multi-gig symmetrical nature of our fiber-to-the-premise technology delivers a differentiated customer experience. Our go-to-market strategy has been meticulously planned out. We will offer easy to understand packages, attractive pricing and a stellar customer experience, all to create a truly differentiated service offering.

We're excited about the many benefits these fiber services will provide our customers and their communities. In the first quarter, we launched new fiber speeds and pricing tiers in upgraded markets. Customers can choose from three tiers of service with simple and transparent pricing structures. We also launched a dedicated customer care channel for our gigabit fiber customers and kicked off a pilot of a new premium tech support feature.

We have streamlined our installation process and continue to reduce the intervals between customer order and fiber broadband installation to less than five days. We are focused on delivering the best in-home experience possible, using the latest Wi-Fi technology in advance yet simple to use troubleshooting tools. Our investments in our digital transformation projects will give our customers new self-serve options, allowing them to do business with us in the manner which they prefer.

While it is early, we're seeing a very positive penetration rate in our recent cohorts or recently built neighborhoods that are in line with our expectations and similar to our previous fiber built in New York and New Hampshire at comparable stages, it's a powerful combination of delivering not only the fastest symmetrical speeds, but also a transformed customer experience, key to our value proposition for our new fiber services.

We have proven experience with public, private partnerships and have completed seven already and are well-positioned to take advantage of any additional funding to expand broadband into rural America. Over the last three months, we have won bids for 13 additional municipal partnerships and have dozens more in the planning stages, not to mention our track record with state and federal programs. Simply put, we understand the funding sources, we have the right relationships and we have the infrastructure in place to build fiber at a scale and at a lower cost when additional dollars become available.

Turning to our commercial and carrier channel, I'll begin by recapping our strategy, both of these customer groups leverage our best-in-class IP or native Ethernet core, which likes our robust fiber networks, our commercial go-to-market strategy is based on leveraging our network and service experiences as we grow data and Ethernet revenue. Our sales teams are focused on network and we utilize a solution space sales approach, many conversations with prospects begin with technology and discussions around their business challenges, we provide simple solutions for these evolving business opportunities, through our experience sales force and we work to become a trusted advisor for our customers.

We have an expanded product portfolio which includes best in breed partners like VeloCloud, Palo Alto, Ciena and Cisco, which supports our ability to provide end-to-end solutions. Our network reach, solutions-based sales approach and strong local presence are key differentiators for us in the commercial channel. And there's a strong demand for our ProConnect Unified Communications platform as demonstrated by revenue growth of over 7% in the quarter as businesses leverage this benefits and flexibility of this service across office and remote employees.

We are also seeing increased demand for switched Ethernet gig services and SD-WAN. As an example, we recently won a contract for a 69-site school network in Minnesota. This five-year $4 million contract includes dedicated Internet and managed security services. We won this business based on our ultra-fast reliable Internet connectivity. As we build out carrier grade capacity, we increase our net buildings of 11% year-over-year. More on that buildings mean more opportunities to win business. Our strength in capital structure enables us to support this channel better than ever before.

Moving to our carrier team this channel continues to be very active on deals of all sizes as we leverage our core regional fiber networks to create and capture regional and national carrier demand as well as the emerging 5G network opportunities. The carrier product mix like commercial is weighted towards Ethernet, and we are seeing more interest in carrier-grade wave solutions as well.

The carrier team is doing a great job of upselling on any opportunity and has a solid success with the 100-gig upgrades. Our primary differentiators within the commercial and carrier channel are the experience of our sales team and our ability to be nimble and proactive with reliable solutions that we can deliver in a timely manner. It was clear during the height of COVID customer decision making was slower and businesses were pausing and delaying some of their network upgrade plans.

You're optimistic about business recovery and remain focused on targeting the vast majority of our sales on network. This correlates to higher margins, increased upsell opportunities and greater ability to ensure the best customer experience, which ultimately contributes to higher customer retention.

I will now turn the call over to Steve, who will provide more insight on our first quarter 2021 financial results. Steve?

Thanks, Bob and good morning to everyone. We're pleased to report today on a remarkable start to the year. In addition to sharing our strong Q1 results, I'll also update you on a couple of recent refinancings and I'll also reiterate our 2021 guidance. Our first quarter financial summary can be found on slide 4 of our presentation.

Operating revenue totaled $324.8 million for the quarter and was down approximately one quarter of 1%, compared to a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA totaled $126.6 million, down 3.8%, it was in line with our expectations as we start to ramp our fiber expansion plan. Now, I'm looking at the revenue of results, commercial and carrier revenue totaled $144.3 million in the first quarter, down $2.7 million or 1.8% primarily due to equipment sales and the timing of construction projects.

Data and transport revenue totaled $90.3 million and was up approximately 1% in the first quarter. This compares to the 2% growth we achieved last year, and which is still our target for 2021. Voice revenue declined $1.4 million or 3.2%, which is consistent with improved voice trends we experienced throughout 2020. Commercial, other products and services revenues declined $2 million, driven by decline in our pole attachment revenue and lower equipment sales. But customers who held off in equipment purchases in 2020 are starting to re-engage, again especially within the medical sector.

Now turning to our consumer channel, revenue totaled $123 million, which represents a year-over-year decline of 2.7%. This decline is within expectations and primarily driven by voice reductions. Consumer broadband revenue was $65.8 million, up 2.6% and represents our eighth consecutive quarter of growth on a year-over-year basis. The consumer data ARPU in the first quarter was $55.24, up 7% year-over-year. We expect to continue to grow data ARPU as we increase speeds and upsell customers, especially as we roll out the fiber to the prem 1 gig product.

Consumer voice revenue for the recent quarter was down 6.4% or $2.8 million from a year ago. Our increasingly competitive broadband offers combined with measured rate increases are contributing to our ability to sustain the improved revenue trends we realized in 2020. Video revenue, which was down $2.3 million, and on a standalone basis, video slightly negative on a margin basis, given the accelerating increases in content cost. We are capping our organic video services and are focused on retaining the high-speed data customer relationship, as we pursued new and in-demand streaming partnerships. We believe this strategy will be our customers' viewing preferences while allowing us to avoid content cost with no CapEx spend.

Network access revenues totaled $31.6 million, up slightly from a year ago. Declines in special access were offset by an increase in the universal service fund revenue, driven by higher rates during the quarter. Subsidy revenue was down approximately $1.1 million due to lower funding from the Texas high cost funds in the first quarter. The mandated reduction in state funding is under review for the Texas PUC and we expect a revised order within the next week or so and we're optimistic that funding will be restored close to previous levels.

Other products and services increased $6.2 million due to $6.5 million in non-recurring revenue with network builds for the public/private partnerships. These relationships allow us to partner with these entities to deliver enhanced and increased broadband services. Today, we have completed seven builds with approximately 14,000 passings and currently have five more projects in progress.

Now turning to operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, operating expenses totaled $210.8 million, an increase of $5.3 million or 2.6%. Overall, expenses were declined $2.7 million when normalizing for the one-time PPP build cost and the initial start-up expenses related to our fiber expansion. Cost of services and products increased $6.2 million, primarily due to costs relating to the public/private partnership network build that I just mentioned, combined with the added expense for the universal service fees, driven by the higher factors within the first quarter.

And as a reminder, the universal service costs are basically a pass-through for the EBITDA neutral. SG&A cost declined $967,000 or 1.4%, primarily due to a decline in employee salaries and benefits as a result of reduction in head count in the current quarter. Advertising expense increased in conjunction with the promotion of our new fiber speeds. Net interest expense for the first quarter was $48.4 million, an increase of $16.3 million from a year ago. This change was primarily as a result of our October 2 global refinancing and the receipt of the $350 million initial Searchlight strategic investment.

Interest expense increased $5.6 million due to the higher mix of senior secured notes in our external debt structure as well as the additional term loan in the quarter. Additionally non-cash interest on the Searchlight note, combined with the amortization and deferred financing cost and discount totaled $10.2 million, I'll provide an update on our go forward cost of capital in just a minute.

Additionally, at March 31, we recognized a non-cash loss of $57.6 million related to the increase in fair value of the contingent payment right to Searchlight. Upon receipt of all approvals and completion of the second close of the Searchlight transaction, which we expect to occur in the third quarter, the CPR will be converted to common stock. Cash distribution to the company's wireless partnerships totaled $9.4 million in the first quarter, down $700,000 from a year ago. As we stated on our last call, we expect wireless distributions to be in line with past annual run rates and in the range of $37 million to $39 million for 2021.

Adjusted net income per share including the 6.3 million new shares new shares, new common shares issued as part of the first closing of the Searchlight last October was $0.21 per share, compared to $0.23 per share a year ago. CapEx was approximately $76 million in the first quarter, reflecting a higher level of spending, supporting our fiber network expansion projects and investment in digital transformation technology.

Now, I'll update you on our capital structure, which is outlined on page 7 of our slide deck. As a reminder, we completed the goal of refinancing last October that extended maturities, improved leverage and increased liquidity, the result was a fully funded bill planned and a much stronger balance sheet. Based on our recent favorable market conditions, we continue to take action to improve our overall financial position and reduce our cost of capital.

In January, we raised $150 million under our term loan at existing terms. In March, we issued $400 million in senior secured notes of 5% due 2028. We used those proceeds to pay down term debt in conjunction with the bank re-pricing. On April 5, we completed the bank re-pricing which resulted in a 150 basis point improvement, as we were able to reduce both the coupon and the LIBOR floor. This results in $18 million in annual cash interest savings. Additionally, since the $400 million payout in the term loan was applied in the order of the next scheduled maturity, which effectively eliminated the 1% or $14 million per year of principal amortization for the life of the facility.

As a result of these transactions, we have significantly reduced our ongoing cost of capital and have contributed over $30 million in incremental cash flow to support our growth. With respect to liquidity, we have over $325 million of cash on the balance sheet and with the undrawn revolver, we have approximately $550 million in liquidity. Additionally, we expect to receive the $75 million from the second stage investment from Searchlight in the third quarter, once we secure the requisite regulatory approvals. The strong cash and liquidity position further reinforces our fully funded long-term value creation plan.

I'll review and reiterate our full year 2021 guidance, which is outlined on slide 9. Capital expenditures are still expected to be in the range of $400 million to $420 million. Compared to prior year's spin rates, this guidance fully reflects increased investment levels driven by our build in success based CapEx for our fiber expansion plan. Our adjusted EBITDA is still expected to be in the range of $500 million to $510 million. Cash interest expense guidance, which was updated with the re-price of the term loan, as previously discussed is now expected to be in the range of $130 million to $135 million.

And we expect to pick the Searchlight investment at least through 2022 and we have the election to do so through 2025. Cash income taxes remained unchanged and are expected to be in the range of $2 million to $4 million. We've had a very productive and exciting first quarter and we're extremely well positioned to execute on our transformational fiber expansion plan.

With that, I'll now turn the call back over to Bob.

Thank you, Steve. Finally, I'll provide a brief update on the second closing that Steve reference with Searchlight Capital Partners. You can see the investment steps associated with this partnership on slide 8 of our presentation. This week our shareholders approved the issuance of shares to Searchlight, as part of this transaction. We expect to obtain the applicable state and FCC approvals in third quarter, which will then trigger the remaining $75 million of investment.

With our strong balance sheet and strategic partner in Searchlight, we're building on an excellent platform for the future and we're very focused and on our way to becoming a fiber first broadband company. As we enter into the next phase of our growth and transformation, our strategic priorities continue to guide our work as outlined on slide 10.

Our number one priority is accelerating our fiber build to scale and grow broadband services in the markets that we serve. We will also leverage our fiber assets to continue to grow commercial and carrier data services and we're focused on transforming the customer experience to make it easier for our customers to do business with us.

We're very confident in our plan and ability to deliver a differentiated superior fiber product offering with an excellent customer experience and digital capabilities. These priorities put us on a path to return to top line revenue growth in 2023 and this return to growth is extremely exciting. Our plan is fully funded and we are executing on our fiber expansion growth effort, as we build momentum and become a stronger fiber-based broadband provider.

In closing, I want to thank our dedicated employees who work hard every day to serve our customers and execute on our bold growth plans. Our path forward is all about building long-term sustainability and value for our investors, our customers, and our employees. And we have a strong, stable business, a significantly improved financial position and a growth plan that is transforming our company and the communities that we serve. It couldn't be more excited for what the future holds for us.

Tamika, I think we're now ready to take questions at this time.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gregory Williams with Cowen & Company.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions. You're off to a good start. And I had a couple of questions on that good start with fiber to the home. One, you did reiterate your CapEx, but it's really great to see that your cost per home passed is coming in pretty low at $350 per home. Where do you see that trajectory going? I imagine you just dealt with the low hanging fruit so to speak in terms of homes. And so, as I think that the next tranche of homes in the next few quarters, where do you see that trajectory in light of your CapEx guide?

And as a tangent, I know it's early – into early learnings, but are you seeing the cost to connect, the success base CapEx, the drop, the O&T coming in around at $750 level? And then my last question if I may is on the cadence, you've built out 46,000 homes. That leaves you another 154,000 to go for the year. How should I think about the cadence, is it bulkier in the warmer months, and then, maybe as it cools down in the fourth quarter slowdown, or is it sort of a linear ramp or a steady ramp up? Thanks.

Yeah. And Greg, good morning and thanks for the questions. Let me start with the CapEx first, and both the castings and the success base. You're right, I mean we're dealing with the lower hanging fruit, if you will, in the places that we could move most quickly in order to get the machine running. And so, we're going to see that CapEx number of creep up as we get into underground, especially in Northern New England where we know of some ductwork and repairs to do.

So, I would expected the trend towards the $450 million in Northern New England and probably between $500 million and $550 million in some of the areas we have to do buried work. But on the average, it'll move towards that $500 million number, as we progress through the year. There'll be some that are $700 million, $800 million, and there'll be some that are in the $300 million range. But it'll average out in that $500 million range I think towards the end of the year.

On the success base side, we're actually because we don't have all the all the Wi-Fi gear that we want, from an experience perspective, we're in the $400 to $450 range on the install. The installs are going fairly quickly, it's a lot more efficient of an install. It's primarily plug and play and so, we're looking at ways to continue to tweak the talent pool that we put on that. And so, right now we're using high cost labor to make sure, but more technically proficient folks to make sure that nothing goes wrong and we can improve on the process. But as we smooth that out, I think there will be higher equipment costs with more Wi-Fi components and it'll increase about the $450 million range that we're seeing right now. So, those things are well within our expectations.

On the cadence, I think the early learnings are that we can ramp construction fairly quickly. We're feeling real good about first quarter, and we've got roughly 70,000 planned in second quarter and then we'll ramp through the end of the year, because we can do some construction through the winter months as we've proven in first quarter in Northern New England. It'll just be weather dependent in the fourth quarter to a certain degree, but we have other markets that we're building in like Texas and California, where we can continue to get passings in the tougher winter months.

So, the portfolio is serving us well, the only risk I see is availability of materials and so far we've been well positioned for that and worked ahead with our vendors and haven't seen that impact our build rate or our forecast for 2021 at this stage. So, I think I covered all three.

You did. Thank you. Great color.

Your next question is from the line of Eric Luebchow with Wells Fargo.

Eric, good morning.

Hey. Good morning everyone. Thanks for taking the question. Yeah, I was wondering you mentioned the supply chain shortages, we've heard about that particularly in the chip market, Bob, about some concerns building. It sounds like you haven't seen anything yet, but did you see anything in the future that could potentially impact the trajectory of the build pace or do you have enough purchase orders than that you feel pretty well insulated at least through the end of this year?

Yeah. Great question, Eric. We feel really good with the purchase orders that we have out. We're pretty well planned out through the end of the year. There's always a chance that someone won't deliver on what they've committed to or they'll delay a delivery. And so far, because of the scale of the build we're doing and our relationships with suppliers, we're feeling pretty good. There's been a little bit of a challenge on fiber with resin now becoming a commodity that's hard to get and that makes plastics cheap. And so, we're hearing that could affect slice cases and things like that. But we feel like we're in a good shape from a supplier perspective on the chipset issue. We put those electronics orders in very early. And we're seeing the delivery so far hit on target. So, I don't foresee it affecting us for this year as long as the POs that are committed deliver on time.

Okay, great. And then just one more for me. Maybe you can talk about, Steve, the Connect America Phase 2 program. I believe that's sunset at the end of this year. Can you just kind of remind us any impact that will have as we kind of roll our models through 2022 and on EBITDA or free cash flow?

Yeah. This is Steve. Yeah. So, I think as we've talked before, the auctions kind of get different path on us than maybe what we had expected. We really kind of pivoted toward – let me be direct on your question, today, we get $48 million a year in CAF II funding as we pivot towards RDUF that started 2022. That's been a drop down in that $6 million a year in annual revenue. But again, I remind you that our build plan and I don't believe the Searchlight investment was predicated on a longtime dependency on CAF II or RDUF.

So, fortunately, we pivoted or expanding in our build plan. And that's why we went from 1 million passing – actually from 1.3 million to 1.6 million, because we want to be selective in the RDUF of some stocks that were really going to be high cost reserve pricing was going to zero. So, I think where we are going to take a step down just on total revenue in 2022, but we will make that up from a retail basis as people starting to except the 1 gig product and then probably within a two year window. So, we're really focused on the build plan and maximizing execution on that.

Yeah. Great. Thanks for taking the questions.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.

Just curious where you're upgrading fiber to over the next few years? What percent of that overlaps was cable competition? And can you remind us of how you think about the share opportunity from that, as you get into those markets and compete with the fiber?

Yeah. Thanks, Mike. When you think about the way our plan is built, we assumed that we were in a duopoly position in all cases. In reality, we have 81% of our market overlaps with the one competitor and there's a small percentage, three or four that are two competitors. And the rest has roughly 11% I think that has no competitor. And the majority of the builds are in a duopoly situation, our experience is, we end up with a 35-plus-percent penetration in a duopoly situation when we have 1 gig offering. And in fact, and some of the more mature areas after about three years, we've got 40% plus, 42% in some cases.

Our initial experience in our fiber cohorts are where there's no competition really, we're in the 60% plus in a matter of six months and where there is competition after roughly two years, we're at 36%, actually 38% in New York where we had the state broadband partnership and we have charter as a competitor there. So, I think mid-30% that which is what it is in our model is very doable and our expectation is 40% plus.

And in your experience, just given the importance of broadband, especially as many of us have been living in remote environments in some form over the last year or plus. So, in your experience, why isn't everyone or all homes have broadband? What are the reasons that you find for that gap, where it's not 100% penetration of homes in the market, for you and your competitors? Thanks.

Yeah. I think it's going to be rare. I think that you had seasonal homes that aren't full time occupied, you've got some that just won't depend on Internet at home and instead we'll use satellite. But I don't think, you're going to see that remain in the 91% or whatever the rate is nationwide for long. I think it's going to be like the telecom growth of voice to all of America, it's going to get replaced by broadband. And that's why you're seeing a rush to interest in investing in this space.

Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Rob Williams with Octagon Credit Investment.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Hope everyone's well. Just a quick one for me. Yeah, you've added a nice amount of homes so far. I was wondering, if you can give us just some color kind of early days on penetration rates, I know Bob just alluded to some of it, but kind of how do we think about, of that 321,000 homes that are gig enabled. What's the data subs for that right now, is a broader just overall penetration rate?

Yeah. We're going to get more detailed in the penetration rates as the year progresses and so it's really hard to give you a number without putting it in the context of how long those homes have been available. So, in the homes that have been three years available with a gigabit fiber-based product or longer, our penetration is above 35%, 36%. In the most recently deployed homes, it really depends on, for example, Northern New England, it's been harder to do direct door-to-door sales. And so it's trending more closely to our plan of expecting 20% in the first – 15% to 20% in the first year, getting close to a high-20s in the second year and then mid-30s in the third year.

But in the areas where we've got the longtime history and in the mid-South and in the longer term fiber gig areas in the West Coast, we're in the 36%, 40% 42% range. So, we're looking at it a cohort by cohort, but towards the end of the year, as we build the momentum in second quarter, third quarter, there'll be more metrics that we're sharing, because this is really the investment here and the transition of turning this ship into a growth engine. And we'll give you more examples on the overall fiber base, as we blow out the metrics further.

Great. Yeah, I think everyone will appreciate that. And I guess my final one is just kind of getting back to some of the costs side on the inflation pressures potentially, are your I guess for the contracts and the orders you guys put in, are they already fixed price or you get an adjustment if costs are rising?

Yeah. The POs that we put in now are fixed price and we have POs that we're letting OEM to 2022, so we're watching the costs of materials carefully, but so far we feel confident that there's room for some movement if prices go up.

Great. Thanks everybody. Appreciate it.

[Operator Instructions] At this time, there are no further questions. I will turn the call back over to Mr. Bob Udell. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Well, thanks everyone for joining the call today. We're very excited about our progress in first quarter and well into the second quarter ramp. And we appreciate you tuning in and look forward to updating you on our first quarter or second quarter results. Thank you. Have a great day.