corrected transcript


Consolidated


Communications Holdings,


Inc.
 
CNSL
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Consolidated Communications Third Quarter Earnings Call. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode; following managements prepared remarks, we’ll hold


a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded November


8, 2007. I would now like to turn the conference over to Steve Jones. Please go ahead, sir.


Steve Jones, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Kate, and good morning. And thank you to all of you for joining us today on


Consolidate Communications’ Third Quarter 2007 Earnings Conference Call. I’m Steve Jones,


Vice President, Investor Relations, and with us on the call today are Bob Currey, President and


Chief Executive Officer, and Steve Childers, Chief Financial Officer. After the prepared remarks,


we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I will now review the Safe Harbor provisions of this call. This call may contain forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Such forward-looking statements


reflect, among other things, management’s current expectations, plans and strategies and


anticipated financial results, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and


factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements.


Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information


about forward-looking statements and related risk factors. In addition, during this call, we will


discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our earnings release for this quarter’s results,


which has been posted to the Investor Relations section of our website, contains reconciliations of


these measures to their nearest GAAP equivalent.


And now the proxy solicitation. This material is not a substitute for the prospectus and proxy


statement Consolidated Communications Holdings and North Pittsburgh Systems filed with the


Securities and Exchange Commission, which was mailed to North Pittsburgh Systems’


shareholders on October 12, 2007. Investors are urged to read this prospectus and proxy


statement, which contains important information, including detailed risk factors. The prospectus


and proxy statement and other documents which were filed by Consolidated Communications


Holdings and North Pittsburgh Systems with the Securities and Exchange Commission are


available free of charge at the SEC’s website or by directing a request to either company.


This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy


securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer,


solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the Securities laws


of that jurisdiction. Consolidated Communications Holdings and North Pittsburgh Systems and


certain of their respective directors, executive officers, and other members of management and


employees are participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed


transactions. Information about the directors and executive offers of Consolidated Communications


is set forth in the proxy statement filed in connection with this 2007 annual meeting. Information


about the directors and executive officers of North Pittsburgh Systems is set forth in the prospectus


proxy statements in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,


2006 as amended. Investors may obtain addition information regarding the interest of such


participants in the proposed transactions by reading the prospectus and proxy statement. I will now


turn the call over to Bob, who will provide an overview of our financial and operating results; Steve
corrected transcript


Consolidated


Communications Holdings,


Inc.
 
CNSL
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Childers will then provide a more detailed review of our third quarter financials; and Bob will then


conclude the prepared remarks with an update on the North Pittsburgh transaction. Bob?


Robert J. Currey, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Steve. And thanks all of you for joining us today. I’m pleased to report that we had


another solid quarter. The existing business continues to perform well, and the North Pitt


acquisition is on track to close in the fourth quarter or at the latest, early in 2008. We continue to


successfully execute on our strategy of providing high-quality broadband and voice services, thus


generating strong sustainable cash flow to support out dividend. This is achieved by growing


revenue per customer, improving operating efficiency, and maintaining our disciplined capital


expenditure philosophy. Regarding the quarter, I’ll start with a brief overview of the financial results


and then talk about the strong operating metrics.


Our results for the third quarter were solid. Revenue and adjusted EBITDA were 80.3 million, and


33.5 million respectively. Results this quarter were impacted by a prior period subsidies settlement.


The net settlement amount resulted in a 2.1 million reduction in both revenue and adjusted


EBITDA. The dividend pay out ratio for the quarter was 92.6% including the subsidy true-up, and


77.4% without it. Even with the impact of the true-up we are at a comfortable 77.7% year-to-date


pay out ratio. We delivered strong operating metrics, growing connections by 4,000 this quarter


and we have now surpassed 300,000 total connections.


In terms of DSL, I would describe it as a phenomenal quarter. We added over 4,300 new DSL


subscribers, bringing the total subscriber base to almost 63,000. This represents our strongest


third quarter ever, and brings our penetration of primary residential lines to 38.6%. For the quarter,


we also added 1,500 IPTV customers across both states, bringing the total subscriber base to just


over 11,000. In August, with the launch of Illinois, we completed the high-definition rollout and now


offer a competitive HD channel lineup in both states. The picture quality is great and the customer


reaction continues to be very positive. To date, 750 customers have signed up for HD,


representing a 7% penetration of our IPTV households.


In the past, I’ve talked about our ability to tailor programming to meet the needs of our subscribers.


Another example of that is the Big 10 network. We offer it in Illinois and it is not offered by our


cable competitors. We believe that being able to react to market demand is key in helping to


differentiate us in the marketplace and gain market share. Regarding DVR, we continue to test the


product and are still targeting a fourth-quarter launch in all markets. Combining HD with DVR will


further strengthen our IPTV platform and, when coupled with voice and data, provide a very


compelling triple-play value proposition.


DSL and IPTV are sticky and have been drivers of the growth of connections and revenue per


customer. Approximately 90% of our IPTV customers take our full triple-play offering, making us


the leading triple-play provider in our markets. As I’ve previously mentioned, we also offer a hosted


VoIP product in Texas, targeted towards small- and medium-sized business. We continue to be


pleased with the subscriber growth. We added 350 seats in the third quarter, bringing the total


number to just over 2,200. I would add that these seat counts, associated with this product, has


more than doubled in the last 12 months and that it is not included in our total connection count.


On the competitive front, although we continue to expect additional entrants, no new cable


companies launched a voice product in our markets during this quarter. And finally, I’m pleased to


report that we’ve successfully completed phase 3, our last phase of our billing integration. This


completes the Illinois and Texas billing project. I appreciate all the hard work put forth by the billing