raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon my name is Lisa and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time,


I would like to welcome everyone for the Inergy Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will


be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Mr. Sherman, you may begin


your conference.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Lisa. And welcome everyone to our Third Quarter Earnings Call. In addition you


probably saw the other release, about the same time, where we announced the closing of the of our


Stagecoach acquisition, so a little bit later than usual those press releases getting out, but we've


got them built out together. With me today on the call, as usual it is John Sherman, our President


and CEO; Phil Elbert, our Executive Vice President of Retail Operations;, and David Dehaemers,


Executive Vice President of Corporate Development.


The format of the call today will be similar to all of our earnings calls, where we will open up with


John giving an overview of the company, I will then review the results of the quarter and nine


months for Inergy L.P. and then we will open call up to questions on both our earnings as well as


Stagecoach should anyone have questions there.


First let me read cautionary statements, the forward-looking statements before we get started. In


our discussions today, we may communicate forward-looking information; various risk factors may


cause actual results to differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking statements.


We provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings, and we encourage


you to review those filings. And with that, John, I will turn it over to you.


John Sherman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Brooks, thanks to everyone on the call, thanks for your attendance and thanks for your


interest in our Company. Just a couple of comments before Brooks goes through the numbers. We


are in the midst of a very active period in the development of our Company. Over the past year,


actually really the past nine months, we have accomplished a number of things that have enabled


us to deliver on our performance objectives, as well as positioned us for a successful and more


expansive future.


First the successful execution of our propane acquisition strategy, including the Star Gas


acquisition in December, which effectively doubled the Company size giving us greater scale and


expanded geographic diversity. The Star deal has been a relatively seamless combination. The


field in the back office integration is complete. Our year one performance has exceeded under


written expectations and our year two expectations have now been upgraded. Well we are not


surprised, we obviously put acquisitions under a microscope during integration and it is very


satisfying to see a large one like Star executed successfully. Second, in June, we executed an


initial public offering of Inergy Holdings, the owner of the general partner of Inergy. This has


strengthened our overall financial structure and flexibility and provides us with a valuable currency


that can be used strategically to grow and strengthen the partnership. Third, today's closing of the


Stagecoach natural gas storage facility, gets us in the natural gas storage and transportation


business in a meaningful way. This is a strategically located asset with significant organic growth


opportunities. We go to work today on growing that business led by an experienced and motivated


management team, consistent with our approach in the propane business. Stagecoach meets all of
raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our acquisition criteria, it is probably the most stable cash-flow that we have today in our portfolio


and we are very excited about it. The bottom line is I am as optimistic as I have ever been about


our prospects with now a larger and more scalable platform. The propane segment is fragmented.


We’ve a very active pipeline of deals and a competitive advantage in the sector. And while the


midstream sector has been competitive, we see depth of opportunity there. Stagecoach gets us in


the game and from that perspective we've improved the overall quality of the Company's cash flow


and most importantly expanded the long-term growth potential of the partnership.


Thanks for your attention today. I look forward to the Q&A and with that I’ll turn it back to Brooks for


a look at numbers.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks John. I’ll start with the third quarter results, then I will move to the nine months results and


then I didn’t mention of the outset, but I am sure you have seen in the earnings release, we did


provide some fiscal '06 guidance with closing of Stagecoach and I'll talk a little bit about that.


For the quarter ended June 30, we sold 48.6 million gallons in this three month period, an increase


of 30 million gallons over the 18.2 million sold last year. Obviously that increase related to Star, the


other acquisitions that we have made over the past 8 months. Retail margin on those gallons, about


little over $0.81 in this three month period, a nice increase up from 60 – a little over $0.61 in last


year's three month period at $0.20 or 33% increase, that's strong margins all across – across all


lines in our retail propane business. So the retail propane gross profit for the quarter is 39.5 million


versus 11.2 million last year, with the increase of both volume and margin related. Our wholesale


gross profit in the quarter had a nice increase in that of $5 million, up from 2.3 million last year, that


improvement is both from our West Coast operation as well as our traditional wholesale business.


Other gross profits increased about $2.6 million to $6.1 million, up from 3.5 million last year, largely


related to the retail acquisitions, rising a total gross profit for the quarter of about $50.6 million, up


from 17 million in last year's quarter or a $33.5 million increase. Operating expenses, $52.1 million


this quarter from 20 million in last year's quarter, about 52 million in line with our expectations and


we feel pretty good about that given the growth in the company and that increase is really all


acquisition related. So we add about $400,000 of other income, including gain loss on sale on each


quarter in both quarters, and arriving at – and EBITDA loss in this year's '05 quarter, a loss of about


$1.1 million and improvement of $1.6 million over the 2.7 loss in last years three month period.


Working our way down to the net loss in this seasonal quarter, depreciation and amortization


increased to $13.9 million up from 5.6 million in last years quarter all due to acquisition. Interest


expense of 9.1 million up from 1.4 again due to primarily financing around the Star transaction and


the other acquisitions.


Arriving at the net loss, for this years quarter $24.1 million versus a loss last year of $9.8 million.


Distributable cash flow in the quarter with that EBITDA loss of 1.1 million, cash interest was 8.6


million and about $800,000 of maintenance CapEx is minus 10.6 million in the quarter versus a


minus of about 4.2 million last year and just really all due to the financing there of the acquisitions.


In the nine months period with those acquisitions Canada forced into date of acquisition and Star


transaction expected December 1, we sold about 270 million retail gallons of propane in the nine


months period up from a 117 million in the 2004 period or increase of about a 152 million gallon.


Strong margins on a year-to-date basis was about $0.7405 up little over $0.07 from last years


$0.67 about 11% increase in the nine month period giving us about $201 million retail propane


gross profit this year versus just under 79 million last years to an increase of about $122 million in


retail propane gross profit. Wholesale gross profit is about last years low about $15.1 million versus


13.8 million last year, just with our existing wholesale operations this improved result there both


West coast and here.