corrected transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Kimberly, and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Inergy’s Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Ending


2008 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions].


Thank you. Mr. Sherman, you may begin your conference.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kim, and welcome everyone to Inergy’s fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008 earnings


call. With me today are John Sherman, our President and CEO; Phil Elbert, our President of Inergy


Propane; Bill Moler, Executive Vice President of Midstream Operations; and Andy Atterbury, our


Executive Vice President of Corporate Development.


The format of our call today, as some of those we’ve had in the past, I’ll turn it over in a minute to


John for opening remarks. He’ll then turn it back to me to take a walk through the fourth quarter and


annual results and then we will open it up for question and answer.


Before I turn it over to John, let me read a brief forward-looking statement. In our discussion this


morning, we may communicate forward-looking information. Various risk factors may cause actual


results to differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking statements.


We provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings and we encourage


you to review our filings.


With that, I will turn it over to John. John?


John J. Sherman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Brooks. While we are reporting our fourth quarter and full-year fiscal 2008 results today,


those periods have been in the history books for a while. Our attention is now focused on fiscal


2009 and achieving our current and future objectives on behalf of our investors. That said, our 2008


performance builds on our track record of consistently achieving overall targeted financial results.


Our propane operating teams again responded to a challenging environment, navigating effectively


despite much higher propane prices and corresponding customer conservation. Margins were up


year-over-year about 10%, and we operated efficiently despite higher fuel costs.


Our supply, wholesale, and transportation unit had a solid year, assuring our ability to deliver


reliably in peak season while managing product costs very effectively for the entire operation.


Midstream operations continued to increase their relative contribution, as expected. They’re about


35% of our cash flow today. Midstream gross profit was up about 60% over prior year.


Our Northeast natural gas storage and transportation unit had another solid year, while continuing


to make that business more valuable, with the expansion of Stagecoach, Steuben, and our


upgraded Bath LPG storage. We are now tied in and connected to Millennium as of the last two


weeks via the Stagecoach lateral and are expecting the first gas flows later this month.


Early returns on our US Salt investment are better than expected. Salt mining cash flows are


steady and recurring in nature, and our long-term potential there has more upside than we


underwrote in both natural gas and LPG storage.
corrected transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Back to 2009, the present. In our propane business, we are currently operating in a favorable


environment. The lower product costs are positively impacting gross margins as well as operating


expenses, as a result of significantly lower fuel costs as well as – versus last year.


Our Midstream business is fee-based, backed by long-term contracts with high-grade customers,


has virtually zero commodity price exposure and we have solid visibility for increased distributable


cash flow from capital already invested.


Bottom line, our earnings outlook in 2009 is very solid based upon a favorable environment for our


propane business and the fee-based nature of our Midstream cash flows. We have existing credit


capacity to finish out committed capital projects and visibility to increased distributable cash flow


from existing operations which actually de-levers the company from an EBITDA multiple


perspective.


In my view, we are well positioned for the current environment and should distinguish ourselves as


the markets shake out and better understand the nature of our cash flows and our relative financial


flexibility.


With that, I’ll turn it over to Brooks, and I look forward to the Q&A.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, John. First here, I’ll walk through our results of operations.


In 2008, we sold 42 million retail gallons of propane versus about [inaudible]. We earned retail


propane gross profit this year of 39.2 million on those gallons, up from $37 million last year. So we


earned a margin in this year of about $0.93 versus $0.76 last year. So the strong margins, as we’ve


shown all year, helping to make up for the lower volume sales associated with the conservation that


we’ve seen from our customers.


Our Midstream gross profit in the quarter was $25.5 million, up from 16 million reported in last


year’s quarter. That 59% increase is reflective of our growth in that segment of our business. Phase


II is in service on time. Our ASC acquisition as well as our West Coast operations, and our Bath


storage facility is performing well, and this successful diversification is obviously the difference


maker you’d see in this quarter.


Other propane gross profit, $22.4 million this year in this quarter versus 16.2 million last year.


Increase there attributable to acquisitions and other income – other propane income focus, like our


service labor with the lower volume sales that we’ve had gives us total gross profit this year’s


quarter of $87.1 million, up 26% from the 69.2 million last year.


Our cash operating expenses in this September 30 quarter were $64.7 million, up from $56 million


last year. That $8.8 million increase, 5.5 million of that is due to acquisitions with the balance of the


increase due to higher insurance and benefits costs partially offset by lower salaries, though as we


focused on getting the most out of our retail businesses in what John described as a challenging


environment.


Other income, about 900,000 versus 500 last year. Our partners in our ASC business is about


$600,000, attributable that goes to them to give us adjusted EBITDA in this year’s quarter of $22.7


million, about a $9 million increase over the 13.8 million last year. So healthy improvement quarter-


over-quarter; reflects a higher percentage of Midstream contribution and solid operations in our


propane business.