Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert T. Halpin — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
John Powell — Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, MSL, Crestwood Services LLC
Rob de Cardenas — Crestwood Midstream Partners LP, Vice President, Crude Marketing
Tristan Richardson — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Rahul Krotthapalli — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Shneur Z. Gershuni — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Kyle May — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Dennis P. Coleman — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Ned Baramov — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Selman Akyol — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to today's Conference Call to Discuss Crestwood Equity Partners' Third Quarter 2018 Financial and Operating Results.

Before we begin the call, listeners are reminded that the company may make certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that are based on assumptions and information currently available at the time of today's call. Please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ.

Additionally, certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and distributable cash flow will be discussed. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release issued this morning.

Joining us today with prepared remarks are Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Phillips; and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Halpin; and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Heath Deneke. Additional members of the senior management team will be available for the question-and-answer session with Crestwood's current analysts, following the prepared remarks. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I will turn the call over to Bob Phillips.

Good morning, operator. And good morning to all of you, and thanks for joining the call today. It's certainly an opportunity to announce yet another strong quarter of financial and operating results. And we're pleased to discuss this with you this morning and give you a lot of color and background on the great progress that we're making within our organization and relative to the numerous growth projects that we have underway in all of the basins that we operate. So, excited about the chance to present all that to you.

Looking at the third quarter and for the first nine months of 2018, we certainly exceeded our internal expectations for both adjusted EBITDA, as well as distributable cash flow. And I think we'd largely beat consensus estimates along the way, so we're very pleased with that. That does position us to have a really strong finish to 2018, and we're clearly on track to achieve our financial guidance targets, which at the midpoint, you might remember, would imply a year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth of about 10% from 2017; and recall that we adjusted our guidance up mid-year, as we gain more confidence in the volumes across our systems and the services that we're providing to customers.

So, that certainly positions us very well for the ability to deliver adjusted EBITDA and DCF growth of about 15% per year, over the next few years starting in 2019. And we're very excited about being in a good position to do that. So, clearly, the confidence level at Crestwood is high. And I think our expectations for annual growth in 2019 are driven by a few factors or themes that I want to highlight for you today.

First and most important to me, I'm very proud of Crestwood's employees and our ability to execute our business plan across the entire organization. Outperformance, year-to-date, continues to be a result of Crestwood's execution on capital projects, our commitment to customer service, and the emerging culture, financial discipline and cost management that certainly is evident here at Crestwood, but I think beginning to take hold across the entire midstream industry.

This is highlighted by our O&M and G&A expenses, which continue to decline quarter-over-quarter, in light of growing volumes and higher activity levels across the company. This indicates efficiency. Additionally, our project execution teams are doing a great job of staying on schedule, delivering

projects on budget, and with great safety performance during these critically important construction projects. And this indicates a commitment to customer service.

The entire Crestwood organization is committed to expanding our peer group leading operational safety performance, regulatory compliance initiatives, and dedication to environmental stewardship and community engagement. And this is being highlighted by our recent plan to implement what we think is the first comprehensive MLP/Midstream ESG sustainability program here at Crestwood.

I think Crestwood is making a peer group leading progress on this initiative, with plans to publish our first Sustainability Report in 2019. And this indicates a commitment to great operating principles. We certainly feel like we've got the right people and the right culture in the organization to continue to deliver solid results for our investors.

Second theme or factor-driving growth is looking at across all of our operating segments, the business fundamentals are very strong in this part of the recovery cycle. We expect this to continue to drive volume growth and opportunities for Crestwood to capture incremental margin and offer even more service opportunities across the value chain.

In our G&P segment, our producers continue to ramp up drilling activity based on strong wellhead economics in almost all the basins that we operate in with high crude, high NGL, and high gas prices. And they continue to improve drilling and completion results in almost every area that we operate. And that isn't lost on us that the ability to grow volumes is not necessarily rig count or well connections, but in every area we operate, new wells are coming in bigger, and better, and stronger than they ever have before.

Preliminary 2019 forecast indicate that this trend will continue, and Heath is going to give you a lot of color and explain in detail what our expectations are to finish out the year and move into 2019. Certainly, we're at a point in the recovery cycle, where we're working hard to stay ahead of our producers. We think that's a good spot to be in, given the very large acreage dedications that Crestwood has and the large undrilled inventories that producers committed to our systems app in the core areas of the Marcellus, the Bakken, the Delaware Basin, and the Powder River Basin.

As you know, we recently completed the Orla processing plant in the Delaware Permian, and we're currently making great progress on two large-scale processing expansion projects in the Bakken and in the Powder. And this is all designed to support current and forecasted volume growth. These are not build-it-and-they-will-come type projects. These are projects, where the gas is available today; the rigs are on the system; and the drilling forecast are very strong and robust going forward.

While building the processing plants, we're also expanding our gathering systems in all three areas based on producers' development plans and the need simply for more capacity and more market connectivity. The Bakken and the PRB plant expansion projects are expected to be in service mid-year next year and get the full benefit in the second half of 2019, giving us a big boost to our 2019 forecast.

In the Storage and Transportation segment, our COLT Hub facility up in North Dakota's having a very strong year, with Bakken [ph] hold (00:07:36) volumes up significantly and the addition of NGL volumes being railed out in North Dakota, not only from our Bear Den facility but from third-party producers as well to fractionation markets across the United States.

Given current market conditions, we expect that asset to exceed its annual forecast by 20% to 30% in 2018 and 2029 (sic) [2019] (00:07:58). Kudos to the COLT team, they weathered the storm, and now, they're playing a vitally important role in marketing excess Bakken crude today and going forward.

At our Stagecoach facility in the dry gas Marcellus, remember that's our joint venture with Con Edison, the new Atlantic Sunrise pipeline has helped to reduce basin volatility. Rigs are now coming back to Northeast PA, the economics are good, and we're seeing – continue to see increased gas demand from local power gen facilities. So, a little bit of revitalization there, some excitement in Northeast PA, and producers are finally getting a good net back price again.

In our Marketing, Storage and Logistics (sic) [Marketing, Supply and Logistics] (00:08:40) business, we expect a strong fourth quarter and another strong first quarter 2019. We're well positioned for the wintertime. We were able to source well-priced Marcellus/Utica and Mid-Continent propane and butane production to build a good seasonal inventory position. And along the way, we've taken advantage of NGL pipeline disruptions to provide some incremental margin opportunities. So, kudos to the MSL team for having another good quarter and positioning Crestwood well for the wintertime.

And finally, let me just say that internally, we continue to make great strides, building a first-class midstream organization. And I'm very pleased with the integration that's occurred over the last year between our G&P and our MS&L segments. As you know, we spent much of the past year restructuring our MS&L group to lower operating costs and get them more focused on a stand-alone basis and with greater alignment with our G&P sector, given the big increase in Crestwood's gas processing volumes and investments. This is a really important part of our business going forward.

Now, the recent sale of our West Coast assets allowed for that team to sharpen their focus even more along our U.S. NGL business. And it allowed the finance guys to redeploy capital from a lower-growth business to a higher-growth business in our G&P assets. And while our G&P segment will be the primary growth driver for Crestwood over the next three to five years, the MS&L guys are certainly going to serve a vital role in our value chain business model, to not only ensure that our producers have flow assurance and that we provide them with optimal access to premium NGL markets, but also to attract new third-party business around these assets that we're building in these high-growth basins.

The MSL team, as you know, is already a major player in the Marcellus/Utica NGL market, and now, as our processing business grows in the Delaware, in the Bakken, and in the PRB; and the Y-grade pipeline takeaway capacity tightens as volumes increase, our integrated NGL processing to market service model becomes a real competitive advantage for Crestwood, as our producers have begun to rely on our terminal, our truck, and our rail assets to support their NGL volumes when pipeline capacity becomes an issue. So, we're excited to be able to extend the service offering all along the value chain in those basins.

We certainly have been doing that in the Delaware for the last couple of years, and it's just now starting to kick in, in the Bakken, where we're trucking excess Y-grade to COLT and about to kick off in the Powder River Basin, as we expand Bucking Horse and bring our trucking terminal solution into that value chain service offering. So, kudos to those guys for being part of the solution.

In addition, as you know, fractionation capacity has become quite an important issue for the industry, particularly, from the Delaware Permian. And we have been developing strategies across our basins to reduce and mitigate our exposure and to improve our producers' flow assurance and netbacks.

In the Delaware, during the last quarter, you'll recall that we announced the acquisition of pipeline capacity and the EPIC NGL pipeline from our Orla plant tailgate to Benedum, which allows us to access numerous downstream Gulf Coast/Belvieu-priced markets. At the same time, we announced the companion purchasing sales agreement with Chevron Phillips Chemical, which ensures that Crestwood and our producers will receive very attractive T&F pricing for our Delaware production, as it accesses growing markets in the Gulf Coast. That's going to be a big deal for us in the second half of 2019 and beyond.

Similarly, our teams decided in the Bakken and the Powder River Basin to become an anchor shipper on ONEOK's Elk Creek pipeline. And that will ensure that our Arrow Bear Den plant and our Jackalope/Bucking Horse plant producers get adequate connectivity, strong economic T&F rates, and good solid netbacks when we market their NGLs.

So, I think we're driving along the areas that most midstream companies are looking for right now. The good news is our footprint is expanding in the areas that we operate. We continue to have financial discipline with our balance sheet. We're making good investment decisions, and our teams are carrying them out with great execution and skill, as we commit to efficiency and strong operating principles.

So, before I hand the call over to Robert to give us the financial details, I just want to reiterate how pleased we are at Crestwood with the execution during the first nine months of the year. This is part of the recovery cycle. And we were very aggressive in setting guidance. And our teams really have delivered so far in the first nine months of the year, and we expect to continue to do that based on the momentum that we have in 4Q and going forward.

Crestwood's story continues to be promises made, promises kept: Capital and financial discipline; striving and building the organization to be a best-in-class midstream operator; and staying extremely focused on executing our organic growth projects with great safety performance. So, I'm really pleased with where the company is right now.

And with that, turn it over to Robert, our CFO, for a review of the third quarterly financial results.

Thank you, Bob. I am very pleased to report yet another quarter of solid financial results. Our third quarter results keep Crestwood right on track to finish the year with momentum and achieve our increased financial guidance targets in 2018.

In the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA totaled $101.4 million, up 5% year-over-year, compared to $96 million in the third quarter of 2017. Increases in adjusted EBITDA continue to be driven by strong performance across all of our operating segments. While our G&P segment has been the primary growth driver over the last 18 months or so, we are now also seeing strong trends developing across our Storage and Transportation, and our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segments that are leading to improving results as well.

Distributable cash flow available to common unit owners for the third quarter was $52 million [ph] that netted (00:15:14) our quarterly cash distribution to our Class A preferred unitholders. For the third quarter 2018, we declared a distribution of $0.60 to our common unitholders, resulting in distribution coverage for the quarter of approximately 1.2 times.

In our Gathering and Processing segment, segment EBITDA totaled $78 million in the third quarter 2018, a 12% increase compared to $70 million in the third quarter of 2017. Segment EBITDA increased during the quarter as a result of strong market fundamentals, driving producer development activity on the Bakken, the Delaware Basin, and the Powder River Basin systems; as well as the benefit of new Gathering and Processing capital projects, which we placed into service over the past 12 months. Fundamentals across Crestwood's key growth basins are expected to remain strong for the remainder of 2018 and for full-year 2019.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, segment EBITDA totaled $15 million in the third quarter 2018, an increase of 12% compared to $13 million in the third quarter of 2017. Segment EBITDA increased primarily as a result of higher volumes at Stagecoach, Tres Palacios, and the COLT Hub. For the remainder of 2018, we expect the S&T segment to benefit from the Stagecoach cash distribution step-up, increased Northeast transportation demand from new power gen projects, and increasing rail loading utilization at the COLT Hub due to favorable WTI to Brent spreads.

In our Marketing, Supply, and Logistics segment, segment EBITDA totaled $7 million in the third quarter 2018 compared to $14 million in the third quarter of 2017. Third quarter 2017 EBITDA, included the results of operations of our U.S. Salt and West Coast facilities, which were divested in December of 2017 and October of 2018, respectively. After adjusting for these divestitures, segment EBITDA increased 26% year-over-year, as a result of increased NGL supplies from various high-growth regions and regional pipeline project delays.

Now, moving to expenses. Combined O&M and G&A expenses for the third quarter were down 14% or $7.1 million, when compared to the third quarter of 2017. The decrease in combined expenses was driven by Crestwood's efforts to streamline our MS&L segment operations.

Now, looking at the balance sheet, as of September 30, Crestwood had approximately $1.7 billion of debt outstanding, including $1.2 billion of fixed rate senior notes and $498 million in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. This resulted in leverage ratio of 4.2 times as of September 30.

Recently, we amended our revolving credit facility. The amended revolving credit facility extends the maturity date by three years through October 2023, reduces the facility's pricing grid by 25 basis points, reduces the revolving credit facility size from $1.5 billion to $1.25 billion, and maintains all of the current financial covenants. Crestwood expects the new facility to result in annual interest expense savings of approximately $3 million.

Based on our current outlook for the remainder of 2018, Crestwood will use excess retained DCF proceeds from the divestiture of the West Coast NGL assets, significant availability under our new revolving credit facility, and capital commitments from our existing joint venture partners to continue funding all of our 2018 capital needs. We expect to complete the year within our previously guided total leverage ratio range of 4.0 to 4.5 times.

During 2018, strong volumes and increasing producer forecast continues to support our active organic capital investment program and keep us right on track to achieve our adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $400 million to $420 million. In the third quarter, we invested approximately $95 million in consolidated growth capital and have invested approximately $207 million in cumulative growth capital through the first nine months of 2018. For full-year 2018, Crestwood still expects to invest between $300 million to $350 million to continue executing on our expansion projects.

Crestwood's capital investment is targeting organic growth projects that are supported by current producer development activity, where Crestwood has established franchise gathering and processing assets. As a result, Crestwood expects average project build multiples in the 5 to 6 times range, which helped drive adjusted EBITDA and DCF per unit growth of approximately 15% in full-year 2019. And we expect to give much more detail in our fourth quarter 2018 call, when we roll out our full 2019 guidance.

And, with that, I will now turn the call over to Heath to provide an update on our capital projects and business outlook.

All right. Thanks, Robert. So, once again, we've posted really strong operating results during the third quarter. And we continue to make excellent progress both on executing our current backlog of growth capital projects and advancing new business development opportunities in our high-growth basins. As a result, the key takeaway we want to leave you with today is that all three of our operating segments are thriving in current market conditions. And the business fundamentals across our operating footprint are even stronger, as we look forward into 2019 and beyond.

So, again, in our Gathering and Processing segment, we continue to see increased drilling activity across our key oil-weighted growth basins, as improved commodity prices drive strong producer economics. And, last year, crude oil prices are up approximately 30%, gas is up approximately 10%, and NGLs are up 70% higher than the prices at the beginning of the third quarter 2017.

As a result, we have seen increasing rig activity and currently have seven rigs on our Arrow system in the Bakken, we have six rigs up in the Jackalope system in the Powder River Basin, and five rigs active on our gathering systems in the Delaware Basin. The current rig activity is expected to drive volume growth for the remainder of the year, but we're really beginning to see the benefit in 2019, as we place our ongoing expansion projects into service to provide incremental takeaway capacity for our producers.

In the Bakken, we've made tremendous progress on the system debottlenecking projects and are nearing completion of our 2018 capital program. As we look into 2019, we will continue to be focused on the construction of the Bear Den Plant expansion that will provide Crestwood up to 150 million a day of processing capacity. The Bear Den Phase-2 plant expansion remains on track to be completed in the third quarter of 2019. And once in service, Crestwood will begin processing 100% of the gas volumes on the Arrow system. From there, we will also benefit from improving NGL netbacks, as we begin delivering Y-grade volumes into the proposed Elk Creek pipeline later that year.

In the meantime, Crestwood's MS&L segment will continue to market NGLs from the Bear Den Plant to local and regional markets via the COLT Hub. Crestwood expects approximately 20 to 25 new well [ph] connections there in the system (00:23:09) during the fourth quarter of 2018. And based on current producer forecasts, we expect over 100 new well connections to be completed into 2019.

Turning to the Powder River Basin. Earlier this morning, Chesapeake announced its plans to place an additional 15 Turner wells on production during the fourth quarter of 2018 and is currently projecting an additional 65 to 70 Turner wells to be placed on production in 2019. As a result, we expect Jackalope system volumes to reach approximately 150 million a day by year-end 2018 and increased by 100% year-over-year into 2019.

Earlier this year, Williams and Crestwood with the Jackalope joint venture, announced the final investment decision on a major expansion of the Jackalope Gas Gathering System and Bucking Horse processing complex in Converse County, Wyoming. Construction activities are now underway on the Bucking Horse Plant 2 and the associated gathering system expansions.

In the aggregate and when complete, the Jackalope total gas gathering and processing capacity is expected to reach 345 million a day by the end of 2019. Additionally, the previously announced Bucking Horse 1 plant expansion will increase current system capacity from 120 million a day to 145 million a day during the fourth quarter of 2018.

In conjunction with these capital expansions, Crestwood and Williams will extend its gathering and processing acreage dedication agreement with Chesapeake by 10 years through 2037 under its existing terms. In addition, Jackalope continues to advance plans to further expand its gas gathering and processing system to capture additional growth in Chesapeake and surrounding third-party producer volumes. We also believe that we are in a favorable position to compete for complementary crude gathering services across our footprint, as oil production continues to rise across the Powder River Basin.

Shifting over to the Delaware Basin, during the third quarter, we successfully placed our Orla 200 million a day plant into service and fully integrated our Willow Lake and Nautilus high-pressure gathering systems, which will also connect to the Orla facility. In addition, we announced a very timely solution for how we plan to deliver Orla's NGL volumes to market over the long term. As Permian NGL takeaway constraints and limited fractionation capacity along the Gulf Coast continues to drive high transportation and fractionation rates for producers and other midstream service providers, we were able to secure a long-term takeaway solution to provide flow assurance for multiple trains of processing capacity at very attractive T&F pricing, beginning in 2019 and beyond.

This was accomplished with our acquisition of an ownership interest in EPIC's Orla-to-Benedum pipeline and our Y-grade purchase and sale agreement with Chevron Phillips at Benedum that will send NGLs to the Gulf Coast markets via the EZ pipeline. Crestwood's [indiscernible] (00:26:01) gathering and processing footprint and attractive long-term NGL takeaway solution provides Crestwood with a strong advantage to compete for additional G&P opportunities across the entire Delaware Basin.

Our business development team continues to advance discussions for new gathering and processing acreage dedications that we believe could result in a final investment decision on second train at Orla in the coming months. We also continue to advance commercial discussions with multiple producers to provide produced water gathering and disposal services, alongside our extensive gas gathering footprint.

So, across the Bakken, the Powder River, and the Delaware Basin systems, our commercial teams are actively evaluating opportunities to offer our current customers' incremental services, as well as opportunities to further expand our franchise position to support other new customers. Given our extensive footprint and our ability to provide incremental value chain services [indiscernible] (00:26:56) collaboration with our MS&L assets, Crestwood expects to be successful in generating incremental organic growth opportunities across our G&P segment.

Shifting over to our Storage and Transportation segment. We also saw improved fundamentals that drove a 12% increase in segment EBITDA. During the third quarter, we saw a 20% increase in natural gas volumes [indiscernible] (00:27:18) our system. Now, this was really a primary result of two drivers: One, the combination of new power generation demand and growing production along the Stagecoach system to [indiscernible] (00:27:28) Bcf per day at Atlantic Sunrise pipeline, have increased our overall system utilization in the Northeast.

And second, we experienced increased storage utilization at our Tres Palacios facility as a result of the growing LNG export activity along the Gulf Coast region. Additionally, a big driver of our S&T segment outperformance from a cash flow perspective was the COLT Hub. During the quarter, daily rail crude oil loading volumes at COLT increased 119% on the third quarter of 2017, which was driven by wider WTI to the Brent spreads and favorable economics for Bakken crude with refinery customers, both in the East and West Coast markets. Crestwood expects these favorable market conditions to continue at the COLT Hub through 2019, as a result of a combination of strong production growth across the Bakken, tightening of pipeline capacity, and COLT Hub's access to multiple supply sources that position the facility to capture market share.

In the Marketing, Supply and Logistics segments, during the quarter, we continued to see favorable margin opportunities created by increased NGL supplies from various high-growth regions and coupled with regional pipeline project delays. Additionally, in mid-October, we closed the sale of the West Coast assets. This divestiture resulted in proceeds of $70 million to Crestwood, which we will reinvest in our capital investments in the G&P segment. As we look into the fourth quarter of 2018, we believe the MS&L segment is poised to have yet another quarter due to seasonal market conditions.

So, before we open the line for questions, I wanted to conclude by saying our commitment to operational excellence, to top-tier safety performance, and first-in-class customer service remains at the top of our priorities. I'm very proud of our commercial, our operations, and engineering teams, and the job that they do to provide excellent service to our customers across the country. Our operating capabilities and track records pay financially and positions us to continue to grow in a highly competitive market.

Crestwood's results have exceeded our internal expectations through the first nine months of 2018, and we're in a great position to finish out the year strong. Looking forward into 2019 and beyond, strong and improving fundamentals across our three operating segments, combined with our accretive, high-quality organic capital program, will generate top-tier multiyear cash flow growth and will deliver increased value to our unitholders.

So, with that, operator, we are ready to open the line up for questions.

Thank you. At this time, we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Tristan Richardson from SunTrust. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, gentlemen. Just a quick question on funding. It seems, at least for now, excess DCF and proceeds from the recent divestiture will be used to fund capital plans. Should we think about that as – or at least, could you give an update on potential progress on growth projects outside of ones already under construction, whether that be crude in the PRB or other Permian projects?

Tristan, thanks for the question. It highlights one of our main themes for this year, which was financial discipline. And that is a combination of both selecting the right projects that drive long-term growth and value, but also are largely accretive in the near term. As you know, we've been balancing leverage ratio and coverage ratio for the last couple of years. And I really think that is what has differentiated Crestwood from our peer group, and why we have actually led the peer group in absolute price and total return for the last year, certainly year-to-date.

So, I'm really proud of the finance team and the commercial team working together to, first and foremost, select the right assets to invest in. As you know, most of our organic projects right now are on or near our current footprint. We're not building any spec positions. We're not buying any assets that don't fit largely with the existing assets that we have.

And as I mentioned in the introduction, most of our projects are largely going to fill up very soon after we put them in service. On the gas processing plants, a lot of the gas is being flared today in the areas that we operate. So, we're working aggressively to build out infrastructure, debottlenecking projects, expand capacities, add compressors, new oil pumps, new water pumps, drilling new saltwater disposal wells across all these different areas. So, they really are incremental add-on and fairly accretive projects. So, again, it starts with financial discipline.

Now, how Robert and the team decide to finance all that is driven by the tools that we have in hand. And as you know, we spent several years building good strong strategic partnerships in these areas. And those guys not only bring capital, but they bring the ability to close deals and to think forward out a year or two. And so, we're in a really good spot with that.

Now, to the specifics, Robert, I'll turn it over to you and let you talk, give us – I think he's asking what's going to happen in 2019. So, I'll leave that up to you.

Thanks, Bob. Yes, Tristan, I think we've kind of given soft guidance for 2019 kind of a $200 million to $300 million expectation around growth capital. Based on preliminary reviews of the plan, and where we are in our budgeting cycle, still feel pretty good about that. And obviously, we'll give much more wholesome disclosures and guidance in our fourth quarter call in February.

But I think a continuation of the strategy of using a meaningful component of excess DCF, credit availability under our revolver, while still maintaining 4 times or better. And as Bob mentioned, the capital availability we have from our joint venture partners in several of these core growth areas, where we're executing on these projects position us very well to continue our funding model into 2019.

Helpful. Thank you, guys. And then, just one follow-up. Heath, just kind of curious, as we've seen the big rebound in utilization of the COLT Hub. I mean, I think we've thought about it as the opportunity has really been in NGL supply. But as crude differentials have widened, it seems like crude is an opportunity as well. Could you kind of talk about the split there between the two streams, and how you see that playing out in 2019?

Yeah, sure. Well, yeah, I think you're right. I think we are looking at increasing crude volumes as well as NGL volumes until the Elk Creek lateral comes online. We've recently manned up to run 24-hour operations out of COLT to able to handle all of the currently anticipated barrels of oil that are increasing due to WTI to Brent spreads, as well as the NGL activity at Bear Den.

Our MS&L segment is also pretty uniquely positioned, not only to service NGLs on our footprint, but also to offer that up to third parties that are struggling to clear barrels. We've got the truck assets; we've got the rail assets; we've got the people and the capability to really offer a downstream solution for this market.

Great. Thank you, guys, very much.

Thanks, Tristan.

Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. guys. This is Rahul on for Jeremy. Just have a couple of questions here. Looking at the strong 4Q completion act within the Bakken and also looking at the favorable trends, how should we think about the upside [indiscernible] (00:35:39) for the implied 4Q guidance [indiscernible] (00:35:41) realizing here? Are there any other offsetting factors or any other decline rates to be noted here which are higher than expected?

Yeah. I'll take that one. So, we said we're expecting to have 20 to 25 well completions in the fourth quarter of 2018. And a lot of those completions were deferred kind of going into the year, recognizing that we had a pretty massive debottlenecking program that had to get completed. So, as we are placing those projects in service, we're seeing an immediate pickup in all commodities really across our gathering footprint. So, we do expect volumes to continue to grow in the fourth quarter.

And, again, as we look into 2019, if you inventory all of the current producers and they're drilling the development plans for 2019, we're going to exceed 100 well connects based on those clients in 2019. So, again, we think that not only are we going to continue to see increased drilling activity and production volumes throughout 2019 and 2020, as a reminder, we're also going to increase our self-performance, if you will, of processing as well as saltwater disposal capacity across the footprint. So, we're increasing volumes, but also our market share, what we're self-performing versus outsourcing, will be increasing in 2019 as well.

Got you. And then just building up on your comments on the Delaware Basin earlier, in light of the recent projects completed and the valuations announced, are there any plans to participate on the further downstream expansions or potentially participating in like frac exposure?

And then, just the second part of the question here. Are there any updates on the water gathering build-out? Anything on your latest discussions with the potential customers or third-parties at this point?

Yeah. So, on the Delaware, just kind of starting with your question, I believe it was around our participation in downstream infrastructure. I mean, I think what we're doing now is we're building out tremendous scale. And certainly, as evidenced by our EPIC transaction, we do want to push those barrels downstream.

And we believe, as we kind of grow our G&P segment and kind of continue to utilize the EPIC capacity that we've inherited, there will be opportunities for us to kind of further push that value chain into the Gulf Coast markets and kind of benefit or have our MSL segment kind of get involved, in not only helping secure great markets for the NGLs, but also participating in some of the purity products in and around that facility. We're also kind of working on opportunities to get involved in some of this – [ph] the handman (00:38:17), if you will, of purity. The storage at purity is up along the Gulf Coast, and we think our Tres Palacios facility provides that opportunity with that.

And finally, we have a great relationship and partnership with CP Chem, and we expect that to yield long-term benefits beyond just the initial Y-grade purchase-and-sell agreement that we have in place with them. So, our absolute broad plans do envision us continuing to get further downstream in the Delaware.

And in relation to the water, so a couple of things. We have filed our first permit for a Devonian disposal well in Culberson County. And we are continuing – we've acquired land there. And we are in advanced discussions with a handful of producers that we would be providing large-scale, water gathering and disposal services.

So, we're not ready yet to announce anything. What I will tell you is that our thesis around developing complementary services across our extensive gas-gathering footprint is panning out. We think we got the right strategy, and we're well-positioned with our current customer base as well as future customers to really provide what we think is going to be one of the more critical services over the course of the next few years that will enable the Delaware Basin grow. We're big believers in water, we know it's going to be the biggest constraint. We look beyond 2019, and so we've got some very large scale plans to be a solution provider in the basin there.

That's helpful color, guys. Thank you. That's it for me.

Thanks, Rahul.

Our next question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni from UBS. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning, guys.

Good morning, Shneur.

I'm just wondering if we can start off on the Powder River Basin sort of recircle back to this. You've seen some tremendous volume growth there and you're effectively guiding to a tremendous amount of volume growth. You've talked about well connects in the last question and so forth. I was wondering when I think about the CapEx that's being put in place right now, obviously, you're adding new capacity and so forth. But sort of given that volume trend, how fast does that get filled up and should we be thinking every other year, you're going to be adding capacity? I was just wondering if you can sort of talk about the trend and how that would translate into a cadence on CapEx as we think two years, three years out, so forth.

Shneur, this is Bob. Let me start off and then I'll let Heath and Robert jump in with some additional color. We just finished the field tour up there last week and I was really impressed with where that field development plan is in its cycle. It's been a slow start, going on five years now. We bought the initial interest back in 2013. It was largely focused on a Niobrara play. Prices fell apart in 2016, drilling slowed down, delineation stopped, but producers continued to aggregate acreage.

And there are some of the best producers in the industry that have aggregated significant acreage positions. Number one, Chesapeake, almost 400,000 acres; Anadarko, EOG, Devon, Anschutz, you name it, there are some really, really strong producers that have assimilated acreage positions. They've all been through the initial delineation phase. And we know through our discussions with all of them, that they're gearing up for a pretty large scale multi-year development plan.

What is lacking in the basin is the basic infrastructure necessary to get the crude and the gas and the gas liquids out. We are excited about our competitive position. We were one of the early movers through our 50/50 joint venture first with Access and then with Williams. And Chesapeake, while may be taking a slow start to it, has been the leader in the region in terms of accelerating their Turner development plans. Their wells are getting bigger and bigger and bigger. I spent a lot of time with Frank driving around in the field and just anecdotally, he talked about the great potential for the wells and the acreage and the play as long as the Jackalope joint venture can stay ahead of them and build out the infrastructure necessary.

We have a great partnership with Chesapeake. They're a great customer to work with. They're very excited and passionate about the Powder being the number one play in their entire portfolio. And we're pleased to have a very traditional midstream opportunity to build out infrastructure when it's absolutely needed by the producers.

So, my comment earlier about we're barely staying ahead of the producers, this is the play I was talking about. We're barely staying ahead of the producers and that's a good place to be in the cycle. So, what that means, plant two next year and plant three in 2020, that's probably what we think it means right now.

And Heath, I'll turn it over to you for the details.

Yeah. I mean, just a couple of comments. I mean, when you think about the Turner, that's certainly what most of the operators are talking about, each of the ones in and around our footprint, including Chesapeake, have about a decade worth of inventory. As Chesapeake has announced, they currently have five rigs running. They're evaluating bringing the sixth rig into 2019. And I would tell you there's plenty of inventory, and five to six rigs year-over-year, you're going to continue to grow production.

When we think about where we are with the Bucking Horse 2 expansion, we really feel like just with Chesapeake volume, certainly, in the 2021 time period, that that plant will be full. Earlier this year, we connected two third-party producers to our system in and around that footprint as well. So, not even including those third parties, with just Chesapeake growth, we do think that a third plant will be warranted in the near future.

When you think about the other offset operators in the area, we certainly will have the opportunity to continue to expand and add capital to the basin. But it's got to come with financial discipline and that's going to be one of the things that we evaluate opportunities. We've got a great position. It gives us really a competitive advantage relative to new entrants in the basin. And as long as those margins continue to drive very accretive projects that we can finance, then we'll certainly have plenty of opportunities in the basin there. [ph]

And the last one... (00:44:53) [indiscernible]

(00:44:54)

I'll just add one final point on that, it's Robert, is that I think, as Heath alluded to and as Bob alluded to in the sequencing of capital needs, obviously, we're getting increasingly optimistic and bullish around the development pace from all the customers and do see incremental expansions above and beyond Bucking Horse 2.

I think, importantly, as we saw this trend developing, really, in the latter parts of 2017 now into 2018, with our partnership with Williams and our actual financial partners that we have built in there, we feel we've got a very good runway and good alignment with those partners to execute on all this in the next three to five years.

Okay. And can you talk a little bit about margins or returns on capital in the Powder River Basin as you sort of compare it to the rest of your footprint, i.e., the Permian? Are the returns better due to lower competition? Just kind of wondering kind of how the landscape plays out.

Yeah. I mean, I probably won't get too specific here but what I will tell you, one of the benefits of being an early mover, we locked in what we believe to be good rates with our current producer customers, and those are good contracts. As we mentioned in our commentary, we were able to extend that to, effectively, a 20-year term and [ph] hang on to (00:46:13) the existing terms therein. So we do believe that our existing business produces fairly high margins.

And given that we have a large system in place and therefore our cost to expand that system are much less than if it was a pure greenfield build, we expect to have really decent profit margins and certainly would have to have decent project margins to continue to expand to third party. So across the footprint, obviously, we have extremely high margins in the Bakken, the legacy contracts, we've got good margins in the Powder River and good margins in the Permian.

Shneur, just strategically, the important next step for us in the Powder is to extend our gas gathering and processing franchise, number one, to bring in third parties to our existing system, which adds incremental capital but incremental volumes and really drives the return on the initial investment. Then separately, but very importantly, to add additional services, whether it be crude gathering where we're putting two pipes in one ditch, and we're creating efficiencies for our producers, so that, over time, we can expand and modify and, to a certain extent, manipulate the gathering systems to accommodate where they're drilling. Because remember, we're on a very, very early stage of the development of this, there's going to be Turner, as Heath said, for the next 10 years. Now, it's also a huge prospect out there.

And if you go back to the producers' investor decks, it's a stacked pay scenario just like the Delaware. There's multiple [ph] benches and (00:47:52) multiple targets that have different products that are being developed. So, our long-term plan is to provide multiple services in the same ditch to all these customers, including but not limited to marketing their NGLs to make sure the NGLs flow and they get higher netbacks. So, we're really taking the Bakken/Delaware approach to the Powder River Basin to enhance that original investment that we made.

Okay. And as a follow-up, you've made great progress over the last two years, bringing your leverage down and coverage up. Robert, you indicated you want to use your retained DCF to continue to fund growth. When the time is right for a responsible return of capital to unitholders, what is your preferred route? Are you thinking about a distribution increase or do you prefer the flexibility of unit buybacks? I was just sort of wondering about when you get there, what's the avenue you're going to take and how far away you are from getting there, given all the growth that you have in front of you.

Yeah. I think without getting too much into our plan for 2019m, Shneur, I think, as we've talked about for a number of quarters in a row, I mean, our commitment long term is to a floor of 1.2 times on the coverage side and sustainable leverage at 4.0 or better. And I think that with the capital projects we have in motion right now, the very clear line of sight we have to the expansion and growth in 2019, I think the evaluation of incremental returns of capital is absolutely a part of the discussion in 2019. I mean I think that we'll continue to work with our board in the coming weeks and quarter to finalize those plans, but I think the parameters that we've set out are clearly in line with now, and I think we're actively evaluating it as we go.

And your preferred route when you think about distribution versus buybacks?

I think it's really a prioritization of allocation of capital. And I think as we think about where we're positioned and where we expect to go, obviously, organic capital at 5 to 6 times take this priority, and I think we'd probably lean towards some appropriate and modest amount of distribution.

Got it. Perfect. Thank you, guys. Appreciate all the color today.

Thank you, Shneur.

Our next question comes from the line of Kyle May from Capital One Securities. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Morning, Kyle.

In light of the Chesapeake acquisition this morning, just curious if you had any discussions or had any thoughts about how the acquisition of WildHorse could change their plans in the Powder River Basin over the long term.

I mean, look, as Bob mentioned, we were with them last week and certainly as reiterated in our announcement today, I think that WildHorse really is not going to impact their Permian – I mean, their Powder River development plans. They've got five rigs. They've announced the increase in well connect activity in 2019, potential plans to add another rig in 2019. So, we really don't see it having really any adverse impact on the Powder.

But as you kind of look at the transaction overall, I mean, we think it's actually just an improvement to Chesapeake's overall balance sheet. So, we think it's about enhancing transactions to make them a little stronger. It's going to give them more exposure to oil and we certainly don't think it's going to slow down their Powder River investments in any meaningful way.

Okay. Got it. That's helpful. And then maybe looking at the Permian, we can see processing volumes ticked up in the third quarter. Can you talk about how much contribution we had from Orla 1 and then kind of your outlook for how that plant is going to ramp up?

Yeah. I mean, I think – well, we definitely expect Orla 1 to ramp up when you get into 2019, I think we're processing close to 80 million Mcf a day or so through the complex. So, when we – as we near – basically, with our existing customer base and activity that's expected to increase, we think Orla 1 is going to fill up over 2019 and into 2020.

So, we're starting to evaluate. We've already purchased an option on a plant that we think could come online as early as the end of 2019. So, we're kind of actively watching it. We have seen a little bit of slowdown, not necessarily from our producer customer but in terms of the new customer opportunities, just given the current constraints on the fractionation and oil pipeline takeaway side. So, things have shifted a little bit. But we continue to think that we're going to do well on our way to Orla 2 here in a few months.

Okay. Got it. And maybe just one more on Orla 2, are there any like hurdles or benchmarks or anything you really need to see to reach an FID on that plant?

No. Nothing specific. I mean, I think we do – we anticipate underwriting that with incremental customers or new G&P acreage dedications. So, as soon as we get those customers signed up, that's when we'll move forward with that final investment decision.

I think we'll know a lot more, Kyle, after we finish out our 2019 plan, which allows us to confirm drilling forecasts with all of our producers. We're well along the way, having started the budgeting process several months ago, about to present that plan to our board next week at our quarterly board meeting. And then we'll really work hard over the next 45 to 60 days to confirm and finalize drilling plans by our major producers, get the capital right. But, most importantly, as Heath pointed out, we have a high degree of confidence we're going to build a second plant at Orla.

We bought an option on the plant. We've done the front end engineering. We've done a lot of the permitting work. And as you know, from Orla 1, we built that facility to expand it. With the utilities, with the takeaway capacity, the guys continued to improve commercial takeaway on both the gas as well as the gas liquids side. And the team is very active in the region offering, for lack of a better term, third-party offload opportunities to other gatherers out there that might not have all the processing that they need for their current producer development plan. So, it's an active area. I would say we feel very comfortable when we get to January, February and announce the 2019 plan. A key component of that is what are we going to do at Orla for 2019 and 2020.

Okay. That's very helpful, guys. I appreciate it. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Dennis Coleman from Bank of America. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Good morning and thanks for taking my question. Just to press a little bit more on the CapEx issue, if I can. Starting maybe even just with the fourth quarter spend. You've spent just over $200 million, you're something between $300 million and $350 million. Should we think about the lower end on that based on the third quarter spend, or what moves it to the higher end, I guess? Is it the 2025 well connects in the Bakken? What is that range?

Yeah I think the – really, the primary driver of the fourth quarter capital spend is the Bucking Horse 2 expansion and just sequencing of CapEx around that. Obviously, with about $207 million spent year-to-date, $300 million to $350 million of guidance that we reiterated this morning, you can back into kind of what we're expecting there in the fourth quarter.

I think we still expect aggressively moving forward on that plant to get it in service by the end of next year. But you could see some timing gap in that between 4Q and 1Q. But as of now, we still feel pretty good about where we're headed.

Okay. Okay. And then again, I guess, we've talked a lot about all the good projects you have, Orla 2, the water possibilities, Bucking Horse 3, 100 well connects. And then we have this guidance of $200 million to $300 million next year, it seems certainly that you could be towards the higher end of that. And I know you want to put this conversation off, but any guidance within that range, or could you come in higher than that? How are you thinking about that?

Yeah. I think $200 million to $300 million is based on our current expectation of projects we've underwritten in that line of sight [ph] the execution around – (00:56:53) I think if we make incremental FID on some of these opportunities throughout the remainder of 2018 and into 2019, I think that would be the upside and additive to that. And I think that as we've talked about, a lot of that opportunity set is predominantly in the Powder and in the Delaware where we have the built-in financing structures and capabilities to execute.

Okay. Thanks for the answers.

Our next question comes from the line of Ned Baramov from Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. I have a quick question on the Storage and Transportation segment. So, the sequential increase in EBITDA was less than $1 million while contributions from the Con Edison JV increased, and you also talked about COLT having a stronger-than-expected quarter. So, could you maybe help me understand the modest sequential increase in EBITDA in that segment?

Yeah. I think if I follow your question, a couple of dynamics that went into the modest increase, one was when you look sequentially quarter-over-quarter from COLT, we did still have some legacy contracts and deficiency payments that would have kind of crossed the second quarter a little bit. What you've seen now is the utilization of the facility stepped up meaningfully quarter-over-quarter as the spreads have widened, and our teams have done a great job of commercializing on that. So, I think that's probably the largest driver. It's obviously the Stagecoach results are pretty stable quarter-over-quarter in terms of throughput and activity around that facility and assets.

Yeah. And I think the point we're trying to get at is that we're seeing improving fundamentals. And so, activity has picked up. First, volume's picked up. Now, we're starting to see margins pick up particularly at COLT. So, I think as we kind of look forward into 2019, based on that [ph] we're (00:58:44) effectively being [ph] full or close to being full (00:58:46) at this point in time and increased demand for the Bakken barrel on the East and West Coast, we think that we're going to continue to see margin expansion as we look into 2019.

Got it. And then, I guess given the widened differentials, are there opportunities to sign three or six-month contracts or are the volume increases you're seeing mostly driven by spot shipments?

Yeah. No, that was a good point. I mean I think we recently have secured a contract that's going to be about a year end tenor and that's certainly up from the month-to-month, more of the spot business that we kind of self-performed on. So, we are starting to see both the tenor of agreements as well as the margins that we can make enhance as we look forward.

Okay. That's great. And then a question on the Northeast, with the expected start-up of Mariner East 2 later in the year, how are you thinking about the impact to CEQP's NGL marketing business?

You know what, John Powell who heads up our MS&L segment [ph] can fill that one (00:59:53).

Thank you for the question. I think what we've seen really is a lot of those barrels are currently being exported on rail to other hubs. So, I think initially, what you'll see is you won't see those barrels, for example, flowing to Conway, you'll see them going to the dock (01:00:10).

So, you know what, from what we've seen, the indication is that they'll have an interim solution with a smaller diameter pipe to get there and we will expect a little bit of compression in terms of kind of the traditional summer/winter opportunities out there. But I think with the increased drilling capacity as well as fractionation capacity coming on on the fourth quarter, there'll be some additional liquids opportunities for us to maintain our business out there well into 2019 and beyond.

And, John, why 01:00:42 don't you give him a little bit of color about how well we're positioned with our seasonal inventory build, and how our customers actually use our inventory position in the Northeast to meet their operational needs.

Yeah. I think that's one of the things that we've particularly done well here in 2018, was making sure that we work with our producers on a day-in and day-out basis, with the unsurety in terms of when ME2 exactly was going to come online. So, we worked hand-in-hand with our producers to make sure that we give them all the optionality around all of our trucking, rail, pipeline, as well as storage capabilities to keep them balanced and flowing. And so, those relationships are key to our business going forward as well. And so, that's really – we're in a unique position right there to continue to develop further relationships with the customers there.

That's helpful. And lastly, a housekeeping item, what was the approximate EBITDA generated by COLT in the quarter? [ph]

Doc (01:01:49)?

Yeah. Approximately $5 million.

Thanks. That's all I had.

Yeah. Hey, Ned, just a second on COLT. I want to highlight COLT because the COLT team and the Bakken crude services team did such a great job. So, we've got Rob de Cardenas here. He runs our crude business. And, Rob, you and I spent a lot of time, along with Heath, talking about the changing market dynamics at Bakken. We got higher overall crude production across the state. We got pipelines filling up to a certain extent. Spreads have been wide due to the Brent WTI. But more than anything, what you told us is you're just seeing a much higher level of activity than you have over the last year or two.

Why don't you give the investors and analysts some color on that and why that's important to us at COLT. Because we were a premier rail-loading facility based upon five-year contracts that we entered into back in 2011 and 2012, and when those expired and the cycle turned down, basically, we got to a point where we almost shut the facility in. And now we've got this revitalization. We've got all this activity. We've gone from 12-hour service to 24-hour service. We've added in NGLs. It's really exciting time for us at COLT.

Yeah. So, we've seen over the past year – thanks, Bob – this time last year, we saw rail volumes were moving probably about a little over just 20,000, 25,000 barrels a day on rail at COLT. DAPL just came online. It wasn't full yet. So, there's plenty of takeaway out of the Bakken [ph] basis (01:03:21). We saw the Bakken [ph] basis (01:03:23) a year ago trading, averaged about minus $2, and production is like 1.1 million barrels a day.

Right now, we're seeing production about 1.3 million barrels, DAPL's full. All the pipelines coming out of the basin are pretty much getting full. [ph] Same basis get into line, it's minus $15, it's minus $20 (01:03:40). So, the margins have really – the margins really stepped up. Producers are calling us. They're looking for – they're worried about takeaway. So, now, we're starting to see producers even interested in doing term deals at COLT. And our long-term rail customers are looking to secure long-term supply, obviously, at lower margins than we had a couple years ago – about three years ago, but still higher than we were last year. So, we're seeing much improvement.

Great. Thanks.

Okay. [ph] Is that it? (01:04:13) Thanks, Ned.

Our last question comes from the line of Selman Akyol from Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Just a couple quick ones. Just going back to COLT Hub real quickly, can you guys talk about your expectations for capacity utilization on a go-forward basis?

As we talked about, I mean, it's certainly increasing and will continue to increase. Now, we do expect that DAPL will eventually add an additional [ph] southern (01:04:43) capacity. So [ph] I come and temper our (01:04:46) remarks here to tell you that it's a great option in our portfolio. We're doing well in 2018 because of it, we're going to do well in 2019. And most importantly, both on crude and NGL side, it ensures our wellhead gathering business stays full and can grow. So, I think that more so than the [ph] gas head (01:05:02) contribution, I think the full suite of services that we can provide having that position really enhances our Bakken position overall.

And let me just add that it adds absolute flow assurance on our NGLs coming out of Bear Den, and that's a similar situation with respect to potentially tight pipeline capacity for Y-grade. And so, as we're self-performing there and building the team and the equipment and the systems and synergies to be able to evacuate excess NGLs, we're not only doing it for ourselves, but we're starting to do it for third parties as well. So, it's pretty exciting time at COLT for both crude and NGL takeaway.

Understood. And then, just pivoting over to Tres Palacios real quick, I guess you talked about increased utilization due to the LNG opportunity, you've been seeing that coming for a while. I guess if you could just maybe expand on that and maybe talk a little bit. Are you seeing any uplift in pricing? And then, I think you also mentioned in your comments, maybe moving some of that capacity to NGLs, if I heard you correctly.

Yeah. I'll start this off and then, [ph] Mark (01:06:07), if you want to add some more details to it. I mean, we certainly knew that Tres would [indiscernible] (01:06:13) I mean, with all of the activity on the LNG front and the growing demand for global LNG is certainly driving improving fundamentals. We are starting to see margins increase. We've maintained a viewpoint that we were not going to transact at what we believe to be historical low pricing. We've kept our options open and now we're starting to see benefits on the gas side as those conditions kind of come to fruition. We also think with a lot of the new pipeline capacity that's targeted to kind of hit the [ph] KB (01:06:46) Ship Channel area and down south is also going to be enhancing to our long-term service offering at Tres.

And on the liquids side, this would not be taking existing gas caverns out of service. We have rights to some additional caverns that are on the [ph] market dome (01:07:03) that we have access to, and anything that we do on the NGL or purity side would be incremental to what we're doing on the gas side. But I really would like [ph] Mark (01:07:13) to give you just a little bit more color on the existing activity in and around Tres and kind of what we think could happen here over the next few years.

Yeah, thank you, Heath. I think what we're seeing right now around the asset is a strong demand in the region. We've seen high prices in the Ship Channel area. I think it's in part due to the LNG growth that we've referenced, the Corpus Christi liquefaction project that Cheniere has is going through commissioning. That will be online as early as Q4 this year.

We've seen demand from the Western Louisiana project they have at Sabine Pass as well. Strong power gen in the area and then as well as the growth that we've seen in Mexico, which is largely a power gen driven market. So there's a call on our services to provide flexibility and balancing to all those areas.

On the liquids front, Heath did reference we have options on liquids cavern, it's ready for service. Just with what we're seeing in the Permian with NGLs coming out of the basin. Some of the petchem activity from Corpus Christi all the way through Freeport into Western Louisiana, we think there's some good opportunities for development and growth in that sector of our business as well.

Yeah, Just to kind of conclude on this, I think as Bob alluded to, as I alluded to in my comments, Robert [ph] and his (01:08:40), when we talked about our operating segment really kind of performing well across our segments, assets like Tres and COLT, while our key drivers are going to be on the G&P segment side at Arrow and at the Powder and the Permian, we continue to see the value embedded in our asset footprint at assets like COLT and Tres that have kind of lagged performance-wise over the past couple years.

So, it's really exciting. None of that growth is really built into our forward-looking plans, when we look out over the five-year horizon. But as these fundamentals play out, we're continuing to see that not only are margins and EBITDA contributions starting to pick up, they could really result in some meaningful growth that's not accounted for currently in our outlook. So, just exciting and don't want to overemphasize it, but I just wanted to highlight that things are kind of looking up on those two assets as well.

Thanks for all the additional color.

Thanks, Selman.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the question-and-answer session. And I would like to turn the call back to Bob Phillips for closing remarks.

Thanks, operator, and thanks again to all of you for great questions and everybody hanging in to get additional color on the exciting things we have going on in various basins. Just want to close with kind of two thoughts, we're all about strong execution and capital discipline right now. We think that's what investors are looking for.

We've been rewarded so far this year by delivering on what we've said. We're gaining increasing confidence in our full year 2018 and our 2019 forecast. We look forward to being back in front of our investors with maybe a little more color in December and then a complete guidance outlook in late January, early February. But things are going very well at Crestwood right now. And, as always, we appreciate all of our investors hanging in there with us through the tough times to get the benefit of the good times. And that's kind of where we feel like we are right now. So, execution and discipline will continue to be our themes as we close this year and go into next year.

Thanks again, operator, and thanks for everybody that joined us on the call.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.