Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert T. Halpin — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — Chief Operating Officer & President, Pipeline Services Group, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
William C. Gautreaux — Chief Marketing Officer & President, Supply & Logistics Group, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Andrew Ramsay Burd — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Selman Akyol — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
J.R. Weston — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Charles Marshall — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to this morning's conference call to discuss Crestwood Equity Partners' Third Quarter Financial and Operating Results.

Before we begin the call, listeners are reminded that the company may make certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that are based on assumptions and information currently available at the time of today's call. Please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ.

Additionally, certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and distributable cash flow will be discussed. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release issued this morning.

Joining us today with prepared remarks are Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Phillips; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Halpin. Additional members of the senior management team will be available for the question-and-answer session with Crestwood's current analysts following the prepared remarks. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Bob Phillips.

Thanks, operator. Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us, we know it's early. We've got a lot of great things to talk about this morning, certainly, we want to discuss the third quarter results, and dive a little deeper into the growing opportunity set in front of Crestwood. I think it's evident by now that our turnaround story has been nothing short of amazing, and we're clearly beginning to benefit from the strategic positioning in all the steps that we've completed.

Earlier in the year, let me just remind you of some of those and highlight some of our year-to-date 2016 accomplishments, reminding that we settled the Quicksilver bankruptcy, brought in a new producer in BlueStone, the Barnett assets are now beginning to show growing contributions, they're really an important part of our portfolio going forward. We formed a joint venture with Con Ed, around our Northeast assets. The use of proceeds there about $1 billion, we paid down about 40% of our debt, and got our leverage ratio below 4 times in absolutely critical point in the strategic repositioning strategy.

We improved our coverage ratio, and you'll see it at about 1.8 times this quarter, and we continue to want to keep it in that range as we go through 2017. We think that is a very important part of the overall Crestwood investment story. Right now, investors want to have confidence in our distribution and they certainly do with that kind of coverage ratio. Recently, we signed a very important deal with Shell, which is not only important as a big entry into the Southern Delaware Permian, but it's an indicator as to how well Crestwood as a midstream operator is thought of in this business.

Shell screened a lot of potential midstream operators, and our commercial, operating and technical services team won that RFP and we are set to build a very, very long-term critical piece of infrastructure for Shell, and what we think and what they tell us is one of their most important North American asset. So, that's important to us and illustrates where we are as a midstream operator. We're a customer service oriented, a professional group of individuals with the ability to develop greenfield projects in growing place like the Delaware Permian.

We're financing that with a 50/50 joint venture with First Reserve, their Fund XIII, its new capital. It's another indication of the support of our general partner and largest shareholder, another indication of the available capital that we have. Robert in the finance team have done a good job of structuring that financing, so that it's very flexible for us as we build out these important Delaware Permian assets.

And then finally, just recently – and Heath is going to talk about this, I think you all know, we settled a longstanding contract dispute with Chesapeake with our partners Williams in the 50/50 Powder River joint venture basin – Powder River Basin joint venture, I should say. This is a very important next step for us as well. It sets a floor under the EBITDA contribution of that assets and really shows where we've got some significant upside potential in the portfolio.

We think Chesapeake was really clear on their Analyst Day and their earnings announcement yesterday that they are very dedicated and committed to this area. They think it's going to be their new number one oil play in their portfolio and we're going to be the beneficiary of that, and I want you to talk to Heath about the developments around that, because we're pretty excited.

And finally, I need to mention that our Arrow system is back again, volumes are back up after a couple of sideways quarters or slow quarters, largely having to do with lower prices and some producer issues up there. But again, Robert will point out that that is a big contributor to our portfolio, it has a tremendous amount of growth potential in 2017.

So with all that, certainly, we're not out of the woods yet. As an industry, it's still a challenging year, given continued commodity price uncertainty. But Crestwood is in a very strong position. We got an exceptional balance sheet, a lot of flexibility, very strong substantial distribution coverage, and a growing backlog of near-term accretive growth projects that we're going to be able to finish very well and make these projects and investments accretive to DCF.

So with that, let me just highlight where we are now. We had a very solid third quarter. Robert is going to give you the details on that. I think we're well positioned across the entire portfolio for a very strong fourth quarter. And it gives us a lot of confidence that we're going to close the year and meet or beat our guidance and our cost estimates. Our commercial teams across the entire portfolio are starting to put together some big wins.

We got the wind at our back now. Now that we've fixed our balance sheet, we got financial capability to go out and aggressively compete for new business, it's showing up in the Delaware Basin, but we've got a lot of good opportunities in other regions as well and those are going to drive cash flow growth through the back half of 2017 and well into 2018. So, that's our plan. The joint venture with First Reserve Fund XIII is a very important element to our overall financial flexibility, and again, it shows strong commitment from our general partner and largest shareholder.

Our G&P assets have performed very well, showed a big increase in contribution for the quarter, and underlying all that is a huge improvement in our customer credit risk and we'll mention some of those. But I can tell you, as with financial health of our producers on the G&P segment improve, we're beginning to see their outlook improve and that's going to lead to more drilling and development in the fourth quarter of this year and for 2017. So, a lot of positive vibes on the 2017 outlook, due largely to the improving financial health of our customers in that G&P segment.

And as I said, we expect to finish the year very strong with a solid fourth quarter, representing full year results that will be right in line with our original guidance. And so, here we are after kind of taken a year off, we're back to meeting expectations and delivering on our forecast. So, we're very pleased with how the portfolio and the team have operated so far this year.

I'm going to provide some brief remarks on the third quarter, and then let Robert go into more detail in his section. We did deliver adjusted EBITDA of $104 million that exceeded consensus estimates, and again, puts us well on track to achieve guidance. We're going to have a bigger fourth quarter, so you can do the math, but we're very comfortable with roughly the midpoint of our guidance range.

Driving the strong cash flow in the quarter, I'll highlight our continuing ability to reduce operating costs, and these are permanent reductions as [ph] Doug (8:15) can tell you, he's our Chief Accounting Officer and he's the number one cost guru in the company. And so, we not only have taken a lot of cost out of our cost structure, but these are permanent institutional cost cuts. And year-to-date, expenses are down about 11%, which again is a true testament to the great job that our operations team has done to capture incremental cost savings out there. Largely through improved maintenance practices, strategic purchasing, lower employee costs to a certain extent, but just a more efficient organization overall. And as I said, we think these are permanent cost reductions.

Now to the big commercial wins, starting in the Delaware Basin. First in the northern portion up in Eddy County, New Mexico, it was our early entry into the Delaware Basin. We got in up there back in 2011 with a dry gas gathering system purchase, and we have since converted that into a rich gas region with a processing plant capability. The Willow Lake system, as we call it, had an impressive third quarter with volumes doubling from the second quarter of 2016.

And importantly, it generated almost $4 million here in EBITDA, $3.6 million directly attributable to that asset, compared to about $400,000 in the same period last year. So, year-over-year growth and annualized growth is improving dramatically. That's run rate EBITDA of around $15 million with a cumulative investment on those assets of little over $65 million that implies about a 4.5 times build multiple, and that's the target for some of the investments that we have in that region.

I remind you that it's a highly competitive basin, but our commercial team has done a great job of gathering up operators in that area. Operators, as you know, are targeting the Wolfcamp and the Bone Spring, in that we've got a mix of both going into our processing plant there. But we're really impressed with recent results from offset operators and those two formations are showing average 24-hour IP rates of about 2,400 barrels of oil equivalent per day in and around the system.

So, we're running relatively full, we know that. We know that we've got increased activity on the way that's going to drive additional volume growth. So, we're looking at expansion options there and looking to do something pretty aggressively to make sure that we're staying ahead of our producers. So, we view Willow Lake as part of the growth story going forward.

Moving down into the southern portion of the Delaware Basin on the Texas side, we're looking to repeat the success we had up at Willow Lake with the Shell deal. Our commercial teams have been working very hard, as you know, really for the last couple of years. We've been working hard with producers to customize and design unique gathering assets to handle the unique type of production that's coming from that region. But we're going to see substantial growth there over the next year or so.

The recent project announcement with SWEPI, which is an affiliate of Shell, Shell Western E&P is the latest example of our ability to capture what we think will be very accretive, high-quality, long-term greenfield projects in one of the hottest and best economic resource plays in North America right now. Not to mention as I said earlier, I'm very, very proud of the relationship that we're building with Shell, which is a major clearly investment-grade counterparty world-class operator.

And as I've said publicly time and time again, very committed to the development of this acreage over the next several years. This is a 20-year contract and a 50-year gathering system that we're building down there for Shell. So, we're really pleased to be partnering with Shell in every aspect of developing that play. And we think that with Shell as our anchor, there's going to be other producer opportunities in the region and around the area approximate to that gathering system that will benefit us, and we're all on the same page for that.

Under the deal that we have with Shell, we're going to build about 230 miles of low and high pressure system on approximately 100,000 acres that are dedicated to the contract. They have a much larger acreage position in the entire region, but this 100,000 acres has been carved out and dedicated to this agreement for development over the next several years. So, that's where the priority is. They will have wells waiting on us when we complete the system and put it in service in July of next year. And so, those wells will come on immediately and we're excited that that deal will be accretive right off the back for us.

And as we've said publicly, we expect to that Nautilus system, as we're calling it, in service by the end of June of next year. Making great progress in the area of right-of-way engineering surveys, most of the long – lead time procurement has been ordered, contracts have been signed, we are embracing the Shell operating principles in the build out of this system and we're really excited about taking our operating and construction experience that we learnt in the Marcellus on Antero and in the Bakken around the Arrow system to this area and really building out a nice system for Shell on-time, on-budget.

Additionally, in the region, we continue to work with other operators, including some big operators, under exclusivity and reimbursement agreements around what we're calling our RIGS system, and so, Reeves County gathering system, it's in the area adjacent to the SWEPI system. And based on current discussions, where we are from a design standpoint, we anticipate formal project approvals in the fourth quarter of this year and execution of agreements and announcements sometime in the first half of next year.

As we ramp up and build out our projects in the Delaware Basin, we're committed to maintaining our balance sheet strength that we resolved with the Con Ed deal and the big pay down in debt and keep our leverage targets at about 4 times cash flow. As you know, we recently announced a long-term joint venture with First Reserve to finance our activities in the Delaware Permian. This is another sign of alignment of interest with our public unitholders and the commitment and support of our general partner.

The joint venture which was approved by Crestwood's Conflicts Committee comprised of three independent directors is First Reserve's latest fund, its Fund XIII; it's a $3.4 billion fund which closed in 2015. They're excited about the Delaware Permian. First Reserve has done a lot of work out there, so they know the area. Both Crestwood and First Reserve will commit initially $250 million of capital into that JV for the build out of the Nautilus system, and then the RIGS system, once we sign it up that will roll into it as well. And we're all focused on aggressively building a much broader footprint for First Reserve and Crestwood.

And as we do that, both parties will scale up the commitment to that joint venture as new investment opportunities materialize. And again, I couldn't be more excited and proud for the support of my long-term partner. They were there back in the summer of 2010 when we started the company and they're still with us today, and really excited about what we're doing at Crestwood, and particularly what we're doing in the Delaware Permian.

Quickly, I'll touch on the other regions because they were all good contributors, Bakken, Barnett, Powder River Basin. We're seeing a substantial improvement in credit profile, and therefore a major shift in producer development plans, and a positive uptick in outlook going forward. And we think that's going to have a big impact on our 2017. In the Bakken, we mentioned in the press release that our friends at Halcon Resources emerged from their prepackaged bankruptcy. During the restructuring process, I think we've made this public that Halcon certainly limited its drilling activity, and in addition to that, they've shut in lot of their volumes as well during that bankruptcy process.

As of October, they announced that they emerged from bankruptcy in September, and as of October, they had returned all of their shut-in wells to full production. So the system is now flowing at 70,000 barrels a day of crude and 50 million a day of natural gas, and 30,000 barrels a day of water. So we're back to kind of the level of our all-time highs again. Importantly, in the fourth quarter, we expect the producers really to supercharge their completion and connection activity. We've got 25 wells slated to connect to the Arrow system in the fourth quarter of this year, and initial 2017 plans from our producers are starting to look really, really attractive for us. So we are excited about Arrow.

In the Barnett, as we mentioned, Heath and the commercial team did a great job in transitioning from Quicksilver to BlueStone, which I want to compliment. They are a great operator. They really work hard at incrementalizing the production there, and they have done a great job not only bringing back all of the shut-in wells to full production, which resulted in a 4% quarter-over-quarter increase in volume, but we've watched first hand as these guys really baby these wells to get more production out of them at lower operating expenses. So they are here to stay. They are good partners. They work hard. They are great operators. And they are very committed to revitalizing the resource base there at the low price that they got into it. So don't kid yourself. The Barnett is not dead. Lot of these guys getting in to the Barnett are getting in at much lower prices, that's going to make their development economics a lot better.

I will point out that the new gathering contract, gathering and processing agreement we have with BlueStone does have a combined fixed fee and a percentage of proceeds element to it. So the combination of the increased volumes and the increased natural gas prices led to a very impressive 34% increase quarter-over-quarter in EBITDA from the Barnett assets. So we're pleased I think those volumes have stabilized. They're going up with higher prices, and we're going to get a bigger share than probably we thought we were going to of the margin due to the percentage of proceeds element of that contract.

Moving to the Powder River Basin, again, really pleased with the latest commentary from Chesapeake, their renewed excitement for the Basin. working with our partner Williams, Williams was very collaborative in this process. The three of us, Crestwood, Williams and Chesapeake really sat down and worked hard to get this situation resolved, get it behind us, and get Chesapeake back to drilling again, and that's where we are. It's a new 20-year contract, replaces the old cost of service. I think many of you knew that that was probably the last cost of service agreement they had in their portfolio. We now have a fixed fee structure with minimum annual revenue guarantees, I stress that minimum revenue guarantees, over the next five years to seven years. Heath can give you more color on it, but we think it really locks in kind of where we are right now with a tremendous amount of upside.

At their recent Investor Day, Chesapeake indicated plans to add one to two rigs, maybe as early as November of this year, but certainly at the beginning of 2017, with the potential to grow production there to more than 100,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent from about 10,000 barrels a day today over the next five years to seven years, and it's all about technology. We've heard this and seen this in other basins. They're proving it with the multiple stack pays that they have a tremendous resource in their large acreage position, way over 300,000 acres, and we now know that the play is economic to develop at sub $40 per barrel breakeven prices. So we're really excited about that.

And as we finish the year, we continue to have some small wins in all areas of our portfolio. Some of these are going to take longer, but the outlook is positive, and the fundamentals are improving. Certainly, I want to point out that our Northeast storage and transport assets, which had kind of a modest third quarter are poised for a very strong fourth quarter, given the expectation for colder weather, or just to return to normal weather. Same thing for our Northeast NGL marketing business, full of NGL, propane and butane inventory at good prices, and we are well positioned, we've got a great platform for NGL sales up there in the Northeast. So Stagecoach will do better in NGL marketing and logistics, again well positioned to realize additional margin opportunities in the fourth quarter and first quarter assuming normalized weather conditions, which we think are around the corner.

And I guess, before turning it over to Robert, again I want to highlight that the Crestwood's turnaround story is probably pretty evident for you right now from a re-positioning standpoint, so we don't need to spend a whole lot more time on what we've done in the past. But I do want to highlight some of our current goals and objectives. Our operations teams continue to post great quarterly results, and they are doing it safely, compliantly with a tremendous amount of attention to environmental stewardship. And I know that we are committed across our entire portfolio to great safety, great regulatory compliance, and great environmental stewardship.

It's never been more important than it is today, and those are the operating principles that we operate by, but I want to continue to point out, those guys do a great job not only in their safety and operational reliability performance but as well they continue to exceed the cost reduction goals that we set for them quarter-after-quarter, year-after-year. It's not lost on me that the credit strength of our customer base has substantially improved. We just simply don't have any issues there like we did a year ago.

Producer sentiment is improving across all of our assets, and you will see that as we roll out our 2017 plan here in the next couple of months, and we are beginning the new play, and this is exciting for us. The Delaware Permian has the potential to be the biggest individual shale play that we are involved in over the next several years. We have a growing backlog of deal opportunities, Shell, Willow Lake was a great first investment, and we are going to incrementally expand that. Shell is a great anchor tenant on the southern portion of the Delaware basin, and we are going to build around that. That's going to be successful for us.

Other deals that we have invested a lot of engineering and design time over the next – over the last year or two are going to play out over the next year or two, and I think at the end of the day we are going to wind up with a really sizable set of midstream assets that are critically important to the long term development of those very economic reserves. So we are excited about that.

And I think I've taken more than my time, Robert. So with that, I will turn it over to you and you can talk about the details of the third quarter.

Thank you, Bob, and good morning to everybody. I am very pleased to report our third quarter financial results. During the quarter, Crestwood continued to execute our business plan to optimize volumes across all of our systems, manage and reduce operating cost, and maintain financial discipline and balance sheet strength. For the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA totaled $104 million compared to $134 million in the third quarter of 2015. Distributable cash flow totaled $75 million compared to $92 million in the third quarter of 2015, and our financial results for the third quarter 2016 reflects Crestwood's 35% share of Stagecoach's earnings that began in June of 2016.

For the third quarter 2016, we declared a distribution of $0.60 to our common unitholders driving distribution coverage for the quarter at 1.8 times or 1.5 times, if our Class A preferred units were currently paying cash distributions. We are committed to providing unitholders strong distribution coverage and conservative balance sheet metrics going forward as a core part of our strategy.

Now for a review of our segment results. In our Gathering and Processing segment, segment EBITDA totaled $66 million in the third quarter 2016 compared to $65 million in the third quarter of 2015. Strong operating performance in Arrow, Barnett, the Delaware Permian and the Powder River Basin Niobrara highlighted the quarter for the Gathering and Processing segment despite being partially offset by continued natural volume declines in the Southwest Marcellus and Fayetteville systems. Across many of our systems, we are seeing significant improvements in fundamentals and producer sentiments.

Sequentially, third quarter EBITDA in the Permian increased over 100%, Barnett increased over 34%, Arrow increased over 5%, and well performance in the Powder River Basin continues to exceed our internal type curves. In our Storage and Transportation segment, segment EBITDA totaled $25 million in the third quarter 2016 compared to $50 million in the third quarter of 2015. The primary driver, as I said of the year-over-year decrease in segment EBITDA, is the deconsolidation of our Stagecoach joint venture with Con Edison. The third quarter 2016 reflects the first full quarter in which Crestwood's results reflect Crestwood's 35% share of earnings from that joint venture.

During the third quarter 2016, natural gas storage and transportation volumes averaged 1.8 Bcf a day compared to 1.9 Bcf a day in the third quarter of 2015, and 1.5 Bcf a day in the second quarter of 2016. Third quarter 2016 volumes increased 19% sequentially as a result of Marcellus producers completing new wells and returning existing wells to full production in response to improving natural gas pricing and volumes at our Tres Palacios facility, increased as a result of higher customer utilization driven by increased Gulf Coast and Mexican gas demand.

In our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment, segment EBITDA totaled $18 million in the third quarter 2016 compared to $28 million in the third quarter of 2015. Segment EBITDA declined year-over-year primarily due to the significant outperformance in our third quarter 2015 results. Third quarter 2016 earnings reflected lower trucking contributions during the quarter as a result of lower NGL demand in the Northeast. As Bob mentioned, our Northeast NGL business is very well positioned today to capture meaningful additional margin opportunities in the fourth quarter of 2016 and first quarter of 2017, assuming a more normalized winter compared to last year's historically warm temperatures across the country.

Now turning to the expense side. Year-to-date through September 30, 2016, our operating and maintenance expenses and our G&A expenses net of unit based compensation and other significant costs are down $21 million or 11% versus year-to-date 2015. For full year 2016, Crestwood will significantly exceed our goal of an additional $10 million in cost reductions. The disciplined management of our cost structure in the face of commodity price volatility was a top priority across our operations. And as Bob said, we are all very proud of our team's efforts to significantly exceed our cost reduction targets, without reducing or sacrificing safety, compliance or quality of service to our customers.

Now turning to the balance sheet: As of June 30, Crestwood had approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding, including $1.5 billion of fixed rate senior notes, and $133 million outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. As of June 30, Crestwood leverage ratio was right at 4 times, and we remain very focused on exiting 2016 with a leverage ratio below 4 times.

In closing, I am very pleased with our third quarter financial results. We anticipate the fourth quarter to come in even stronger and we remain very encouraged with what 2017 has to offer. Dialog with our customers across many of our systems is beginning to be more optimistic in the current pricing environment. We have secured low cost financing through our joint venture agreements to pursue growth opportunities while maintaining financial strength and a strong leverage ratio. And finally, we have been successful at reducing a substantial amount of cost across our businesses. With the re-positioning of the partnership fully complete, we are now in full execution mode and remain on track to deliver a very strong close to the year, and achieve our 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $435 million to $465 million.

And with that operator, we are now ready to open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Andrew Burd with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. First question on Willow Lake, it obviously posted a great quarter and utilization is very strong there. Bob you talked a little bit about future expansions there. Based on conversations with customers, do you think you will need a second processing plant, or is a gathering, or I wondered if could expand on that a little bit.

Yes. Hi, it's Heath Deneke. I'll take that. Yeah. I mean the short answer is we do envision needing both additional gathering and processing for that system. As you know, we are running full. We are on a run rate of about $15 million a year of EBITDA, but that's pretty much fully utilized in the capacity that we have available. We have a little bit of room there. But there is really a lot of real estate that are dedicated to us under existing contracts, and with just a handful of rigs, and I think we are going to need a fairly substantial increase in capacity to support that. So pretty excited about the growth in and around that system in Eddy County.

Great. And I think during the prepared remarks, Bob, you cited kind of a four and a half range type of build multiples for that Willow Lake. Did I hear correctly that that's kind of the target ballpark that you are targeting for these Delaware projects?

Yes, I think that's about right. I mean, some deals will gravitate a little north of that, some deals little south of that. But I think that was just highlighting the fact that we are able to – we are putting most of our time in developing greenfield projects. We are not out there buying 15 times to 20 times cash flow type assets. We are going to work, doing it the old fashion way, building it, and having success doing so. So I think we just wanted to highlight that as the type of build multiple that we think we can generate out in the basin.

Great. And just curious, why isn't processing a part of the plan for those two projects?

I am sorry for the- [indiscernible]

(33:17)

For RIGS system and – oh, yes. Well, it just hasn't been announced that it's part of those projects yet. I mean, I think right now what we are focused on is building out pretty massive well head gathering system. That's what we've been focused on. Obviously, once you get the footprint, if you put our Willow Lake system, our RIGS system, and our SWEPI system together, look out on the map, [indiscernible] (33:38) one of the largest systems out there. It covers the best rocks, the best real estate, the best county in the Delaware basin. And so with that, there is obviously going to be needs for processing.

We're going to be in a really good competitive position to put in additional processing plants as well as other downstream facilities for crude and water. So I wouldn't take it that there is not going to be opportunities that come out of it. I think what we've announced with the SWEPI system is a pretty large gas gathering system for all of their operating positions, with RIGS. That's going to cover over 400,000 acres at least from an aerial standpoint. And Willow Lake, you tie all that together, again you're going to have a pretty massive system to [indiscernible] (34:17) for future processing needs there.

Okay. And I know that obviously SWEPI is still pending on the dedication there, but is that acreage dedicated, the processing dedicated to third parties, or is that just undedicated for now? Just trying to get a sense of how...

Yeah. Andrew, since that you are confused about this issue, so let me make sure that you and everybody else is not confused. If you go back to the day that we announced the SWEPI deal, Western announced a gas processing contract with Shell, either the same day or the day before. Those two deals match. The initial processing from the gas that we're going to gather is going to be processed by Western at their Ramsay plant. So, go back and find that press release, and where they announced a new contract. It really was an amendment of an existing contract, but it was an additional dedication that they didn't have before. It's volume limited. Other than that it's not really our business to discuss Shell's processing arrangements with third parties.

We are the gatherer of choice. We are going to provide with this gathering system multiple outlets for Shell to get their gas processed at existing plants. But what Heath was explaining was, we are hopeful that over time as the volumes grow, there will be a right time and a right place for us to build additional processing when the producers need it.

We just simply are not in the habit of building spec projects like a lot of other guys are. We have got to build these projects on a truly accretive basis, and that's part of our investment thesis going forward out here. We have such an aerial extent dedicated to us. When you add the 100,000 acres on the Shell dedication, the potential 400,000 acres on the rigs dedication, and the 100,000 plus acres on the Willow Lake dedication as Heath said, we've got 600,000 plus acres in the core of the core of the Northern and Southern Delaware basin.

Today we provide a little bit of processing plus we are connecting our customers to existing plants, but over time based on our volumetric estimates, assuming that the producers develop the properties on the schedule that they've given us and that we are talking about, we see the need for additional processing capacity, and we are going to be very competitive when we get to that point.

Okay. Great. That answers my question that the acreage is currently dedicated to another party for processing, great. And so, kind of switching gears to NGL marketing, it seems like it's looking a little bit brighter for the fourth quarter. Are there any kind of specific drivers for that optimism on the year-over-year basis? Is it just weather, or is there something else there?

Bill Gautreaux you want to take that question?

Yes. I think that, look I think the optimism there is just that with the more normal weather scenario, and really less supply in the local market, we see the market shaping up to more of a baseline performance, really nothing more than that.

Okay, great. And then final question just clarification, I didn't see it in the press release. What was coal's EBITDA in the third quarter, and also any indication of kind of contracted capacity going into 2017?

Sure, I will start with the coal's EBITDA for the quarter came in right around $16 million. And then, I will let Heath expand on kind of lot of the opportunities as we look around repositioning the coal facility going forward.

Yes. I mean as far the re-contract there is not a whole lot of news on that front. I think what we are doing is that we are connecting the coal facility, all of the tankage and the pipelines, on the supply aggregation, assets in and around that acreage position is getting connected into DAPL. We are on schedule to have that connection complete when DAPL comes online. We think that's going to generate some additional opportunities for us. So I think that's kind of where we are with coal.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Selman Akyol with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning. Just a couple of quick ones from me. So going back to Willow Lake that's outside your JV with First Reserve, and so you will be financing that on your own for any expansion up there?

Yeah, Selman. It currently does – it does reside outside the joint venture. It's a 100% owned Crestwood asset. Obviously, we think about our Delaware Permian strategy on a holistic basis. So today that's the case. That may not always be the case. We are evaluating all of our options, as we look to really interconnect and combine the total footprint to gain the greatest value out of everything up there.

Got it. And then, in the opening comments, I think you discussed potentially other producers [indiscernible] (39:50) the Shell gathering. Have any of those conversations started to take place? Is there any?

Yeah, absolutely. They are taking place. I mean there is a lot of acreage in and around that footprint, in and around the rigs footprint for that matter that is unspoken for from a dedication standpoint, and we are actively working on including some of those customers into the system, and hope to have some pretty exciting news to announce here in the near future on that.

All right. That does it for me. Thanks.

Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of J.R. Weston with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. First, I guess, maybe just looking for an update on Southwest Marcellus Gathering. It looks like another little bit of a sequential decline there. Just your primary customer reported last week and talked a little bit about [indiscernible] (40:47) plans for 2017 and 2018, how are your discussions going with them, and any update to the volume outlook for next couple of years?

Yeah. Hi, it's Heath again. I think discussions are going well. As you know, they've got around 22 docks that are out there on the system, latest discussions, we expect them, or they communicated to us that they are going to complete those docks into 2017. We are also pleased. I mean if you look at current stripe prices, I mean I think certainly the rock is economic to develop at what you are seeing in today's strip. And so we remain optimistic when you get into late 2017, 2018 that there could be some incremental development activity in that position.

Okay, great. That's helpful. I guess maybe switching gears a little bit, lot of discussion on the other Permian projects that you guys have. Just kind of wondering if there was an update to the delta project, and just hearing a lot of discussions here recently around earnings season with kind of how competitive the Permian has become from a midstream perspective, especially on the crude gathering side, and I just wonder if there is any read through there?

Yes, I mean I guess what I would share with you on the delta, I mean we are having lot of discussions around delta. I think it's getting clear when you look at all of the enthusiasm and the discuss around rig ramp-up in the Delaware Permian, having the ability to get your crude out of the Delaware Basin into the Midland into the [indiscernible] (42:12) Houston markets is important. And our project provides a lot of optionality to do that at sub-dollar a barrel type pricing. And so, I think, there is not anything I can say in terms of commitments, at this point in time, all I can tell you is that in conjunction with our – the system footprints, the gathering system footprints, we're going to have lot of crude on our system. We're going to have a large scale terminal at Orla. And we think we're going to be able to compete fairly well in terms of being part of the solution to get those barrels out to really liquid and high value markets.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you. I guess, maybe just one last one for me. I think a couple of quarters ago, you had mentioned the EBITDA from the Powder River Basin JV – I think, you said it was around $20 million. I was just wondering if there is any way you guys could quantify or talk directionally a little bit further beyond what you did in the prepared commentary on how the restructured contracts going to affect that?

Yeah. So I guess we're – you're right, we're having a little north of $20 million, closer to $25 million – what I would tell you is that the restructured contract pretty much guarantees and puts a floor at that level over the next, call it, five years to seven years. If you look at what Chesapeake announced, they were showing again their production could potentially grow from, let's call it, 12,000 to 15,000 MBOEs today up to 100,000 MBOEs over the next five-plus years. So, depending on your volume outlook, if Chesapeake is successful, I mean you could see two to three times growth in kind of that floor cash flow, but it's going to then highly be dependent on the well activity there.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Charles Marshall with Capital One. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Just to quickly clarify, so the floor on the PRB restructuring, is it more on the floor of the $20 million or will there be sort of a lower floor from that sort of run rate of $20 million that you identified?

No. Just to clarify, I think Heath said – I mean, if you look at – on 2016 basis, we expect the asset to generate around $25 million of cash flow. We have revenue guarantees that would hold us cash flow flat, based upon those guarantees for the next five years to seven years. As Heath alluded to, I think with the restructuring of the contract and some of the technology advancements that Chesapeake has seen, there could be significant upside to that if the volumetric development takes place. But from a cash flow standpoint, there is an absolute floor at current cash flow levels that are guaranteed under the contracts.

Got it. Thank you. And then just regarding the RIGS system, there is no change there with respect to the financing of that when it gets streamlined. Is that correct that First Reserve will commit the initial charge of capital, and then you'll make up to get to your 50/50 split? Is that right?

That's correct. So the joint venture that we've executed with them is inclusive of Delaware Permian opportunities and has the flexibility built into accommodate that project on the same type structure when it materializes.

Got it. But the financing, at least from the Crestwood standpoint, at least initially out of the gate is different than the SWEPI – the assets for SWEPI. Is that correct?

Same structure, just scaled up obviously to the greater scope.

Okay. Got it. And then just lastly for me on COLT. Can you explain what was going on this quarter with the nice step up of volumes relative to 2Q?

Yeah. I mean, we continue to see activity. We continue to get more than our fair share of the market up there in terms of Western-bound cargoes. We're also doing a good bit of – our marketing group has been pretty active in sourcing unit trends as well that have put some barrels into the East Coast as well. So, I think, you're just kind of seeing – again, COLT is the best assets in the Bakken from a crude-by-rail standpoint and we're able to kind of – given our location, our access to supply, we're able to take good advantage of the opportunity set that remains.

All right guys – sorry.

Chuck, this is Bob. Let me just add a little bit of additional color there. I think our response to the earlier question about COLT was a little bit muted. It's a really important asset to us. We're spending a lot of time on it. We have new customers coming into the facility. We are ourselves generating a lot of activity around the COLT facility. The new marketing group that we put together right out a year ago is really starting to do a much more material job of running barrels through the facility. We call it Crestwood Crude Services. We told you all a year or so ago that we're going to try to optimize the available storage capacity and the pipeline capacity through the COLT Connector and the spreads to the extent there any between Enbridge on one side and rail.

We did have a very good quarter from a rail loading facility in the third quarter, and that was both our traditional customers as well as increased utilization by Crestwood Crude Services. They've taken on a fair amount of the available storage there. And to the extent that there're any spreads available, we are utilizing that capacity really on a full rate basis. So that Crestwood Crude Services Group is paying the COLT Hub a full rate for either the delivery interconnect or the storage or the redeliver interconnect charge, and that's exactly the way we set that strategy up.

I might also tell you from a risk management standpoint that those barrels and that marketing activity has run through our NGL Marketing business. So, the book is fully hedged to the extent that there is a position there, whether it's front-to-back or whether it's just a intra-month trade, those positions are fully hedged by our NGL risk management team in Kansas City. And the net results of that activity flows through the [ph] MSL Group (49:09) from a segment reporting standpoint. But the most important results are that that group is paying a pretty handsome and growing amount of fees to the COLT facility.

And so, one of the ways that we intend to offset the potential loss of customers, as some of these old original five-year contracts roll off, is with increased use of the facility by our own people on a fully hedged basis, taking advantage of that capacity that we own. And our supply aggregation capacity, the point that Heath made, is with the DAPL interconnect which is underway and we all have our fingers crossed on DAPL that they get that project moving forward. But that's actually drawing more barrels to COLT, because of that interconnect and where the interconnect is being made to DAPL and the availability of storage. So, we've actually got new customers coming into COLT to buy storage and pipeline interchange capacity, just because of the DAPL interconnect.

So, we're pretty excited about that. We are not going to be able to replace – fully replace, Robert said this over and over again – Robert, I'll give you a chance to say it one more time, we are not going to be able to fully replace the full earning potential of that Tesoro contract that was entered into back in 2010-2011, that was a different point in time, it was a different contract with different fees, and that's just not the market today. But if you all think that COLT earnings are going to zero, you are absolutely wrong, and the guys have done a great job of optimizing the asset and this new Crestwood commercial – Crude Services Group is doing a fabulous job of using volumetric capacity at market rates to be able to generate additional activity there.

So, we're pretty pleased all in where we are, and I think, 2017 will be a better year after we get the DAPL connect and attract more supply to that area. I think it's actually, maybe a sideways year for us in 2017 and then starting to grow in 2018 again, particularly if oil prices increase and supplies in the entire basin increase, we're going to see COLT kind of moving back to a real strategic location for a lot of barrels to flow out of the basin and have optionality to different markets. So, we're not giving up on that. We hope you all don't give up on it either.

No. That was great color. Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. It appears we have no further questions at this time. So, I'd like to pass the floor back over to Mr. Phillips for any additional concluding comments.

Okay. Thank you very much, operator, and thanks to all of you for joining us this morning. We're pretty excited about where we are and looking forward to coming back with some of the investor conferences starting in late November and December, giving a little bit more color particularly around the Delaware Permian and the First Reserve joint venture, those were the big highlights for us. But I think, you can see we've got growing momentum on the Arrow, again, the Powder River Basin, and the Barnett, all beginning to show pretty big contributions to the bottom line. So, thanks to everybody for joining us.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. Again, we thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.