raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good after noon. My name is Marianne and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to Inergy's Second Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'


remarks there will be a question and answer section. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would


now I like to turn the conference over Mr. Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer. Mr. Sherman you may begin.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Chief Financial Officer, and Senior Vice President


Thank you Marianne and thank you everyone for joining us today on Inergy’s second quarter


earnings call. With me today are John Sherman, our President and CEO; Phil Elbert, our Executive


Vice President of Propane Operations; and David Dehaemers, our Executive Vice President of


Corporate Development.


Much like all other earnings calls what we will do today is start out with John giving some opening


remarks and an overview, he'll then turn it back to me to go through the quarter and year-to-date


numbers. I'll talk a little bit about our expectations for the remainder of '06 and then we will open it


up questions. So first let me get some forward-looking statements out of the way here.


In our decision today, we may communicate forward-looking information, various risk factors may


cause actual results to differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking statements.


We provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings and we encourage


you to review our filings. With that John, I will turn it over to you.


John J. Sherman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks Brooks. Just a couple of comments and I will give this back to Brooks for a look at the


numbers but we feel very good about our performance in the quarter. Basically we are right where


we expected to be at this point and we expect that we will achieve our full year objectives.


In our propane business, our people once again delivered very solid results volumes were off


naturally due to weather and conservation. Margins continue to be strong. Operating expenses


were better than expected as we continue to drive efficiencies in the business. Recent acquisitions


are performing as expected and our current pipeline is very active, with some encouraging


developments as we move through spring. I expect that we will get our normal share of propane


acquisitions as the summer progresses.


In our midstream business we had an excellent quarter. Our natural gas business had a great


quarter both in terms of current cash earnings and the progress of our expansion plans and we


have recently finalized our press-made [ph] agreements, representing the full capacity of our Phase


II expansion project at Stagecoach. These agreements average over 8 years in duration, the


longest of which is over 10 years in duration.


These term agreements are now far more than validating our commercial underwriting of this


acquisition. We are now moving with a sense of urgency to move these projects forward, including


the storage expansion, the north lateral, and the other ancillary projects, – expansion projects


around Stagecoach. Before I turn this over to Brooks, just a couple of more comments, – I probably


sound like a broken record here, but once again I am very proud of how our propane operating


people have delivered consistent performance in the midst of challenging fundamental.
raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As we have executed this industry consolidation strategy over the last 4 or 5 years, we have


confronted an escalating price environment and erratic weather patterns. Those of who that follow


the company know that our operating mindset is one of no excuses and I focus on consistent


performance. We don’t think our investors are interested in the weather, we think they are


interested in achieving their return objectives. It’s our job to manage what we can control and


deliver on those objectives. Our performance is a testament to the operating prowess of our people


and it demonstrates that with good management the propane business delivered stable cash flows


on a long-term basis.


Our successful diversification into the midstream business only enhances our investors'


opportunities. The people that are building these businesses for our share characteristic is similar


to our propane operators. Bill Moler who runs our Natural Gas Storage business and Rick Kreul


who is responsible for our West Coast business; these are people with experience, track records of


achieving desired results, and the proper alignment and motivation to execute on behalf of our


investors. As you combine our continued opportunity in propane which is significant with the upside


we now have in our midstream platform it's pretty compelling. I have got my money on these guys.


With that I'll turn it back over to Brooks for a look at the numbers and I look forward to the Q&A


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Chief Financial Officer, and Senior Vice President


Thanks John. First I will walk through the quarter and then the six months for the quarter as you


saw in the press release we sold about a 139 million retail gallons of propane compared to about a


148 million gallons last year, what you are seeing there is as John alluded to the effects of the


warmer weather and customer conservation, warmer weather quarter-over-quarter and that


conservation outlaid the increase gallon sales that we had from acquisitions and also January – the


month of January was the warmest month of that quarter and that is obviously the strongest month


of gallon sales but a good quarter in what we faced and our margins were strong in the quarter


about 91 cents versus about 75.5 cents last year that margin number this year excludes the $3.1


million derivatives charge that you saw in there for total retail propane gross profit of about 126.5


million versus about a 111.5 million and although the volumes are off, I mean that is our objective


when get to those periods is to focus on the margin and on the OpEx to achieve our bottom-line


expectations and that’s just what we have done.


Other propane gross profits in the propane segment about 17.3 million in this year's quarter versus


about 21 million last year, a slight decrease just similar to what we saw in the propane sales,


warmer weather driving little bit lesser service income wholesale income, distillates [ph] and those


ancillary sales. Our midstream gross profit about $10.4 million up from 3.8 million last year,


obviously this year's gross profit largely that of our natural gas storage business. Stagecoach


continues to perform a little bit ahead of plan and we are excited about the growth opportunities not


only at Stagecoach but also at on the West Coast.


Total gross profit then a $154 million versus a 136.4 million last year, a nice increase in what we


have faced. Operating expenses we're pleased with $57.4 million of OpEx this quarter versus 59.2


million last year; what you see there in that improvement are the effects our year two integration


efforts on Star, Northwest and Moulton. The efficiencies garnered from those and from our other


business as we focus on the bottom-line, those efficiencies outweigh the increased expenses from


the acquisitions primarily of Dowdle and Stagecoach so to come into a quarter, – come out of a


quarter like that with the OpEx being kept in check we feel awfully good about.


Other income about 1.2 million this year's quarter versus about 800,000 last year takes us to


adjusted EBITDA in the quarter of $98.1 million versus about 78 million in last year's quarter, so a


nice quarter keeping us on track. Just to work our way down to net income from that adjusted


EBITDA you back off the $3.1 million derivatives charge that was there for the quarter. A little bit of