Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert T. Halpin — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — Chief Operating Officer & President, Pipeline Services Group, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Andrew Ramsay Burd — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
J.R. Weston — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Selman Akyol — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to this morning's conference call to discuss Crestwood Equity Partners Third Quarter 2015 Financial and Operating Results.

Before we begin the call, listeners are reminded that the company may make certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that are based on assumptions and information currently available at the time of today's call. Please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ.

Additionally, certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and distributable cash flow will be discussed. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release issued this morning by both companies.

Joining us this morning with prepared remarks is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Phillips; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Halpin. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session with Crestwood's current analysts. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Bob Phillips.

Thanks, operator, and good morning. Thank to all of you for joining us. We had a very busy quarter. In the third quarter, we got a lot done and a lot accomplished on our long-term plan, despite obviously another very tough period of volatile commodity prices and largely reduced activity across the industry. So I'm going to touch on the highlights, then hand it off to Robert to give you the details on the third quarter financial results.

I want to point out that Heath Deneke, our Chief Operating Officer, is here as well and ready to answer any questions that you might have about our Delaware Permian strategy. So let's start with the merger, our biggest accomplishment; it was completed on September 30. Glad to see that others are now doing what we have done with Targa announcing the same plan today. So we didn't miss that. We do appreciate the overwhelming support of our unitholders in the vote, which strongly endorsed the rationale for the merger of CEQP and CMLP.

Let me just remind you that a simplified partnership, a simplified capital structure, focused business plan, lower operating cost, and the permanent elimination of IDRs is good in any market, but particularly helpful in a down market like we are experiencing right now. We think all these factors will be big contributors to our future success and with the merger behind us, we can now focus on executing our long-range plan through several steps.

Number one, continue to deliver solid operating performance, which we did again in the third quarter. Number two, execute on our Delaware Permian strategy in our joint venture with First Reserve, which we announced last week. And then finally, providing our investors with visibility to our 2016 and 2017 plans, which we expect to deliver in early 2016.

So we will lay it all out for you in the next couple of months and you can judge, as we go forward, the success of the merger and the restructuring and repositioning of Crestwood. Secondly, to the quarter, we announced another full quarterly distribution. This time post-merger, it was $0.01375 per common unit, payable on November 13. I will point out that our coverage ratio for the quarter was 0.97. First time it's been under 1.00 in a while. But, of course, that recognizes that third quarter is always a seasonal or a shoulder quarter for a lot of our businesses.

But our long-term – our last 12 months coverage ratio is still above 1.00 at a solid 1.02, so we're maintaining our discipline in our strategy towards building coverage as we go forward.

Our cash flows and our outlook continue to support this quarterly distribution and we remain committed to maintaining the distribution and continuing to build coverage ratio despite the poor performance of our units since the merger was announced back in May.

We continue to believe that our units are mispriced relative to our distribution and our fundamentals. But we're optimistic, even in this down market for energy stocks, that our valuation will improve over time as we execute on our plan.

Third accomplishment in the quarter was the announcement of the 1-for-10 reverse unit split. This is a step designed to make Crestwood units easier to own by large institutional investors and retail holders, which have had problems owning CEQP since the unit price moved below $5 per unit after the merger announcement in May.

Those are technical factors. We received very broad-based and strong anecdotal support from our largest unitholders on this decision. We believe that now is the right time to do this. And it will particularly help us as we begin to execute on other parts of our plan. The reverse units split will take place after the market closes on November 23.

Fourth, and probably the biggest item on the list, is the announcement of our Delaware Permian growth strategy in our new partnership with First Reserve, our general partner to finance those projects.

The Delaware Permian, as most of you know, is one of the most active place in the U.S. with new oil and gas supplies being developed despite low commodity prices. And there is a serious need for new midstream infrastructure in the area that we're operating. We think this is a great spot for Crestwood and First Reserve as we are leveraging existing assets, relationships and experiences in the region. This isn't a new area for us; we've been working there for the last couple of years.

The new infrastructure requirements for growing Delaware Permian Wolfcamp and Bone Spring production fits Crestwood's midstream operating expertise and profile in other shale plays. We're bringing a good deal of experience to this Delaware Permian area to build out new infrastructure. As an example, the Orla Terminal and the Delta pipeline are very similar in design to our COLT Hub and Colt Connector system in the Bakken, and the 3-stream gathering system that we've described in the press release is an absolute look-alike to our Arrow system up in the Bakken as well.

So we have the skill set to execute on this opportunity. And this is the exact capability that operators are looking for in this region – the ability to move multiple products at a very competitive rate, to access the broadest markets possible for their production. That's what will drive overall development of the region.

And, of course, First Reserve's upfront capital support allows us to build these new long-term projects in an accretive manner at great returns to Crestwood. And that's what we believe will drive future cash flows for our investors.

So in summary, just a few of those steps, as we execute these strategies and deliver consistent operating performance over the next few quarters, we think we'll draw investors back to Crestwood. Management in First Reserve continue to believe in our assets, our employees, our competitive position and the long-term growth potential of the shale plays that we operate in.

At the current valuation, Crestwood offers significant total return opportunity for investors that value an independent diversified low-cost midstream MLP that's well positioned for long-term growth.

So with that overview, let me turn to the quarter very quick and just touch on some of the highlights of our operations before I turn it over to Robert. Our Gathering and Processing business performed very well year-over-year despite lower volumes in some basins due to slower producer activity, but that was offset by reduced operating cost across almost all of our operations.

The Bakken Arrow gathering system significantly outperformed on record crude volumes, while the Southwest Marcellus gathering system had lower volumes due to shut-ins from downstream constraints that we could not control and lower margins from incentive rates charged to Antero due to very low regional gas prices that they experienced during the quarter. Again, we couldn't control either one of those factors. We think those issues get largely resolved for Antero when the new Stonewall pipeline goes in service in the fourth quarter of this year.

To the Barnett, we had lower margins and lower volumes. The volumes were off due to shut-ins from floods in the Dallas-Fort Worth area during the summer and some offset fracking by other operators. But I will point out that Quicksilver made good progress on their restructuring during the quarter and we have signed a new compression services deal with Devon. So, it's still an active area for us and we're doing a lot to cut cost and keep volumes at a maintenance level.

We look forward to working with the new owner of the Barnett properties at the conclusion of the bankruptcy process. We hope to structure a deal that will make sense for everybody, but most importantly will result in the incentives necessary to fully develop the properties over time. We remain convinced that these are good properties, good assets. They operate at a very low operating cost compared to other Barnett midstream operations. And so we are well positioned to continue to add value there when the new owner comes along.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, it contributed solid results, as expected, due to the significant number of take-or-pay contracts that we have in that segment. Our Northeast Marcellus natural gas storage business and our Bakken PRB oil, crude-by-rail, and pipeline terminal businesses, as you know, are largely based on take-or-pay contracts. Specifically on the gas side, Stagecoach remains a critical northeast storage center. Our MARC I pipeline is going to benefit from an expansion that we're putting in place here in November for the fourth quarter.

Tres Palacios made a good year-over-year contribution as storage and hub margins improved in South Texas with Eagle Ford volumes dropping. On the oil side, COLT Hub had a very good quarter despite low oil prices and tighter spreads and declining North Dakota production. COLT continues to be the leading CBR facility in the Bakken by volume, with about 25% of that market. And while total North Dakota crude-by-rail volumes were down from their 2013 high, CBR still held up well against pipelines in the third quarter, transporting about 50% – 47% actually – of total Bakken crude despite very narrow WTI to Brent and WTI to ANS arbs.

So, it's clear to us that the coastal refiners continue to want the Bakken barrel due to favorable refined product crack spreads. Our customers are telling us this in their negotiation and as they utilize the facility under existing contracts. We think spreads will widen and absolute prices will increase in 2016, increasing utilization further from where we are today. And while we have ongoing negotiations with our customers on contract renewals, we have nothing to report at this time. But I remain convinced that COLT's unique access to supplies in the Bakken and our superior storage and customer service position will enable us to maintain our leadership in the Bakken CBR market going forward.

Our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment also had a very strong contribution in the quarter. It was higher year-over-year with our NGL marketing and logistics team having a very strong quarter and meaningful outperformance from our wholesale NGL storage and terminal business.

We look to continue the momentum of that business into the fourth quarter as our NGL team has positioned us to have another knockout quarter in 4Q, as they aggressively built propane and butane storage inventory at depressed rates during the second and third quarter with extremely favorable forward contract sales in the peak winter months.

And they've done this by utilizing our extensive and somewhat unique Northeast NGL storage, trucking and rail infrastructure to capitalize on this opportunity. This is a business that would be very hard for anybody else to duplicate despite other companies having larger size, we are a particularly strong player in the Marcellus, Utica and will continue to leverage off of that.

Overall, let me just say that we have kept a lid on cost as you can see. Safety continues to be on track or better than we've expected, and we're still making changes to the organization, wringing out costs and improving efficiency.

Now I'm going to let Heath Deneke, our COO, answer questions about Delaware Permian and Robert Halpin, our CFO, is going to give you details on Crestwood's third quarter and financial condition and more information on our recently announced new joint venture with First Reserve.

So with that, Robert, I'll turn it over to you.

Thanks, Bob. And thanks again to everyone on the call for joining us this morning. In the third quarter 2015, Crestwood delivered another strong quarter of financial and operating results despite continued challenging market conditions.

As a result, we remain on track to achieve our previously-stated guidance targets for 2015. For the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2015, adjusted EBITDA totaled $133.5 million and $408.5 million, respectively, representing a 4% increase and 12% increase over the comparable periods in 2014.

Distributable cash flow in the quarter totaled $92 million and distribution coverage for the quarter was 0.97 times or 1.02 times on a trailing 12-month basis. Our 3Q performance continues to highlight the quality and stability of our asset footprint, as well as the continued aggressive approach our operational managers have taken to cut costs out of our business and improve margins despite volumetric declines.

Before discussing our segment results, I wanted to point out that we have made some modifications to our reporting segments that better reflect the operations and management of our assets following the closing of the simplification transaction.

We have three reporting segments. First, our Gathering and Processing. Second, Storage and Transportation; and third, Marketing, Supply and Logistics. With these modifications, our Gathering and Processing segment now includes the Arrow system in the Bakken; and the Storage and Transportation segment includes COLT Hub and the Douglas Terminal. All historical operational statistics and financial results prior to the closing of the simplification merger have been adjusted according to these segment modifications for period-over-period comparisons.

Additionally, all segment results discussed our exclusive of non-cash goodwill impairments reported today and covered in more detail in the earnings release we put out this morning.

In our Gathering and Processing segment, segment EBITDA totaled $64.5 million in the third quarter compared to $64.6 million in the third quarter of 2014. Natural gas gathering volumes and compression volumes declined 16% and 9%, respectively, compared to the third quarter 2014. Gas gathering and compression volumetric declines were offset by an 18% increase in processing volumes, a 6% increase in crude oil gathering volumes and a 35% increase in produced water gathering volumes.

Operations and maintenance expense were reduced 30% in the third quarter 2015 compared to third quarter 2014, driving significant improvements to segment margins and completely offsetting year-over-year revenue declines attributable to decreased volumes.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, segment EBITDA totaled $49.0 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the $48.7 million in the third quarter 2014.

Natural gas storage and transportation volumes averaged 1.9 Bcf per day for both the third quarter 2015 and 2014. Despite flat volumes, compressed spreads across north, south and MARC 1 pipelines led slightly reduced margins on interruptible and short-term firm transportation services across our pipeline assets.

Our COLT Hub EBITDA increased 12% from the third quarter 2014, primarily as a result of higher take-or-pay revenues at the facility.

Now turning to our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment, segment EBITDA totaled $27.3 million in the third quarter 2015 compared to $24.1 million in the third quarter of 2014.

Segment EBITDA increased as a result of meaningful outperformance in Crestwood's NGL wholesale marketing and NGL storage and terminals business, which took advantage of Crestwood's strong NGL supply position in the Marcellus, Utica region to market, transport and store NGLs for our customers in the Northeast United States.

Now, turning to the expense side. We have continued to drive profitability through cost cutting across the organization, reducing operations and maintenance and general & administrative expense for the third quarter 2015 by $4.6 million or a 7% reduction from the third quarter of 2014.

Now onto the balance sheet, as of September 30, Crestwood had approximately $2.5 billion of debt outstanding, including $1.8 billion of fixed rate senior notes and $717 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.

In connection with the simplification merger, Crestwood upsized our revolving credit facility from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion and extended the term through September of 2020. Crestwood also amended certain terms of our revolving credit facility, such as increasing the total leverage ratio covenant from 5.0 times to 5.5 times and adding a senior secured leverage ratio of 3.75 times, among other adjustments that provide the simplified Crestwood much greater flexibility to execute our going-forward business plan.

Before opening the line up for questions, I wanted to add some incremental commentary on our business performance and outlook, including color on our 2016 guidance plans and key areas of focus.

As for 2016 guidance, we continue to work with all of our key customers to finalize our 2016 development plans. We intend to finalize those plans over the balance of 2015 and provide our full outlook to the market no later than our fourth quarter earnings release in February of 2016.

That said, we understand a number of the questions our analysts and investors have and wanted to provide some clarity on a couple key themes, as we head into 2016. First, commodity price volatility continues to impact producer outlooks and corresponding volume declines for most of our G&P portfolio.

That said, we do expect our producers to largely stick to their current plans and it does not take meaningful activity above what we have seen in 2015 to drive year-over-year growth into 2016. We have demonstrated in 2015 that we have the ability to cut significant costs to drive overall profitability despite lower volumes, and that initiative will absolutely continue into 2016.

Second, we will prudently manage our balance sheet. Given our current cost of capital, we will only deploy capital in our highest return areas with the quickest payback on investment. Assuming commodity environment in 2016 stays consistent with where we sit today, we anticipate spending less than $50 million for growth capital projects located outside of our Permian region, where we'll have support of our joint venture with First Reserve.

With just under $750 million currently drawn on our $1.5 billion facility and our current leverage ratio at 4.6 times relative to our 5.5 times total leverage covenant, we have more than ample liquidity and we do not anticipate substantial draws in 2016.

Third, to our recently announced expansion projects in the Permian and our financing plans with First Reserve. We continue to advance commercial negotiations on both our 3-stream gathering development project in Reeves, Loving and Culberson counties, Texas, as well as our Delta pipeline open season.

For the financing on that, we are finalizing negotiations on our joint venture structure with First Reserve. Under the structure, First Reserve and Crestwood will collectively commit $500 million to the project. To help drive quicker upfront accretion to Crestwood, First Reserve will fund 100% of the early build-out capital. Yet, both Crestwood and First Reserve will split the cash flow generated by the project 50/50 during that build-out stage.

First Reserve's capital provides a flexible alternative financing source for Crestwood's Permian growth opportunities at a much more competitive cost than our current common equity and further of importance eliminates any need for Crestwood to raise any external financing associated with these development projects.

Last, on distributions, we are clearly aware of the fact that the market is ascribing limited value to the current annualized distribution of $0.55 per unit, despite our business continuing to perform with year-to-date distributable cash flow up 11% over the nine months ended September 30, 2014, and current distribution coverage greater than 1 times.

Every quarter, management, our Board of Directors and First Reserve, evaluates our full financial outlook and assesses the best use of our available cash to drive the greatest value to our unitholders. We are committed to the current distribution and remain confident in our business model and the outlook for our assets in 2016.

We expect to maintain our current strategy focused on improving distribution coverage and we look forward to updating the market on our 2016 plans in the coming months. I think with that, operator, we are ready to open the line up for any questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Burd from JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Congratulations for turning the page on a busy quarter. Was hoping to get a couple exact details on the funding arrangement with First Reserve just in terms of the exact mechanics of how the cash outflow from Crestwood Works. Is this something where First Reserve funds the first $250 million before you contribute anything? Or is it more of a 50/50 by project basis, but still Crestwood wouldn't contribute until 50% of the project was funded by First Reserve?

Thanks, Andrew. And I will cover that one. I think just for a little bit of clarity on where we stand in the negotiations with First Reserve on our joint venture, the commitment is $500 million in aggregate. And as you pointed out or as you questioned, First Reserve will fund 100% of the upfront capital dollars, with Crestwood not funding any of those upfront capital dollars. But the capital accounts or the investment ownership percentages will be 50/50 from day one.

So clearly, the intent is to bridge the project in the early-stage development, drive greater near-term accretion to Crestwood as the ramp-up occurs and then ultimately, after the initial development capital is spent, Crestwood will fund to realign the capital accounts with that 50/50 structure. Does that provide any clarity?

Yes. So, would that be like a one-time lump payment or would you commence funding incremental expenditures once a certain threshold has been reached?

No, it's a commitment up to a dollar amount and so, obviously, the nature of the projects that we're evaluating in the Permian, most notably the 3-stream gathering build-out, there's a development cycle and plan associated with those assets and we have capital needs over the near-term months to build out the infrastructure for our customer. And so, the capital availability from First Reserve is available 100% as needed for the project up until a threshold capital amount is met and then Crestwood funds thereafter to catch up.

Great. That's very helpful. And in terms of that JV entity, is there an opportunity to fund projects elsewhere, or is this particular entity just focused on this geography?

This joint venture, at this point in time for now, is focused on the broad Permian development opportunity that we have. I think clearly. with our commitment from First Reserve, they've got a strong interest and level of support for the partnership going forward. But for now, it really covers the totality of our Permian operations and allows us to really get that platform up and running in the 2016-2017 timeframe.

Okay. And then on the Delta pipeline, is that predicated on the gathering agreement going through, are they mutually dependent projects?

Yes. I think they're mutually independent. I think clearly, the rationale for Delta is that we are, as part of our 3-phase gathering system, we're aggregating a substantial amount of crude and compensate volume to a central location near Orla. And so, as part of that, we think having the large concentration of supply makes sense to have a header system that extends out of Orla and connects to multiple markets downstream.

So while I think – we certainly hope that both projects get over the finish line and get done. It is feasible that we move forward the gathering system and not the pipeline, lot of that is going to just depend on the market support.

And then the gathering system, is that a fairly competitive bidding process or is it is – where you kind of approach given your expertise and existing presence in the area?

Yes, I think it was a combination of both. I think, first, let me just kind of step back and just say that we are very excited about the opportunity set to expand our presence here in the basin. And as Bob mentioned, we've been at it for 2.5 to 3.0 years now and we're combining our experience up in the Bakken with crude pipelines along with our experience in Marcellus to stay ahead of aggressive producers.

And I think that combination of the skillset, plus the asset position that we had, has really lead us to the point where we are right now. So we are in exclusive negotiations with our anchor shipper; we will construct a 3-phase, 3-stream gathering supersystem, if you will, that is in the heart of the Delaware Wolfcamp and Bone Spring play. And that system is going to expand Reeves, Loving and Culberson County.

When we look at it in aggregate, as we announced, this system will blanket an area north of 400,000 acres and will include over 600 miles of crude, water and gas pipelines. So to get to the competitive nature of the business, I think what I would – the way I would answer it is, the design and scale of the gathering system, along with the substantial efficiencies that we see, and upfront planning of an integrated solution and simultaneous build-out of the three pipeline system not only will dramatically reduce our anchor producer's cost versus status quo, but provides an attractive rate of return for our shareholders and our joint venture partner, First Reserve.

So when you step out and you look at the Delaware Permian, there aren't many 3-stream supersystems out there, certainly none that are capable or have been built to handle a sizable Wolfcamp production plant. So as we build-out our system for anchor shipper, we believe there's a rich environment of third-party offset operators that will be looking improved netbacks. And so, we're contemplating that upfront and so our gathering system is being built for scale, and we think we'll be able to provide very cost-effective expansion opportunities to those offset operators.

Great.

And Andrew, this is Bob. Let me – before you get off the line, let me just add to your first question, and that is the nature and the flexibility of the joint venture with First Reserve. I want to take this opportunity to let people know that First Reserve is really stepping up for the company here. I think a lot of investors have wondered where they've been in the last couple of years in terms of supporting the company.

There's a wide range of different funding mechanisms that we're seeing come out in the market today, we've seen them from different types of companies to fund their growth projects in different ways. And this is another example of, we think, a very unique opportunity for First Reserve to show their support as general partner and make a long-term investment, which is the business that they're in, in a set of assets that they view based on their experience in this region as a great investment opportunity .

So in my mind, that joint venture with First Reserve answers a lot of questions about their long-term support for Crestwood, as well as the investment potential of this particular area and these gathering systems, oil terminals, and pipelines, oil pipelines that we are proposing to build for people. So, I hope that's not lost on investors that First Reserve is really stepping up.

The structure of the deal that Robert and the First Reserve team have put together really gives Crestwood a lot of flexibility, but still delivers a good return for everybody. So I hope that's not lost that this is a way for us to bring new capital into our overall structure and really be the tip of the spear in terms of investing upfront and making this deal really accretive for the Crestwood investors. So I hope First Reserve, our general partner, and Crestwood in general get some credit for how unique this structure is and how flexible it is and beneficial to the existing LPs in CEQP.

Yes. Great. That's very helpful color, Bob. I just have one more housekeeping question to close and on the new debt covenants 5.5 times, is that a permanent new level that was set or does that revert back down to 5.0 times at some point? And then what was the debt covenant leverage at quarter-end?

The 5.5 times is a permanent covenant. So total leverage ratio of 5.5 times is for the life of the facility. At quarter-end, our leverage ratio was 4.6 times.

Great. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from the line of J.R. Weston from Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Really nice development in the Delaware, with First Reserve. And I know this was kind of touched on a little bit already, but I just wanted to ask a little bit differently, so obviously Crestwood and First Reserve both have plenty of relationships with E&Ps to leverage. And I was just kind of wondering beyond the recent announcement, if there was another region where we could see some type of partnership with First Reserve, as CEQP gets a little more vertically integrated in some existing basins where they already have asset? Is there anything like that that looks attractive to you?

Yes, I mean, I think as we look out, obviously, we see some organic development around our Marcellus and Bakken position. But again, the First Reserve joint venture is really targeted on helping us get our Delaware Basin off the ground and running. As Robert alluded to though, I mean, I don't think we are – it is unique to necessarily just our gathering system or to our Delta project. For example, we announced in the press release that we've got a sizable processing opportunity just north of there in Eddy County, New Mexico, and we certainly think that the partnership and the joint venture will fund good solid projects really throughout the Permian Basin.

Okay, great. And then just kind of following up on that. I was wondering if you could talk at all about the cash flow, maybe as it materializes there in 2017, is that going to be pretty lumpy as these assets start up or will they kind of layer online, or maybe a little bit more of a linear volume growth ramp, or is it just too early to tell on some of that?

Yes, I think we are going to have to defer that answer a little bit down the road here. We feel like in the coming weeks and months, as we conclude our negotiations with our anchor shipper, we'll be in a better position to give more feedback to the market on that.

Okay. Great. And just one last question, kind of switching gears. I saw in the press release, you mentioned stronger volumes and operating performance at a couple of processing plants, Bucking Horse and Willow Lake. Just kind of wondering if you could provide any color on what drove the performance there and the volume growth, or is this part of your cost-cutting initiatives coming through, or something else driving operating performance? And then, that's all I had. Thanks.

I mean, I guess, I'll try to tackle that. I think, obviously, across the board, we've seen substantial reductions in our operating costs, both the fixed costs as well as the variable costs that are more associated with some of the production decline. So, I think that's definitely helped us maintain and improve margins across the business.

On the processing side, both at Jackalope and Willow Lake, I will kind of start with Jackalope. As you know, we placed our processing facility in service earlier in the year and have seen volumes ramp up throughout the summer months. So I think that's kind of driven third quarter results up in our joint venture in Wyoming with Williams.

And then at Willow Lake, likewise, I think what we've seen is a shift from what I would call Delaware Sands and Bone Spring-centric production around our Willow Lake footprint to Wolfcamp production. And with Wolfcamp, you are starting to see IPs north of 5 million a day and we're seeing quite a focus from our customers and operators around that asset.

So that's really what has driven us to fill the existing plant that we have and move forward with the RJT plan addition here in the first quarter of 2016. And when we look at the development plan and the activity, even despite current commodity prices, we still remain fairly bullish on our Delaware ranch plant expansion that, again, is roughly 120 million a day plant that we will move forward with when our customers provide the development plans for it, showing that that investment is needed.

So across the board in some of our higher plays across the Permian, we continue to see that activity level and expect to see increases in 2016.

Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Selman Akyol from Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning and congratulations on the repositioning. Couple quick questions for me. First of all, as it relates to the JV with First Reserves up to the $500 million, do you guys anticipate layering in debt at the JV over time as well?

Yes, Selman, I think that as we think about the development opportunities at the joint venture level, clearly there would be a focus from both parties long-term to optimize the capital structure of that joint venture for projects that that makes sense to do so on. I think that, upfront, we've got the equity support we need for the foreseeable capital around the projects. I think that's absolutely something we will entertain and consider to better optimize the capital structure and maximize capital availability to the joint venture.

All right. And then my other question is, as it relates to the Arrow system, in the press release you alluded to having a producer extending the gathering agreement up there with additional volume commitments. Did you guys offer any incentives to do that?

Yes. This is Heath here. We did. In fact, we worked in conjunction with our producer, like we have in multiple basins, to really kind of find that spot that would incentivize new drilling activity. So, the MVCs were largely set at kind of current production levels and then the incentive was out there to encourage additional rigs to move into the area to keep volumes well north of the MVC. So, there definitely was a reduction on the crude side of that equation. And it was, all things considered, we think it was a fairly modest reduction relative to the increased margin and volume growth that we expect to experience.

Great. Thanks so much and I appreciate all the color, especially as you addressed sort of the distribution going into 2016. Thanks again.

Okay. There appears there's no further questions right now. Mr. Phillips, would you like to make any closer remarks?

I would, operator, thanks. Again, thanks to all of the participants on the call today. It's a lot of information but we got a lot done in the third quarter. The future outlook looks particularly good now that we're restructured and re-situated to be more competitive. The Delaware Permian announcements I think reflect our ability to be competitive for basic midstream services even in a challenged market.

Customers still like to do business with companies that give them good, low-cost, safe operating services. And so, Crestwood is built on that concept. And I think our experience in multiple shale plays is coming together very nicely in the multi-faceted infrastructure opportunity that we have in the Delaware Permian.

Our general partner, First Reserve, has stepped up clearly to help support these new investments and through that they're supporting the entire enterprise and being a strong general partner in a way that's good for them and good for us, and provides Crestwood with a lot of flexibility financially to work our way through this downcycle without having to sell stock at a mispriced level. So, those are the positives from the quarter.

Let me just remind everybody that these assets continue to generate very consistent performance. Each quarter will have highs and lows, but the diversity of the portfolio and the fundamental basis of our fixed fee and take-or-pay contracts is what's driving stable cash flows, and we expect that to continue as Robert pointed out in 2016.

Our Gathering and Processing assets are located in exactly the right areas. And when you do the research and you look at the new production coming on, you can see in multiple locations that producers are making much better wells. We don't have to have as many rigs running. We don't have to complete and connect as many wells to keep volumes flat to up. And on the margin, if we see a slight improvement in gas, gas liquids and crude prices next year, as Robert pointed out, that's more than enough to offset the clients and give us growth in our portfolio.

Our Storage and Transport assets are absolutely located in the right area, whether it's the Northeast Marcellus or the Tres Palacios facility in South Texas. Those are long-term assets supported by long-term contracts with great credit-worthy customers. They have great value to us and they will continue to generate strong cash flows.

And kind of left out in this quarter, but not to be missed, is the tremendous job that our NGL supply and logistics team did with a very unique set of assets in the Northeast, that is now and will continue to take advantage of the big increase in NGLs coming out of the Marcellus Utica. And the combination of our truck, our rail, our storage and our terminal business as well as the relationships we have with producers, processors and fractionators in that region will enable us to continue to access supply and either store it and resell it domestically, or take it to markets and sell it into the international markets. So that's a growing area of the business and we really appreciate the great job they did in the third quarter and what they will bring to us in the fourth quarter.

So, operator, thanks again. And thanks to all of our investors for joining, and we look forward to talking to you after the fourth quarter. Thanks.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.