Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark G. Stockard — Head-Investor Relations, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Michael J. Campbell — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — President-Natural Gas, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Joel C. Lambert — Secretary, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
William H. Moore — Senior VP-Strategy & Corporate Development, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Gabe Philip Moreen — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Jeremy B. Tonet — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Michael J. Blum — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Ethan H. Bellamy — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Jeffrey T. Birnbaum — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Crestwood Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, August 6, 2014.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mark Stockard. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. We hope you got a chance to review our two news releases we issued this morning. This call is a joint call to discuss both Crestwood Midstream Partners and Crestwood Equity Partners.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during this call, we'll make certain forward-looking statements, as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, based on assumptions and information currently available to management. Although management believes that these expectations are reasonable, we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Please refer to our latest filings with the SEC for a list of factors that may cause actual results to differ.

In addition, we'll be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and distributable cash flow. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news releases that each of the partnership issued earlier this morning. These press releases are posted on the Investor Relations sections of our website at www.crestwoodlp.com. As a reminder, that information reported on this call speaks only as of today, August 6, 2014, and therefore, time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bob Phillips, Chairman, President and CEO of the General Partners of Crestwood Midstream and Crestwood Equity.

Thanks, Mark, and good morning. I know it's early, so thanks for all of you – to all of you for joining us. We had another very good quarter of growth at Crestwood. We had solid growth in all of the areas. Drilling, as you know, continues at a strong pace across the entire industry and certainly in the areas that we've invested capital. Drilling continues at a very strong pace. Our projects are now coming on-line, on schedule. Our operations teams are now delivering flow assurance to our customers, which was one of our four strategic pillars when we merged the companies last year.

Of course, we continue to suffer from some downstream constraints in some areas, but that's to be expected. And certainly, almost all the areas have been experiencing downstream constraints in the high growth shale plays. So, that will continue for the next couple of years as infrastructure gets built out in some of these plays.

We think our business is now running like we forecasted it would after the merger last year. Mike's going to cover all the details of the quarter. So I'm going to go directly to the growth areas and give you some color region-by-region.

Starting with the Marcellus, we had a very strong second quarter. Drilling, as I said, continues at a torrid pace by Antero in our southwest area and by the dry gas producers in our northeast area. We've got a great set of assets in the Marcellus, which we all continue to believe here will be the leading natural gas and liquids growth area for the country over the next five years or so. So we're pleased with our competitive position there.

Our gathering volumes hit a new record during the quarter. For a quarter average, we're currently running on our daily volume report, which is a nominations-based report. We're currently running in the 640 million to 650 million cubic feet a day range. I know Doc cringes when I give those numbers because they're not real accounting numbers, but it is the scorecard that we use to track our business on a daily basis and it comes directly from our measurement teams.

So we're pleased with where we are at about 640 million to 650 million cubic feet a day on the Antero gathering system, up substantially from our second quarter average and well along the way to our 750 million cubic feet a day forecasted exit rate for 2014. We certainly have completed the projects, which we outlined in the press release. Don't need to go into detail there, but Heath Deneke, who runs our gas business, is here to answer any questions that you might have about the gathering business or our storage and transport.

Storage and transport, I might highlight, had a great quarter in the second quarter, showing continued growth to dry gas supplies trying to get to the market, and it highlights how well-positioned our pipeline systems are in our storage facilities to serve that growing dry gas supply area in Northern Pennsylvania. We're very, very well-positioned to have that kind of volume growth and utilization of our assets during a shoulder quarter like the second quarter was quite surprising to us, and we're very pleased with that.

Go to the Bakken, our oil play is continuing to grow rapidly. We handled a total of 200,000 barrels a day in the quarter, another record for us, 200,000 barrels a day of crude oil. I think if there is an area in the country where our value change strategy is beginning to pay off, this is probably the area.

As you know, we have the Arrow gathering system. We acquired a trucking business, two trucking businesses during the first half of the year. We have pipeline system at COLT, which interconnects with all of the major pipelines, and we're negotiating with some of the new pipelines that have made announcements and plan to come to the area. And as we've said before, we continue to have the leading crude-by-rail loading facility in North Dakota. So I'm very pleased with our Bakken assets and our Bakken competitive position in the second quarter. Producers came back strong, obviously, in an effort to make up for lost time in the first quarter due to the winter.

We connected a lot of wells. During the quarter, the new wells, they're telling me, are now performing better than we had originally thought. We've got a lot of drilled but uncompleted wells behind the system or DUCs. We're catching up on our expansion projects, many of which will be completed in the third and fourth quarters and add substantially to volumes that are available by the producers. And we're expecting strong drilling activity in the second quarter of the year.

Oil prices are holding up well in that area. Producer economics continue to be strong. As we survey all of our producers, we see signs of increased development activity. Worthy to note that Whiting bought Kodiak during the quarter, and Kodiak has a substantial acreage position, and in that announcement, Whiting indicated they would be increasing drilling activity on the FBR, which is our area of dedication. So, lot of exciting things going there.

COLT continues to serve more customers. We started two new contracts in the first half of the year. The BNSF, our railroad is doing better about getting railcars in and out. We continue to be the leading CBR facility by volume in the Bakken and we have an important expansion project, probably the last one for a while. The third R&D track, which will enable us to bring a third unit train into the facility, to be on standby to load as soon as the first and the second trains move out. That will enable us to hit our design capacity of 150,000 barrels to 160,000 barrels a day of loading at the COLT facility.

Moving to the Powder River Niobrara, another area that, while it didn't perform particularly well in the second quarter due to downstream processing constraints at the Tallgrass Douglas facility, drilling continued. The DUC inventory continues to increase. Our new 120 million a day processing plant is on schedule for a fourth quarter in-service date. And we also got good news there from our producers, Chesapeake and RKI, the two producers dedicated to our system, announced an acreage swap that results in Chesapeake owning an increased amount of acreage and a higher net interest in that acreage on the area dedicated to our Jackalope system in our new Bucking Horse plant.

And as a result of that announcement, Chesapeake announced that the wells in that area were performing much better than expected and that they would likely increase their drilling activity as well in 2014. So we're looking forward to potentially a full plant when we put it in service and the possibility to start on a second plant expansion there with our joint venture partner Access in the Powder River Basin Niobrara.

The Barnett also had a very good quarter, a rebound quarter, if you will, with Quicksilver Resources increasing their drilling activity and also having some very good luck downhole on enhanced recovery techniques, and just generally, operating the field at lower pressures, which provides uplifted production. We saw our rich gas area flat quarter-over-quarter, which means that the work that they've done to improve production has offset the normal production decline.

More importantly, they have a rig running up in the northern dry gas area on our Alliance system. The wells that they're drilling up there, the Texas Motor Speedway wells, they announced are coming in far better than they thought. The exciting news there in addition to a big increase, almost a 25% increase in dry gas volumes quarter-over-quarter. The big news, recently, Quicksilver announced that they're going to have a much more aggressive drilling plan in 2014 – excuse me, 2015, and that is being supported by their two partners, Eni, the Italian national oil company, and Tokyo Gas, which bought a quarter of the field last year.

So we're very excited about Quicksilver's plans to improve volumes across our Barnett systems. Also point out that in that Quicksilver press release, they highlighted much lower well cost, much higher IPs and EURs, and as a result, very, very satisfactory 35% to 40% economics for the producer even at these gas prices. So we're excited about that.

So, that kind of covers the color on the regions. I think we're making good progress in all of our areas. Have a number of other projects that Heath would be happy to talk about. On the NGL side, I think we laid out the seasonal variation in the level of NGL business that we typically do. It's not unexpected that you go from a first quarter based on a record winter demand for LPG products and natural gas to have a pretty sizeable falloff in the second quarter.

Second quarter this year was a low demand period. As a result, NGL prices, specifically propane and butane, were both reduced and then went flat across the strip. That has an impact on people's interest in storing NGLs earlier in the season. And so we had a slowdown in activity, but we very much expect that NGL business to pick up in the third quarter and have a very, very strong fourth quarter, and we're well positioned to do that and get back on track with the earnings contribution from our NGL business which, as you know, is largely owned by CEQP.

I want to touch on three last items in the press release. One, a very important financing that we completed. We closed a $500 million long-term financing this quarter under very good terms for us. It covers our 2014 and a large part of our 2015 capital spend. Robert Halpin is here. He negotiated that deal. Happy to answer any questions that you might have about the terms of that preferred equity issuance.

Secondly is distribution coverage. As you know, we held distributions flat again for the second quarter in an effort specifically to improve our coverage ratio. This was a midyear strategy change for us, which we announced in an earlier call and made clear to our investors through our public information. And that strategy change was based on direct feedback that we got from our investors. They wanted to see a high-growth business, but they wanted to see quality earnings and an improving coverage ratio and a decreasing leverage ratio.

And so we've accomplished both of those this quarter, showing good improvement in our coverage ratio up to 0.96. In the second quarter, a pretty material decrease in our leverage ratio as a result of the preferred equity financing. And so we're pleased with that. We expect continued improvement in the second half of the year and hope to get back to a resumption of distribution increases sooner rather than later.

We know and understand that that decision at CMLP has an oversized impact on CEQP. We absolutely understand that and we've explained that, I think, in great detail in the CEQP press release. But I would also say that when we resume distributions, we'll simply catch up faster and that's the point that I'll make about CEQP. We understand that we have a temporarily low coverage ratio at CEQP. We're not happy about that, but we also know that when we resume distribution increases at CMLP, we'll simply catch up faster. It's just mathematical.

Finally, on the revision to guidance, we didn't want to make a revision to guidance after the first quarter. We wanted to at least get to the midpoint of the year and be able to reflect on what we've accomplished in the first half and then have a clear vision of what the actual operating assumptions will be in the second half of the year. We've now reached that point. So we lowered guidance slightly at CMLP to reflect both the tough first quarter and, as well, some challenges that we've had to get merger savings that we depended on and we included in our 2014 guidance, and we thought we would get those earlier in the year.

Let me just give you some color on that, things that we're working on, that we're getting done now, but expected to get done much earlier in the year. IT savings from rolling off of a almost exclusive outsourcing platform, we've gotten a lot of that done, but it really is kicking in midyear as opposed to the first of the year. HR savings from blending payroll and benefit systems, again, we're getting that done now. We're putting those plans in place. We're beginning to save money from our historical outsourcing cost. But we didn't get those things done at the beginning of the year, so we're not getting a full year benefit of that.

Truck operating expense reductions through a equipment replacement plan. Again, we thought we were going to get that kicked off earlier in the year. We've certainly gotten it kicked off. We expect to complete it by the end of the year, but we're not going to get that full-year run rate of reduced trucking and transportation operating expenses like we thought.

Same with supply chain and insurance consolidation savings through the integration. Again, we have plans in place. We've kicked those off. We're beginning to see meaningful reductions in cost associated with supply chain around a much larger spend. We just didn't get that done at the beginning of the year. And so we're not going to get a full year benefit of that. So those were the primary reasons for lowering guidance.

I think I've touched on all of the strategic issues, Mike, and given color around the regions. So I'll turn it over to you to cover the details of the quarter, and then we'll be happy to answer questions for the group. We also have Bill Gautreaux who runs our NGL and Crude business. Bill is on the line from Kansas City and happy to weigh in, to answer questions as well.

So, Mike, I'll turn it over to you.

Thanks, Bob. As with our normal practice, this morning, as Mark pointed out, we distributed two separate press releases; one for Crestwood Midstream or CMLP and a separate release for Crestwood Equity Partners or CEQP.

I'll first go through the results of operations for CMLP and then cover CEQP separately. As we've discussed in the past conference calls, we closed the merger of Inergy Midstream and Legacy Crestwood on October 7 of 2013. And as a result of that reverse merger accounting treatment, we report consolidated results of CMLP back to June 19 of last year, the date that Inergy Midstream and Legacy Crestwood came under common control.

In today's discussion, I'll be making comparisons between the second quarter and the first quarter of 2014 as well as some references back to the third quarter of 2013, which represents the first quarter where we presented full period combined merger results. These comparisons provide better context, as the prior year's second quarter numbers include only the operations of Legacy Crestwood.

Moving on to the results for CMLP, in the second quarter of 2014, CMLP reported adjusted EBITDA of approximately $109.7 million, an 11% increase from the first quarter 2013 and a 29% increase over the third quarter of 2013. As Bob said, our results in the second quarter continue to reflect volume growth in each of our reporting segments and increased contribution to quarter-over-quarter adjusted EBITDA results.

In the gathering and processing segment, gathering volumes averaged just over 1.2 billion cubic feet a day, the compression volumes averaged 471 million cubic feet a day. In the storage and transportation segment, volumes averaged 1.69 billion cubic feet a day, and in our crude oil business segment, we gathered at Arrow and loaded across the rail rack at COLT an average of 167,000 barrels a day of crude, gathered 29 million cubic feet a day of natural gas, and 19,000 barrels a day of produced water.

Our reported results in the second quarter include a $6.5 million non-cash accrual for the Antero earnout, a $5.2 million of non-cash equity based compensation expense, and $1.5 million of significant transaction-related expenses.

As of June 30, 2014, we have fully accrued the Antero earn-out. As we've discussed in the past, the $40 million earn-out is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2015 and relates to the original 2012 acquisition agreement with Antero. That agreement stipulated that as Antero produced – gathering volumes exceeded certain hurdles over the 2012 through 2014 timeframe the earn-out would be paid.

Now turning to the EBITDA contribution of each of our three segments... In the gathering and processing segment, EBITDA, excluding the non-cash accruals for the Antero earn-out, totaled $51 million in the second quarter compared to $48.2 million in the first quarter of 2014. The higher results in the second quarter were due to increased Marcellus gathering volumes, which increased 10% over the first quarter to 585 million cubic feet a day; increased Barnett gathering volumes, which increased 13% over the first quarter to 439 million cubic feet a day; and increased compression volumes in the Marcellus, which increased approximately 5%.

Gathering volumes in our other operating areas declined approximately 22 million cubic feet a day in aggregate due primarily to natural production decline rates and downstream third-party scheduled maintenance in our Niobrara systems.

Looking forward to the third quarter, we continue to see increased gathering and compression volumes in the Marcellus. As discussed, gathering volumes averaged 655 million cubic feet a day for the month of July and compression volumes averaged approximately 555 million cubic feet a day, reflecting the addition of the Stark compressor station, which we brought on line in July, and that added about 55 million cubic feet a day of capacity to our eastern area of dedication.

Moving on to the storage and transportation segment, EBITDA totaled $37.8 million, a 3% increase over the first quarter, reflecting continued strong demand for storage and transportation services due to increased Marcellus production and favorable basis differentials along our pipeline systems. EBITDA for this segment increased approximately 13% since the third quarter of 2013.

In the NGL and crude services segment, EBITDA reported for the second quarter increased to $34.7 million, representing a 32% increase over the first quarter of 2014. The higher EBITDA reflects a $4.7 million increase attributed to higher gathering volumes of crude natural gas and produced water on the Arrow system, a $3.2 million increase due to higher crude oil floating volumes at the COLT Hub, and approximately $1.3 million contribution during the second quarter from our newly acquired trucking operations in the Bakken.

Again, volumes on our Arrow system improved significantly in the second quarter, following the extremely cold weather that we experienced in the first quarter. Looking at the crude volumes at Arrow, those increased to 56,000 barrels a day, representing a 27% increase over the first quarter. Natural gas volumes increased to 29 million cubic feet a day, a 44% increase over the first quarter, and produced water volumes increased approximately 53% from the first quarter.

At the COLT Hub, rail loading volumes increased substantially in the second quarter, with loading volumes averaging approximately 112,000 barrels a day, a 14% increase over the prior quarter. We continue to expect volumes to increase in the second half of 2014 when construction of our additional release to departure track at the facility is completed. The facility is contracted with take-or-pay commitments totaling approximately 150,000 barrels a day. So we expect volumes will continue to grow to at least this level when the additional track is completed and will provide increased operating flexibility to our customers.

We've been pleased with the addition of the Red Rock and LT trucking operations that we acquired this year. Crude oil and water transportation volumes averaged about 36,000 barrels a day in the quarter. And while we only owned those businesses for a partial quarter, again, they contributed about $1.3 million increase to EBITDA in the second quarter.

In the corporate area, which includes general and administrative expenses not allocated to our operating segments, expenses totaled $21.3 million in the second quarter compared to $24.1 million in the first quarter. The decrease was primarily attributable to transaction expenses incurred in the first quarter related to the Arrow acquisition and the merger. Excluding the transaction cost and non-cash equity compensation expenses, corporate expenses were about – just shy of $1 million higher than in the first quarter, primarily due to increased personnel expense.

Now turning to the distributable cash flow of CMLP, in the second quarter 2014, DCF totaled $81.5 million. The 16% increase in DCF for the quarter was due primarily to the $10.8 million increase in adjusted EBITDA, $2.7 million of increased cash received on deficiency payments, related to the minimum volume commitments, and that was partially offset by a $2 million increase related to the timing of some of our maintenance capital spending.

On August 14, CMLP will pay a $0.41 per unit quarterly distribution to unitholders of record as of August 7, and our DCF coverage ratio was 0.96 times for the second quarter, which continues to show improved coverage, as we've discussed in this morning's press release.

Now, moving on CEQP... As a reminder, in all of our SEC reporting, CEQP consolidates CMLP results. In addition, similar to CMLP's discussion, results included in this morning's CEQP news release reflect the combined merged operations of Inergy and Crestwood subsequent to June 19 of last year.

In my discussion again of CEQP, I will be comparing second quarter of 2014 results to the first quarter of 2014 for context. We reported consolidated adjusted EBITDA of $117.7 million for the second quarter of 2014 compared to the adjusted EBITDA of $116.6 million in the first quarter.

To calculate CEQP's stand-alone operations, adjusted EBITDA, which includes our NGL supply and logistics operations in the Tres Palacios storage business, we subtract the reported adjusted EBITDA from CMLP of $109.7 million to arrive at approximately $8 million of adjusted EBITDA attributable to the stand-alone operations of CEQP in the second quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA for CEQP stand-alone operations was approximately $17.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. Again, that decline reflecting the seasonality largely in our business. CEQP's adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter included a $12 million contribution from the NGL supply and logistics business and an adjusted EBITDA loss of $2.3 million from the Tres Palacios storage operations, and $1.1 million of corporate expenses, excluding transaction costs and non-cash equity-based compensation expense.

The $9.7 million decrease from the first quarter was made up of approximately $6.3 million decrease from our NGL supply and logistics business due to the, again, the seasonal nature of that operation in the second and third quarters as compared to the first and fourth quarters of each year, and a $3.6 million decrease attributable to lower utilization and storage rate at the Tres Palacios facility. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in corporate expenses, as we've discussed.

Now turning to the DCF of CEQP, distributable cash flow attributable to CEQP totaled $13.4 million in the second quarter compared with $19.7 million in the first quarter. The decrease was due to the lower adjusted EBITDA, as we've discussed, and again, the timing of certain maintenance capital spending attributable to our CEQP assets. On August 14, CEQP will pay a $0.1375 per unit cash distribution to unitholders of record on August 7.

Before we go to the questions, let me just briefly touch on our capital spending and balance sheet liquidity at both CEQP and CMLP. During the first half of 2014, CMLP's growth capital spending and joint venture contributions totaled approximately $191 million. And we continue to estimate the growth capital spending to between $400 million and $425 million for the full year of 2014. Substantially, all of our growth capital for 2014 is expected to be at the CMLP entity.

As of June 30, CMLP had approximately $412 million drawn on our $1 billion revolving credit facility, and our debt-to-adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our credit facility, was about 4.6 times. As of June 30 at CEQP, we had approximately $404 million drawn on our $550 million revolving credit facility, and a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at CEQP, as defined in that credit facility, was about 4.1 times.

As Bob touched on and as we've announced in June, we issued $300 million of Class A preferred units and received a commitment of an additional $200 million of Class A units that we expect to be issued through and before September 30 of 2015. This strategic equity capital commitment provides us substantial liquidity and the financial flexibility to complete our growth capital projects through the remainders of 2014 and into 2015.

Additionally, our registration statement for the ATM program that we've discussed in the past became effective recently. So we now have ample equity channels to effectively fund our growth capital program. And we remain committed to building that financial flexibility and long-term balance sheet strength by managing leverage and liquidity targets.

So I think that concludes my remarks. So I think, operator, with that, we will go to the Q&A.

Certainly. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Gabe Moreen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. On the Barnett incentive tariff with Quicksilver, I'm just kind of wondering if you can talk a little bit more about your expectations on volume, what you I guess feel Crestwood is going to be getting from that, that arrangement I think to lower the tariff for Quicksilver and whether they've kind of given you additional commitments or extended the duration of that relationship?

Yeah. Hi, it's Heath Deneke here. So – yeah, hopefully, let me know if you can hear me okay. But generally, we negotiated the incentive fee structure really to incentivize Quicksilver to add a rig into the Barnett rich area of our system. Now they currently run into rig in the dry gas areas. With the incentive fee reduction that we've provided for them, they have secured a contract with another rig through mobilizing to the area and we expect them to do that later this year.

So our expectations are over the next two years, we will see rig activity in the area. They have at least advised us that up to 12 new wells are likely to be drilled in the first half of next year and completed in the first half of next year. And so from that standpoint, we think it's a good deal for Crestwood.

The other portion of that incentive fee structure is that Quicksilver will be responsible for any capital costs associated with connecting those wells. So we kind of view any new wells under this limited incentive fee program will really come to us – on the margin will just be pure straight to the bottom line in terms of additions to revenues.

Okay. Got it. And then my second question has to do with the preferred and just thinking I guess two-fold. One is sort of timing on drawing down the rest of the equity there between now and 3Q 2015? And then also in thinking about your coverage ratio on when you want to resume distribution growth. Should we be thinking about cash distribution coverage being at 1x on a cash basis or also inclusive of the PEC securities?

Sure, Gabe. First, to your first question on the preferred equity and the commitment and when we plan to draw on that going forward, I think as Mike pointed out, we drew $300 million of that $500 million commitment at closing. The balance of the $200 million – I think a fair assumption will be that we will draw that in pretty steady course up until the 09/30/2015 timeframe. If you think about our capital plans, as Mike pointed out, in the 2014 timeframe, we're still looking at $400 million to $425 million of total growth capital. I think that we will be pretty steady in terms of our utilization of the preferred between now and the ultimate commitment in September of 2015.

Gabe, in reference to your second question, this is Mike, relative to, I believe, coverage in resumption of distribution growth at CMLP, we continue to be confident in the continuation of our adjusted EBITDA growth and DCF growth throughout the remainder of the year.

And as we see it, really in the back half of the year, we see ourselves covering distributions on an exit rate in the fourth quarter at – in excess of 1.1 times and from a 2014 perspective on an LTM basis, covering distributions at 1 time. And so our goal is to see a continuation of that improvement in coverage and then the ultimate resumption of distribution growth at CMLP is driven by our desire to get over 1 times coverage.

Got it. Thanks, guys.

Our next question will come from Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.

Good morning.

Good morning, Jeremy.

Just wanted to check on the guidance reduction that you talked about here. It seems to me that this kind of reflects kind of one-time weakness in the beginning of 2014 and not really kind of a change to where you think the baseline earnings or a forward trajectory of the businesses. Is that the right way to think about things here?

Jeremy, I think that's a fair assessment. Again, the first half of 2014 I think is reflective and reflected in our additional guidance as well. We remain confident in the continuation of growth in our businesses throughout the back half of the year, and I think that's a fair characterization.

Great. And then just one last one. Bob, I was wondering if you might be able to comment on any updated thoughts on backlog of organic growth opportunities that you guys might be able to capitalize on given your footprint.

Well, we have several regions that we're working aggressively with our BD people, but it's the same regions that we operate in today in the Marcellus. The big opportunities there are around our northeast storage and transportation assets. We continue to be just overwhelmed with the amount of new supplies that producers are currently drilling and plan to drill over the next year or so, as gas prices firm up in that area.

As you know, every time there is a new project, it builds up immediately and there is continued drilling and then we've got basis differentials. And so there is this continuing need for infrastructure development. We're right in the middle of the play. We had a very effective open season starting in March, closing in May. We announced in this press release signed almost 120 million a day of new customers. In addition to that, some of those customers signed up for additional capacity and extended the term of their existing agreements.

So, having said that, we're in very good position in that area to build another couple of expansions. We don't have anything to report right now, but I know the team is in active negotiations both to expand the existing facilities further through compression heads as well as laying new pipe in that area. So we'll wait until we have something to announce.

In the Bakken, we finally have a wellhead to burner tip midstream value chain. I didn't get a chance to mention it in my color and it's not really evident from the press release unless you add all the crude volumes up, you can see that we have a gathering system now moving about 65,000 barrels a day. We've got a trucking business moving probably 30,000 barrels to 40,000 barrels a day on any day.

We just took out 10 million of day of firm capacity on Tesoro to physically link Arrow and COLT. We are adding pipeline expansions and gathering expansions to our COLT Hub pipeline facility. And then, of course, we've got the final phase one expansion of the R&D track to get us up to the full 160,000 barrels a day. So, when you add all that, what we did in the second quarter was almost entirely Bakken barrels. We had 10,000 barrels a day, roughly moved down in our Douglas terminal in PRB Niobrara, but about 190,000 barrels a day of kind of wellhead to burner tip type activity.

From that, we expect to see continued expansions around the Arrow system to the south of the river to the south of the lake, expanding to the north and to the west for other producers that may be in other areas but looking for an alternative outlet. We see the opportunity to expand tankage in that area. There's simply not enough tankage. So we have a tank project going where we're going to provide our Arrow producers with a significant amount of tankage and allow much more flexibility in getting all the barrels to market on a daily basis as opposed to what we've all experienced in the past six months, and that is almost a day-to-day downstream constraint on one of the takeaway pipelines. So we've got that project working as well, and that should improve profitability through the system.

In the Powder River Basin Niobrara, we really are beginning to feel like, particularly with the Chesapeake announcement, that our plant project is going to be full roughly on day one and we're going to move directly to a second plant project.

Heath, do you want to comment on that? You know more about that than I do.

Yeah. I think that's right. We expect to have the first plant in during the fourth quarter and the combination of inventory plus our plant will be more efficient from an NGL recovery standpoint. We'd expect the plant to virtually fill up during the – in the initial few days of operations. And beyond that, as Bob mentioned, Chesapeake and their recent announcement where they acquired RKI's interest in the southern area within our Jackalope area of dedication that they announced an increase in rigs are currently running three today, have a pretty large set of drilled but uncomplete wells and have announced that they may increase rig count up to 5 to 7 from where they are at current levels.

So I think all of that activity, if we fill up our plant, would suggest that we think we'll have another plant expansion opportunity as well. And in addition to Chesapeake in the Powder River, in our operating footprint, we are seeing pickup from other drilling E&P companies in the area as well that might help support another expansion. So, nothing firm to commit to at this point, but we definitely see the good prospects there.

Well, we've got roughly 60 million a day moving through the system now. I know it's a little bit less on the second quarter average, but the only processing plant in the area had a lot of downtime and unscheduled maintenance and downstream NGL constraints during the second quarter. So we really should be on about a run rate of 60 million to 65 million a day. Chesapeake's got 47 DUCs that just came out of their – I think yesterday's second quarter announcement, they got 47 DUCs.

These wells are coming on better than we'd originally thought. So the combination of the current drilling rig rate for the next six months or so plus the 47 DUCs – I mean, mathematically, fills up the plant on day one, if you get flush production and all those wells are completed at the same time. So I think with the optimistic view that Chesapeake has about the acreage, their increased net working interest in the acreage and the lower cost; that was another important part of the announcement was they've significantly lowered their well cost down to a much more manageable level, which gives them higher producer economics. We think we're going to be on track for potentially a second plant. And these are large scale plants and a big opportunity for us to be part of the infrastructure solution out there.

So, Jeremy, we can go on and on. We've got a project in the Delaware Permian that we're just getting up and running. We completed the plant, the processing plant in the second quarter or in July. And the producers are just now starting to ramp up drilling. They had not pre-drilled wells or completed DUCs or drilled but uncompleted wells like they do in a lot of other regions. They went off, they took the rigs to another area and now they're back.

And so they're going to start their drilling program in September. We expect that plant to be filled up reasonably quick given the very impressive initial IPs from the Bone Spring and the Wolfcamp wells that are being drilled in that area. And that might also lead to a second plant expansion in that area.

I know the BD teams are working with producers trying to go ahead and get that project underway. So that's four areas that frankly we've got a very full 2015 capital program already, and if we can add any of those to it, then I think we're going to use up that preferred equity capital that Robert and Mike raised in the second quarter. So I feel very positive about our growing book of business in 2015 and on.

That's all very helpful. Thanks for the color.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question will come from Michael Blum with Wells Fargo.

Hey. Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Michael.

Two questions. Just on the delay in capturing the full cost saving synergies from the merger, when would you – what quarter would you expect to kind of be at a full run rate in terms of capturing that? And where would corporate G&A – it's obviously been trending down, but where would that sort of settle out, do you think?

I think the quarter that I expect to be at run rate is 4Q. That's when we've had roughly a full quarter on our new IT platform, which reduces a substantial number of collective outsourcing contracts for our entire IT platform. Remember, IT in a gathering business is not just a helpdesk and desktop services. We have a massive set of SCADA systems and measurement polling systems that interconnect with all of our wellhead delivery points, a couple of thousand at this point in time. So the ability to roll that all into one coordinated system has been quite a challenge for us, but we're making good progress on that. Server consolidation and things like that, we didn't get those original contracts terminated until midyear. We're now on the new contracts. And so we're starting to see some cost savings relative to our pro forma pre-merger expenses.

Same thing on HR. Our consolidation of our payroll system is largely going to be complete by the fourth quarter, and so we'll begin to see cost savings there. One of the larger items that I mentioned was the replacement of our trucking fleet. We have a substantial number of trucks from the former Inergy. Many of them were aged, with increasing maintenance expense and increasing operating expense. I think we have replaced approximately 100 out of about 400 at this point in time. So, we're about a quarter of the way through. We expect to get completely through that replacement sometime by the end of the year. So, again, I think that's a fourth quarter occurrence.

And then supply chain is an ongoing process. The more we spend, the more we had expected to save relative to pre-merger cost. And I think that we'll be in better position by the end of the year than we certainly are today. We just brought in a new executive within the last 30 days to manage that business and get us back on track on the expected cost savings.

Having said that, I'm kind of – at the run rate of about $3 million a quarter in terms of what we think that we can get done once we get to that point, I think that will be a substantial savings against the backdrop of knowing that our company is growing, and it's growing substantially. And we're growing regionally and geographically, and we're growing in areas such as project management and business development that frankly we didn't contemplate when we reported the original 2014 budget. So we have had – it's indisputable. We've had increased employee cost in compensation and benefits and increased back office costs associated with just simply a growing business.

So, as I've done many times in my career, you have to think of pro forma cost savings on a snapshot basis. There was a point in time in which we were going to merge these two companies and we looked at the infrastructure and we felt like we could save $15 million a year or so at that point in time when we took a snapshot of the business. And we're still measuring that and we still have a scorecard and we're still reporting to our board on a quarterly basis what those cost savings are pro forma to the original combination of the two businesses. But having said that, the company is growing as well. So it's a little bit of apples and oranges, but I would expect a $3 million a quarter run rate by the fourth quarter.

Okay. So if I'm hearing you right, that $21 million – the $24 million that went to $21 million could drop by another $3 million then net of any increase basically in the overall business?

That's exactly right. Net of any increase in the overall base business. That's correct.

Okay, great. Okay, helpful. Thank you. And then you had put out a presentation kind of around NAPTP with some volume guidance and other sort of metrics. Is that all still valid or should we – is there an updated version of that we should look for?

You mean the five-year plan?

Yeah.

The volumes – the slide showing the volumes ramping up over the next five years on a dry gas and rich gas basis.

Yeah. And also, you had them by systems for Arrow, for example, for the year.

Yeah. Hey, Michael. I think that the short answer to that is this is kind of in line with Jeremy's question from earlier. But I think that the outlook from volume perspective across all of our systems is still intact with that presentation. I think that if you look at the guidance provision, kind of what Jeremy's question alluded to, it's more a function of kind of what's happened in the first half of the year and some of the delays in the first quarter attributable to weather and the downstream constraints in the second quarter. And so I think from a volumetric perspective, in the back half of 2015, that's still good information and in line with the guidance that we provided in back half of 2014 – sorry, back half of 2013.

Okay. Thank you. And then last question, just any updated thought on Tres and the ultimate plan to move those assets down to CMLP and anything else you're thinking about in terms of what you can do to improve the performance of that business.

Yes. I'll answer the strategic question regarding the dropdown and then Heath can chime in with any updates he feels are relevant, about the actual management of the business right now and where the market is. Obviously, the market's not in a good position. It has not improved dramatically. Since we've really got our head around the business in the third quarter of last year, we've looked at a lot of different scenarios for how to improve value. We certainly have the two most important cost-reducing opportunities in play right now.

We've still not heard from the FERC but expect to relatively soon, and still feel highly confident that our abandonment application will be approved as is, and that will result in a significant decrease in operating expense next year. As well, we're making good progress with the local taxing authorities and hope to have a settlement sometime in the second half of the year that will result in additional cost savings in 2015. So, both of those are important on the cost side.

From a dropdown standpoint, we're still not ready to drop Tres. We want Tres to stabilize, and we want to be able to show in good conscience through our conflict committee process, which would be required for a dropdown between CEQP and CMLP. We want to show a positive five-year outlook to base the valuation on. We just simply still don't feel like we're there.

We think that the business has likely bottomed and that we're very optimistic about how things are going to improve over time, particularly given the draw of the Mexican gas demand and the LNG facilities. But as you know, that demand increase really doesn't ramp up for a couple of years. So we'd like to stabilize the business now in the current market, add some value to it. And we're working on a number of transactions that are absolute value-adders, including converting some of those caverns to NGL service, as an example.

We're just simply not ready to announce anything. To the extent that we can add some value through some contract additions or some other pieces of business, maybe even non-traditional lines of business, then I think we'll have better visibility to valuation and a better valuation will enable our conflicts committees to run a process that makes sense for both partnerships. And at that point in time, we'll be ready to drop it down. The NGL business, of course, is just simply on a seasonal decrease right now. It will bounce back up in the winter. Heath, do you want to talk about the current market for Tres?

Yeah. I think I would add – I think you covered the longer-term outlook that we continue to view very positively as demand continues to grow both from LNG exports, Mexican demand, as well as just general increases in industrial and power generation demand in the regional market. But as we re-guided here in 2014 for the rest of the year, a couple things I would point out. I mean, one, we are not forecasting a material improvement in those market conditions for the rest of the year, and so we're – I think there is some upside particularly around wheeling and short-term firm storage services as we get to the winter quarter. And so I think that's a potential uptick relative to where we've guided, but again, not reflected in the re-guided amounts.

And the second thing I would point out is just on the cost savings side. While we are hopeful and expecting a FERC order sometime in the second half of the year, we have not reflected incremental cost savings in 2014 as a result of that as well. So, again, if we were to get a favorable ruling, there's a potential to see some increase or some savings realized in the second half of the year. But for the most part, we're thinking we're pretty well set up for a rebound to some degree in 2015.

Great. Thank you very much, everybody.

Michael, let me just add one thing to that. Let me be clear. We absolutely intend to move towards a dropdown as soon as we think that it's prudent for both CEQP and CMLP. We continue to work aggressively to find partners or customers that feel the same way that we do, and that is that this is a very unique set of circumstances that it is going to change and it's going to change rapidly once it starts changing, once that market starts balancing down there. We are going to find those partners and/or customers that feel the same way we do about the long-term value of the Tres Palacios asset. Once we do that, then we're going to move quickly to drop those assets down into CMLP.

So our strategy has not changed. We've just been delayed due to the persistent imbalance of gas supplies and demand in South Texas and largely along the Gulf Coast. It's not any different than any other facilities down there that had long-term contracts that started expiring over the last 12 months or so. And we certainly fall into that category. That was just a quirk of timing as to when those original contracts were put in place back when Inergy purchased the asset from the developer.

Having said that, we know that there are some precedent transactions out there where similarly situated storage facilities are starting to sell to buyers. And we think that at a fair price, at market value, when we think that that is a very positive trend and we think that's going to add some value to our efforts around Tres over the second half of this year. But we still very much plan to complete a dropdown sometime next year as soon as we can stabilize the valuation on Tres, and we think it's coming.

Thanks, Bob.

Okay.

We'll move next to Ethan Bellamy with Baird Financial.

Hey, guys. Good morning. What's the financial exposure, if any, from the brine spill?

We're investigating that right now. We're actually about to report to our board. Joel Lambert, our General Counsel, is here. He's been managing both the investigation as well as the negotiations with the insurance companies. So I'll let Joel give you a quick update on that.

Yeah. That's great. Thanks, Bob. The brine spill, we reported it to our insurance carriers immediately when we found out about it. We have a $200,000 deductible on that policy, and we believe we ultimately will be able to recover beyond the deductible all of our remediation costs related to that.

Okay. So, no big reserves or anything like that coming?

That's correct.

Okay. That's good. And Bob, obviously, one of the more interesting things that's come up lately has been the Devon-Crosstex transaction. Is that type of transaction something that you are actively pursuing or interested in accomplishing for CEQP?

It is, Ethan. And I think we've been pretty vocal and very – pretty public about that. Crestwood is uniquely positioned because Inergy was uniquely positioned before we merged with two public stocks, a GP and an LP. So, clearly, we recognize the inherent value created by Devon and Crosstex on their combination. I just saw that they had another announcement, which effectively is part of the dropdown story.

And so, if we could somehow reconfigure Crestwood into a dropdown story with a world-class partner like Devon who kind of perpetually created midstream MLP qualifying assets, that would be a strategic transformation for us and certainly it's an option that we thought about and it's the type of transaction we've had discussions with potential partners on.

We don't have anything imminent to report, but I think we've been pretty clear that if there's a producer or a utility out there that fits that characterization of being, number one, committed to building a midstream franchise; number two, understands the power of dropdown economics particularly through the GP or through ownership of CEQP, if you will; and number three, is an investment grade credit because we know that's important to us as well. As we compete for these large-scale infrastructure projects, our cost to capital is going to be increasingly important to us to create value for our investors. So those are the three elements that we're looking for, and we certainly have our head up and we're looking around right now but haven't found the perfect partner yet.

Got it. That's helpful. One last question. You added a crude oil marketing team in Denver. Has that added value, and are they adding any risk?

It is beginning to add value and they're not adding any risk because they're all back-to-back sales. The reason for the crude oil marketing team out of Denver, which, by the way we liberated from Shell, and so they are a very experienced team, particularly in the Rocky Mountains. They have been in the Rockies both as sellers of lease crude and buyers on behalf of refineries for a number of years. So they know the Bakken region, they know the Powder River Niobrara region and the Rockies in general. And that's the reason why we identified and went after those specific individuals.

It's a small team. Our expectations are fairly low in the first half of this year. They're starting to make solid purchases, largely focused around our existing assets. Their first transaction was actually purchasing Arrow crude off of the system, downstream and trying to enhance both the price for the Arrow producers as well as add a little margin downstream before the crude actually got all the way to the refinery.

And so I think July was our first month there and I just sat through a meeting yesterday, in which it was abundantly clear to me that that crude marketing team did, in fact, enhance the net-back price for the Arrow producers. So that was their first criteria and we're pleased that they did that. It's a fairly small volume initially. We're now looking at areas in the Bakken as well as in the Powder River Basin to add truck injection points along existing pipeline systems. That's an important element of the strategy because we also acquired 48,000 barrels a day of trucking capacity in the Bakken and we're beginning to move trucks into the Powder River Niobrara as well. So this crude marketing team, which will be focused on not only enhancing the Arrow volumes and the volumes that we have under contract in the Powder River Basin, but they're also going to be enhancing and working with our trucking division.

One final note, you might recall that last year we announced we had purchased two unit trains to use for proprietary business. We expected at that time to be able to use those unit trains at the COLT Hub to take up additional capacity. I think the reality is now that our capacity is full at COLT and we're likely going to be using those unit trains in other areas such as our Douglas crude-by-rail loading facility down in the Powder River Niobrara where we're expanding from about 10,000 barrels a day to about 20,000 barrels a day.

So the crude marketing team not only is looking for leased barrels particularly from the producers that we are gathering for, but as well, they're going to be there to enhance the value for the Arrow producers, to the extent necessary, bring additional barrels into COLT, but right now we're fully contracted at COLT, and then finally, to enhance the value and use our trucking business and our two new unit trains that we'll begin to receive in the first quarter of 2015.

So it's a low-volume business right now. There is no risk at all because these are back-to-back transactions with local Rockies refiners that those guys have had good relationships with over the years. And so I think it's an optimization move. It's not likely to move the needle, but it's all part of our value chain plan to control as many barrels as we can and try to get as many margins on those barrels as we can while improving economics for our producers so that they'll drill more and our customers so that they'll buy more from us.

Appreciate that comprehensive answer. Thanks a lot, Bob. Have a good day.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question will come from Jeff Birnbaum with UBS.

Morning, everyone. Sorry for – just kind of I know we're going over a bit here, so I'll try to make it quick. Two quick questions. On COLT, volumes are certainly improving. I know it's kind of difficult to estimate, but any idea on maybe a range of MVCs you think you might realize in the back half of the year? I mean, do you think that the 2Q numbers are good run rate or is that likely headed higher?

By MVCs, you mean the take-or-pay contracts that we have with the companies -

Yes.

– that load at COLT? Okay. So I think the easy answer is we're well above the MVC levels. They're not really MVCs. They're take-or-pays. And our largest volume commitment there or take-or-pay commitment is our contract with Tesoro. Tesoro clearly has the ability to load well more than their 60,000 barrel a day take-or-pay contract. So, from our point of view, we're well past that at this point in time. We do have some historical deficiencies that we build that we expect to collect in the second half of the year. And I think we noted that in the press release as an addition to distributable cash flow.

But this is an ongoing process in the Bakken. We highly value our contract with Tesoro. We're working very hard to make sure that they, as our primary customer, are getting the kind of service that they contracted for. But I think as a practical matter, we're above the minimum levels at this point in time. So there really should not be any new take-or-pay contract deficiencies going forward.

To the extent there are, it's likely to be caused by a downstream constraint or simply poor service by the railroad that prohibits the customer from getting their railcars in there. We certainly have the ability to load right now over 150,000 barrels a day because we've actually had days within the last month or two where we've loaded more than 150,000 barrels a day.

So it's not the loading capacity that is the constraint or causes the MVC or the take-or-pay deficiency. It's literally the ability of the customers to get their trains there on time and to get the railroad to take them away. So that's probably more than you wanted to know, but I think from an operational standpoint, we view ourselves as being – of having the operational capacity well above the MVC. So there should not be a continuing growth of deficiency payments that we're trying to collect.

Yeah. Thanks, Bob. That's very helpful. And then the one other question I had, on Arrow, I mean, it looks like we're getting close to about 50% utilization on some of those assets, even factoring kind of when the current expansion is completed in 2015. And as you mentioned, 3Q run rates are even a little sequentially ahead of 2Q producer M&A certainly could help as well. So, how are you thinking about – at what point you'd start committing capital to additional expansions there?

This is Will. I think when you look at the way the contracts are set up there, most of the additional capital up there that's needed for the expansion is actually paid by the producers in terms of additional well connect. The base system is already in place. And it's just a matter of optimizing around that base system with incremental capital for a compression on the gas side or possibly looping on the crude and water side of the infrastructure that's out there.

And so, we see as we exit 2014, moving into 2015, the volume growth that you're seeing quarter-over-quarter already, we expect that to continue. But also the – kind of the operational leverage that we have there and the returns that are generated by the capital that's already invested in the ground today increases over time.

So I think that the overall theme is we're behind a little bit coming out of the first half of the year. But already through July and in the first part of August, we're seeing volumes come more in line with our expectations. We have to spend a little capital to optimize the system to make sure we're capturing all the volumes that are available to the system. But we're in the process of doing that today and expect that to be complete and ongoing as volumes ramp up over the next six months to 18 months.

Will, I think specifically, we have two compression projects underway right now for the gas system and then three line loop projects, which should help all three products.

That's right. And those are all expected to be completed the line looping the third quarter and then the compression in the fourth quarter.

Yeah. We didn't get a chance to mention this, but we think we're on track for about 90 well connects by the end of this year, which is really kind of spot-on to where we bought the business back in November and where we thought we were going to be. Importantly, the wells are better wells than we thought and IP and 30-day production is actually much stronger than it was just six months ago when we observed in due diligence the completion of wells in the third quarter and fourth quarter of last year. So the producers are doing a much better job on their completions.

These are all multi-well pads now. And the IP rates on these wells are sufficient that we think we're kind of at a sustainable 65,000 barrel a day run rate right now, but heading north pretty quickly over the next couple of months as several large pads come on, which should put us right into about October, November when we're going to start talking to our producers about our 2015 plan. And at that point in time, we should see their drilling programs for 2015.

And our guess right now, based on our current intelligence is that we're going to be actually connecting more wells next year than we did this year. So we're in a constant state of evaluating system capacities for crude, gas and water, and they're all three in different phases right now. But the good news is we're seeing steady growth for all three commodities, and we're seeing – and this is really important. We're seeing material increases in downstream takeaway for these as well.

The crude has been a constant problem over the last six months because the three downstream pipelines, almost on a daily basis, have some type of curtailment or constraint or upset that causes us to need to store in the field larger volumes than we originally had designed for. That's the reason for the big tank project there at the Arrow CDP.

Importantly, ONEOK, if you follow ONEOK, has announced numerous expansion projects, both on their gas pipeline system as well as their processing complex. And so we think that's going to alleviate any downstream constraints as well.

And on the water side, we've been very active in not only loading up our existing saltwater disposal wells, but contracting for additional capacity. And so we're beginning to feel a lot more comfortable that we have the system to handle the production and the downstream takeaway is not going to be the constraint that it's been over the past six months or so. And hopefully, that will result in a very robust 2014 and a lot of visibility to grow from the asset when we get there.

Thanks. Thank you very much. That was a very comprehensive answer.

Okay.

That will conclude our question-and-answer session. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Bob Phillips for closing comments.

Operator, we appreciate you and we appreciate all the attendees. And my last statement is simply that I think we're getting back on track and I feel very comfortable and very good about the company at this point in time. We're seeing solid growth in all of our areas, and we're building the organization right-size to be able to manage the business well but also grow the business at this historic time for new infrastructure opportunities.

So it's a balancing act for us. It's not lost on us that the strategy change to improve the coverage ratio had an oversized impact on CEQP. We are remedying that as quickly as we can, but the progress is good and the direction is correct. And as you know, CEQP will bounce back very, very fast once we resume distributions (sic) [increases] at the CMLP level. That, with the upside potential of doing something meaningful with Tres in a growing NGL business largely focused on new NGL supplies coming out of the Marcellus and the Utica and fitting those into our historical LPG infrastructure business with truck, rail and storage in the northeast and all of our refinery and petchem traditional customers up there I think lays the groundwork for a lot of growth over the next several quarters. We're finally getting to a point where we're caught up and we're catching up, and we're starting to look forward again.

So, that's a good place to be, and I'm proud of our team. I'm proud of how they persevered over the first couple of quarters of this year. Hope that our investors recognize the challenges that we faced and the accomplishments that we've made so far. The second half will be very important for us, but I think we've got good traction to continue our improvement and get back on this distribution increase track that we had hoped for at the beginning of the year.

So, with that, operator, we'll close the call, and we appreciate everybody attending today. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Crestwood second quarter earnings conference call. Thank you all for your participation. You may now disconnect.