raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 7, 2007


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, Brandy [ph], and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Inergy’s First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker’s remarks, there will


be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


I will now like to turn the call over to Mr. Brooks Sherman, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead


sir.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Brandy, and thank you everyone for joining us. Welcome to Inergy’s first quarter


earnings call for 2007. With me today, John Sherman, our President and CEO; Phill Elbert, our


Executive Vice President of Propane Operations; and Bill Moler, our Vice President of Midstream


Operations.


Our format today will be normal for our earnings call. John will have some opening comments. I will


then go through the results for the quarter and then we will open the line for questions. Before I turn


the call over to John, I will read our forward-looking statements. Within our discussion today, we


may communicate forward-looking information, various risk factors that may cause actual results to


differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking statements. We provide a detailed


discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings, and we encourage you to review our filings.


With that, John, I will turn it over to you.


John J. Sherman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Brooks. Just a few comments before Brooks runs through the numbers. We feel good


about our performance in the quarter. It is always important to get after a solid start and I think we


have done that. At 64.5 million of adjusted EBITDA, we are in line with our expectations, a little


short of plan in our Propane business, a little favorable to plan in our Midstream business, but all in


all pretty solid and we are well positioned to achieve our full year objectives.


In the propane business, our people did an excellent job managing the variables despite weak


demand due to weather. Margins continued to expand and our field operating expenses


demonstrate that we are progressively operating more efficiently across the platform.


On the acquisitions front, we closed five propane deals, none of them are large, but all of them


meet our criteria and were acquired at values to generate good economic returns for our investors.


As you know, propane deals tend to come in bunches, our pipeline is active and I expect that we


will be busy as we come out of the winter.


Our natural gas storage business is off to a great start on the year from both an operating


standpoint and in its growth and expansion activity. In October, we began construction of the Phase


II expansion project at Stagecoach. We have now completed drilling and installation of three


additional wells, New York side of the property, and they have been placed in limited service. The


rest of the work will begin in the spring when we will drill the Pennsylvania wells and connect them


to the storage gathering system. We expect to be fully operational by late summer.


We have also continued to actively recontract future capacity at Stagecoach and now enjoy a


contract maturity that extends through the middle of 2012. Our average rate for firm storage service


is now 35% higher than it was at acquisition and when Phase II is in service, we will reiterate 48%
raw transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 7, 2007


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


higher than that acquisition. So this relates to our management of the facility and our reengineering


of the revenue streams toward high quality fee-based services, but it also speaks to the high value


of high quality gas storage near demand markets like Stagecoach.


Our Bath, New York LPG storage acquisition is successfully integrated and we are currently


running tasks to prove integrity for natural gas storage expansions. We should be in a position to


make a decision on this expansion by the end of May. However, West Coast NGL business had a


good quarter, should have a solid year, and we are increasing the scale of our current expansion.


As disclosed in the press release, we are increasing both the capital investment and our expected


return by 50% or more. We are very excited about this project, and we believe it will lead to future --


it will lead to more opportunities in the future at West.


Currently, we are very focused on carrying on our responsibility to our investors in the midst of our


critical earnings period here in the March quarter. At this point, we feel very good about where we


are from that perspective. Summarizing, we had a solid quarter, we are very confident that we will


deliver on our full year objectives and we are continuing to expand our view of what we are capable


of achieving across these businesses.


With that, I will turn it back to Brooks for a look at the numbers and I look forward to the Q&A.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, John. Just to walk through the quarter, I will walk through the income statement starting


with retail gallon sale. As you saw in the press release, we sold about 111 million retail gallons in


the December ‘06 quarter versus about 125 million gallons last year. That decrease that you see is


primarily attributable to weather, partially offset by increases from acquisitions. As we stated in the


press release, weather for the quarter was about 11% warmer than last year. It is also worth noting


that stand-alone month of December was about 27% warmer than last year.


And with our 70% residential customer mix, the weather certainly does affect this quarter. Our retail


margin per gallon improved to about $0.83 a gallon from $0.75 a gallon last year. That $0.08


margin improvement continues the trend that we have achieved helped to offset the effects of


weather, and is driven really by a focus on margin by our operators, including improvement on our


retail fixed price sales, giving us total retail propane gross profit for the quarter on a cash basis of


about $92.7 million versus $93.9 million last year.


Our midstream gross profit improved to $12.8 million in this year’s quarter versus 10.3 million last


year, reflective of our growth that John alluded to in the trends that we have seen in these


businesses. Our other propane gross profit amounted to about $23.8 million in this year’s quarter


versus 24.4 million last year, essentially flat with warm weather that we have experienced, the


effect of that offset by increases from acquisitions. That nets us down to total gross profit for the ‘06


quarter of about $129.3 million, up from 128.6 million that we achieved last year.


Our cash operating expenses for the quarter about $65.5 million, that’s down more than $3 million


from 68.7 million reported last year. That decrease is driven much like how we have improved our


margin and is there a substantial focus on keeping the costs down. If you remember, we talked


about that in our analyst conference back in September. The focus that we have on that, we believe


our decentralized structure also contributes to that, especially on our variable costs.


Other income amounted to about $800,000 in the quarter versus 700,000 last year letting us arrive


at adjusted EBITDA of $64.6 million in this year’s quarter, up from the 60.6 million that we reported


last year, a strong showing we believe given the operating environment for the quarter. Working on


down to net income, we have depreciation and amortization of about $20.5 million versus $19.7


million last year.