raw transcript


Inergy, L.P.
 
NRGY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, my name is Natasha and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Inergy, L.P. First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks


there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call


over to Mr. Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead


sir.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Natasha and thank you everyone, for joining us here today on our first quarter of our


fiscal 2005 earnings call. With me today are John Sherman, President and CEO, Phil Elbert, our


Executive Vice President, Retail Operations, David Dehaemers, Executive Vice President of


Corporate Development. And like our other earnings calls that we've had in the past, the structure


today will be such that John will have some opening comments; I think he will turn it back to me


then to go through the numbers for the quarter; and we will then open it up for a question-and-


answer session. So before I pass it to John, I will go through our brief forward-looking statement


here.


In our discussion today we may communicate forward-looking information. Various risk factors may


cause actual results to differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking statements.


We provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings, and we encourage


you to review our filings. And with that, John, I will turn it over to you.


John Sherman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Brooks. Good afternoon, and I would like to thank everyone for their attendance today


and for your interest in our company. Brooks will go over the details of our earnings for the quarter


in a minute. I just wanted to make a couple of comments. There are a lot of exciting things going on


at Inergy currently. During the December quarter we accomplished much. It was really a


transformational period for our company. We made three significant acquisitions. The Star Gas


transaction has generated most of the attention, but we're also very excited about the acquisitions


of Moulton Gas in Ohio and Northwest Propane in Michigan. In fact, each of those businesses


deliver between 20 and 25 million gallons of propane annually, and together added more than 25%


growth in retail gallons per existing base.


Star Gas, obviously, is a transforming transaction in its own right, doubling the size of the


Company, strengthening our Great Lakes footprint, expanding the Company into the Northeast in a


meaningful way, as well as adding depth to our management team with some of the Star personnel


that we added with the transaction. I think it's an unusual situation where a company is positioned


like we were to execute quickly on such a strategic acquisition opportunity, simultaneously access


the capital markets for a series of financings, and a merge with a strong balance sheet, great


liquidity, and as strong and overall financial position as we have ever enjoyed. We're certainly


fortunate to have healthy capital markets and good access to them. We benefited from the


presence of the new funds. Kayne Anderson and Tortoise participated in the Star transaction


financing. And the Star transaction provided us with the critical mass to access the public debt


markets for the first time, which was an important step for additional liquidity for the future.


As for the performance of these acquisitions, Brooks and Phil will have more specific things to say


here in a minute, but suffice it to say that we are pleased by the early results. Not just Star, Moulton
raw transcript


Inergy, L.P.
 
NRGY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and Northwest, but we are also getting our initial contributions from the acquisitions we made last


summer, Highland Propane in Virginia, Burnwell in New York, and Gaylord in Michigan, to name a


few. As those of you who have followed the Company for a while know, we put new businesses


under the microscope immediately and measure performance against expectations. These


acquisitions are performing as expected. This is very positive confirmation, from my perspective, in


the early going.


Before I turn this back to Brooks, let me just say that I am very excited [indiscernible] today. With


everything we've accomplished over the last few months, we now have a great platform with size,


scale and geographic diversity. We continue to have an active acquisitions pipeline. We have new


markets open to us, a great capital structure that is flexible, and a competitive advantage in our


sector. With that, I'll turn it back over to Brooks for a look at the numbers.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks John. To walk through the quarter results, for the quarter ended 12/31/05, as you saw in


our earnings release put out just a little while ago, we sold about 73.3 million retail gallons of


propane, a 30.8 million gallon increase over the 42.5 million we sold in last year's quarter. That's a


72% increase, obviously due to the acquisitions that we have closed since the first of last calendar


year, primarily Star Gas for the month of December. Our gross profit per retail gallons sold – retail


propane gross profit per gallon comes out at just under $0.68 a gallon in the first quarter of '05,


versus about $0.655 a gallon last year, about a $0.025 increase.


We had good margins in a challenging environment and feel good about the margins that are


generated in the business. That gives us total retail propane gross profit of about $49.7 million


versus 27.9 million last year, a 78% increase for the $21.8 million increase. A combination of


volume and better margins, and this result really is the driver of our EBITDA improvement this


quarter.


Wholesale gross profit is flat year-over-year at $5.3 million. Remember that our wholesale


operations do include our West Coast operations, which continued to perform very well. Other


gross profit increased to $9.7 million in this year's quarter, up from 3.9 last year. The majority of that


increase, again, due to acquisitions, with Star the primary driver. Total gross profit amounted to


$64.7 million, up from 37.1 million last year, an increase of $27.6 million, or a 74% total gross profit


increase year-over-year.


Operating expenses in the quarter amounted to about $34.8 million versus 20.3 million last year, a


$14.5 million increase, or 71%. That increase due solely to acquisition. And we feel very good


about the operating expenses and the controls that we have over them, and feel good about them


going forward.


Other income in this year's quarter is about $500,000 versus about 200,000 last year, to bring us to


EBITDA for the first quarter of '05 of $30.4 million, a 78% increase over the $17 million that we


reported in last year's quarter. So, we feel good about the results of the quarter at the EBITDA line,


and feel good about the driver's that are behind that. If we work our way down to net income, we


had depreciation and amortization of about $8.8 million in the first quarter of '05, versus 4.7 million


last year. Obviously, that $4 million increase all acquisition related. The interest expense in the


quarter amounted to $3.5 million, up from 2.9 million last year. And that increase is really reflective


of the financing of the acquisitions that we closed in the fourth quarter of this year, I am sorry in the


December quarter of this year. We did have in the '05 quarter a total of about $7 million of the write-


off of deferred financing costs.


As we stated in the press release, a portion of that was the write-off of costs related to the bank


credit facility that we replaced in conjunction with the Star Gas acquisition, and an amount – the