Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert T. Halpin — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — Chief Operating Officer & President, Pipeline Services Group, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
William C. Gautreaux — Chief Marketing Officer & President, Supply & Logistics Group, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Andrew Ramsay Burd — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
J.R. Weston — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Selman Akyol — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss Crestwood Equity Partners First Quarter Financial and Operating Results. Before we begin the call, listeners are reminded that the company may make certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that are based on assumptions and information currently available at the time of today's call.

Please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ. Additionally, certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and distributable cash flow will be discussed. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release issued this morning.

Joining us today with prepared remarks are Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Phillips; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Halpin. Additional members of the senior management team will be available for the question-and-answer session with Crestwood's current analysts following the prepared remarks. Today's call is being recorded. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Bob Phillips.

Thank you, operator, and good morning. Thanks to all of you for joining us. I know it's early. We certainly have accomplished a lot so far in 2016, all of which is I might remind you a continuation of our strategic plan, which we put in place last year to reposition Crestwood in this lower for longer environment that we find ourselves in.

As you'll recall, since early 2015, we have implemented significant cost reductions to improve our operating margins, streamline the partnership to be more efficient and competitive in the areas that we operate, and significantly simplify our capital structure and our balance sheet through the simplification merger that we completed in September of last year. In 2016, we continue to execute on important parts of that plan. Let me touch on a few of those so far this year.

First, showing the resilience of our portfolio in a very tough market, we delivered another solid quarter through this time strong Gathering and Processing performance, offsetting reduced downstream services contribution due to the historically weak winter demand that we had for gas and gas liquids, as well as continued tight crude oil spreads. It seems like every quarter one of our three segments really picks us up and G&P did it this quarter.

Secondly, we further de-risked our commercial portfolio with the new BlueStone contract putting an end finally to the Quicksilver bankruptcy. Third, we announced a new joint venture with Consolidated Edison, which provides us we think a real strategic advantage to compete for new growth projects coming out of the Marcellus Shale and the expanding Northeast gas markets.

Fourth, we're going to take the proceeds from that joint venture and reduce our debt to a leverage ratio of about 3.9 by year-end 2016. And I'll remind you that that's well under our debt covenant of 5.5. So, really repositioning the company with a lot of dry powder going forward from a financial leverage standpoint. And fifth, we reduced our quarterly distribution to $0.60 per common unit or $2.40 annually, which takes our distribution coverage to about 1.9 times in the first quarter of 2016 or 1.6 times on a fully diluted basis taking into account the [ph] PIC (3:43) preferreds that convert in late 2017.

Underlining these headline achievements, our operations team continues to cut cost, improve safety and compliance, and promote efficiency and customer service across all of our assets, and we did complete some important bolt-on or expansion capital projects in the Barnett and the Delaware-Permian during the first quarter. As well, our commercial and business development teams continue to make very good progress on extending contracts across the entire portfolio, adding services in certain areas and developing new long-term growth opportunities, particularly in the Marcellus, the Bakken and the Delaware-Permian, where we're focused for growth.

Now, before I turn it over to Robert, I want to give you some color on the recent events, which should reset the bar for Crestwood's long-term valuation going forward. First and foremost, the BlueStone contract was a big win for Crestwood. We got a long-term contract with a quality Barnett operator that's well financed by a large experienced private equity firm. The contract gives us downside protection on volumes over the next three years and upside potential on margins as commodity prices improve going forward. As a result, we have substantially de-risked our Barnett assets relative to the Quicksilver bankruptcy, a big win for Crestwood.

Number two, on the Con Edison deal, if you haven't reviewed our strategy slide deck, which we posted to our website on April 21, I would encourage you to do that. There is a lot of good detail describing the joint venture and the merits of the transaction. But in summary, we will contribute our Northeast pipeline and storage assets at an implied value of about $2 billion and Con Ed will indirectly purchase a 50% equity interest in the new joint venture's Stagecoach Gas Services for $975 million.

We anticipate a quick closing during the second quarter. We did complete our HSR filing yesterday. So, we got that out the door. So, we're on the clock, and both parties are optimistic and very bullish about the opportunity to grow this critical infrastructure business in the Northeast, particularly in light of Kinder Morgan's recent pullback on the NED project and delays announced last week on Williams Constitution project affecting more than 2 Bcf a day of takeaway capacity for the Marcellus Basin.

We see a real opening here and we're excited about working with our new partner who shares our desire to grow these assets safely and responsibly in a region that absolutely needs more natural gas infrastructure. Con Edison is a strong investment grade and strategic partner and will be a great complement to Crestwood's commercial and operating expertise. Now, on the deal, the tax implications have been a question from a lot of our investors, particularly regarding the potential $600 million taxable gain. So, as a part of our evaluation of the joint venture transaction, we received significant input from our tax and our legal advisors who helped us take a hard look at this issue.

Based on Crestwood's internal projections and assumptions, we anticipate that unitholders who purchase CEQP units at any time in 2016 will generally not incur any tax liability with respect to the transaction or the eventual use of proceeds such as the buying back of debt. For unitholders who purchased the stock prior to 2016, we believe that many of you will be able to utilize your 2016 allocated deductions and previously allocated passive losses, which we think total more than $900 million in the aggregate for Crestwood Equity Partners and Crestwood Midstream Partners dating back to 2013.

While we're not prepared to offer any specific tax advice, and we would encourage all of our unitholders and investors to consult your own tax advisor, we certainly hope that this statement provides greater clarity around the tax issues that many of you have asked about. And further, Steven Dougherty, our Chief Accounting Officer, is here with us today and he is going to be available to answer any additional questions that you have about potential tax liabilities from the transaction during our Q&A period.

Concurrently with the Con Edison joint venture, we also announced a revision to our quarterly distribution, which is something that I can tell you Crestwood Management First Reserve, our controlling unitholder, and the Board of Directors takes very seriously. We've done a lot of work around distributions over the last year as you know. And since the middle of 2015, we have been absolutely clear that any adjustment to the distribution should be part of an overall comprehensive solution to reposition Crestwood and materially change the investment profile of the partnership, and we think that we've done that here.

With the combination of the Quicksilver Barnett settlement, which de-risk our portfolio, the Con Ed JV, which positions us significantly for growth with a great partner in a great area, and the proceeds from that transaction to substantially de-leverage our balance sheet, this distribution level allows us to retain significant cash flow towards further balance sheet strength, as well as high return investment opportunities, while also very appropriately covering the dilution of our [ph] PIC (9:48) preferred units, which will occur in 2017, and puts a floor around any potential risk that we face by the assets in our portfolio in this lower for longer environment.

So, we really think that this combination provides investors with much greater visibility and absolute confidence in our distribution going forward. Like I said in the press release, by year-end 2016, we think that all of these events will improve Crestwood's credit and coverage metrics to the point that it puts us in a leading position in our peer group and should drive substantially greater improvement in our valuation. So, this is that comprehensive solution to reposition the partnership that we've been talking about for over a year now.

With that, let me touch on the first quarter results. As I indicated earlier, our Gathering and Processing segment did a great job during the quarter, with flat segment volumes compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, but 12% higher adjusted EBITDA contribution based on a 19% decrease in O&M. Highlighting volumes on the Arrow system, they remained steady during the quarter with [ph] 13 (11:03) new wells connected, seven more new wells connected in April, putting us on pace to meet our 2016 forecast for volumes and new well connects on the Arrow Bakken system.

In the Delaware-Permian, we completed the Willow Lake expansion project, resulting in an almost 30% increase in gathering volumes since the fourth quarter of 2015, and producers are still drilling out there in that part of the Delaware-Permian due to solid net-back economics. In the Barnett, BlueStone is already brining shut-in wells back online to the system, and we completed the West Johnson County compression project for Devon Energy, which provides additional fee services we charge Devon for lower wellhead pressures resulting in uplift volumes for them.

And finally, in the Marcellus, the gathering and compression volumes, as you could see, were up 7% and 12% respectively from the fourth quarter of 2015, as Antero also brought back shut-in volumes back online due to improved net-back pricing as a result of finally the commissioning of Momentum's Stonewall pipeline in December of 2015. We had been anticipating that for a while and those volumes did come back on. You could see that in the first quarter of this year.

Now, strong G&P performance offset softer Marketing, Supply and Logistics performance. Those results were negatively impacted by, as you all know and you've heard from many other midstream companies and producers, significantly lower heating degree days in the Northeast during the winter of 2015-2016. There just simply wasn't enough demand or basis for NGL products like there had been in previous years. The good news is we've retained all of our producer agreements and added an additional 25,000 barrels a day of new supply agreements from the Marcellus/Utica region and as far away as new Canadian volumes trying to break into our market.

All of our traditional supply agreements with end-users have been renewed for the customary April to March annual period, and we anticipate basis spreads improving in the fourth quarter of this year due to a flattening supply curve that we can already see; expected increased propane demand anticipated from a more normalized winter and higher exports, which we're already seeing putting a floor under propane demand across the U.S.; as well as potentially increased butane and natural gas demand anticipated from increased blending in the fall as a result of higher demand for motor gasoline.

Looking forward on the business development side, we continue to make good progress transitioning the COLT Hub into what we think will become the Bakken's leading supply interchange. We're already bringing on additional pipeline and storage customers in anticipation of a [ph] DAPL (14:01) connection sometime in the future, and we're already seeing increased standalone pipeline and storage volumes. We are still about one-third of the Bakken crude by rail market, and we still have 115,000 barrels a day of take or pay contracts to load by rail in 2016.

So, the COLT facility continues to make a meaningful contribution, and our BD people are doing a good job there of expanding services. In the Northeast, we're also extending our gas storage and pipeline transportation contracts with key utility customers. We're aggressively pursuing new independent power project service opportunities that are popping up in that region due to low gas prices, and we're also looking forward to improved hub services as the market recovers from this past weak winter and storage overhang.

And as I said, in the area of NGLs, we have new Marcellus/Utica and Canadian supplies coming on in 2016. We commissioned a new propane terminal in North Carolina to serve that growing market, and we expect our West Coast business to rebound further, as local refineries get back to more stable operations after a disruptive 2015. In the Delaware-Permian area, along with our partner First Reserve, we continue to pursue growth projects supported by long-term producer development plans there. And Heath Deneke, our Chief Operating Officer, is available to answer any questions that you might have about our progress out there.

And finally, I want to congratulate our employees for continuing to persevere in a very difficult market environment, while we put the partnership back on track financially with all of the transactions that I've just described. We think we have some of the best midstream employees in the industry. They have a tremendous amount of pride in what we do at Crestwood, and they remain committed as we do to the operating principles of safety, compliance and customer service. And that's how you make it through a downturn in the cycle.

So, with that background, I'm happy to turn it over to Robert to cover the first quarter results in more detail. Robert?

Thanks Bob, and thanks to everybody for joining us this morning. For the first quarter of 2016, adjusted EBITDA totaled $120 million, compared to $142 million in the first quarter of 2015. Distributable cash flow in the quarter was $79 million, and distribution coverage for the quarter was 1.9 times or 1.6 times on a fully diluted basis.

These results are in line with our expectations and the Q1 results that we included in our adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $435 million to $465 million for the full-year 2016 that we provided on our April 21 conference call announcing the Con Edison joint venture. In our Gathering and Processing segment, segment EBITDA totaled $67 million in the first quarter of 2016, compared to $72 million in the first quarter of 2015.

Natural gas gathering volumes and compression volumes decreased 23% and 25% respectively from the first quarter of 2015, but increased 1% and 12% respectively from the fourth quarter of 2015. Year-over-year declines in natural gas gathering and compression volumes were partially offset by a 5% increase in processing volumes, a 2% increase in crude oil gathering volumes and a 6% increase in produced water gathering volumes.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, segment EBITDA totaled $51 million in the first quarter of 2016, compared to $56 million the first quarter of 2015. Lower results for the first quarter of 2016 were primarily driven by a $4 million decline in EBITDA at our COLT Hub facility due to contract expirations and lower rail loading volumes as a result of compressed WTI/Brent spreads.

In our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment, segment EBITDA totaled $19 million in the first quarter of 2016, compared to $26 million in the first quarter of 2015. As Bob highlighted in his prepared remarks, our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment was adversely impacted by unseasonably warm weather and the corresponding impact on propane, and to a lesser extent, butane demand over the quarter. Partially offsetting the impact of warmer weather on our NGL business was a very strong quarter from our US Salt operations, which reported record quarterly EBITDA of over $5 million.

Looking at expenses, I'm very pleased with our team's continued execution of driving down O&M and G&A expenses, while still maintaining safe and efficient operations as a top priority. In the first quarter 2016, we reduced total O&M and G&A, net of unit-based compensation and other significant costs, by 13% or $8.6 million compared to the first quarter of 2015 and by 12% or $7.7 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. Based upon execution to-date, we expect we will be able to continue driving additional cost reductions in 2016 and should exceed our target of $10 million of cost reductions for full-year 2016 compared to 2015 exclusive of the impact of the Con Edison joint venture.

Now, turning to the balance sheet, as of March 31, Crestwood had approximately $2.6 billion of debt outstanding, including $1.8 billion of fixed-rate senior notes and $763 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. As previously announced, we expect to close the Con Edison joint venture at some point in the second quarter and anticipate using the net cash proceeds generated by the transaction to reduce outstanding debt. Pro forma for the joint venture and anticipated use of proceeds, Crestwood's leverage ratio would be approximately 3.8 times as of March 31, 2016.

In closing, in the first four months of 2016, we have taken great steps towards executing our strategic plan to strengthen Crestwood's financial profile. We have made strong efforts to mitigate counterparty risk in our portfolio. The entire organization has continued to cut substantial costs out of our business. And with the combination of a reduced distribution and the strategic joint venture with Con Edison, we have substantially de-risked our partnership and positioned Crestwood to be a leader in our peer group going forward.

I think with that, operator, we're ready to open the line up for questions.

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Andrew Burd of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Good morning and congratulations on the series of wins this year so far. First question on the growth side, you mentioned a little bit in the press release on the Permian project. But is there any timing update for potential announcement there or a list of the criteria that you or the investor – or customer is waiting to see to move forward with that project?

Yeah. Hi, this is Heath Deneke. I'll take that. Unfortunately, we don't really have a whole lot of specific information to put out at this time. I will tell you that a lot of our efforts are on re-scoping the project in a lower for longer environment, potentially moving some of the infrastructure build out as opposed to how we originally scoped the project. So, I think a lot of our ongoing discussions with the customer is centered around that.

Okay. So, more phasing and potentially – I think there were three specific projects, doing them not necessarily all at the same time, but that's the way to think about it?

Correct.

Great. And then also on growth, any indication – or does bringing Con Ed into the equation as a partner give you incremental optimism about future growth projects or opportunities in that segment?

Yeah. It absolutely does up in the Northeast. As Bob hinted in his earlier comments, there is a lot of – still a lot of continued delays in projects that are looking to take gas out of the core Northeast Pennsylvania area and redistribute it across the way. Just between the NED project and the uncertainly around the Constitution project, that's over 2 Bcf a day of pipeline capacity that is going to be challenged to get in between now and 2020. As you know, we've been after our [ph] Mark 2 (23:00) project for a couple of years now, and we think that both the route that we're taking as well as the connectivity to a fully sponsored utility backed project really puts a little more wind under ourselves in terms of trying to get that project done.

Also – but more broadly with Con Ed, as you know, they're the largest utility up in the Northeast. They continue to have increased needs for storage and transportation service for the utility. But not only that, they bring a lot to the table as it relates to their insight into the market and really what infrastructure is needed in that area to serve the broader utility base. So yeah, we're optimistic about the outlook up there and having Con Ed as a partner is really going to help us, we think, capture additional opportunities.

And following up to both the Permian and Marcellus, should either of those probably very high quality growth projects move forward and be announced, thinking about financing, clearly a lot more visibility and flexibility after the recent actions. Would it – would your estimation that you don't need capital markets or equity capital markets issuance over the next number of years still hold true if you're able to move forward with a bigger ticket or medium ticket high quality project?

Hey Andrew, this is Robert. And the answer to that is yes. We still would believe that. I think a lot of our strategic plan here is to eliminate any potential need for capital markets access even in light of some of the growth opportunities we see around our portfolio. As you'll recall, for the Delaware-Permian specifically, we continue to work with our potential partner First Reserve there around the financial structure that completely mitigates and structures towards bridging for the build-out stage for Crestwood until we get volumes up and running as we face that project. And then in the Northeast, with our built-in partnership with Con Edison, obviously, we're in a 50/50 structure. And based upon the position of our balance sheet, the position of our retained cash flow, et cetera, we still believe that we would not have any need for capital markets in light of those two opportunities.

Great. And then final question, it doesn't get talked about much anymore, but on Tres Palacios, [ph] if we could just (25:10) have a brief update on the outlook there into the summer with some of the changes in the Texas gas market and then how you see performance there into 2017 and maybe thereafter with LNG and Mexico exports really ramping up.

Sure. This is Heath again. I'll touch on that real quick. I think we have seen improving spreads at our Tres Palacios facility. Largely, we have a seen a fairly steep decline in Eagle Ford gas production, which has kind of helped put the market in a little bit more of a scramble to access gas, particularly for on-peak burns. So, I think we're on track to our original underwriting and plans as it relates to what to expect in 2016 and 2017. When you get out to 2018 and beyond, we continue to be very optimistic about the [Inaudible] (25:55 – 26:00) LNG story.

We have connections in place with – or being developed now for the Freeport LNG terminal, as well as we have some potential opportunities around the Corpus Christi area as well with LNG export facilities. So, I think we're on track. We're starting to have more meaningful discussions with the LNG off-takers there as they start locking in or certainly developing their reach for gas supplies to serve those facilities. And they certainly will need storage both [ph] injectivity and withdrawal (26:30) capability to augment the LNG operation.

As it relates to Mexico, again, we continue to see projects getting done on the Mexico side of the border for their re-powering across the country. And again, Tres Palacios is positioned as the southernmost facility that has access to provide much needed balancing services as that power generation demand comes online. So, I think the kind of a continuation I think of the [ph] field (26:57) as we looked back in 2014-2015, we saw some improvement on the horizon and we're starting to see that materialize.

Great. Thanks for the color and thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks Andrew.

Thank you. The next question is from J.R. Weston of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

You mentioned historically weak demand this winter in the prepared commentary. And just as we look to the 2016-2017 winter, just wondering if there is anything more you could provide to kind of quantify the weather impact from last year, just some color on how it would impact both S&T and Supply and Logistics on a year-over-year basis.

Well, let me let Heath handle the S&T, because that's really a function of lack of demand, low absolute pricing and low spreads across storage and transportation assets up in the Northeast. And then, [ph] Bill Gautreaux (27:58), if you'll handle the NGL side and talk about the impact that lack of demand had on our propane, butane in our trucking transportation business. Heath?

Yeah. So, a couple of things real quick and I'll keep it simple on the S&T front. As you know, most of our contracts up there are firm take or pay style agreement. But we do have a nice optimization business that really is there to kind of create a market in and around our storage and transportation assets. And I think what we saw with the combination of [ph] low load (28:29) basis as well as lack of weather, we didn't see the typical demand upticks, if you will, that would have created a little more volatility in the marketplace.

So, I think this was – as everyone knows, we had a very low heating degree day when you look at the – both the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as the first quarter of 2016. So, a more normalized winter we think, we would continue to see the optimization book, if you will, continue to produce more favorable results. So, I think a normal weather again would [Inaudible] (29:06 – 29:16) we would have seen probably a significant pick up.

The other thing I would just touch on real quick is really on the throughput side. We do have some commodity charges that we get in addition to the firm demand charges that receive. And I think our throughput on the pipeline systems were somewhat depressed as well, again, given that there wasn't much of a market. So, the combination of our hub services, if you will, and the commodity charges on our pipeline systems were down as a result of the lower weather.

Okay. [ph] Bill (29:49), you want to tackle NGLs during the winter?

Yeah, Bob. So, we saw degree days down I think about 17% overall versus historical averages, and some of those degree days are coming in the shoulder months, which really don't impact heating demand. So, I think the retail propane sector really experienced volume declines even greater than that degree day percentage number. When we look across our platform, different segments of it, but broadly speaking, we saw our volumes off 20% to 25%. But the other impact that low demand has on the spreads, the NGL basis environment is that you get lower volumes from lower demand, but you also get lower margins and you really get impacted margins across all of your volumes, not just the reduced volumes. And so clearly, pretty mild winter by our standards really unlike something we had seen in a long, long time.

Okay, that's great. Thank you for all the helpful color there. Just another question kind of switching gears, so the first quarter was a pretty good quarter for Marcellus volumes, and one of your major customers has recently increased their 2016 production outlook. And you talked even on the call today about the importance of the Stonewall line. So, I was just wondering, as you're looking at the cadence or the trajectory of 2016 volumes and then into 2017 volumes with your customers' [ph] dock (31:36) backlog, if there is any kind of update there.

I guess you're specifically asking about the Marcellus?

Yeah, that's right.

Yeah. I think frankly in our guidance, we don't have any new drilling or completion activity, largely due to an expectation that we're going to continue to have low gas prices in that particular area of the woods. So, I think that's pretty much what we have baked into the plan for 2016. I think when we get out to 2017 and 2018 with corresponding increases in gas prices that's currently evident in the strip, we're optimistic that not only will Antero complete the 22 [ph] docks (32:15) that are waiting – already connected to the system just waiting on completions that we can start to see potentially some incremental rigs get allocated to the area.

Okay, that's great. And then I guess just a follow-up. There has been a lot of chat around the first quarter conference calls about kind of an NGL price recovery. I'm just wondering what geographies you think you'd first see the opportunity for, call it, maybe upside to the currently expected volumes in the G&P segment, just anything as far as how you'd address that topic.

Bill?

Yeah. I think – so, I think part of the encouragement on NGL prices is what we're seeing in the flattening of the supply curve and then the expected ramp up of petrochemical demand and PDH units both domestically and internationally. We're also starting to see some constraints on ethane getting where it needs to get in the Gulf Coast, and then you're starting to see increases in ethane imports. And so, that also is driving the concept of maybe stronger liquids prices, because that will cause propane and butane as alternatives to be looked at more closely. Where that happens, I think it will start in the hubs I think, so that helps gas processing economics to some extent. But you really got to factor in the bases as well and what the gas takeaway is in that particular basin. And so, I think it's hard to predict exactly how higher NGL prices will impact gas processing in certain basins. But generally, it should be constructive for it.

Okay, great. Thank you. That's all I had.

Thanks J.R.

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] And the next question is from Selman Akyol of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning.

Just a couple of quick ones. In the Barnett, can you guys talk about sort of the uplift in volumes from the capital that you've invested as well as lower operating pressures that are at the wellhead and just kind of what you see there in terms of flow-through?

Yeah. This is Heath. I'll comment on that now. As it relates to the West Johnson County project that we mentioned, we're continuing to lower field pressures down and we have seen some noticeable increases to the tune of 10 million a day plus. But we've got more room to go as we continue to bring volumes down. On the BlueStone side of the equation, as we mentioned, there were significant amount of shut-ins that occurred over the course of 2015 of upwards of close to 60 million a day, and we saw a good chunk of that come back online during the first quarter and expect – I think we've had about 75 new well – or 75 previously shut-in wells that have been turned back on over the past few weeks. So ultimately, we're expecting to see the lion's share of that volume that was shut-in come back online by the second quarter.

Got you. And then just really one another. In terms of just your CapEx, it seems like you've already done most of it for the year. But can you just talk about where the rest of it would be invested for?

Yeah, absolutely. We've got – as we've guided, $50 million to $75 million of annual capital for the year, and as you commented, a lot of that was spent in the first quarter. And I think your comments are correct, and that is that we don't have much more, if any, to go through the balance of the year. In terms of allocation, we commented on the Delaware-Permian expansion project around Willow Lake that Heath mentioned too. That's been the vast majority of what we've spent to-date and seeing good results there in the early stages of having that new processing capacity in service. In terms of incremental expansion, we've got a couple items that we've talked to previously. We have some expansions to our water system in the Bakken assets that we'll be finalizing over the next couple of months, and really that's the lion's share of what we'll spend for the balance of the year as we get some uptick in water volumes on that system through the balance of 2016.

All right, thank you very much.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Phillips for closing remarks.

Thanks operator and thanks to all of you for joining this morning. We got through pretty quickly on this. Again, we're very pleased with our quarter and pleased with all of the accomplishments that we have put on the board since the first of the year. So, let me say on behalf of the management team, First Reserve and the Board of Directors, we've really been fighting hard over the last several quarters to put a comprehensive plan in place that would deal with all of the issues facing Crestwood and the industry in general as opposed to incrementally trying to offer solutions from quarter-to-quarter as we as a industry deal with this lower for longer environment.

We think we've absolutely done that here in the first quarter of 2016. This is a real turning point for Crestwood. So as we finalize these steps to reposition the partnership over the next several months, we think we have largely removed the clouds over Crestwood and now we can finally get back to business, get back to work and execute on the numerous opportunities that are around the assets in the areas that we operate. We still believe we have a great portfolio. We're not getting a whole lot of credit for the long-term growth potential, but we will as we kind of turnaround from playing defense, which we have for the last year and a half, to finally getting a chance to play offense.

Now importantly, we still have contracts in our portfolio that are rolling off that need to be extended or need to be renegotiated. But everybody in the industry has those type contracts and it's not unique to Crestwood. We've got good effective, aggressive business development and commercial teams and we are making progress with – as we do every year, with renegotiating contracts that are coming due or coming up for renewal. But most importantly, the management team finally gets to go back to work and focus on growing the partnership with the confidence in our ability to finance projects both on our balance sheet, but also with the help of First Reserve, our controlling partner, and we're excited about the strategic importance that a great partner like Con Edison brings to our best asset and our best growth area up in the Northeast.

So, with that, operator, thank you for moderating today and thank all of our investors for joining in. We're very excited about the direction that we're headed with Crestwood and that we hope that many of you have resolved some of the issues that you've had with the company and happy to answer any questions offline, if you want to give the Investor Relations team a call and plug in on additional information. So, thanks again and hope everybody has a good day. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.