Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark G. Stockard — Head-Investor Relations, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Michael J. Campbell — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Gabe Philip Moreen — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Edward Rowe — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Michael J. Blum — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Jeffrey T. Birnbaum — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to Crestwood's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties would be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. This conference is being recorded today, May 6, 2014.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mark Stockard, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and welcome to our call. We hope you had a chance to review our two news releases we issued this morning. This call is a joint call to discuss both Crestwood Midstream Partners and Crestwood Equity Partners.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during this call, we'll make certain forward-looking statements, as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, based on the beliefs of the company, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to management. Although management believes that these expectations are reasonable, we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Please refer to our latest filings with the SEC for a list of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially.

In addition, we'll be discussing certain financial measures, such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and distributable cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release that each of the partnerships issued earlier this morning. These press releases are posted on the Investor Relations sections of our website at www.crestwoodlp.com.

A reminder that information reported on this call speaks only as of today, May 6, 2014, and therefore, time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time within the replay.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bob Phillips, Chairman, President and CEO of the General Partners of Crestwood Midstream and Crestwood Equity.

Thanks, Mark, and thanks to all of you, that have joined the call this morning. Let me briefly comment on the first quarter then give you a quick update on a lot of our projects, kind of going around the country on a shale-by-shale basis. Let you know updates and a little background color on a lot of the things that we have going on, as well as our continued outlook for 2014 and over the next few years. Then I'll turn the call over to Mike Campbell, our CFO, and he'll give you more detail and break down the results between CMLP and CEQP for the first quarter, and then we'll open it up for your questions.

So, the first quarter of 2014, another very, very important quarter for Crestwood, our second quarter out of the gates. It's another building quarter for us. We're putting the foundation in place to build a great midstream partnership, just five months out of the gate from our Crestwood-Inergy merger back in October of 2013.

So, in the first quarter, CEQP reported consolidated adjusted EBITDA of $117 million or 5% over the fourth quarter of 2013, and CMLP reported adjusted EBITDA of $99 million, up 9% over the fourth quarter, so improvements on both bottom lines.

Overall, I think the entire portfolio performed in line with our expectations, and a couple of areas, certainly, exceeded our internal expectations. In one area, the Bakken Shale, we did not meet our expectations internally. The Bakken, as you've heard from many of the producers and midstream companies who have already announced, was negatively affected by severe winter weather in January and February, as it was in November and December as well.

And as you can see from our numbers, that affected gathering volumes from North Dakota, due to production freeze-offs, but more importantly, delays in drilling completion. Our expansion projects were largely completed on time, but we did have significant disruptions in our downstream take-away pipelines that also had the effect of curtailing producer volumes all the way back to the wellhead. So, we're going to talk about steps that we've taken to alleviate some of those problems in the future.

I'll also point out, and then highlight it again, that our producers are back on track in the second quarter, and certainly doing well, at least in the first quarter – in the second quarter of this year.

Moving forward, we continue to be excited about the outlook across the country in other areas, and we're going to touch on some of those as well. I just want to point out that a couple of our segments, our NGL Supply and Logistics segment had a great quarter, of course, that's owned by CEQP. And our Northeast Storage and Transportation business also had a great quarter, that's owned by CMLP. Both of those benefited from historic winter demand for natural gas and propane, up in the New England, Northeast and the Eastern markets of the U.S.

We continue to be very excited about the progress we're making in a number of our high-growth areas, the Marcellus/Utica, and the Bakken, the Powder River Niobrara Shale plays, recently, the Delaware Permian Basin, where we have a number of projects. We're working to develop more scalable long-term opportunities for the partnership.

As we've indicated in the past, we're staying focused on NGL-rich and crude basins, where producer economics continue to be the best. While our Bakken assets did cause first quarter performance to be slightly below our expectations, we remain very committed to our 2014 operational and financial guidance, and expect meaningful growth through the remaining quarters of 2014, as volumes continue to strengthen around our Bakken operations and producers catch up, as I indicated that they already have. We'll give you more color on that recently.

One very important financial and strategic decision that we made was our Board of Directors' recent decision to hold distributions flat for the first quarter of 2014. I'll remind you that the board, the management team, First Reserve, has a substantial investment in both Crestwood Equity Partners and Crestwood Midstream Partners. We have one of the best alignment of interest of any MLP set out there in the marketplace.

We've made a strategic decision to improve the long-term growth profile of our partnerships by aggressively improving our near-term coverage ratio. We did that after having conversations and consultations with a lot of our large investors that wanted to see improving coverage ratio. We think that the opportunity set in front of Crestwood today is exponentially greater than it was when we decided to put the partnerships together back in May of last year, and it's even greater than what we observed back in October of last year when we completed the merger.

As a result, we're very focused on creating long-term value for our investors over the next five years versus the next five quarters. And that we believe improving near-term coverage ratio will create incremental flexibility for us to reinvest available cash flow into some of these high-return growth opportunities that we're seeing presently around our existing assets. And we think that generates the greatest long-term value for our unitholders.

Having said that, I want to reiterate that we still remain very confident in our 2014 plan and our guidance, and certainly, the long-term outlook for Crestwood looks better than we thought it was going to.

Now, for a quick update on each of the operating regions and some of the ongoing expansion projects that we've talked about publicly. I'll start with the Marcellus Shale. In the rich gas southwest portion of the Marcellus, where we gather for Antero, we completed several expansions to our gathering system during the first quarter.

Importantly, we've now increased total gathering capacity to right at 700 million cubic feet per day. We finally got ahead of Antero, which was a challenge, because they had, as you know, been the most aggressive driller in the Marcellus Shale, with as many as 15 rigs running in the area around our assets. So, importantly, our projects have now caught up to and exceeded the available capacity for Antero, that's a good thing.

During the first quarter, despite the weather, our gathering volumes on the system averaged 531 million cubic feet per day. That was a 15% increase relative to the 461 million cubic feet per day that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2013, all due to new projects being placed in service.

At the end of April, daily volumes had already increased to approximately 625 million cubic feet a day, a big increase from the first quarter average, and that is a result of, after the winter weather moved out, Antero has done a good job of getting frac crews back in there and catching up on their first quarter plan.

Additionally, 2014 expansion projects are very much on track and on schedule. Our plans for the year to increase total gathering capacity to 875 million cubic feet per day, and to be able to handle in our forecast, has us exiting the year around 750 million cubic feet per day. So, again, we'll have available capacity and stay ahead of our producer, which is the midstreamer's primary objective out there. And that 750 million cubic feet a day, to put it in perspective, would be a 50% increase from fiscal year volumes in 2014, that's in the Eastern AOD [area of dedication].

In the Western AOD, we are completing an additional 120 million cubic feet a day compressor station in Antero's western area. During the second quarter, that will bring total compression capacity up to 240 million cubic feet per day. So, just to remind investors, on the Eastern side dedicated and under the 20-year contract, we get paid a gathering fee; and a compression fee on the Western side. So far, it's just the compression service that we're providing, but those are incremental volumes when you're looking at our performance.

At the end of the first quarter, we believe Antero had approximately 32 DUCs, or drilled but uncompleted wells on pads connected to our gathering system. And as we've observed during the month of April, their frac crews and their completion crews have been very active in starting to raise those volumes up. As I said earlier, spot volumes in April was high as 625 million cubic feet a day. So, Antero continues to do a great job, and we're very pleased with the service that we're providing there.

In the dry gas Northeastern part of the Marcellus Shale, our storage and transportation assets operated at record levels during the first quarter due to the extreme cold weather conditions that affected much of the Northeast. That was similar to the fourth quarter, we saw increasing price volatility, wider basis spreads, which drove very strong demand for capacity on our MARC I and North/South pipelines.

And as a result of that, we signed a new customer agreements for a total about 40,000 dekatherms per day of available firm transportation capacity on our pipelines. That new service began April 1 of 2014. And as you know, we announced and have completed, or in the negotiating phase, on an open season for the North/South and the MARC I Pipelines. We expect to complete relatively soon and announce approximately 150,000 dekatherms per day of additional capacity, sold on a firm basis.

Demand for the open season was very robust, as producers continue to seek access to premium markets there in the dry gas Marcellus region. Basis spreads, just to give you an example across the pipeline system, averaged almost $1.40 per dekatherm through the first quarter, and reached levels as high as $5.33 per dekatherm. So, that shows that our assets are very much located in the right spot.

We continue to benefit from strong supply development in that region. And as a result, we're seeing large basis spreads and significantly high absolute prices. So, we expect to see continued utilization of our storage and transportation assets there. And we'll expect to complete the plans for the open season very soon and announce those. But I can tell you that, that process is going exceptionally well.

The Bakken was an area that's very important to us. During the first quarter of 2014, Crestwood continued to complete various places of the COLT Hub and the Arrow gathering system, resulting in record crude oil volumes. Additionally, and I want to point out that, we've been active, looking for bolt-on acquisitions around all of our assets.

We did complete the acquisition of the Red Rock Transportation Company located in North Dakota, that added our trucks and approximately 22,000 barrels a day of crude oil and water truck transportation volumes. This was a very complementary acquisition, and one that we think is one of a series of steps that we're providing additional connectivity between the COLT and the Arrow platforms to enhance flow assurance for our producers.

In addition to that, we're in the process of adding a 200,000 barrel a day crude oil storage tank on the Arrow gathering system. We are very much involved in a process on a third-party pipeline, an open-season process on a third-party pipeline, which directly connects Arrow to COLT, and we expect to be contracting for firm downstream pipeline capacity on those. And we have recently ordered – I'm sorry, we ordered last year, and are soon to receive two crude oil unit trains that were expected to be received in the first quarter of 2014. So, all of that activity is very helpful to continuing increase the throughput on our Arrow gathering system and COLT Hub.

We did have significant weather-related volume delays on the Arrow system, and we think that we're certainly beginning to take some steps to improve that. In the first quarter, crude oil gathering volumes averaged about 44,000 barrels a day. Natural gas volumes averaged about 20 million cubic feet per day, and produced water volumes averaged 12,000 barrels a day.

As a result, our EBITDA was a little short of expectations, about $8 million per quarter, relative to our internal estimates. Importantly, as weather conditions have improved in the latter stages of the first quarter and now well into the second quarter, we're seeing significant improvements in throughput to our system, as producers are going back to work to catch up on their development plans.

Additionally, the construction of that incremental storage at the Arrow CDP [central delivery point], the purchase of the Red Rock Transportation fleet, and our subscription for a firm priority capacity on that third-party pipeline, which directly connects Arrow to COLT, we think we'll create operational flexibility and better flow assurance for our producer/customers on the Arrow system.

Well performance across the Arrow system continues to exceed both our internal and our producers' expectations, as indicated in recent producer-investor materials released by two of our largest producers out there, Halcon and WPX. Both are expecting to add additional rigs in the coming months on the Fort Berthold Reservation, which is where our Arrow gathering system sits. Currently, producers are running nine rigs in our area of dedication, and current development plans expect 38 incremental wells to be connected through the end of the second quarter. So, if that happens, we certainly should be in very good shape to catch up on those volumes.

Current daily gathering volumes on the Arrow systems, largely a result of just the wells that have been completed in the last several weeks since we started to see the spring fall, our oil volumes are in excess of 60,000 barrels a day. We've seen gas volumes as high as 25 million cubic feet per day and produce water volumes in excess of 20,000 barrels a day, all at around the end of April. So, we continue to expect levels closer to our original expectations throughout the rest of the year.

Just north of the Arrow system, at the COLT Hub, actual loaded volumes in the first quarter were almost 100,000 barrels a day, actually 98,100 barrels a day, representing a 15% increase over loaded volumes in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Our COLT Hub expansion project is largely complete, increased rail loading capacity to 160,000 barrels a day, added 400,000 barrels of crude oil storage. All of that was completed in the first quarter of this year. We have one project left, and that is the installation of the new release and departure track. That's on schedule for completion in the third quarter of 2014, and should provide the BNSF with additional operational flexibility and should drive increased loading volumes through the facility.

Importantly, during the first quarter, we announced two new long-term contracts with customers at COLT Hub: BP Products North America and Statoil Marketing & Trading, both signed up long-term agreements, and are starting to use the facility effective April 1.

So, we're pleased with where Arrow is presently, as producers get back to work, happy to sign up two new customers at COLT, and we're really beginning to see improved reliability at COLT as the BNSF begins to sort out their issues on the railroad system.

Moving to the Powder River Basin Niobrara, the expansion of our Jackalope gas gathering system and the construction of our 120 million cubic feet per day, Bucking Horse gas processing plant, remain on track to be completed by the fourth quarter of this year. In the first quarter, volumes on the system were limited to 53 million cubic feet per day. As we've said before, our volumes are capped at 60 million cubic feet per day, that is the limitation on local processing that's available to our producers, until our Bucking Horse plant is placed in service, at which point in time, we'll see a significant ramp up in volumes.

Chesapeake and RKI, our two primary producers there, have approximately 37 DUCs, or drilled but uncompleted wells, that are available to be connected to the system, and Chesapeake continues to run three rigs building up that DUC inventory, given that processing volumes are limited to about 60 million cubic feet per day.

So, continued development there, things look very good, both on the area of dedication, as well as in the area, you might recall that our gathering and processing agreement with Chesapeake and RKI is a cost of service agreement. As a result, our cost of service gathering fees have been increased substantially in 2014 to take into account the limited volumes that we can flow through the system, but taking into account the significant capital that's being invested through our joint venture between Crestwood and Access.

Additionally, there's been a significant amount of increased rig activity and drilling permits in the area to the north of our dedication with Chesapeake and RKI. Producers are targeting multiple formations up there such as the Niobrara, the Frontier/Turner, the Sussex/Shannon, the Parkman/Teapot, throughout the PRB region. And we continue to look at a number of projects, gathering and processing projects, to expand our assets up there. It's a very active area. We've got in last year in the early stage of the play, I think we're well-positioned to complete some additional projects to grow our footprint.

Also, a quick update on our Douglas crude by rail terminal, which we own a 50% interest in, it's located only 8 miles from the Bucking Horse plant. In the first quarter, we only loaded about 7,000 barrels a day, but the facility is currently being expanded to handling more than 20,000 barrels a day, and we expect unit train loading service to start in May of this year. We're also expanding our storage there by an additional 120,000 barrel a day of additional capacity. So, starting to make some progress in attracting producers' crew to that Douglas terminal.

Now, let me quickly move to the Permian Basin. As you know, we announced in early April a new project, it was really Phase 2 of an old project called the Willow Lake project, which we started on a couple of years ago when we bought dry gas pipelines that we thought might be convertible into a rich gas service, as the Avalon Shale and Bone Springs play move towards our location.

They have producers, and now very actively and aggressively drilling for Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp in the Eddy County, New Mexico area, where our pipelines are located. We've now gone from a JT [Joule-Thomson] skid to a 20 million cubic feet a day cryo plant, and we're also expanding the system. We just announced a 10-year gathering and processing agreement with Legend Production, which is a Riverstone portfolio affiliate company. And we have an area of mutual interest with Legend, covering more than 100,000 acres in this Eddy County, New Mexico area, where again, producers are targeting Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp.

Construction of the Willow Lake plant is very much on schedule. We expect it to be in service in the third quarter of this year. We're spending about $25 million to $30 million total on that project. This project was not in our original 2014 plan. And we're actively working with producers in the area for a Phase 3 expansion, which would be the Delaware Ranch plant. That plant, we own. It's located right now over in the Barnett Shale. It's about a 120 million cubic feet a day cryo plant that we acquired from Devon a couple of years ago, and we can move that plant over, once we get enough producer subscriptions to support that.

Mentioning the Barnett, I want to highlight something that surprised all of us. While the Barnett volumes were down 5% in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2013, recently, Quicksilver Resources has resumed drilling activity substantially in the Alliance and Lake Arlington dry gas areas. They completed 14 wells in late March 2014. As a result, volumes were up about 14%, 15% in recent weeks over the fourth quarter average. We're moving about 440 million cubic feet per day through the Barnett Shale systems. That's a big increase. Quicksilver just made their first quarter earnings call this morning, and announced, to our surprise, they expect to complete about 47 wells in 2014. We had about half that many in our 2014 plan, so we're pleased with that.

Moving on to a couple other areas at CEQP, our NGL Supply and Logistics business had another excellent quarter, following up a very strong fourth quarter. So, they've had a great winter, largely as a result of strong demand for propane and butane in the market areas. That group generated $19 million of EBITDA, excluding mark-to-market gains that represented a 6% increase over the fourth quarter of 2013, and with very, very strong performance, primarily due, as you know, due to the unprecedented product demand and water basis differentials, particularly for propane, that we saw coming out of the polar vortex or the extreme cold weather that the Northeast experienced over the fourth and first quarters.

Our wholesale team utilized our strategically located logistics assets, primarily in the Marcellus/Utica and in the New York area, to provide critical services to our NGL customers in the market areas. We were part of the solution in many instances, where harsh weather conditions drove higher demand and local suppliers were really challenged. This created both the combination of the strong winter demand and some downstream disruptions created supply disruption opportunities through some of the local suppliers that exacerbated market imbalances that we've seen across a number of different NGL suppliers and an increased demand for many of our firm services.

Our transportation team did a great job during the quarter despite those tough weather conditions. And with a strong first quarter under our belt, I think we're well-positioned to meet all of our 2014 objectives on the NGL Supply and Logistics group. We continue to make small, but important scale and diversification investments across our entire NGL footprint, including taking out long-term pipeline capacity out of the Marcellus/Utica towards the East Coast, as well as continuing to add to and upgrade our transportation fleet, both truck as well as rail handling, a lot of the liquids that are coming out of the Marcellus/Utica.

So, that's going to be a core business for us for a number of years, and we continue to sign up producers and processors that have liquids available to be sold into the market. So, I'm very pleased with the job that our NGL Supply and Logistics team have done.

At Tres Palacios, we continue to work on our optimization opportunities and cost-cutting initiatives. In the first quarter, Tres was slightly ahead of expectations due in part to higher optimization revenues and lower expenses. But let me just reiterate that market conditions remain extremely challenging for Gulf Coast storage, and we haven't changed our opinions of that throughout 2014. Continue to work with the FERC [Federal Energy Regulatory Commission] on our authorization request to reduce certificated capacity at Tres by up to 60%. We simply can't sell it at above breakeven prices, and so we continue to be optimistic that we'll get FERC's approval, ultimately, realize pretty significant anticipated cost savings there that might put Tres then on solid footing going forward.

On the tax side, we've recently filed with tax appraisal districts in Texas for a reduction in those property taxes. Again, that impact of property tax reduction is expected to be up about $4 million annually.

And then long term, we continue to have the very active discussions with customers in Mexico and along the U.S. Gulf Coast. As far as the LNG business goes, we think Tres is very well-positioned for that. I don't have anything to report this quarter, but I will report that we remain actively engaged in discussions with Pemex and CFE in Mexico, with shippers that have signed up at Freeport LNG, amongst others, to utilize Tres in our existing pipeline hub system down there as part of their overall long-term LNG supply portfolio. So, we have a number of positive opportunities around Tres, and we'll continue to pursue those aggressively.

That's a very quick overview of a lot of things we have going on, in our most important plays. And so with that background, I'll turn it over to Mike Campbell, who will talk about the detailed financial performance for the quarter. Mike?

Thanks, Bob. As with our normal practice, this morning, we distributed two separate press releases: One for Crestwood Midstream Partners or CMLP, and a separate release for Crestwood Equity Partners or CEQP.

I will first discuss the operations and the results for CMLP, and then I'll turn to CEQP separately. As we have previously discussed, we closed the merger of Legacy Crestwood and Inergy Midstream on October 7 of 2013. And as a result of the reverse merger accounting treatment, we report consolidated results of CMLP back to June 19, the date that merger came under – the date that Inergy Midstream and Legacy Crestwood came under common control.

As such, results prior to June only include Legacy Crestwood operations, and in today's discussion, I'll be making comparisons between the first quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2013 for context, as the prior-year numbers include only the ops of Legacy Crestwood. Additionally, in our fourth quarter 2013 results, those reflect the contribution of Arrow Midstream beginning on November 7, the date the acquisition closed.

For the first quarter of 2014, CMLP reported adjusted EBITDA of approximately $98.9 million, a 9% increase from the fourth quarter of 2013. Results in the first quarter reflect a full period contribution of the Bakken gathering system, and record volumetric throughput in each of our reporting segments.

In the Gathering and Processing segment, gathering volumes averaged 1.13 billion cubic feet per day, and compression volumes averaged 448 million cubic feet per day. In the Storage and Transportation segment, volumes delivered averaged 1.44 billion cubic feet per day, with peak day throughput of 1.77 billion cubic feet per day.

In our Crude Oil business segment, we gathered at Arrow and loaded across the rail rack at COLT an average of 142,000 barrels a day. Our reported net income of $5.5 million for the first quarter included $5.8 million of significant transaction expenses, primarily related to the Crestwood-Inergy merger and the Arrow acquisition, $4.6 million of non-cash equity-based compensation expense, and a $2.1 million non-cash accrual for the Antero earnout.

Now, turning to the EBITDA contribution of each of our three reporting segments. In the Gathering and Processing segment, EBITDA totaled $48.2 million in the first quarter compared to $47.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. These amounts exclude the $2.1 million Antero earnout recorded in the first quarter of 2014, and $31.4 million recorded in the fourth quarter. The higher results in the first quarter were due to increased Marcellus gathering volumes, which as Bob pointed out, increased about 15% to 531 million cubic feet per day, and increased compression volumes in the Marcellus, which increased 29% to 448 million cubic feet per day.

Gathering volumes on our other operating areas decreased about 4% due to natural production decline rates. But again, as Bob discussed, looking forward to the second quarter, the decline rates experienced in the first quarter expected to be offset by the 14 additional wells that were connected to our Barnett Shale systems in late March. April 2014, quarter-to-date gathering volumes on these systems, again, have averaged 440 million cubic feet per day or about 14% higher than first quarter volumes.

In the Storage and Transportation segment, EBITDA increased about 10% to $36.8 million during the first quarter of 2014, as we posted higher results at each of our operating facilities due to higher demand for interruptible and hub services, attributable to the increased daily price volatility and wider basis spreads resulting from the cold weather experienced throughout the region.

In the NGL and Crude Services segment, EBITDA increased 27% to $26.3 million during the first quarter. The increase reflects $4.7 million attributable to the full period contribution of the Arrow system, and $1.6 million increase related with the COLT Hub operations.

As we've discussed, volumes in our Arrow system were again negatively impacted by the extremely cold weather experienced in the quarter. Our Arrow crude volumes declined about 3,200 barrels a day from 4Q of 2013 due to the shut-ins, and lower-than-expected well connects on our systems, as producers struggle with the challenging environment.

We were not alone, as total North Dakota crude production also declined about 50,000 barrels a day from the fourth quarter highs due to the extreme weather. Despite the weather, we completed several projects to capture flared gas that led to a 47% increase in gathered gas volumes compared to the daily volume averages in the fourth quarter.

At the COLT Hub, rail loading volumes increased 15% to an average of just over 98,000 barrels a day during the fourth quarter of 2014. And in the corporate area, which includes general and administrative expenses, not allocated to our operating segments, expenses totaled $24.1 million in the first quarter, compared to $36.7 million in the fourth quarter.

The decrease was primarily attributable to lower transaction-related expenses due to the merger and the Arrow acquisition, lower non-cash equity-based compensation expense, which resulted from the accelerated vesting in the fourth quarter due to the merger. Excluding the transaction costs and the equity compensation expense, our corporate expenses were approximately $2.2 million higher than in the fourth quarter, primarily due to increased support costs related to the Arrow assets in the acquisition and increased personnel and professional services expense.

Now turning to the distributable cash flow of CMLP. First quarter of 2014 DCF totaled $70.3 million. The 9% increase in DCF quarter-over-quarter was due to increased adjusted EBITDA, as I've discussed, $1.1 million of cash received from deficiency payments on minimum volume commitments at the COLT Hub, a $2.3 million decrease in maintenance CapEx related to the timing of that capital spending, and all of that partially offset by increased cash interest expense on the $600 million of senior notes we issued in November of 2013. On May 15, CMLP will pay a $0.41 per unit cash distribution to unitholders of record on May 8.

Now moving on to CEQP. As a reminder, in all of our SEC reporting, CEQP consolidates the results of CMLP. In addition, similar to our CMLP discussion, results included in this morning's CEQP news release reflect the combined merged operations of Inergy and Crestwood, subsequent to June 19. And again in my discussion, first quarter results will be compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 for comparability.

We reported consolidated adjusted EBITDA of $116.6 million for the first quarter of 2014, a 5% increase over the adjusted EBITDA of $110 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. To calculate CEQP's stand-alone operations' adjusted EBITDA, which includes our NGL Supply and Logistics operations and the Tres Palacios Storage business, we subtract the $98.9 million of adjusted EBITDA reported by CMLP to arrive at $17.7 million of adjusted EBITDA attributable to the stand-alone operations of CEQP during the fourth quarter of 2014, that compares to the $19.7 million we reported during the fourth quarter of 2013.

CEQP's adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2014 included a $18.7 million contribution from the NGL Supply and Logistics business and $1.3 million from the Tres Palacios Storage business, offset by $2.2 million of corporate expenses, excluding transaction costs and non-cash equity-based compensation. The $2 million decrease from the fourth quarter was largely due to lower adjusted EBITDA from Tres, due to the true-up of property tax accruals that we recorded in the fourth quarter.

Now turning to DCF of CEQP. Distributable cash flow attributable to CEQP totaled $19.7 million for the first quarter compared with $24.3 million in the fourth quarter of last year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the lower adjusted EBITDA and the timing of maintenance capital expenditures, attributable to the CEQP assets. On May 15, CEQP will pay a $0.1375 per unit cash distribution to unitholders of record on May 8.

And before I turn the call back over to Bob, let me briefly touch on our capital spending and balance sheet liquidity of CMLP partnership. During the first quarter of 2014, CMLP's growth capital spending and joint venture contributions totaled approximately $76 million, and we continue to estimate total growth capital spending between $400 million and $425 million for the full year of 2014.

As of March 31, CMLP had approximately $532 million drawn on its $1 billion revolving credit facility, and as expected, our debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio, as defined in our credit facility, was approximately 5.06 times. As I mentioned in the last quarter's call, we filed a shelf registration statement for an at-the-market or ATM program, we expect the filing to become effective during the second quarter, following the SEC's customary review and comment period.

We remain committed to building financial flexibility and long-term balance sheet strength by managing leverage and our liquidity targets. And for the remainder of 2014, we expect to reduce CMLP's leverage and expand liquidity through EBITDA growth, coupled with disciplined utilization of the ATM program.

Additionally, as we continue to evaluate large-scale expansion opportunities around our existing asset platform, we're continuously assessing alternative financing options and development opportunities, including joint ventures, partnerships, as well as incremental sponsorship equity support to support those growth objectives.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to Bob for any closing remarks. Bob?

Yeah. Thanks, Mike. And just a couple of things to investors before we start the Q&A. We just give you a little bit of perspective. The first quarter weather was tough on a lot of producers in a lot of areas, particularly the Bakken, for us, but we saw basin-wide production volumes dove down from November to December and to January to February. They're just now starting to bounce up. So, it was not unique to our particular producers on our gathering system. The weather was simply so tough, that it really shut the industry down largely for about a 90-day period, December through February.

So, statistically, while the growth on the Arrow crude volumes was not as high as we'd hope it'd be, despite that weather, we're seeing a significant bounce-back with producer-drilling activities. And the long-term view of the Bakken Arrow system is much brighter today than it was. We're seeing a significant commitment by these producers to the long-term drilling and development of this area, and the information that we're getting from producers now about their pilot programs for down-spacing, and how that is going to have a significant increase in the number of drillable locations in our area is very impressive to us, and makes us even more committed to the acquisition that we made back in November of last year.

Secondly, across all of our rich gas regions, the Marcellus/Utica, the mid-Permian, the Powder River Basin Niobrara and as well in the Bakken, we are really seeing the benefit of the Crestwood-Inergy merger: The Crestwood gathering and processing capability with Inergy NGL and crude supply, logistics, trucking, terminals, rail. We're establishing a value-chain presence in all of these rich gas and crude-oil driven plays.

And I'm very impressed with the progress that our commercial and operating teams have made just in the last five months since the merger in not only building great customer service opportunities for us, but the commercial guys are actually starting to really leverage off of our position in these areas, investing in long-term downstream transportation capacity; enhanced truck terminal and rail; expanded storage opportunities, whether they'd be above-ground tank or below-ground propane storage, like we're trying to get approved up in Upstate New York at Watkins Glen.

All of these efforts are going to be realized in 2014 as we hit the run rate, the ramp-up of these producer volumes. And that's the reason why we have remained very firmly committed, with a high degree of confidence in our ability to come in, in the range of our guidance.

And so with that, Mark Stockard, I'll turn it back to you to start the Q&A.

All right. Operator, please open up the line for questions.

Ladies and gentlemen, we'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Gabe Moreen with Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Couple of questions. One on just Tres and the back and forth with the FERC. It sounds like that localized cost savings on property taxes in Texas, that sounds like it's coming through, but can you just remind us sort of what's in guidance this year for cost savings at Tres, and given all the back and forth with the FERC, whether there's any risk, I guess, to that cost saving and the timing of that slipping at all?

Sure. Yeah. So, first of all, the $4 million of property tax savings that we discussed was not in our original guidance, and so, I think that represents upside to the plan. We did have about $4 million worth of savings associated with the FERC abandonment. And I would say, at this point, I mean, I think, timing, we're a little bit delayed in terms of getting an order out of FERC. We remain very confident in our position here. I think, there still is some opportunity to realize savings for 2014, associated with that. Again, it would be incremental, if you will, to the $4 million of cost savings already realized.

Great. Thanks. And then turning to the Marcellus ops on expanded capacity of MARC I you added volume, it sounds like – two-part question for me. One is on the additional volumes you'll be adding on the open season, if it was successful, can you talk about, I guess, the CapEx associated with that? I assume it's relatively modest.

And number two is, given the success, given the basis differentials, how long is it – would it be, do you think before you're out for another open season? And at that point, would you have to loop line or can you just continue that with more compression?

Yeah. So, CapEx, it is relatively low. We're essentially replacing a compressor station, and that's really all that's involved in the 150 million cubic feet a day that we discussed. I think – and neither is associated with the North/South capacity. I think, future expansions of the North/South line would require some looping, but again, pretty low-cost looping as opposed to a new greenfield line.

On the MARC I side, a little bit different story. We continue to have quite a bit of low-cost expandability on MARC I, well above what we are anticipating contracting in this open season that recently closed. As you are aware, Transco announced their Atlantic Sunrise Project that has about 1.7 million dekatherms a day new take-away in 2017-2018 timeframe. And the take-off point for that project is within 3 miles of the terminus of our MARC I facility.

So, we do see a lot of long-term upside associated with MARC I, we think that the Transco Leidy system and Atlantic Sunrise system open up capacity to the East Coast. And we think MARC I will be very well positioned to capture that going forward, again, with a very, very low-cost expandability.

Great. Thanks very much.

Our next question is from the line of Edward Rowe with Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. With some of the projects that are coming online this year and the volume ramps from current assets, DCF and EBITDA should improve coverage. How are you thinking about distribution coverage versus keeping enough cash flows to reinvest in the partnership, and cost of capital and deleveraging? Is there a sort of a target coverage that you guys are looking at before you start distribution growth again at CMLP?

Bob, do you want me to take that?

Yeah, go ahead, Mike.

Okay. So, I mean, that's a very good question. And as we're thinking about this and, obviously, as we execute on the backlog of projects in 2014, our distribution growth decisions are going to be made quarter-by-quarter, as we immediately here are focused on getting coverage back comfortably above 1 times. And I think, as we look forward, we expect to do that in the second half of 2014.

From a target coverage perspective, I think over the long term, our target coverage expectations really haven't changed. We'd like to see ourselves comfortably over 1.05 to 1.1 times in our area of operations. And I think, we're really focused here, in the near term, to expand kind of incremental financial flexibility and build that coverage back over one. Back to your point is, we're executing and realizing the growth in adjusted EBITDA and DCF in 2014.

So, I think, just one other point I would make is, relative to the distribution growth in 2014, relative 2013, our expectation is that, that will be below our initial guidance of 6% to 10%. But the long-term health and the long-term outlook of the partnership is really unchanged. And based on the opportunity in front of us, I think, we remain very, very confident in delivering that 6% to 10% unit distribution growth to unitholders over the long term.

Okay. That's helpful. And just a quick follow-up on that, with the preferred units from the GE Financial Services coming January 2015, is there an option to extend that where they continue to get, in essence, kind of PIK units or more preferred units, versus having to pay out cash?

The January 2015 – those units will start paying cash. There is not an option to continue to PIK those units, and that's baked into our kind of five-year plan.

Okay. And last one, I'm just following up on Gabe's Tres Palacios. With coverage a little tighter at CEQP and the weather-the-storm initiative, can you share with us your view on the risk that FERC and maybe the state courts could stall the abandonment of Tres Palacios? And that's all I have. Thanks.

Yeah. Just on the Tres again, I mean, I think, we remain confident in our position with FERC. We have continued to see interest, and they've offered up the entire capacity at Tres to the marketplace and have been unsuccessful in taking down a large portion of contracts at rates to cover our costs. So, I mean, I think the message is there. The precedent is on our side.

The FERC – the filings are in front of FERC today, and we do expect to have – to hear back soon, relatively speaking on it. So, as far as speculating, I think, we're as comfortable with our position as we were at the day we filed it, and the timeline is maybe dragging out a little bit longer, but we remain confident in being able to realize some savings associated with it.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Michael Blum with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Can you just talk about the cost of the truck business you bought in the Bakken, what was the acquisition price? And then, how should we think about the return on that?

It was a pretty small acquisition. And on those type of transactions, we tend to target a 3 to 4 times multiple on that. And I can tell you already, we're seeing that multiple be driven down lower than we originally expected. The real benefit of that business is really building up the value chain there. And it's not a large investment, sub-$15 million type of an investment, but it has – brings additional synergies and flexibility, and a different suite of services that we can offer to the producer community out there.

Okay. And then, on the ATM program, is there a target we should think of, like a quarterly run rate or certain amount of equity you think you can do this year with that program?

Michael, the size of the ATM is – the shelf registration was about $300 million. I think that typically, as I look at being very disciplined about using that facility in that $300 million, could require a couple years to execute on. I think that once we get the ATM in place and up and running, I think, we'll probably learn a lot more. But safe to say that, we expect to be very disciplined about the usage of that ATM program, and really not impact our unit price, but also look to utilize it to manage the balance sheet here through the remainder of 2014.

Okay. And then last question, just going back to your comment on the distribution growth target for 2014. Do you have a revised target or is it going to be a quarter-to-quarter decision? How should we just think about how this year will play out?

Michael, I think it's the latter. It's going to be a quarter-by-quarter decision. Again, I think as we look forward, we're looking to comfortably move our coverage, and we're listening to investors to get that coverage up over one, as we kind of ramp into additional EBITDA and DCF, and we expect to do that in the back half of 2014.

So, that's a decision that the board will make on a quarter-by-quarter basis, so we really don't have a revised target, so to speak, in mind. I think, safe to say again, and I'll reiterate this, the long-term 6% to 10% distribution growth for the CMLP partnership is − the thesis is intact, and we remain highly confident of being able to achieve that, again, over the long term.

Right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from the line of Jeff Birnbaum with UBS. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Just one more on Tres. You mentioned things were going a little slower there. Any update on when you think the time that there might be a resolution on that now, is it 3Q or 4Q instead of maybe now where it was by midyear?

I think the short answer is, I mean, we don't know. We would expect potentially to hear by the end of the first – or end of the second quarter, at the earliest, but we don't control the timing associated with that. But I did want to point out, again, the comment that I made earlier about the – what we assumed in the plan was roughly about $4 million of the total $6 million to $7 million of annual run rate savings that we thought we could generate. But we have largely already captured $4 million of property tax savings that was in the original guidance.

So, I guess at this point, from a cost standpoint, to an extent, we're successful getting the abandonment through and doing so in the first half of the year. I think, there could be some additional savings upside, relative to the plan.

Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. And then, Mike, I think you mentioned that there was $1.1 million in MVC [minimum-volume commitments] payments from COLT in the first quarter. Do you have a ballpark estimate or range for where those could come in for the year? I mean, I know on the last call, I think, you guys have mentioned there's a variety of contracting commitments and so on. But is there any sort of range that you think that might contribute to DCF this year?

Well, let me – that's a tough question because we fully expect that as we get the R&D track in place and increase the flexibility around that facility, that our customers will be increasing and utilizing the facility more. So, it's hard to put a target on what the MVCs are, because our full expectation is that customers are utilizing their contracted capacities at the COLT Hub. So, I'm a little reticent to try and estimate below 100% utilization on the facility.

I think, suffice to say, those contracts and those minimum-volume commitments should provide investors the confidence that we're realizing the DCF attributable to the COLT Hub. Whether they're utilizing the facility or making their minimum-volume commitments to us.

Okay. Thanks. And those commitments aren't impacted by, if there's downstream take-aways for scenarios like that, right? Like if that happened in...

Yeah...

...the first quarter?

That's correct. If they're not utilizing that track then they're obligated on the minimum volume commitment.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

You bet.

Yeah. Michael, let's give a little background color on that. The downstream pipeline issues in the Bakken were related to the Arrow gathering system, not the COLT Hub. I know it was confusing the way that we laid it out, but our gathering volumes on the Arrow system, which average 44,000 barrels a day, as opposed to the more than 60,000 barrels a day we've seen in recent days, that was impacted during the first quarter by downstream pipeline issues, taking crude away from the Arrow central delivery point, not downstream pipeline issues related to the COLT Hub. The impact the weather had on the COLT Hub was simply the turnaround times and the reliability of trains getting to the location, and then being taken away from the COLT Hub by BNSF. And that's the responsibility of our customers.

We were there, ready, willing and able to load as much as 150,000 barrels a day. We actually had a day during the quarter where we loaded 150,000 barrels a day, as compared to the almost 100,000 barrel a day average. So, weather had – did have an impact on getting the trains there and taking them away on a timely basis, but I don't want to confuse the downstream pipeline issues that we experienced at Arrow with the performance at the COLT Hub. That was purely rail. That was purely a downstream rail issue associated with the COLT performance.

Thank you. That does conclude the question-and-answer session for today. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Phillips for closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. Again, I want to remind investors that we are making some substantial long-term investment decisions. The decision by the board to leave the distribution flat for the first quarter was very much a quarter-to-quarter decision. They were taking into account issues that we faced specifically within the quarter, but more importantly taking into account the long-term investment opportunities that we see in the Marcellus/Utica, around the Bakken, in the Powder River Niobrara and in the Permian Basin as well.

So, I hope that our investors appreciate the conservatism and the thoughtfulness that went into that decision. It is not a long-term decision to hold distributions flat. It's a long-term decision to strengthen the partnership and strengthen our ability to compete in the areas where we have operations and assets.

So, operator, thank you very much. And with that, we appreciate all of our investors calling in. Look forward to listening with you after the second quarter call. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Crestwood's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. If you'd like to listen to a replay of today's conference, please dial 1-800-303-590-3030 or 303-590-3030 with the access code of 4680744. We'd like to thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.