Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert G. Phillips — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Robert T. Halpin — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
J. Heath Deneke — Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Mark Mitchell — Senior Vice President, Eastern US Commercial Operations, Crestwood Equity Partners LP
Tristan Richardson — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Dennis P. Coleman — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
J.R. Weston — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Shneur Z. Gershuni — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Jeremy Bryan Tonet — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Selman Akyol — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Jerren Holder — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Ned Baramov — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to today's conference call to discuss Crestwood Equity Partners' Second Quarter 2018 Financial and Operating Results.

Before we begin the call, listeners are reminded that the company may make certain forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that are based on assumptions and information currently available at the time of today's call. Please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ.

Additionally, certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and distributable cash flow will be discussed. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the news release issued this morning.

Joining us today with prepared remarks are Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bob Phillips; and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Halpin; and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Heath Deneke. Additional members of the senior management team will be available for the question-and-answer session with Crestwood's current analysts following the prepared remarks.

Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I will now turn the call over to Bob Phillips.

Thank you, operator, and good morning. Thanks to all of you for joining us. We've had a lot of positive things happening at Crestwood the past several weeks. Last week, we made two important announcements on expansions in the Delaware Basin and the Powder River Basin. And today, we're very pleased to announce strong financial results for the second quarter. And first, I want to congratulate the Crestwood team for delivering another great quarter to our investors.

In the second quarter, Crestwood continued to fire on all cylinders commercially, operationally and financially, with adjusted EBITDA of about $103 million, and that's up 6% from last year. Importantly, as we promised, we delivered a strong leverage ratio of 4.0 times and a distribution coverage ratio of 1.3 times.

Also in the announcement, we talk about the sale of our West Coast NGL assets. We sold those assets at a price of approximately $58 million for the assets and the inventory. This divestiture is consistent with our ongoing strategy to rationalize and redeploy assets from low-growth to higher-growth opportunities.

The West Coast NGL business, which we've had for a lot of years, has been shrinking for quite some time, requires high annual maintenance capital. It has needed significant growth capital just to remain commercially relevant given the consolidation of the regional California gas production and NGL markets. And it has – it faces ongoing challenges like our primary customers in the California refining market. This was another good portfolio divestiture for Crestwood.

I'm going to let Robert and Heath give you the details on the second quarter and the announced projects, but I would like to give you some additional color on where we think Crestwood is strategically. First, to our Gathering and Processing business. The three growth areas – the Bakken, the Delaware Permian, and the Powder River Basin – all those areas are benefiting from strong fundamentals with both near-term and long-term commodity prices, which exceed the breakeven economics for producers in those basins.

Our producer group continues to be diverse, financially strong. They continue to show great year-over-year performance and improvements in drilling and completions. And our producers are motivated to accelerate production if the infrastructure is available to market that production with good netbacks and reasonable flow assurance.

Against that backdrop, we continue to improve and expand our service model for these customers, as we fully integrate assets and operations and extend services downstream to provide even more flow certainty, more marketing optionality, and even greater netbacks to drive producer development of this dedicated acreage. We think we've got very visible top-line growth out of all three basins for years to come.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, Stagecoach and Tres Palacios are still located in markets where we expect to see solid long-term growth in demand for both gas storage as well as market connectivity over time. Stagecoach in the Northeast, as demand for natural gas increases from the power market; Tres Palacios on the Gulf Coast, as the Mexican gas market continues to grow and LNG exports are now growing substantially year-over-year.

Similarly, our COLT oil assets in the Bakken are seeing rising North Dakota oil production, higher long-term oil prices, a WTI-to-Brent spread, which makes Bakken crude even more economic to refiners on the East Coast and West Coast. We expect these fundamental trends to continue as well.

In our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment, our NGL team have finished a bottom-to-top review of the business in the past nine to 12 months, clearly resulting in better first half 2018 performance due to the lower operating cost, a streamlined organization, new NGL supplies and improved delivery systems -truck, rail and terminal. As an example, our transportation team recently won the 2018 CCJ Innovator of the Year Award for electronic system implementations in our U.S. trucking fleet.

Same as Gathering and Processing and Storage and Transportation, the fundamentals here are very supportive of this business with higher absolute NGL prices driving supply growth, strong export demand balancing the market, a significant Mont Belvieu to Conway spread, and a growing NGL sales and downstream capacity book from our expanding processing plant business in the Bakken, the Delaware Permian, and potentially the Powder River Basin. So we're pleased with what our NGL team is doing as well.

In summary, given the strong fundamentals supporting all of our business segments; the visibility to growth projects in the Bakken, the Delaware Permian and the Powder River over the next 18 months; our ability to finance the current capital program without dilutive equity issuance; improvements that we continue to make in the organization, in the field and on the balance sheet, we remain highly confident in our 2018 guidance and our forecasted earnings growth over the next several years.

Crestwood has clearly become a leader in the industry in the past few years, as we have executed on our strategic plan. And I want to thank our investors that stayed with us during the downturn and those that have recently invested in Crestwood Equity Partners. We're very excited about the future, and we know that you are as well.

With that, I'll turn it over to Robert for a review of our second quarter financial results.

Thank you, Bob. I am very pleased to report strong financial results for the second quarter. Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA totaled $103 million, which was up 6% year-over-year compared to $97 million in the second quarter of 2017 and up 1% sequentially from the first quarter of 2018. Our strong results were driven by outperformance in our Gathering and Processing and Marketing, Supply and Logistics segments.

Distributable cash flow available to common unitholders for the second quarter was $54 million and that net of our quarterly cash distribution to our Class A preferred unitholders. For the second quarter 2018, we declared a distribution of $0.60 to our common unitholders, resulting in distribution coverage for the quarter of approximately 1.3 times.

In our Gathering and Processing segment, segment EBITDA totaled $79 million in the second quarter of 2018, a 16% increase compared to $68 million in the second quarter of 2017. Segment EBITDA increased during the quarter as a result of continued volume growth across our Bakken, our Powder River, and our Delaware Basin systems. In the second half of 2018, we expect the Gathering and Processing segment to be a large contributor to our cash flow growth as we begin to see the benefit of our capital investments go into service in the Bakken.

In our Storage and Transportation segment, segment EBITDA totaled $14 million in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $17 million in the second quarter of 2017. Segment EBITDA decreased primarily as a result of expected lower year-over-year EBITDA contributions at the COLT Hub. In the second half of 2018, we expect the Storage and Transportation segment to benefit from the Stagecoach cash distribution step-up, increased Northeast transportation demand from new power generation projects, an increased rail loading utilization at the COLT Hub due to favorable WTI-to-Brent spreads.

In our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment, segment EBITDA totaled $12 million in the second quarter 2018 compared to $15 million in the second quarter of 2017. Second quarter 2018 EBITDA reflects the divestiture of US Salt, which contributed approximately $6.7 million of segment EBITDA. Adjusted for the sale of US Salt, segment EBITDA for the Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment increased 46% year-over-year as a result of an expanded U.S. NGL supply base and market dislocations caused by increased NGL supplies from various high-growth regions as well as regional pipeline outages.

Now moving to expenses. Combined O&M and G&A expenses for the second quarter were down 13% or $6.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2017. The decrease in combined expenses was driven by Crestwood's efforts to streamline our Marketing, Supply and Logistics segment operations as well as lower insurance expenses due to continued improvement in operational safety across our operating platform.

Now looking to the balance sheet, as of June 30, Crestwood had approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding, including $1.2 billion of fixed rate senior notes and $385 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. This resulted in a leverage ratio right at 4 times.

During 2018, we are actively investing growth capital to expand our gathering and processing systems in the Bakken, the Delaware, and the Powder River Basins. In the second quarter, we invested approximately $47 million in consolidated growth capital and have invested $105 million in cumulative growth capital through the first half of 2018.

For full-year 2018, Crestwood is increasing its previously stated growth capital guidance of $250 million to $300 million up to $300 million to $350 million to reflect our 50% interest in the recently approved Powder River Basin and Delaware Basin expansions. Based on our current outlook for the remainder of 2018, Crestwood does not expect to issue any equity to execute on this expanded capital plan.

Crestwood remains firmly committed to the self-funding model through utilizing excess retained DCF, proceeds from the divestiture of the West Coast NGL assets, significant availability in our revolving credit facility, and capital commitments from our existing joint venture partners to continue funding our current 2018 and 2019 capital needs. We expect to complete the year within our previously guided total leverage ratio range of 4 to 4.5 times.

In addition, as a result of our very strong financial results for the first half of 2018, we are tightening our full-year 2018 adjusted EBITDA guidance range upward from the previous range of $390 million to $420 million to now be in the range of $400 million to $420 million, equating to a $5 million increase in the midpoint. This revision is also adjusted to exclude the EBITDA from our West Coast NGL assets as a result of the divestiture that we officially announced today.

And with that, I will now turn the call over to Heath to provide an update on our capital projects and business outlook.

Thanks, Robert. So we had another really strong quarter across our portfolio of assets at Crestwood and we're continuing to experience strong volumetric growth in our core G&P growth basins due to continued advancement in producer activity levels, efficiency, improving overall well results, and crude oil pricing exceeding $60 per barrel for the full duration of the quarter.

Our Marcellus and Barnett system volumes continue to outperform declined curve expectations, and our operations teams are doing a great job driving cost efficiencies in those regions. Our MS&L segment posted strong results by taking advantage of favorable supply pricing associated with growing NGL production and widening of the Mont Belvieu to Conway NGL basis differential as well as increased output from our downstream refinery and fractionation customers.

Our Northeast Storage and Transportation assets also benefited from growing demand from the power sector as well as increased localized gas price volatility, which we believe further highlights the extreme tight gas takeaway situation in the region. We look forward to the additional pickup in activity on the Stagecoach system as the 1.7 Bcf per day Atlantic Sunrise Project comes online later in the third quarter of this year.

Finally, last week we had two really exciting major project announcements in the Delaware and the Powder River basins. I'll provide a little more color on these projects as well as an update on the debottlenecking and processing expansion projects currently ongoing in the Bakken.

So starting with the Delaware Basin, during the second quarter, Crestwood's gathering assets averaged natural gas volumes of 157 MMcf per day, 184% increase over the second quarter of 2017 and 21% sequentially above the first quarter of 2018. We expect volumes to continue to grow throughout the remainder of the year as there are currently nine rigs now operating across our Delaware footprint.

Last week, we are very pleased to provide a strategic update announcing the in-service date of the first processing plant at Orla, the full integration of the Willow Lake and Nautilus gathering systems, and a comprehensive NGL takeaway solution that will move NGLs extracted from the Orla plant to competitive Gulf Coast markets. That announcement marked a very important step in our Delaware Basin franchise to now have a fully integrated and fully operational system that spans over 100 miles across the heart of the Delaware Basin.

I want to congratulate our project management team for doing an outstanding job bringing the Orla plant in-service in July as planned. The project was delivered on-budget. And importantly, maintaining an outstanding safety track record that we built in building projects in the basin. As a reminder, the Orla plant is a 200 million a day cryo that is centrally located to provide gas processing services for both the Willow Lake system in Eddy County, New Mexico, as well as the Nautilus gathering system that spans Reeves, Loving and Ward counties in Texas.

The Orla facility has been designed to accommodate at least two additional 250 million per day trains of processing capacity to meet our producers' growing needs, as associated gas lines continue to grow at a rapid pace in and around our system footprint.

As you would expect, competition for midstream services in the Delaware Basin is very fierce. We knew from day one that we had to develop a large-scale G&P platform to compete over the long haul, and we now believe we have that with the Orla plant facility and the full integration of the Willow Lake and Nautilus systems.

Similarly, we also understood the need to have a very cost-effective long-term NGL takeaway solution to compete, particularly to compete with some of the larger companies in the basins that have integrated gas gathering, processing and liquid platforms.

So, as we announced last week, we are very excited to complete the EPIC NGL pipeline and Chevron Phillips Chemical, or CPChem buy/sell transactions. These two transactions create a very competitive outlook for our NGLs while ensuring that we have adequate takeaway capacity and optionality for Orla – for our first Orla train as well as our planned Orla plant expansions.

The acquired undivided joint ownership interest in the Orla-to-Benedum segment of EPIC's 16-inch NGL pipeline provides Crestwood with control of over 80,000 barrels per day of takeaway out of the basin and will interconnect to multiple pipelines in the Benedum, Texas area. The EPIC capacity was purchased through our Permian joint venture with First Reserve and was funded via a revolver at that joint venture level.

Simultaneous with the EPIC transaction, we also entered into a long-term purchase and sell agreement with CPChem to purchase Y-grade originating from our Orla plant and delivered via our new Orla-to-Benedum NGL pipeline. These NGLs will be delivered to a new interconnect with CPChem's EZ Pipeline at the Benedum station.

So through the CPChem agreement, Crestwood expects to be a key feedstock supplier to Chevron Phillips's Sweeny Complex while maintaining the optionality to move NGL products to premium markets located along the Gulf Coast region.

So in summary, our fully integrated Delaware Basin gathering processing and liquids platform is now in service. We believe that we're now very well positioned to compete for growth, and we look forward to working closely with First Reserve to continue to expand our platform for new and existing customers in this basin.

Similar to our approach on the G&P side, we have also announced previous plans to develop an integrated, large-scale produced water handling, reuse and disposal system with infrastructure located alongside of our gas gathering and processing footprint. While we don't have a specific announcement to make at this time, we are – we continue to be very excited about the water business in the Delaware Permian. We really like our strategy and we're very pleased with the progress that our commercial teams have made to date.

So let's shift up north to the Powder River Basin. In the Powder River, we continue to see a resurgence of producer activity. We're now over 20 rigs now operating in the basin, targeting multi-formations, including the Turner, the Frontier, Parkman, Sussex and the Niobrara stack formations.

On the Jackalope system, Chesapeake ran four rigs during the majority of the second quarter and has recently added a fifth rig. So during the second quarter of 2018, gathering volumes on the Jackalope system increased 55% over the second quarter and our recent daily gathering volumes have exceeded 125 million per day as Chesapeake Energy shifted from appraisal mode into full development mode targeting the Turner formation.

In a recent press release, Chesapeake stated that its total net production reached record highs of approximately 32,000 net boe per day in July, which is comprised of 42% oil, 41% natural gas and 17% natural gas liquids, and that its net production in the Powder River is now expected to more than double in 2019 compared to 2018.

Separately in a press release issued last week, Crestwood and Williams jointly announced that we are proceeding with plans to expand the Bucking Horse processing facility by 200 million a day by the fourth quarter of 2019. This is in response to current and forecasted volume growth from Chesapeake as well as surrounding third-party offset operators. Crestwood expects to invest approximately $200 million in these projects over the next several years for our portion of the expansion.

Based on the increasing productivity of the Turner and Niobrara formations in the basin and the current level of rig activity within the joint venture's dedicated acreage, volumes are expected to approach the full capacity of the expanded Jackalope system during the 2021 timeframe. With this volume growth, we expect to generate and build multiple in the 5 to 7 times range, and we are in early planning stages to add a third train of processing associated gathering expansions to further capture growth in the region in the coming years. In addition, we are actively pursuing the development of new crude gathering systems in Converse County to support growing producer need in the Basin and in areas surrounding our G&P footprint.

Shifting now to the Bakken, during the second quarter, we saw natural gas and produced water volumes increase 37% and 21%, respectively, on the Arrow system as a result of newly completed infrastructure projects that are beginning to alleviate bottlenecks and capture volumes that were previously being flared, curtailed or trucked off the Arrow system.

We're on track to complete most of our remaining debottlenecking projects by the end of the third quarter of 2018. And when those are done, we expect continued acceleration in our producer completions and corresponding volume growth throughout the second half of 2018 and into 2019, as these projects are placed in service.

We continue to see our Arrow producers make terrific gains in well productivity results while continuing to gain efficiency on the cost side as well. So as an example, during the second quarter, WPX Energy, who's one of the largest producers on the Arrow system, announced a new company record 24 IP rate of approximately 5,200 barrels of oil equivalent per day within 81% oil cut. This record occurred on a four-well pad. Also, our producers' drilling and completion costs are now averaging about $6.3 million per year, which further highlights that our system supports some of the most economic acreage in North America.

So shifting to the processing side, the Bear Den processing plant operated at high utilization during the second quarter, which provided Arrow producers flow assurance as well as competitive netback pricing through collaboration with our NGL marketing team who are handling the liquids off the tail gate of Bear Den 1 facility. We've also begun construction of the second phase of the expansion, which will provide an additional 120 million a day of capacity, which in aggregate will bring our total processing capacity of 150 million – to 150 million by the third quarter of 2019. So once complete, Crestwood will be in a position to process 100% of the gas gathered on the Arrow system.

Also during the second quarter, we also reached terms and signed an agreement with ONEOK on their Elk Creek NGL project to become an anchor shipper on their system for our Bear Den plant NGLs when the project comes online, which is expected to be in the second half of 2019. We expect that this additional NGL will provide Arrow and its customers the best NGL netbacks – or the best netbacks to move NGLs out of the Bakken, which will ultimately the liquids will show up in Mont Belvieu markets.

So in total, between our gathering and processing expansions at the Arrow system, Crestwood has committed to invest approximately $550 million beginning in the 2017 period through 2019 to expand our crude gathering capacity to 120,000 barrels per day, our natural gas gathering and processing capacity to 150 million per day, and produced water gathering capability to 75,000 barrels per day.

When the full expansion program is complete, these projects are expected to generate extremely attractive total project returns with an expected well-below four times overall build multiple. These projects remain on track to drive very meaningful and accretive cash flow growth for Crestwood in 2018, 2019 and beyond, with Arrow's total cash flow contribution grow at an unexpected 15% plus cumulative annual growth rate from 2017 to 2022.

In addition, based on feedback from our existing Arrow customers and some potential new customers in the area, our commercial and project teams continue to identify additional system expansion opportunities that could further increase Arrow system capacity as well as increasing the expected cumulative annual growth rate over the next five years for the asset.

So with that, before opening the lines for questions, I'd like to state how pleased we are with how Crestwood is positioned for the remainder of the year and certainly going into 2019. We think the base business is performing well on all fronts. We have a high-quality backlog of organic projects in three of our high-growth basins, and we believe these projects provide our investors with visibility to multi-year accretive cash flow growth. And importantly, we do not need to access the equity capital markets to execute on this growth strategy.

So with that, operator, I believe we are ready to open the line for questions.

At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Tristan Richardson from SunTrust. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning, guys. Just -

Good morning.

– curious on your recently announced Permian Y-grade capacity acquisition. You noted that there's capacity there to accommodate a second and potentially a third train. Until such time that you approve those projects, could you talk about commercializing the capacity you have on that line?

Yeah, absolutely. So this is Health here. So, look, when we – when we entered into this transaction and underwrote the capital expenditure, it was really done off at the back of the train one economics. So really, as it relates to our expected returns overall on this transaction, they really only get better as we increase the capacity and the utilization of the line. So our near-term plans are to kind of use it exclusively as we kind of fill up train one and then kind of keep it available for our system as we grow into trains two and trains three.

Got it. That's helpful. And then just – now that you've talked about Bucking Horse and the expansion there, can you just talk a little bit about the crude opportunity you're seeing in the PRB, where the pinch points are, sort of what triggering events could sort of lead you to a crude solution there?

Yeah. Well, starting just at the basin level, I mean, obviously we're seeing a ramp-up in activity as producers want to shift into full development mode. Currently, the majority of the crude in the basin is getting trucked to market. It costs sometimes $2 to $3 per barrel. When we look at gathering systems out there, we think we can cut back costs in half or some situations perhaps better. So we definitely feel both to handle the quantity of oil that's going to be produced here in the coming years as well as getting the cost efficiency there. We think that producers are starting to shift to really want to get as much as crude on pipe as possible.

For us in particular, as you know, we have two investments in the basin, the Jackalope investment as well as a crude bar – it used to be a crude bar rail, but that's a crude hub or crude terminal, if you will, near Douglas. And the combination of these two footprints, we think, gives us a competitive advantage to develop crude-gathering solutions and ultimately get the barrels to the markets that they want to access.

So I think that's why we're focused on it. Again, it's a very competitive market as you can appreciate. But we do think that we have a – with our gas-gathering footprint as well as our Douglas terminal, we've got a good land-up to try to secure some of these systems, particularly those in and around our footprint.

Thank you, guys, very much. Appreciate it.

Our next question comes from the line of Dennis Coleman from Bank of America. Please proceed with your question.

Yes. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Just a little bit of a follow-up on Tristan's question there. On the expansion opportunities at Orla, you talked about the two plants. Obviously you cited the EPIC purchase. How can we think about timing there and decision process? What are the key checkpoints for you to make a decision on expansion?

Yes. I mean, I think our timing – I mean, we've got – we think we've got what we need with the train one kind of going into 2019. I think the next train where we've already placed an order for the kit and we are having the – the permitting efforts are ongoing. So I think we could have that train in services early at the end of 2019. But at this point, I think it's going to be highly dependent upon the ramp-up in our producer activity.

Again, we believe Orla 1 will – largely the volumes that we – the contracts that we secured in the Willow Lake system that we shifted close to 80 million a day of production that was being processed up there to this plant location, we think with those existing customers we have a good chance of filling up that capacity certainly by the midpoint of next year, which means if we're going to – as our other customers continue to make processing, we think that that could put us somewhere in the – like I said, in the 2019, maybe early 2020 for the next plant in-service date. But the FID has not been made on that yet. That will be made in connection with bearing line-of-sight on volumes it will need to process in coming years.

Okay. So – but that – if it takes – it sounds like you're doing some of the things, but if it takes 18 months to build another train, FID sometime this year for sure?

Well, I think if we're going to make it into 2019, we need to be FID-ing here pretty soon. Roughly, we think we have a 12 months to 14 months from go-time to completion time. Like I said, we've completed some of the front-end project activities to have – to prepare the site next to our Orla train one. We've already ordered the kit. So it's ready to go. The permits are ready to go. So really, at this point in time, we're, we think, probably inside a – like I said, 12 months to 14 months, we can hit the go button.

So I think there's a good chance that we could potentially FID depending on some of the success we have in some of the ongoing RFPs that we're in the middle of. But we'll – the timing will really be dependent upon when the market need is there for us.

Okay. That's great. And then on the water opportunity in the Delaware Basin, when might you be more specific on that? And can you talk anything about what the capital opportunity might be?

Yeah. Look, I mean, I think – I think if any of us that really started the Delaware Permian understand just the sheer amount of produced water that's going to be gathered across the basin, we think it's one of the primary potential debottle or bottlenecks, if you will, in the area to achieve the type of ramp-up that a lot are calling for in the basin.

So we think it's an area and a segment of the business that really needs a large-scale solution, more of a midstream-like approach to where you're not just looking at putting a SWD in the middle of a producer's acreage position and laying poly pipe to it. It needs to have a high-pressure, larger-scale solution to get costs down but also to handle the magnitude of the water that we think is going to be coming out of the ground through production and needing to get re-injected.

So I think the size – it's a little bit early. I mean, we think it could be very large in terms of the quantity of water that we need to handle. I think we are – we've looked at opportunities ranging from 50,000 barrels a day up to 0.5 million barrels per day. So I think until we get a little bit further along to where we have secured the base deal with the customer, I think we'll announce at that time the general size. But it could be a very meaningful growth opportunity set for our CPJV in the basin.

Great. A couple more hopefully quick ones for me. Anything you can share on the terms of the CPChem purchase and sale agreement in terms of tender or specific volumes?

Yeah. I mean – I think we've disclosed what we could through the press release and through the call's script. I mean, I think what I would tell you is we were in a very extensive RFP process for six months and negotiated and discussed options with virtually every provider in the basin. And let's just say we feel really good where we came out on this overall CPChem transaction.

Number one, we secured 80,000 barrels a day of capacity that's not subject to allocation with any other pipeline system. A lot of the – some of the issues that you're seeing in recent run-ups and transportation fractionation services is due to those constraints and the bottlenecks, and so people are getting somewhat curtailed depending on where you are on those systems.

So number one is that we now feel like we've got access to liquidity and we will be able to move our NGLs not just for this train but for subsequent trains. And again, this is going to be a privately held pipeline. And so we can preserve that capacity for our process and shippers, which we intend to do.

As it relates to the price, again, I think we are competing and we believe we have some of the best pricing in basin. And we will certainly put that to our advantage as we continue to go out and compete for new customers.

Regarding the quantity, the only other thing I could add on the CPChem side is that it is a substantial portion of that 80,000 barrels a day, but we're – but we do have options and continue to look for additional downstream markets and opportunities to deliver Y-grade to other markets. So it's not exclusive, it's not 100% of our volumes, but it is a significant portion.

The other thing I would comment on as well is that we do have the flexibility within that CPChem agreement to exercise opportunities to get our liquids back in kind. We do think that a growing amount of producers are wanting to direct some of their barrels downstream. And so we maintain that flexibility as well with the combined transactions on the EPIC pipe as well as the CPChem deal.

So, again, we think it's very flexible, really hit the mark in terms of long-term guaranteed flow assurance for ourselves and our producers. And we think it certainly was the most attractive rate that we saw in the marketplace.

That's great. Thanks for all that color. And then my last one is just sort of what should we expect for cadence on CapEx for the second half? You've got about $200 million to $250 million. Is that going to be ratable over the quarters? Is that how we should think about it?

Yeah, Dennis, I think it is fairly ratable. I think with the timing – the adder to the CapEx for the second half of the year largely being driven by the Powder River Basin expansion, which we announced last week, and then a continuation of our Bakken plus the Delaware capital that we mentioned. And so I think you will see it fairly evenly spread between the third quarter and fourth quarter.

Perfect. Thanks for all the color and answers.

Our next question comes from the line of J.R. Weston from Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. Congrats on the quarter and the recent commercial successes. A lot of options on the table now, both from a growth perspective and a financing perspective, and really I guess we've seen kind of three asset sales here recently with US Salt and today's announcement and then going back to the Willow Lake contribution to the JV. Just kind of curious how much consideration there is for potential additional asset sales in 2019. And then kind of along with that, can you remind us on the First Reserve/CPJV CapEx credit and how much is remaining there and kind of any color on First Reserve's interest in incremental investment with Crestwood?

Sure, J.R. This is Robert. I'll hit your questions in order there. So I think, first, speaking to the strategy we deployed of kind of internally generated proceeds, whether it's through excess DCF or strategic divestitures from time to time. Yeah, I think we've been pretty clear on the core growth opportunities we see around our portfolio largely being in the Bakken, in the Delaware Basin, in the Powder River Basin, and then longer dated in the Northeast Marcellus. And I think that's still the core strategy around growth for the company and where we will be allocating capital.

As we've been able to in the past, we found opportunistic times to divest of non-core assets at attractive prices and redeploy those proceeds into our more core growth and higher growth areas. And I think the West Coast divestiture, which we announced today, is another perfect example of that.

We don't have an active divestiture program ongoing. We just take advantage of those opportunities if and when they arise. But certainly what we are committed to is a continuation of the self-funding model and utilizing excess DCF and other sources of capital to continue executing on our growth plans in those high-core growth areas. And so I think, with that, if new opportunities arise, we'll certainly capitalize upon them, but no active program or imminent desire to divest of any others at this point.

And then to your second one on the Delaware Basin structure with First Reserve, we do have the revolver feature down there, a revolver at the asset level, and we had the $151 million commitment from them through the in-service date of the Orla plant. Now that we have brought Orla in-service, we have completed that utilization of their capital. So any future FID on any subsequent capital investment will be split 50/50, but we do have a self-contained capital structure financing plan down at that joint venture through equity capital from both First Reserve's and ourselves as well as the revolver at that level.

Great. I appreciate that. Kind of switching gears a little bit, just kind of curious what your updated sense is for investor preferences kind of between balance sheet strength and coverage relative to distribution growth or maybe even unit repurchases, and just kind of how that might be influencing your capital allocation plans for the rest of this year and into 2019, if at all.

I think it's a great question, J.R. And I think our strategy, both for the last 18 months as well as going forward into 2018, 2019 and 2020, is really an evaluation of where we can allocate capital towards the greatest long-term return. And year-to-date and for the foreseeable future, we still believe that we've got a backlog of call it five to seven times all-in build multiples around our portfolio. And those opportunities keep expanding our growth assets at those type of returns is the best near-term utilization of our capital.

That said, we've also been very clear about our long-term objectives of balance sheet at 4.0 times or better, coverage at 1.3 times or better. And we've been there for now many quarters in a row, and we continue to expect to be there and, in fact, better than that as we execute heading into 2019.

And so I think there is a right balance, an appropriate balance of investing in new growth, return of capital to unitholders. And I think we plan to start further evaluating that in the coming quarters. And we'll be more clear for the remainder of this year in our exact strategy around the mix between those components.

Hey, J.R. This is Bob. Let me just add a little color to that. We've done pretty well year-to-date compared to our peer group. You just look at absolute price and total return. We've been rewarded for our current strategy, which is primarily financial strength, and the execution of that strategy from quarter to quarter to quarter.

I can't see anything causing us to deviate from that primary strategy of financial strength while this industry is still kind of recovering from the downturn that we've all experienced. As time goes on and as more investors come back into the MLP space, and if they are rewarding higher growth and there are more financial strength, and we'll evaluate that at that point in time. But our entire business plan is based on keeping the balance sheet strong and executing in the three regions where we have a lot of producer and customer activity.

I think we're actually doing that quite well and the market is rewarding us so far for that. So I don't see us deviating a lot from our current strategy even as we roll up the end of 2018 and hit our revised guidance and move into 2019. I think you're going to see more of the same. It may not be a particularly sexy story, but it's the one that the market likes right now.

Appreciate that. That's all for me. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni from UBS. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning, guys. I just wanted to follow up on the last question. And Bob, I definitely appreciated your perspective there. But I was wondering if we can sort of – if we sort of step back and think about it, you were one of the earliest adopters of going over to the self-funding strategy, right? And as you pointed out, we've definitely seen that in your stock price over the last several months or so, but – and I understand your perspective that that's what investors are rewarding right now. But when you started, not a lot had actually gone down that path and now a lot of the companies have gone on that path.

And so, sort of the differentiation is, as you move to the next phase, are we ready to see that and will we see the growth? And I understand that you're waiting for investors to tell you that they reward growth over a repaired balance sheet. But you kind of have to test the waters a little bit. And so I was kind of wondering how you are going to be thinking about it on a go-forward basis.

Is it – does the balance sheet have to be at $375 million or $350 million before you absolutely realize that you have to step up and raise the distribution or buy back units? Or are there some triggers out there that we cross that line – I don't want to call it a red line, but we cross that point, and we'll definitely see a clear shift, or are we kind of already there at this stage right now and you're just kind of watching it?

No, we're doing more than just watching it, Shneur. And you know that you and I've had this conversation several times. What do you do with excess cash flow? We planted our flag during the second quarter when we announced to our investors and future investors that our three-year plan shows us growing DCF by 15% per year compounded annual growth. We think that's going to be top of the peer group type growth. And we think investors are going to be rewarding that DCF growth, not what we say in advance that we're going to do with that excess cash flow when we get it.

So let's stay focused on the assets and investments that we're making and the 15% compounded annual growth that we're predicting out of this portfolio over the next three years. And then, as we achieve that DCF growth, I think our management team is very focused on doing the right thing with excess cash flow, whether it is paying down more debt and getting at an even lower leverage ratio going forward, which of course preserves flexibility for us to do other transactions that may ultimately add significantly to our portfolio or even be transformational.

Can't do that without balance sheet strength and flexibility. Or in the event we feel very comfortable with our balance sheet position and the availability of additional capital from the capital markets, which doesn't exist today, then we might actually start moving towards a more aggressive thought about returning some of that excess cash flow to our investors through increased distributions. But I think we're a ways away from that. Let's stay focused on that 15% per year growth rate that we're predicting out of the current portfolio and the investments that we're making.

Okay. Fair enough. And one follow-up question, if I may. Just – you've talked about a lot of the growth opportunities and you've talked about the 15% CAGR growth rate on DCF. Can you – are you able to bifurcate that into what is organic that can happen with minimal capital versus – or just incremental capital where you're just growing with your producer versus kind of step-out type capital? Is there a way to sort of divvy up the 15% growth rate into those kind of buckets?

Yeah. Shneur, this is Robert. I think what we've outlined for the next – really through 2020 timeframe is based upon currently underwritten projects organically being built around our existing portfolio, most notably the ongoing expansion in the Bakken Shale that Heath mentioned in his remarks and the extremely attractive returns we expect to generate on those project, as we bring all that capacity in service and the producers continue developing in line with their current development plans.

And so there's no part of that 15% growth outlook that's unidentified or in addition to projects that we are not actively underway in executing on today. So that would be – but there is no bifurcation. That would be the contribution to that growth rate. It's really just an execution of our announced organic plan around the Bakken and the Powder River and the Delaware Basin through 2020.

All right. Fair enough. Appreciate the color, guys. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. Just wanted to turn to the guidance -

Good morning, Jeremy.

Thanks. Wanted to turn into the guidance here, and clearly lifting the bottom-end positive, but the midpoint of what you have for [ph] 10 (48:08) here, it seems like you're already kind of annualizing with the first half to hit that, and yet you have growth in the Bakken, PRB, Permian, all continuing to materialize over the back half of the year. Are there kind of offsets to the back half of the year we should be thinking about or is this just a conservative take on the guide? Could you expand a bit there?

Yeah, Jeremy. I don't think there's any offsets to it. I think as we've talked about from the get go, a tremendous amount of our long-term outlook and growth in the Bakken is centered around our debottlenecking projects and execution of that. If everything goes exactly to plan up there, I think we feel that we will perform really well relative to our updated guidance for the year. But we are moving in closer to the winter season. These are capital projects in a harsh operating environment. There's always some element of timing to that as we execute.

Again, as Heath highlighted, our operations and project management teams have done an exceptional job of bringing projects in service on time, on budget, and I think we expect that to continue. And if that happens, I think we'll be very pleased with where we end up for both 2018 and heading into 2019.

That's helpful. Thanks. And then, just diving back into kind of your new project announced here a little bit more, if we could get some of the – more thoughts on the economics there or even just – with Jackalope, are there any kind of guarantees from Chesapeake here or any more color that you can share on these projects?

Yeah. I mean. I guess the Bakken, as we said, is well-baked. The build multiple is substantially below 4 times. So I think those are – well, clearly, there's a little bit of Bakken growth in it. A lot of those economics are driven by existing production levels that currently have been either flared or trucked. So I think we feel very confident in that.

I think when you go into the Powder, I mean, as Chesapeake just kind of stated after their Utica sale, the $2 billion transaction that they did, they continue to emphasize the Powder River being really the growth engine for the company. And in fact, they'd broadcasted that they expect to double their production here 2018 going into 2019. So I think we feel really confident about the production.

And the other thing to point out too, as we said, this is kind of the next expansion. It's $200 million a day process in addition to associated gathering. If all that needs to happen for that plant to get full by the 2020-2021 timeframe as for Chesapeake to continue to run five rigs, which is what they have stated they're committed to do. So I think there's a lot of upside beyond that. Certainly a consideration for us when we underwrote that investment.

There are a lot of offset operators. Anschutz being one, [ph] Valigore (50:52) being another. Well, there's several operators in the area that likewise are starting to shift into development mode. And kind of given the system that we have in ground under place, we think we're going to be very successful competing for additional third-party opportunities. So our base economics were supported by simply just maintaining existing rig activity, but we think we got a whole lot of upside with third parties. That could enhance the production in early years, but we – as we said, it probably could lead us to more expansions than what we've announced here.

So we've spent a lot of time working really closely with Chesapeake's E&P team, the marketing teams. We've done a lot of independent work ourselves on the tight curves and the inventory levels. And let's just say we're very excited about the investment here and we think there's a lot more potential to be done.

That's helpful. Thanks. And I think you touched on COLT, but just want to go back there. Given how you talked about the diffs being wider there, how should we think about upside at COLT just kind of recovering versus where it's been with these dynamics at play?

Yeah. So I think definitely the diffs have helped exceed the utilization that we projected for the terminal this year. I think our team has shifted to the model that were self-performing and really driving a lot more crude through the terminal, both for crude rail and as well as some of the pipeline connections that we have to DAPL and others at the facility.

So, look, I don't think that we see this necessarily returning to the days when the terminal was ultimately built, but we do think that with DAPL getting closer to being full, with the widening WTI to Brent spread, we think that's kind of here to say, that we are to continue to see COLT maybe even outperform what our expectations were here six months ago.

So, again, I think in the plan we're going to continue to have a conservative outlook for the performance of that asset. But I think we're excited about the potential and some of the optionality that we have with that terminal now being in place and very well connected to a lot of growing gold production.

Jeremy, this is Bob. Let me add some color to that. I want to brag on our crude and our transportation teams. They've collaborated over the last six months to really optimize this asset. You might recall that years ago we bought a couple of trucking businesses up in North Dakota, literally right on the heels – or right before the price collapse, shut down a lot of second tiered, third-tiered drilling. So that business sat relatively dormant for a couple of years.

Rob in the crude team and Steve in the transportation team have gotten together, and a lot of the variables that we're attracting to COLT now are not traditional barrels. They're non-traditional barrels that come from good old fashioned lease-buying and marketing to new buyers of crude that want to take these barrels to the refineries on the East Coast and West Coast.

I don't think any of us are naive enough to think we'll ever go back to the old days of long-term contracts with big rail loading and storage fees associated with those type facilities. But given where COLT is located, how well connected it is, how aggressive our crude team has been in optimizing the capacity there with leased barrels to new customers, we're really excited about just moving on the order of 60,000 barrels a day presently, which is a long way from where we saw the bottom a year ago. And we think it's going up from there, and we think it's going up directly attributable to the increase in overall crude supplies in North Dakota, which is being clearly indicated month-over-month and quarter-over-quarter.

So I think we're well-positioned to attract additional barrels. It's not a particularly high-margin business, but we're optimizing an asset that we own, that's available, that's strategically located. And it keeps us in business with a lot of players up there for potentially either gathering, processing or NGL marketing as well. So the entire North Dakota team has morphed from just a basic gathering at the wellhead business and an old style crude storage and rail loading to now a fully integrated crude activity value chain. And we're pretty pleased with the combination of all of the commercial activities we have going on in North Dakota right now.

That's helpful. That's it for me. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Selman Akyol from Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning. Almost everything has been hit. I just have two quick questions. First of all, when you talk about the crude opportunity up in the PRB, all the opportunity you're seeing in conjunction with Williams up there or would you be doing outside of Williams?

I think it could be with Williams. I think there's various opportunities, some of which that we have reserved under our PRBIC investment with Twin Eagle and others that we think are open to potentially be synergistic with the Jackalope system. So I think we kind of have the optionality here to do it. I think we do want to work with our existing partners in the basin, and we think that we'll try to be – what's really going to drive that is the synergies of which partner or combination of partners that we think we can be most cost-effective and most profitable with an expansion.

Okay. Appreciate that. And then other one, in the Delaware, you talked about funding on your JV revolver. Can you just remind us how large is that revolver and what's the current balance on it?

$200 million is the overall facility. In the facility side, we've got about $40 million drawn today.

All right. Thank you so much.

Our next question comes from the line of Jerren Holder from Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Maybe going back to the Bakken, obviously great volumes there on the water and gas side, but crude gathering volumes were down. What was kind of the driver of that?

Yeah. Yeah, I'll take that one. So, really, as we talked about, we have had a lot of constraints on the system. We've had to – until we got our Bear Den 1 fully operational and until we completed some of the near-term bottlenecking projects, replace the service in second quarter, we're fairly well constrained, and the result is a lot of our producers had kind of deferred some of the completions that otherwise would have been done in the first half of the year to the second half of the year.

So I think this performance is actually pretty much in line with our expectations for the year. We thought as we kind of debottleneck the gas and the water system, we would see increase in pent-up production that was either being flared or trucked away. And so I think that's largely representative of the volume increases you're seeing there. As well as on the crude side, as we kind of get fully debottlenecks there and we get into the second half of the year with completions, we do think that we will continue to grow the crude production. But that kind of what's created this void. Again, it's just the debottlenecks in our infrastructure.

Okay. And then maybe switching across, I know you guys mentioned wide Mont Belvieu-Conway differentials as a positive factor there. Is that something you guys think will continue for the rest of the year? How are you looking at that? Yeah.

Sure. This is [ph] John (58:41). Yeah. We think that over the next couple of quarters, that constraint is going to be there right now. There's a lot of additional production coming into the market. And as that product tries to get down to the Mont Belvieu market, we're really waiting on additional capacity to come online.

And so, over the next couple of quarters, we would anticipate that to – that spread to continue, not nearly where it is today, but particularly as we get into the higher demand season for both propane as well as butane. So you'll see that spread come in, but over the – definitely over the next nine to 12 months, we would anticipate Conway being a little bit more than what has traditionally been under the Belvieu complex.

Just to add a little color to that too, just – we really have – of course we're benefited by the spread. I mean, one, our G&P assets are largely priced off of the Belvieu basis, which is trading significantly higher than Conway. And a lot of the supply agreements that JP and his team have on the NGL-MSL segment are Conway-based, but with sales being oriented towards the Belvieu price. So I think it really has helped our NGL performance with the spread as well as what our G&P customers are still getting really the netbacks for the premium that Belvieu is trading at relative to Conway. So I think it's really been a good dynamic for us.

Just to be clear, this is like trucking, right, that we're using to get the propane down?

Yeah. It's a combination of all of our midstream assets. So trucking, rail, rail terminals, access to pipelines. So it's the content storage as well. So it's a combination of the fully integrated midstream sites that we have on the NGL.

Got it. And then lastly, maybe switching to storage and transportation. It looked like some of the contracted capacity is kind of moving around. I think storage is down a little bit. Transportation is up a little bit. Can you remind us of some of the trends going on there and kind of what's the outlook for some of the growth opportunities that we've been sort of looking to for this asset?

Yeah. In the Storage and Transportation business, I'm assuming you're talking about the Stagecoach -

Yeah.

-- facilities.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah. I'll lead this off and I'll let Mark Mitchell kind of comment as well. But we are fully subscribed at Stagecoach. We've gone through renewals. I think to operate – the assets operating within expectations for the year. We're very optimistic. We've got Atlantic Sunrise coming online, and Mark can talk a little bit about how we think that's going to impact our business favorably. And we continue to believe that this asset is going to be well-positioned to grow in the long-term.

As we saw in the second quarter, we've had a couple of maintenance outages on pipelines that we feed into. It created a huge dislocation in cash to forward spreads. And we're able to benefit from that. But more importantly, what we think that that shows the market is it is extremely tight supply and demand balance up there. And any minor disruption, whether it's bringing in a new 1.7 Bcf a day pipeline in or if it's bringing on new production or what have you, it really does have an impact on the market. And given how our footprint is established with having storage, transportation access, we think it's just a matter of time for either the producers and/or the market end users decide that we need to further expand and debottleneck some of the infrastructure in Northeast PA.

So, again, I think a lot of our growth targets have kind of pushed back, largely resulting from delays and in-service dates of projects or what have you. But we continue to believe that there's ample and a robust growth opportunity set when you get to the back half of our plan.

I would now turn over to Mark to kind of give a little bit more color near-term on Atlantic Sunrise and other little factors that you see around our Stagecoach position.

Yeah. I mean, as we've stated, Atlantic Sunrise is a 1.7 Bcf pipeline that's going to move gas out of Northeast Pennsylvania where our assets set to markets in the mid-Atlantic and Southeast. And our MARC I pipeline facilities are directly connected to the Atlantic Sunrise facilities. So we do expect to see increased throughput on our system due to that new delivery alternative for our customers.

Additionally, we've seen a number of new power gen – gas-fired power generation projects come online this summer in and around our assets, specifically the Panda Hummel Station is directly connected to our MARC I facilities as well. And that's been running at a high load factor since June. So – I mean, we do see increased volume across the system. We see continued customer interest and contracts and remain fully-contracted across the system and volumes are improving. We expect that trend to continue.

All right. Great. Thanks. That's it for me.

Our next question comes from the line of Ned Baramov from Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. Most of my questions have been asked and answered. But I had two real quick ones. Maybe on the reduction of OpEx and SG&A, which has been a recurring theme in your results, do you see any additional opportunities to further cut expenses or would you say you're largely done with asset optimization and streamlining processes at this point?

I think, Ned, I think we're always looking for ways to optimize our business, streamline our business and gain efficiencies and cost savings as available. I think we have had a tremendous effort and tremendous execution from the team over the last couple of years. I think that that has continued, and we would hope we can continue to perform very well on that front.

I don't – I would say, at this point, I don't see any imminent opportunities to drive meaningful incremental savings from here. I think we've got a pretty good business, as we've said, I think consistently throughout this call. We're kind of clicking on all cylinders. I think we've got the right-sized organization to execute on the opportunities in front of us and continue to operate our business as best manner possible. And so that's right that we are on that front.

But can I have a little bit of commentary to that as well, I think what we're really focused on, in particular in our high-growth basins, the Bakken, the Powder and the Permian. We do have kind of that critical mass of operators and operating expenses. But what we're really driving is as those volumes increase, we don't think that our OpEx is going to proportionally increase.

So we're definitely going to be focused on driving higher margins, particularly in our high-growth basins. And our lower-growth basins, those are the more mature and potentially declining. Again, a lot of relentless focus from our operating team to try to keep our margins as high as possible as volume has kind of decline in that 5% to 9% range.

So – and I think they've done a remarkable job and will continue to look for ways to make sure we're being as efficient as possible there. But I definitely think there's room for continued margin improvement as our overall system volumes grow.

Got it. And then the second one on CapEx. I think in your slides from May, there was EBITDA – sorry, CapEx guidance for 2019 of $200 million to $300 million. Does that reflect the potential second train or the second Orla train?

That number does not include a potential FID on a second train at Orla. What it does include is all of the capital for our Powder River Basin expansion that's been out last week as well as our ongoing fully underwritten projects in the Bakken and Delaware at this point.

All right, got it. And then last one maybe. Could you provide an update on the fee-based EBITDA in your portfolio as a percent of the total pro forma, the sale of the West Coast NGL business?

I think given the scale, Ned, it really doesn't move that number a lot. We've always been in and around the 80%, 85% – closer to 85% across the overall portfolio. And I think that in all that, that number stays unchanged.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's all I had.

Our last question is a follow-up question from Jeremy Tonet from JP Morgan. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks for sneaking me back in. Just a quick question, I forgot to ask here. You said you dedicated Bear Den 2 to Elk Creek. Have you and Williams discussed NGL dedications for the Jackalope plant?

Yeah, we have. And in fact, as part of our negotiation when we thought that that deal that we signed with ONEOK was so strategic was that we want to add as Crestwood's NGL marketing team built in a flexibility to also utilize that capacity for our Powder River Basin growing opportunity set. So I will say, Chesapeake, they do have a dedication of their liquids as separate contract for ONEOK, but all the third-party opportunities that we have will have access – very cost-effective access to move NGLs. So very, very strategic for both our Bakken and our Powder River assets.

And I'll also point out just like we talked about the Permian, all those barrels are headed to Belvieu. I don't know, [ph] John (1:07:49) and his team are looking for other ways that we can kind of take sureties that we have the option to receive back in Belvieu and finding ways to make margin to move those further downstream to the growing petchem markets.

Great. That's it for me. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the question-and-answer session. And I would like to turn the call back to Bob Phillips for closing remarks.

Thanks, operator, and thanks again to all of you for joining us this morning. As you can tell, the team is very excited about where we are and how well we're positioned in, particularly the three basins for growth at Crestwood.

Let me just comment on the second half of the year. I think several of the questioners touched on that. We see significant growth in the Bakken, as on system volumes increased directly attributable to these debottlenecking projects, their pumps, their compressors, their wind loops, their station enhancements, more saltwater disposal wells, a lot more line looping on the water system, a big compressor station to move more gas to the Bear Den processing complex. Then of course, the big jump-up there is third quarter next year when Bear Den II is completed. We discontinue third-party processing and start processing all of our own – our on-system gas. So clear visibility.

In the Delaware Permian, good rig activity both on the Nautilus system by Shell as well as our producers up on the Willow Lake system, all of that now funneling directly into the high recovery, low operating cost Orla plant with great downstream NGL and natural gas connections. I think we're going to be eminently more competitive for new volumes, but we've got a pretty active set of producers in that region that are continuing to increase volumes. We should see that through the second half of this year and on to next year.

PRB continues to be a real exciting story for us. Chesapeake helps us a lot because they continually brag on their focus on the PRB and their well results there and their commitment to it as their primary growth engine. We're excited to see them continue to improve their balance sheet and get financially stronger. And we think that bodes well for Crestwood and Williams joint venture and the opportunities there to potentially merge the crude gathering business with the gas gathering business.

We know we're in a unique competitive position to benefit from the synergies of those two systems. And we intend to translate that to Chesapeake to lower operating costs, better netbacks for them, which we think will result in accelerated development. We're excited about their year-over-year forecast of doubling production from 2018 to 2019.

So those are the three primary areas that we're focused on. But we've touched on around the edges, the positive things happening by our crude team in North Dakota as crude oil supplies grow in that area, and I think we're well positioned. We've got an exciting wintertime ahead of us, as our storage customers still up early and we see clear line-of-sight increase of utilization of our strategically located assets, both in the Northeast at Stagecoach and on the Gulf Coast, which trace as the LNG in the Mexican gas markets continue to grow and begin to grow exponentially as well.

So I'm pretty excited about all that. Finally, our NGL team done a great job in the first half of the year that well-positioned with we think better than normal costs of product going into storage, which should translate into more profitable activities for us almost notwithstanding the winter. But we do expect another strong winter in our business plan or business model, depends on that.

So I think we're well positioned across all the areas. Robert and the finance team have done a really good job of positioning us here midyear halfway through our capital program, but still with a 4.0 leverage ratio. And we continue to drive DCF growth as well as deliver strong coverage ratio. So again, I think we're hitting on all cylinders. Congratulations to the team. Appreciate the investors that have stuck with us and those that are starting to take a hard look at our equities story right now. I think we're in really good shape.

So, with that, operator we'll close the call. Look forward to talking to you all after the end of the third quarter. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.