corrected transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, my name is Jacob, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would now like to welcome everyone to the fiscal 2005 earnings conference call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions]. At this time, I


would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Brooks Sherman, Chief Financial Officer. Thank you


sir, you may begin.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thank you, Jacob. And thank you everyone for joining us this morning on our fiscal 2005 yearend


earnings call. With me today are John Sherman, our President and CEO, Phil Elbert, our Executive


Vice President of Propane Operations and David Dehaemers, our Executive Vice President of


Corporate Development.


The format of the call today will be similar to our other earnings calls that we have had. In just a


moment, I will turn it over to John for some opening comments. He will then come back to me. I


will go through the fourth quarter and the fiscal year numbers compared to the prior year periods


and then we will open it up for questions.


Before I turn it over to John, I will take care of the forward-looking cautionary statement. In our


discussion today, we may communicate forward-looking information, various risk factors may cause


actual results to differ materially from any projections in these forward looking statements. We


provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings and we encourage you to


review our filings. With that John, I will turn it over to you.


John J. Sherman, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thanks Brooks. Obviously, 2005 has been an outstanding year for Inergy, not only in terms of our


financial performance but also in terms of the progress and development of the organization as we


position the partnership for long-term growth and success. A series of high-quality propane


acquisitions early in the year, most notably Star Gas, catapulted the company forward, moving us


into the top 5 in size in the propane sector. In June, we took the general partner of Inergy LP


public, giving investors another way to participate in Inergy’s success and most importantly


providing management with a valuable currency that can be used to further our growth. The recent


acquisition of the Stagecoach natural gas storage facility adds a great midstream asset to the mix,


diversifying our cash flows and improving the seasonality of our earnings. The recent propane


acquisitions, Dowdle, Graeber and Atlas, bring additional growth and accretion as we move into the


heating season.


I mention these things in the context of looking forward, how these accomplishments have


positioned the partnership with an expanded footprint, higher quality cash flows, increased financial


strength and flexibility and more visibility for cash distribution growth. All of the year’s acquisitions


have integrated well and are performing at or better than expected. The Star Gas acquisition in


particular exceeded our year one plan and we expect more savings and financial benefits in its


second year as part of Inergy. Stagecoach is off to a great start. We sold out the space more


rapidly than expected and we are experiencing higher rates as a result of increased demand for


storage. The early returns on Phase II are also positive, which further excites us about that high


return organic growth project.
corrected transcript


Inergy LP
 
NRGY
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The bottom line from my perspective is that this management team has just finished another year


that builds on a track record of consistently executing our strategy and performing to expectations.


In fact the numbers that Brooks will go over in a minute here both on a quarterly basis and a full-


year basis exceed the guidance that we have given to the Street. We are poised to continue to do


what we say we’re going to do on behalf of our investors. It’s not my job to speculate on market


behavior but against this backdrop of consistent performance and positive fundamentals, the recent


weakness in the NRGY unit price is baffling. It is my job to make sure we execute our strategy and


deliver. At our current unit price, better than an 8% yield, with our track record, this management


team, visible growth, and an active and deep pipeline of acquisition opportunities, I would think


NRGY would be pretty compelling opportunity for investors. With that I will turn it back to Brooks


for look at the numbers and I look forward to the Q&A.


R. Brooks Sherman, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thanks John. What I will do first is go through fourth quarter ’05 versus fourth quarter ’04 and then


do the same for the fiscal year period before we open it up for questions. So starting with the fourth


quarter of ’05, we sold 48.7 million retail gallons versus 23.3 million last year, a 109% increase


quarter-over-quarter. That increase is due primarily to the acquisitions that we have made in fiscal


2005, most notably Star. The propane gross profit generated in the fourth quarter of 2005 that you


saw at $50.4 million, that includes $19.4 million non-cash gain and let me talk for just a minute on


that. That $19.4 million non-cash gain represents mark-to-market gains on propane purchase


contracts which served to hedge our fixed price sales that will be delivered in 2006 that we have to


some of our retail customers. The recognition of this non-cash gain in the fourth quarter of 2005 is


required by FAS 133. As we have stated before, any time that we enter into a fixed-price sale


contract with a customer, we immediately enter into a contract to back that sale up and lock in our


margin and that is what we have done with these. As well these are perfect hedges from an


economic and an operating standpoint, we will realize the cash from all of these transactions that


we have as we always expect to realize and the process to be recognized on these transactions


are included in our 2006 guidance that I will discuss in a little while.


So that is a non-cash gain included in the $50.4 million, backing off that 19.4 million non-cash gain


has you arrive at propane gross profit in fiscal ’05 of $31 million versus the $12.4 million that we


recognized last year, an increase of $18.6 million; about 150%. The margin per gallon in the fourth


quarter based on that $31 million of propane gross profit is $0.64, up about $0.11 over the $0.53 in


the fourth quarter of 2004, reflecting the quality markets that we have entered into in 2005, up in the


Northeast with Star as well as the other acquisitions that we have closed.


Our wholesale gross profit in the fourth quarter was $2 million, doubling the million that was there


last year. We realized better margins in this fourth quarter than last year. Our midstream gross


profit in the fourth quarter of 2005 is $7.9 million versus 2.7 million last year. That midstream gross


profit includes the Stagecoach facility that we have as well as our West Coast operations. That


increase is attributable then to the, the new Stagecoach facility that we have, and increased


profitability as well on the West Coast. Other gross profit amounted to $13.8 million versus 3


million last year, again that increase a result of acquisitions. That total gross profit excluding the


19.4 million non-cash is about $54.7 million versus 19 million last year.


Operating expense in the quarter was $51 million in 2005, versus 20.8 million last year. All of that


increase the result of acquisitions and a little bit of other income this year and loss on sale in both


periods on some asset sales that we had. Has us arrive at, at adjusted EBITDA for this year of


$3.5 million versus a loss of $1.7 million in last year’s quarter. So an increase of $5.2 million. I


would point there that with a profit of $3.5 million in the September quarter and looking back to the


slight loss we had in the June quarter has us profitable in these non-seasonal quarters which we


are happy to report this time.