raw transcript


Inergy, L.P.
 
NRGY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon my name is Sarah and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I


would like to welcome everyone to the Inergy Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise, after the speakers remark there will


be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Mr. Sherman, you may begin


your conference.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Sarah. Hi, this is Brooks Sherman, Chief Financial Officer of Inergy. Welcome to


Inergy's second quarter conference call. With me today is John Sherman, President and CEO, Phil


Elbert, our Executive Vice President of retail operations and Dave Dehaemers, Executive Vice


President of Corporate Development.


The format of our call today will be similar to those we've done in the past. I think first I'll read the


forward-looking statement, I'll turn it over to John for some opening comments then I will go through


the quarter and the six month period results and then we will open the call up for questions. So,


with that in our discussion today, we may communicate forward-looking information. Various risks


factors may cause actual results to differ materially from any projections in these forward-looking


statements. We provide a detailed discussion of the various risk factors in our SEC filings and we


encourage you to review those filings. And with that, John, I'll turn it over to you.


John Sherman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Brooks and I'd like to thank everybody for their attendance on the call and your interest


in Inergy. I'll get this right back to Brooks for his detailed review of the numbers in Q&A but first a


couple of comments.


We are very pleased to deliver to solid results for the quarter on behalf of our unit holders. As most


of you know, this quarter represents the bulk of our annual earnings in this business and it's crucial


to execute well in the March quarter as it relates to having a good full year. After having more than


doubled the size of the Company since last winter, this is the first look at results for a full quarter


with the Star Gas, Moulton Gas and Northwest Propane acquisitions in the numbers. Those


businesses are performing as expected and the operational combination is growing well.


Additionally once again our people have delivered solid results against the backdrop of challenging


industry conditions. Those of you that follow the company know that we have an operational


mindset of no excuses and that it's better our job to manage the variables of the business and


execute our objectives as expected. So Elbert and his retail operating team did a great job as


expected as much as the legacy Inergy employees but the new people associated with the


acquisitions, the Star Gas operating personnel contributing in a meaningful way, it was particularly


gratifying with the surge in growth in December and integration of new people and businesses as


we enter the heating season.


I am very proud of how our people responded and executed on behalf of our investors. We tend to


talk to about Star, Moulton and Northwest, the large acquisitions, but other recent acquisitions have


contributed to advancing the ball as well, Burnwell in Southern New York, Highland propane was a


nice acquisition we made in Virginia last summer as well as Gaylord in Northern Michigan to name


a few. What was an acquisition story a few months ago is now an execution story and we feel very


good about that, we always feel good about doing what we say we are going to do.
raw transcript


Inergy, L.P.
 
NRGY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Looking forward we feel that Inergy is well positioned to continue its growth strategy, the recent


acquisitions, expanded geographic footprint and the size and scale we have today have both


financially and operationally strengthened the company and opened new opportunities for growth.


Combined with our track record our earned economic return advantage we are positioned to take


Inergy at the next level.


Before I give it back to Brooks as most of you know we are in a quiet period relative to our S1


registration statement for Inergy Holdings, the general partner of Inergy L.P. We are unable to talk


about that offering at this time but as I said on the December quarterly earnings call, a publicly


traded general partner will strengthen the overall capital structure of Inergy L.P and created


advantages for MLP in the acquisitions arena. With that I will turn back to Brooks for a look at the


numbers.


Brooks Sherman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks John. First I will get through our quarter results for the second quarter then I will get through


the six months before we open it for questions.


So in the second quarter of 2005 as you have seen in the press release that went out a little while


ago, we sold 147.8 million retail gallon versus 56.7 million in last year's quarter, so that 91 million


gallon increase, obviously a result – primarily of the acquisitions that John spoke out Star,


Northwest and Moulton. We sold those gallon in a period where there was about 3% warmer than it


was last year for us. The gross profit per gallon we realized in this quarter was about $0.755 on


those gallon sales versus about little over $0.70 last year, so a nickel increase of 7% which margin


we're very happy with, given us the challenging conditions that we faced both with weather and with


commodity price environment during the quarter.


That resulted about in a $111.5 million of retail propane gross profit versus about $39.8 million last


year. You add to that in the '05 quarter about $4.8 million of wholesale gross profit that was against


about $6.2 million last year about a $1.4 million less than last years quarter and really that's a result


of lesser gross profit per gallon and a little bit of timing difference from some our west coast


earnings. And the gross profit then that would make up balance amount into about 20.2 million in


our this year’s quarter up from 4.3 million last year again just the result of acquisitions, arriving at


total gross profit of fiscal '05, quarter of a $136.5 million, up from 50.3 million last year.


Our operating expenses this quarter 59.2 million, up from about 20.2 million last year but that’s all


acquisition related, those expenses we feel very good about, about the gross profit generated and


the expense that it took us to get there. That’s a good level for us to be after this quarter. Other


income this year was about $700,000 has us arrived at EBITDA for this quarter of about $78 million


versus $30.1 million last year, 159% increase, depreciation and amortization in this year's quarter


were about $12.4 million, up from 5 million last year, all the result of the acquisitions.


Interest expenses in the quarter is about $10.4 million and that’s both cash and in the amortization


of deferred financing costs, up from about 1.5 million in last years Q2, obviously the transactions


we went through in December, you know what results in that interest expense, probably a little bit


higher in this quarter than you might expect going forward just with some letter to credit that we


issued and had outstanding for a little bit longer period of time as we got things assimilated on the


credit front once we closed Star transaction.


In last year's quarter if you remember we had a net of about $18.2 million of write off of differed


financing costs to make over premium offset a little bit by cancellation of a slop against the debt


that we repaid early in last year’s quarter, so we have that $18.2 million charge last year, no such


charges obviously this year. A little bit of income tax expense has us arrived this year at $54.9