Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Duncan T. Au — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, CWC Energy Services Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All right, Duncan. How are you doing today? It's nice to have you joined us. How's everything with you? How's everything going on your end?

Well, as you can see from our Q3 results, I can't be happier than I am right now. So, thanks very much, [ph] Sohaib and comp (00:00:21) community or having CWC on your Twitter Spaces feed.

Absolutely. Thanks for joining us. We met in person at the conference of the Schachter Conference and you were super excited about what you had in store. But before we can get into that, I just thought that maybe introduce – start with a quick introduction of the company and what you guys do relative to the other service companies. And then a little bit of – we're going to proceed with an introduction, but a little about yourself and then we'll dig in to the third quarter financials here. So, if we can just start off with a quick discussion about CWC, a little bit of background for the newer folks in the audience. I think that might be the best place to start it off, Duncan.

Sounds real good, [ph] Sohaib (00:01:13). So, CWC Energy Services is a contract drilling and well servicing company. We have 22 drilling rigs, 7 in Canada and 15 in the United States in the Rockies region. We also have 143 service rigs, of which 64 of those 143 rigs are active today. That makes us one of the largest service rig companies in Canada by active operating hours and rig fleet. From the company's perspective, we're a 17-year-old company. I've been at the helm of this company for about 12 years now since October 2010.

And a little bit about myself. I'm an accountant and financial analyst by training. And I was in corporate finance with Deloitte and EY before I became an energy service entrepreneur. Start up my own backtrack 10-truck business and sold it for a very good return on investment. I ended up joining a company called Essential Energy Services back in the income trust days. We started that up, built it to a significant size, spun it out of the income trust that it was ended into its own separate income trust at that time. And we ended up then buying another services company, which today is called Essential Energy Services. So, we are the ones who started up Essential, but we ended up buying another company and their management team ended up running it. That was Builders' Energy Services back in 2008. We merged that up.

And then I ended up starting up my own private equity firm. I thought I'd be able to take advantage of what happened in the marketplace after the financial crisis. Unfortunately, the banks are not in the mood to put companies under, and so we were unable to get the type of assets that we thought we could get in that timeframe. And so then I ended up joining CWC's board in 2010. And within a short three, four months, the board asked if I would take over as President and CEO of this company. So the rest, as they say, is a little bit of history, as in both 3, 3.5 years, we generated a total return on investment of these. If you bought the stock on the day that I started with CWC as President and CEO, you would have had a 586% return.

And of course, during the last seven, eight years we've given all that return back. But the one thing I am extremely proud to say is that if you had still been with us on the day I started given the amount of dividends that we paid out in that 2011, 2012 to 2015 timeframe, you would still be up on your investment here today. And even at that low ends of – before this year, before the stock price ran this year. So, I'm extremely proud of that and I think really from CWC's perspective, we are on to bigger and better things as a company. And whilst seven years before this year was very painful, we did come through it in flying colors in terms of our cost structure as well as a much more focused company.

Nice. And if we can maybe discuss a little bit about what you found to be maybe just along the journey of doing different things. What are some of maybe the most interesting rides, while you've been at the helm during CWC's tenure, maybe just interesting times, interesting moments, probably 2020 might be perhaps one of the most interesting one of them all. But if there's any within that 12-year that you wanted to share, would certainly love to hear it.

Yeah, I've been very fortunate in my career in the energy services space. I've had two very good wins when we sold our − my private company Richmound Energy Services, a 20 back truck – tank truck business in Richmound in Saskatchewan. I ended up selling that right at the top of the market in terms of CAD 15 an Mcf for natural gas. And that was in December of 2005. And then ended up coming here to Essential or the guys that brought me Essential, we sold out in April of 2008. Again, that was six weeks before our top of the market, CAD 147 oil.

So timing has been extremely fortunate with myself, and I kind of was hoping that CWC would have the same fortunes. The interesting thing there is we almost got out in 2014 prior to the OPEC not supporting the price of oil. And so, of course, we all know what happened there. We had another crash in the oil markets at that time. And so I thought, well, I guess put another notch on my resume here and see if I can get through a downturn in the marketplace. And I am really happy to report that in those seven-year downturns from end of 2014 to the, call it, 2021 timeframe that we managed through that extremely well and we bought right.

And I think today, we want to talk about the buying rate and what our growth engine is here for the next – at least for the next year coming forward in terms of the asset base that we just bought, the 10 triple drilling rigs last year at the November 2021 and the 3 triple drilling rigs that we bought here in June that are going to contribute to our go forward success.

So, interesting things I would say would be there are a lot more black swan events and there are a lot more compressed time frames in terms of when those black swan events occur. So, the things I'm talking about are we bought assets, doubled our service rig division in late 2027 – or sorry, 2017, I should say, in October 2017. And then we had a good run in 2018 until there was nowhere else to put oil in the pipeline and Alberta decided that production curtailment was a good thing. So, that is something that we've never experienced before.

Fast forward a few more years or coming out of that year in the end of 2019 and into the first couple of months of 2020 and then we get a COVID event. So, what I would say is nobody can predict those black swan type events, but they are seem to be compressed in its timeframe. And I think for oilfield service companies and energy companies in particular, we've had to deal with those and we've been very skilled at dealing with it during those time frames. And I think those skillsets are going to carry us extremely well going forward regardless of whatever black swan event comes that might disrupt your business.

And Duncan, speaking of acquisitions, so you listed two acquisitions that you highlighted previously and you're pretty excited, but could you talk a little bit about these acquisitions and just maybe the impact or just add a little more context as to what it really means for CWC to be able to participate in those acquisitions?

Yeah. So, in November we announced the transaction where we bought 10 high spec triple drilling rigs and related equipment for $17.3 million or approximately CAD 21.4 million at that time. We bought them in Casper, Wyoming, which is not exactly the hotbed of where you would find triple drilling rigs. But we went and did our due diligence on these rigs. And given where we were at in the cycle at that time, you had a lot of drilling rigs sitting against the fence or at least our competitors did. We didn't. We had 100% utilization even back then. But we're looking to grow.

And so, while there was not as many buyers that had the ability to pay cash because you can appreciate people still had a lot of leverage on their balance sheet with excess assets, we came in with a cash deal clean, bought the whole thing, no customers, no crews. And we bought it at CAD 0.08 on the dollar to build new. Today, it will cost like – we bought those rigs, those 10 rigs, the purchase price, it would be about CAD 2.1 million. To build a brand new rig like that today would cost about CAD 42 million.

So, I think that we are very fortunate in the cycle in terms of having a very clean balance sheet. We did it with our credit facilities. We spent the money from a debt level perspective to buy that and – as opposed to raising equity to do it. And now you can see in the very short period of time that we've disclosed here, 10 months later, we have 6 of these 10 rigs working here today. And including the 2 that are in the US, that's 8 of 12 that we have working.

And so I think that timing wise, we timed it perfect from a purchase price perspective, but now all of that accretion is coming to our shareholders because that debt will be paid back. And we say 1.4 years here in our presentation that we have on our website, but in reality it is more likely going to be one year in terms of the payback there. So, let's not quibble about a couple of months, but the accretion that's going to come from these rigs from a cash flow and generation perspective is going to be highly accretive to our shareholders going forward.

So, I mean, if I got this right, so the – that whole purchase for the 10 rigs would have been around CAD 251 million?

Yeah. To build brand new, it would cost at that time CAD 251 million. Today, as we – one of our competitors actually priced out what it would cost to build a brand new triple drilling rig. It's not that anybody's doing that today. It would be CAD 42 million to build that.

So, CAD 42 million today. Replacement cost at the time of purchase last year would have been – in November would have been CAD 25 million. And you guys bought it for CAD 2 million?

Yeah.

Wow. And then – Okay, that's – and so at that point in time, like, could you maybe – like, what was going on at that point in time in the services [indiscernible] (00:13:05) aggressively that created these opportunities?

Yeah. So, I mean, it's a bunch of things, right? You've had an industry that has been bashed by climate change, by ESG profiles, by emissions. And the activity level had decreased during COVID in 2020 and really moving into 2021. And so, these assets became available in the summer of 2021. And we believe we were one of very few buyers that actually went and took a look at those assets. But we are also one of very few buyers that could pay cash for those assets.

And so, the seller on the other side was bleeding cash. They'd been in the business for 32 years, actually probably longer than 32 years in Wyoming, had made a ton of money, had available – very clean balance sheet, had cash on their balance sheet, and they were dripping cash out of the company every single month because of the activity levels in that area. They just wanted to stop that bleeding. There was an absentee owner, meaning they didn't live in Wyoming. The owners of this business, they were actually from a foreign country.

And so, we ended up coming in and basically offering the deal that they absolutely wanted, which was get me out of this business, pay me cash. I don't want your paper. I don't want your stock. I don't want any of that type of stuff. And that's probably what our competition was willing to do in terms of doing a deal with these guys because they didn't have the ability to pay cash. So, having a clean balance sheet was probably one of the best things that could have happened to us and our ability to buy this cleanly outright for the purchase price that we did.

Now taking this into account, would you like to mention the other acquisition that took place that would have been this year?

Yes. Yes. So, following on to this acquisition, we were able to get these rigs working and we realized – our board and our management team realized that what we did here in November and took the risk of buying assets with no customer and no people was working. We proved that to our board. And so, the board contemplated the asset acquisition of 3 triple drilling rigs in North Dakota of similar quality and capabilities as the 10 that we bought in Casper, Wyoming.

And so, we're able to buy these assets again at very good metrics, not as great as the 10 that we bought at CAD 0.085 on the dollar, but these ones were about CAD 0.17 on the dollar. And so, the metrics are a little bit longer to pay back on that type of basis, but we think that that's still in the long run and long-term, going to be a fantastic transaction for us. These rigs had been sitting for quite some time. They're actually built here in – at facility in the 2008 and 2009 time period right here in Calgary.

So, our guys, our management team were very, very familiar with these rigs because they had worked on these type of rigs and they knew its capabilities. The seller had already moved to the next generation of rigs that they were marketing in their company and were not interested in putting out this very capable earlier generation rig into the marketplace. And so, we went and made an offer to buy up these assets at extremely attractive pricing.

So, those rigs have been sitting for quite some time. They're still not generating revenues for us today, because we had to go and do, what we call, level four recertification to make sure that equipment is safe and is capable of working. And so, we just completed that recertification process here last week and we are now actively marketing those rigs to customers. And we do believe that in the first part of 2023, we will have those rigs working.

That's really wonderful, Duncan. At this point in time, could we just quickly touch point on the earnings you guys have released, and maybe just anything that you want to point out or draw attention to the audience that then may not have previously spent a lot of time looking at the service companies? Just anything to emphasize.

And then right after we do that, I'm going to get [ph] Nacho (00:18:14), who's joining us from a different time zone to ask some questions, before I open it up to the rest of the audience. So Duncan, I'll just pass it over to you, maybe just to give a highlight, any of the key notable items. And then, we'll open it up for Q&A?

Sure. Thanks, [ph] Sohaib (00:18:35). So, Q3 of 2022 is the best quarter that CWC has ever produced from a financial results and operating results perspective. We did CAD 61.8 million in revenue. That is up 122% compared to last year, last year's Q3. We did adjusted EBITDA at CAD 16.2 million in adjusted EBITDA. And if you look at that compared to our first six months of 2022, we did CAD 16 million. So, we did more EBITDA – slightly more EBITDA in Q3 than we did all of the first half of 2022. On a net income basis, we did CAD 9.5 million in net income, and for the nine months ended, CAD 15.6 million.

So, these metrics are extremely good, 122% revenue increase compared to 2021, 200% EBITDA increase compared to Q3 of 2021, and 368% net income compared to Q3 of 2021. And so, those type of results are the best in our company's 17-year history, bar none of any period – of any quarter. And as you can appreciate, Q3 usually is not the strongest quarter in an oilfield services company. It's usually the Q1 period.

And we believe that we will just be increasing from these type of numbers into 2023 and Q4 – well, not necessarily Q4 period because Christmas gets in the way there in terms of rigs shutting down and consultants wanting time off. But we did certainly think that these numbers are achievable and even more so in Q1 of 2023.

And could you talk a little bit about your enterprise value to adjusted EBITDA multiple? You talked about at the last – last presentation I attended, you talked about like historic multiples that you guys typically see. And then, between maybe 6.3 times, somewhere with 5.2 times, 4.9 times, within that range, relative to what you guys are currently trading for at the moment. And just maybe draw some of that context as to how you guys are doing relative to how you're performing, relative to what you guys are trading at?

Yeah, sure. So historically, our company has traded and the oilfield services space for contract drilling and well servicing companies have traded in and around about a 5 time to 6 time trailing EV/EBITDA multiple. So just to give you some context, in December 31, 2021, for the EBITDA that we generated, we were trading at the end of December at about 6.3 times. In May of this year, after the invasion by Russia to Ukraine and everybody was buying energy, we were trading in around a 5 time multiple range.

And now, at the end of September – well, at the end of September, where everything got sold off because people worried about a global recession, we had fallen down to a share price at the end of September of CAD 0.19 which, given the type of EBITDA that we are going to generate for 2022, is around 3 time to 3.2 time EV/EBITDA multiple.

That 3 time multiple is extremely attractive in terms of the share price. We released our results here on Friday, which thankfully the market liked and bought the stock again. I think we closed up to CAD 0.29 here today and yesterday which really from an EBITDA multiple perspective that we are forecasting for 2022, is around CAD 43 million to CAD 45 million conservatively. This still gives us just a multiple of just over 4 times.

So even at the CAD 0.29 level, it is our belief that we are not trading at the same – well, we still have room to go to the upside even if you were to price this at a 5 time multiple of EBITDA. That number I think is in around CAD 0.36, CAD 0.37 or thereabouts. And what we're saying, unlike the technology sector who's coming out and beating earnings for Q3, but then guiding downwards in terms of the rest of the year, that is not the case for energy.

We are guiding upwards for 2023 and hopefully for multiple years beyond that, too. So the selloff in the energy space, I believe, has been unwarranted given the fears that people have with regards to the global recession and the inflationary impacts and interest rates that are going up. That is not and we're not seeing right now a slowdown in the energy space.

I'm going to open it up for [ph] Nacho (00:24:15) who's really been following you guys and following the company and sharing his insights. [ph] Nacho (00:24:22), go ahead.

Thank you. Congrats, Duncan, on the great results. Good to speak to you again. I'm sure you must be proud.

I am. It's been a long time coming, and I think all of us have stayed the course and knew that this thing could turn around and would turn around. It's very rewarding for the whole team.

Yeah. Yeah. So, can you just − starting off with the first acquisition that you did in November and then the second one now in Q2, how has sort of the auctions? Has been there auction or has it been other strategic sort of looking at the same, or are you the only one looking for [indiscernible] (00:25:18)?

I would suggest to you, there are others that are looking. Their financial ability to pay is really what perhaps is hamstringing a lot of companies. There have been other transactions that have occurred since we bought those November rigs. I would suggest to you that my peer group being other contract drilling – Canadian contract drilling companies, are quite envious of what we did. I'd also suggest to you that a lot of management teams are getting a lot of flak for not having picked up these assets that we picked up to the point where some of them have lost their jobs.

I think that the bigger companies in terms of the top two, top three in both US and Canada in terms of size, are not looking at this time to add to their fleet because they still have a lot of rigs that are sitting. And in part, that is because of the labor challenges that we have in our industry. And so, it doesn't make sense for those larger players to buy more assets just so that they can be sitting against the fence. Now, we have been extremely fortunate to have executed and taken the risk that we believe that we could staff these rigs, and that is exactly what has happened.

On our US side, we started with 0 people in the US and now we are up to roughly 180 employees in the US to staff these rigs. So, we took that chance. We took that gamble. It was a calculated risk on our part that we could get the customers and then we could get the people to crew these rigs and that has happened.

Yeah, yeah. Okay. So, since you closed – since you did the second acquisition, how has competition or pricing in the secondhand market, how has that developed?

Yeah. So, on the second acquisition, we knew that there were others that were sniffing around as well on these rigs, and we had to act quickly. Fortunately for us, we were able to get our board together in a very quick manner and make some decisions as to whether this was something we wanted to do as well. And it occurred at a time where we were just proving that we were capable of getting the first 10 that we bought here working. So, we closed this at the end of June. And so these discussions occurred in that April, May timeframe. And, of course, our rigs were just getting started in terms of customers and crews.

So, it was an extremely busy period of time. But our board had very good confidence and faith that our management team could get this done. And so, they went ahead and approved the transaction that we bought forward to them. We're able to close this in a very timely manner. And from a marketplace perspective, I think some of my peers, I believe, didn't think that there was another transaction of this type of value out there. And we proven them wrong, again.

Yeah. Yeah. So, 15 of your 22 drilling rigs are now active and 4 of the 10 rigs that you bought in Q4, I want to remember that they are not working, right?

That's right. So when we – just so you have an understanding of what we thought we could do with these rigs, of the 10, we actually thought we had 10 good rigs without having to put any capital expenditure into it other than startup cost to get them back up and going in decent operating condition, which is not a material amount of money to do that. We were surprised that we actually got six of them that could do that. But we actually thought we were going to get five good rigs and five not-so-good rigs. As it turns out, it was six good rigs and four which we knew that we would probably have to spend some CapEx on.

Where we are now with those four rigs is if they are to go out the door, we would need to have a customer commitment that would end up paying for the CapEx costs on those rigs. And so I believe the market is already saturated with all the rigs that are currently in high demand in terms of its specifications. And so, the next set of rigs that are going to go out the door – and I'm talking about an industry perspective here, both Canada and the US, the next set of rigs that are going to need to go out the door need CapEx, whether it's coming from us or whether it's coming from our competitors.

All of us are – in the industry are being extremely disciplined in terms of having signed contracts to pay back the CapEx costs on those rigs. So, I do not believe that there are going to be speculative players in the industry who are going to go and spend that on speculation that they'll be able to get that rig up and going if they actually put the money in. I think it's going to be the other way around.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the three rigs that you bought later, I mean, what are – I assume those are better.

Yeah. Those are – from a spend perspective, let me walk you through our thinking in terms of those three rigs versus putting money into the four that we still knew that we needed to put CapEx on. We felt the spend after the purchase price of $7.4 million or CAD 9.6 million, we knew that we would need to spend a further CAD 8.3 million for recertification and upgrade cost to those rigs. That CAD 8.3 million spend we felt was a better use of capital than to upgrade the four that we had in our fleet.

So meaning that those rigs would be more capable if we spent that CAD 8.3 million and that's why we made the decision. Even though we have four more that we knew we need CapEx spend on and would eventually get there if we have customer contracts on, we felt this CAD 8.3 million was a better spend and more capable in terms of the rig itself.

Yes. Yes. Okay. And I assume that you're sort of – you're looking for work for those so...

Yeah. Yeah. We're in active discussion − we're in active discussions with various customers both in US and Canada. So our viewpoint there on those three rigs is the first guys willing to sign a contract for it will get it. We're in budget season right now, so that is where the delay happens right now is that our E&Ps companies are going through their budget process and they're unwilling to commit before they actually get approval on their budgets, right?

Yeah. Yeah. But – so from the point that a customer approaches you and say, yeah, okay, we want one of these rigs, how fast can you get those recertified and upgraded, et cetera, to the standard? How?

It all depends on what else they want on the rig, meaning there are − it's fast becoming – I shouldn't say fast becoming. It is becoming a trend that the E&P customers are looking for 7,500 psi systems on their rigs as well as a third and fourth pump. In some cases, a fourth pump, but really in most cases, a third pump. And those have not been standard items that have come with a rig in the past.

So, to get it to those type of specifications, we would need to do a CapEx spend of which our rigs, as I previously said, have – are now all certified as of last week, those three rigs. But we have not gone out and ordered a 7,500 psi circulating system and we have not ordered a third pump for all those rigs, right? We need the customer to tell us that that's what they want. And if so, there would be a timeframe upon which we would need to go get that rig. In terms of that timeframe, it's about a six-week process.

Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's not so bad. So, I have two, three more questions here fast. I don't want to take up too much time here. So, basically, Canadian drilling and production services, both those businesses saw a healthy margin expansion, obviously. Can you discuss that a bit and then finally discuss US specifically and sort of what led to a bit of a flattish margin development from Q2 and Q1?

Yeah. So, with our production services business, we have been seeing on a weekly and monthly basis the rates go up and that has been consistent month over month in terms of the hourly rate that we're getting. I would tell you that whatever you see published here for Q3, we are already in October higher than those type of numbers. So, our margins continue to increase. Having said that, we also are having our costs go up from a labor perspective, not necessarily fuel or supplies perspective at this point in time. But on a labor perspective, that has also gone up as of Sunday. We did increase our wages here for both the drilling and the well servicing side of the business by about 7%.

And in part, on the well servicing side, we believe that is playing catch up to the market as some of our competitors had already moved in the summertime. But we did it from the beginning of a winter season perspective to attract labor to either stay or come to the company. So, both retention and attraction perspectives. But we also did it in a manner that we knew that our margins wouldn't get compressed, meaning that we could pass this on to our customer, and that's exactly what's happening.

So, even as we had fantastic margins here on the well servicing side for Q3, all of these additional cost increases that we implemented at the beginning of this week for labor are being covered by our customers. So, we do not anticipate that we will burden that from a margin perspective and affect the shareholders that way.

Yeah. Yeah. And the US?

Oh, sorry, sorry. And so, on the US side, the reason why...

The most important.

Yeah, yeah.

No, I'm sorry. Not the most important.

Yeah. So the reason why the margins are lighter in the United States is you have to remember what it is that we just did. We bought equipment with no customers and no employees, right? And for us, as part of our forecasting and modeling when we did buy these rigs, one of the ways for us to get our rigs up and running very quickly with existing E&P companies down there was to offer a price that was maybe a little better than what the market was already able to get. So, we gave a little bit margin away there to get our rigs up and running and to prove our performance on these rigs, as well as to get the crews.

Now that we have our installed there and our customers have had confidence in us and like the service that we have provided both from an efficiency and productivity perspective, we can now talk about increase in pricing to probably what I would suggest to be market levels. So, I don't think that the margin compression on the US side was something of issue. It was always planned in our approach to how we would get those rigs up and running. Because if you think about it, when a customer has already got an incumbent rig that they're using, if they're offered that exact same thing why would they make a change.

Yes. Yeah.

And so just to give you a sense of the remarkability of what we just accomplished in six short months getting those rigs up and running with no people, no customers and building 180 people crew in that time period. We went from 0% market share in Wyoming marketplace to about 25% market share in the Wyoming marketplace in terms of number of active rigs in Wyoming. And I should say Wyoming and Utah and Montana too, to a lesser degree to one rig. But that just goes to speak to – speaks to how quickly we ramped up in terms of the active rig count in that region.

Yeah. Yeah. No. That's – I know. That's why I think the market is sleeping on that fact a bit, but it's coming around maybe now. So, you've done CAD 32.2 million in EBITDA in the first nine months. And you're guiding now for CAD 42 million to CAD 44 million. And knowing that you said that there's a Christmas holidays there for a week, but I assume that's – it appears to me that it's a bit of in the lower end of the guidance range.

Yeah.

Without saying more than that.

Yeah. I know what you're trying to hint at. I don't want to over promise and under-deliver.

Oh, that's good. Yeah.

Okay?

Yeah. Yeah.

So, that's one. Two, we are going to see softness in Q4 compared to Q3, meaning there has been some budget exhaustion among some of our customers in terms of their spend and just holding back right now until they get their budgets approved. We thought we might see some bringing forward of the 2023 budget numbers into 2022. That is not happening now, it would appear. And so, we just want to be a little bit more conservative on that front.

We also are up the belief based upon what our customers are telling us that the rigs – the drilling rigs in particular will start coming down in around the beginning to middle of December, which then will give these guys an extra three weeks holidays before coming into January 2023. And so, that's going to have an impact in terms of if you're just comparing Q3 EBITDA of CAD 16 million to what we can generate in Q4.

So, I mean, if I'm saying CAD 44 million here as the midpoint of EBITDA, then you're basically saying CAD 12 million. And while I think we'll be able to do a little bit more than CAD 12 million, I don't want to say that I'm going to get to the same level that I'm at in Q3 at this time.

Yeah. Right. Okay. But were all six rigs from the first 10 acquisition, were those working throughout the entire Q3 period?

Yeah. Yes. They're all still working. I – right now, we have 15 rigs – 15 drilling rigs working.

Right. Okay. So I have a final – I mean, I guess shareholder sort of capital allocation and stuff like that. I think I would be in a listening mode after. But I have – touching base here on the – what you said there on the comments that clients or customers are being a bit more cautious. When you sort of look at the drilled but uncompleted wells and well productivity, etcetera, I mean, is this – when you said that comment, is that primarily to Canada or is it in the US or both?

Well, here, let me answer it this way. I'm one person and my thoughts are based upon what I'm seeing in our company. What is better is an industry analysis of what people are collectively thinking. So, about 11 days ago, ATB Capital Markets put out a survey based upon inputs. They basically put out a survey to energy service companies, E&P companies, as well as institutional investors on a number of different topic items.

What that report ended up saying, well it said a lot of things, but I'll just summarize the key points which was the majority of service companies and E&P companies believed that service pricing would go up in 2023 compared to 2022, that the E&P budgets would go up in 2023 compared to 2022, that we were going to have a more robust 2023 than 2022 and the cash flow coming from the sector in our customers' hands was going to be extremely – continue to be extremely disciplined with regards to shareholder friendly things, meaning they were going to continue on the same path that they are on now, but they were going to increase their budgets slightly – not slightly, but modestly in 2023, but they were going to continue to give free cash flow back to shareholders.

So, that to me suggests for the oilfield services sector that we are going to have a sustainable run here, that we're not going to have the booms and busts type cycles that we've had in the past that, that is going to be a supportive environment for the commodity prices of both oil and gas − natural gas. And so, I think that that is a good dynamic for us and our industry in North America.

Longer term, if you look at the global dynamics, what I think is happening from an investor perspective right now is that they just do not believe in a global recession. And the demand destruction that would occur in a global recession for oil or gas, that you would be – that it would be needed. What people – that's too one sided of taking a look at that equation on a demand destruction basis. What people haven't appreciated is the ability to turn on the taps from a supply perspective. And we are already there, like we're in a supply shortage.

Like if you look at how much of the production coming from North America and in particular the United States that came from DUCs or drilled but uncompleted wells, those things have now been depleted. In 2023, that number is zero. There will be no drilled but uncompleted wells. And so, you will need to drill if you're going to continue to keep production [ph] plus (00:46:15).

Yes. Yes. And that's been sort of part of one thing that has got me into this. I mean, there's been a few guys here in the mafia here that they discuss well productivity and that...

They rebranded as members, [ph] Nacho (00:46:35).

Right, the cult members. And I have seen some data lately. I mean, can you put sort of drilling and CWC in context of what you're seeing and what you're – where do you think well productivity is going and sort of resource quality or basin quality, inventory quality, if you will?

Yeah. I mean, I think those are better answered by our customers in the E&P space in terms of the well quality.

Yes. Yes, of course.

And I'd ask you to ask them because they see that data on a daily basis in terms of that. My general feel is that the best – I mean, Canada has got a huge resource, right. And I think the well productivity on some of those wells – we'll still see better wells potentially. But in the United States, I think that the best wells are done. And I think from a North America perspective, I think Canada is going to have its day eventually. I mean, the only thing holding us back really is our federal government's ability to approve our takeaway capacity being pipelines.

That is the biggest challenge that we have in Canada. And if ever there's a government change which every single year I'm hopeful, I do think that those things are going to change over time because governments don't last forever.

Yeah, yeah. Thanks.

So what we're going to do, [ph] Nacho (00:48:17), is...

I'm out now. I'm going to listen. Thank you so much, Duncan, and [ph] Sohaib (00:48:22) for arranging this.

All right, [ph] Nacho (00:48:25). Just stay with us, though.

Yeah.

[ph] Rock Creek (00:48:26), go ahead.

Hey. Thanks, [ph] Sohaib (00:48:30), and thanks, Duncan. And congrats on a great quarter. I was just curious. The AER in Alberta has significantly increased their required abandonment spending that companies need to do next year and probably go forward, as they want to kind of reduce the inventory of suspended wells in the province.

Do you – with the amount of – and I'm talking about your service rig division obviously. A lot of guys have been focused in the last two years in kind of reactivating suspended wells and whatnot. Are you seeing a lot of your business in that sector with service rigs moving towards abandonments now with the increased AER numbers or pretty flat year-over-year considering the site rehabilitation program grants kind of kept that abandonment side going to?

Yeah. Yeah. Great question. Is it [ph] Rock Creek (00:49:29)?

Yeah, you bet.

Yeah. Great question there. So, CWC has made the conscious decision to pivot away in terms of the amount of well decommissioning work that we did in 2021 compared to 2022, pivot away from the well decommissioning work. And it's not because we think that there is going to be less work necessarily on that front. We do think that those will continue to grow.

The reason we did that was because, as you rightfully pointed out, the federal government came with a CAD 1.7-billion spend in Alberta, B.C. and Saskatchewan to clear up the inventory of wells that need to be decommissioned. And what Alberta called the site rehabilitation program or SRP, we did our fair share of that program.

The reason we pivoted away is because we view that the production services work, meaning the workover and maintenance work is much more important and much more desirable for our E&P customers, because it really boils down to this. If you pour money into a service rig to increase its production, that E&P company is going to be able to make more money. There is still no money to be made on the well decommissioning side even if it is regulated that you have to do it within a certain period of time to keep the LMR at a certain type of ratio.

And so, traditionally in the past, if you have a tight service rig market, meaning there's only so many rigs available from both labor and equipment, and an E&P company has a – let's just say, an E&P company has five rigs that they constantly work and they split that between production work and well abandonment work. You tell me where an E&P company's decision would be if it was, do I take that one rig and put it into something that is going to be cash flow generating or increase my cash flow as an E&P company or whether I should take that rig and spend it downhole on something that will never give me a return even though I have to do it.

So, we consciously pivoted more of our rigs towards production-oriented work from the decommissioning work and the SRP and its other forms of, what they're called in, Alberta – sorry, in B.C. and Saskatchewan. That program by the federal government is going to end here in, I believe, February of 2023. So, there's going to be a bunch of rigs that are looking to if, in fact, E&P companies don't end up spending their own cash on decommissioning those rigs – or, sorry, decommissioning those wells looking for other alternative work. And we would rather be on the production services side of the business having that work already with our customers than to have the rig come down because the SRP program is finished.

Having said that, OWA is also – the OWA is the Orphan Well Association and they are in charge of cleaning up wells that have been abandoned by defunct E&P companies. And so, that program will continue to grow and will continue to be done. But this company's focus is going to be on production-oriented work.

Having said that, we will always do well decommissioning as well. It's just not going to be as big a percentage in terms of its revenue generation from – traditionally, we've been in that 15% to 17% of total revenues coming from that business, and I think that those percentages are going to go lower in the future.

No, that makes perfect sense. And I think -you know like the – like on the producer side, like they're – now the SRP is done and cash flows are much higher, the AER is kind of cracking down. And it's like a budget that you have to spend. So, company X has to spend CAD 1 million on abandonments. But the thing is, everybody kind of abandoned their easy stuff in the last two years, so we get kind of progressively more challenging abandonments, vent flows, sour wells, rotten casing, whatever.

So, I mean – yeah, it makes total sense that you're doing that because in all fairness, the company could blow its budget in like – doing like five wells because each one of them might cost CAD 200,000 or whatever.

Yeah. Exactly.

So, I think that's a good call to kind of focus more on the production side because that's what everybody wants to focus on first and foremost. So, that's awesome. Thanks again for the time, and yeah, congrats on the great quarter. Talk to you soon.

Yeah, Thanks, [ph] Rock (00:55:04).

[ph] Razor (00:55:05), go ahead.

Thanks, Duncan. My question is related to kind of macro and the DUCs, the DUCs that you mentioned and how kind of to think about within the context of CWC. So, in the States, the production is basically flat for the first 5, 6 months or so at 12 million barrels a day, and the rig count is kind of hovering around 600. How do you view kind of the current macro when it comes to that trend? Because it's basically flat here. The active rigs are flat, production is flat. The DUCs are basically plateauing at the bottom range. Looks like it's really a call on demand. How do you view this in the context of your business? Thank you so much.

Yeah. Thanks, [ph] Razor (00:55:59). So, I agree. I think that the United States is going to continue to stay flat at least for the next year. But I do think that the budgets are going to start increasing. And this is a little bit of speculation on my part. Everybody is holding their cards tight to their chest until after the midterm elections that are occurring here in seven days or whatever it is now. But I think the outcome of that election is going to dictate where our – these E&P companies, especially in – well, in particular the United States, is going to do from a spending perspective in 2023.

I don't think you're going to see a major increase. I just don't anticipate that at all at this point. I do think that they will spend more than they did this year. And that's – I think that that's a good thing. I think that the world is going to have to wake up and realize that we need to spend a whole lot more on the supply side if we are to have energy security for our own countries and export for globally. So – but I just don't see that we are incentivized to go do that.

I mean, if you think about the political picture, they're basically telling E&P companies, yeah, there's no incentive for you. With windfall taxes and everything else that's on the table for discussion, there's no incentive for you to continue drilling more and growing our supply. You might as well give it back to shareholders, which should come as no surprise to everybody in society that this is the outcome from an E&P board and management perspective that they're going to return free cash flow to shareholders.

I mean, you basically said that you don't want this energy source being ramped up and now you do because there's a problem. But there's no incentive because every time you continue to make more money, they're basically saying we want to tax that or that you basically need to spend that on reducing emissions, which I agree with. I think we should. But it's at a measured pace, not at the pace that perhaps governments are asking us to do.

[ph] Razor (00:58:41), do you have a follow up to that before we go to a [ph] Joe (00:58:43)? Do you have follow up to that, [ph] Razor (00:58:44)?

Yeah. And so basically – thanks, Duncan – in the context of DUCs, basically you just see them flat at this point going forward, right?

Yeah, that's – that would be my base case. Yeah.

Thank you.

[ph] Joe (00:58:57), go ahead

Hello, Duncan. I'm glad you're jumping on the [ph] comm chat (00:59:03). That's fantastic. I know we got together a few months ago and chatted about it. So, nice to see you and [ph] Sohaib (00:59:09) organize that together. Good job. Hey, just a quick question for you. You presented at the Schachter Conference. What were some of your takeaways from that conference?

I don't know...

Aside from sub $70 WTI in Q4.

Yeah. So, as the headliner Josef Schachter gave his presentation, I disagree with that premise. I don't see a case for lower oil prices. I do see a case of higher oil prices because of supply shortages. And I think that OPEC – even OPEC, there's only several countries within the OPEC nations that have the ability to increase that supply. And it is my belief that those countries being – let's just pick one of them, the most likely one being Saudi Arabia has no interest in increasing that supply just to solve the world's energy shortage problem. They are more interested in protecting price.

Throw in top of that, all the geopolitical stuff and the sanctions against Russia and everything else, I just don't see Russia being able to maintain the amount of production that they have currently going. They're going to have to cut by about 1 million barrels a day. Because if you think about how that oil gets out of the country, when you put these sanctions on when you put these sanctions on them and price caps on them, there's not enough Russian tankers that are owned by Russians because one in – I believe I heard one in every seven tanker is owned by the Russians.

Meaning, all the other six tankers that are moving that Russian oil are owned by other countries. And if there is economic global sanctions against them, they can't get their oil out of that country to India, to China. So, I believe that those million barrels from Russia are going to have – they're going to have to cut production. And I think that OPEC and in particular Saudi Arabia is going to be extremely disciplined in terms of managing the price.

Yeah. I read an article very similar to that on the Russian front. It's going to be difficult just to the logistics of the shipping and to maintain the flow rate at the high levels that they're at today so – or at the levels they're at today.

So back to your business a little bit, Duncan. Help – you helped explain the rigs that you're looking for some capital assurance from the producers if – to get them back to work. But I'm assuming if you get that, then you still have a – you have an HR person power issue. Then you need to go get people to run those rigs or you're going to take people from your existing rigs and help build another fleet. Do you have a plan in place for that if that comes to pass in terms of the capital saying the producers do sign off on your well – on your rigs, getting the people for that rig?

So, let me just give kudos to our HR and personnel team. They have done a fantastic job this year of being able to find the experienced hands, find the guys to crew up our drilling rigs. A little cat out of the bag, the first of those three rigs that we are talking about that we bought in June, we already have the crews for them, for the first rig.

That's great.

So, we have lined up from a personnel perspective. We've been able to achieve what we wanted to achieve from a labor front perspective. Having said that, it is not easy. And in particular, it's not easy from not necessarily the experienced guys because we know where those experienced guys are. It's from the lower end entry-level positions, the new guys coming into the industry. We get tons of applications. But the issue at hand and it's always been this way in our industry is the turnover at those levels. They come in – I mean, the amount of people that come in at those entry level positions that stay beyond three months is a poor ratio, right?

They come in. They try it. They don't like it or what have you. And in part, the reason why we increased our wages here earlier this week was because we wanted to make sure that these guys that work in nice weather in the summertime are going to stay for colder weather in the winter and – because we can't afford to have them turnover as much as we've seen in our statistics right now.

So, we're hopeful that that's going to incentivize them to stay. And so, overall, we've had lots of different strategies in regards to getting these type of people. You have to remember that in the rig business, in the field hand side, it's about who you work with and who you work for. And so, as you get a really good rig manager and guys like working for him, they're going to follow him. And so, our trick is to make sure we get the right guys that are going to have guys come along, right?

Yeah. That makes sense.

Whether that is stealing from our competitors or what have you or our own contacts that we've had in the past. I mean, not every company is built the same way in terms how they deal with their employees. And we think that we've done right to all of our employees on that front where times were soft. I mean, they understood, but we treated them with respect, right, whereas I'm not sure everybody did the same in our industry.

So, that is absolutely so true because leadership goes a long way in making sure a company is profitable and run well. So, that makes a lot of sense to me. When you have your leaders that are pulling people with them and making them grow and be good citizens of society, that's awesome. So, that's all I have. Just thanks again for joining the [ph] comm chat (01:06:12) there, Duncan.

Yeah. Thanks.

Duncan, in terms of metrics for investors to use that you feel would give an adequate sense of – to gauge your business, what are some of the metrics that you think best – would be best representative of the business that you've been building over the years?

Yeah. So, one thing that we have not touched upon is our safety record. Last year – we have something called a TRIF or a total recordable incident frequency, which really is just a mathematical formula based upon recordable incidences that you would have in your company. And it's very mathematically oriented and generated. In our 17-year history, 2021, we had, and I think we put this in our presentation, a TRIF of 1.22, which is a very good TRIF rate. It basically suggests that we're not hurting – we're not having a lot of recordable incidences in our company even as our man hours go up.

What I'm really proud to say is in 2022, even as we achieved these record results, which we cannot do without people, which means our man hours are going up, our recordable incidences, knock on wood, for the 10 months ended is lower than what it was in 2021, meaning we are now below 1 times our TRIF rate, which is fantastic. And so, I'm extremely proud of our ability to ramp up our man hours in our company, achieve record results but doing it in the safest manner possible, meaning we're not hurting guys out there.

And that is invaluable. It's something that if you are going into this industry, not – it's not something you know to be asking but you should be asking if you are going into this industry. I would challenge every entry-level person coming in to apply for work and thinking about coming there to ask them what their TRIF record is. Now, some companies may not give that. I don't know if we do or don't to any new hires. But it's something that I would ask if I were a young person and looking to get into the industry is what is your TRIF record, what has it been. And we're proud to say at CWC that's been trending downwards. Lowest level that it's ever been in 2022 in our 17-year history. So, that's one metric.

Financial metrics that are all the – what I've already pointed out, your EBITDA margins. We work off at EBITDA because we believe that that's the biggest indicator of operating cash flow in our business. And it's how much of that EBITDA margin you're putting to the bottom line. I'm really happy that our margins here for Q3 were at 26%. 26% is a very healthy margin for our business. It means that we – of the revenue that we're generating, we are putting CAD 0.26 of every CAD 1 onto the ability to return profits to shareholders as well as pay down debt, as well as put money back into the equipment.

So at 26%, those are – I would say those are probably going back to the good days again. And it speaks to also the cost structure that during the last seven years that we have had a downturn, how we've gotten so lean and so well-managed in terms of the costs that are coming out of the company. So, those are some of the metrics I think that we would look at.

The other things would just be utilization of our equipment compared to the industry, which, by the way, on the drilling – Canadian drilling front, we are always significantly higher than the CAOEC industry average by a significant amount. Our utilization rates right now in the Canadian market is 100%. All seven of our rigs are working on that front. But you can see that consistently if you go back to every quarter of our MD&A that we disclosed how much our – what percentage utilization of our rigs are working, it's always been consistently higher than the CAOEC and not by a little bit by a long shot.

So, Duncan, it seems that this time around, the cycle has been a little anomalous in the sense that we've had higher prices, higher prices sustained, and we haven't seen the CapEx response that we typically see. For the largely – for the upstream E&P audience that may be listening to this, like what are your thoughts in terms of what you feel like CWC could provide to that investor base that may be just a little bit unique in terms of, hey, this is what you get that you may not be getting with your current E&P exposure or maybe things to keep in mind as we progress throughout the cycle and for the guys that are keeping OFS on the radar with the intention of swooping in and sort of lining up the companies to swoop into as soon as we start getting the major CapEx announcement? Like what are your thoughts, Duncan, in terms of what you feel like CWC has to offer to those – to the largely E&P audience that may be present in this call right now?

Are you talking about the investors or for...

Yes, to the investors. Yeah.

Okay. Okay. Okay. So, E&Ps love them to death. They – and investors love them to death. They had a great run here in 2022. They have been returning, been extremely disciplined. They have been very shareholder friendly with regards to dividends and share buybacks. And rightfully so, investors should be putting some eggs in that basket to generate returns.

The oilfield services space typically always lags that E&P space. But I think if you just look at a point in time being today and look at the valuations on the services side compared to the E&P side, not to say the E&P side won't run more, I do believe that they will run more. But I think from a downside risk perspective on valuation, I think that putting money to work in the services side here makes a whole lot of sense.

Let me give you an analogy. I always like using this type of analogy. During the gold rush, you had gold panhandlers that were looking to take risks. And they came out, they went and bought picks and shovels and they took the risk to go find gold. I liken the E&P companies to those guys looking for gold, whereas the services side, we're the ones that are selling the picks and shovels and pans and making a profit off of every sale that we do. Not sexy, but essential.

And that's exactly what we are, right? We supply equipment and labor. And every time we turn a wheel – or sorry, turn the drill bit to the right, we are making money or we should be making money. And while it's not sexy, it is lesser risk from the ability to say, am I going to get into things I can't control? On the E&P side, you can't control the price of oil, nobody can, not even Saudi Arabia, really. So, you're taking – that's the risk that you're taking as an investor in an E&P company. It is something that you can't control from a commodity price perspective and you are a price-taker on that front. And that's just the dynamics of an E&P company versus a services company.

So, would I offer out given the current marketplace, given the selloff that has occurred in the office services space, given the valuation metrics that are there? I think that you have a safer downside risk on the services side right now, but significant upside risk – or sorry, upside potential for a service company.

Duncan, it's been a great call thus far. We're hitting the almost hour and 30 minutes here. I wanted to check in with my co-host and see if he's had any questions on his end before we wrap up here. [ph] Shubam (01:16:06), if you had any questions or anything to share at all, feel free to do so, and otherwise we may be good to wrap up here. [ph] Shubam (01:16:14), go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks, [ph] Sohaib (01:16:16). Thanks, Duncan. Congrats on the excellent results there. Just a question. I guess a couple of questions on things a little bit different. You mentioned making these acquisitions in 2021 and then through the down cycle. So, you obviously have this very bullish belief on the market as we have seen.

Where does that sort of come from? There's a lot of companies that are sitting there worried about every single thing collapsing and whatnot. You've mentioned you saw the 2014 collapse, the 2020 collapse. So, you're coming from a similar sort of background. But what makes it different from your perspective? Like, why are you able to see this macro outlook? It seems like a lot clearer than some of your peers and maybe some of the E&Ps. Thanks.

I don't know if I have any special outlook that is different than anybody else. I think, collectively, we have positioned the company to be able to take advantage of opportunities when those opportunities arise in the marketplace. And in particular, I mean if you really look at us versus, say, the largest drilling rig contractor in Canada, I mean they spent a ton of money on their rigs during the good times, in the billions, and they did it with debt. And they're still paying for that today. And they're able to pay down that debt now, but it was touch and go for the last seven years in terms of that leverage ratio, whereas we never put ourselves in that position from having those type of debt leverage ratios.

Yes, we did make a lot during the downturn of the last seven years, but we were never put in a position where we are at risk of not being able to have the bankers renew our facilities, for example. And so, we were able to continue to chip away at that debt even in those downturn periods. And when COVID hit here, we were in a position where we had the ability to do things like buy things for cash.

So from an outlook perspective, I think a lot of my peers who are levered up, don't have a lot of options available to them. They have to stay the course. They have to pay down that debt as fast as possible. And that's what they're doing. And for us, when those opportunities present themselves in the marketplace in terms of buying assets at great prices, we can take advantage of that. And that's going to all ultimately lead to long-term shareholder value for our shareholders.

I just see us being – in 2023 being able to do the things that the E&P sides do it today with their record cash flows, with dividends and share buybacks. I think that the services sector is – for those who are in very good leveraged positions, are going to be able to do that for their shareholders going into 2023.

So, I don't think I have any unique sights. I don't think we're necessarily bigger risk takers or anything of that nature. I just think that we've managed the company well from a – at that level perspective versus maybe some of our peers who basically refurbish their entire fleets at the good times, but did so with debt and got themselves into a leverage ratio that is probably not desirable in a downturn market.

Right on. So, more a factor of just having that liquidity and cash possibly on hand allowed you to make that. Okay, right on. And then the other question I had, I was reading your Q3 results and you have about 70 or 80 looks like service rigs that are not active right now. Do you expect those to pick up materially as maybe capital returns to space not on the drilling side but people going by these, let's say, wells from the OWA or other suspended wells and they want to bring these with workovers and whatnot? Or just some comments around that. Thanks.

Yeah. So if you look at my – page 4 of my presentation where we talked about every available crew that we have on our rigs is working. If they add more crews, we'd have more rigs working. That's specifically related to our service rig business. I mean, as you rightly point out, we have 70 to 80 rigs that are sitting against the fence. We have 64 thereafter. I would say that 20 of those rigs with, what we call, a CVIP, a commercial vehicle inspection program, which needs to happen every year, every so many months. It needs an inspection.

We have a bunch of those rigs sitting against the fence where it's about a CAD 30,000 spend to get that rig roadworthy, which Alberta requires us to do. And we haven't made that spend. And the reason we haven't made that spend is because we can't find crews to run those rigs. And so, therein lies the limitations that we have in our industry. We have roughly 460, 470 service rigs working in the basin right now, but there's a lot more rigs in the basin. It's just that none of us as a collective can find the crews to run those rigs.

Will that change? With wage increases, with maybe the change in mentality of the younger generation or younger people that might want to come into this industry, that might change. But it's still challenging to find – and when I say getting those rigs working, it's not so much that we couldn't find rig managers or promote drillers to rig managers and move everybody up the chain. It's that bottom level that we need that stability on and to find the floor hands that are going to stay and make a career out of it for the next 30-some years.

I mean, we just don't have that in our industry right now. And with that is – traditionally, in the past, money was – what did it in terms of getting those guys to come. But I think we have a different dynamic here in terms of the lines that they have heard that the fossil fuel industry, why would you enter that now, you're not going to be able to make a career in that industry and all that kind of stuff. That narrative just has to change.

And the other aspects of it is, if Canadians don't want those jobs or Americans don't want those jobs, we've got to let the foreigners in. So, we have to have a path to immigration in our country that allows for foreigners to make a home here as opposed to, say, the temporary foreign worker program where they're not here permanently. They're treated as they're here for a short period of time to solve an issue. We don't need temporary; we need permanent.

So, yeah, in a nutshell – basically, in a nutshell, I have – I would suggest to you, I have 85 good rigs that do not need a significant amount of capital to go back to work. The rest of those rigs would require level four re-certifications, which is about a CAD 600,000 to CAD 700,000 spend.

Thanks. Appreciate the information.

I think the most – one of the most intriguing things that has been mentioned throughout this call, Duncan, you mentioned how many rigs you have fenced. You mentioned the primary reason is because there's not enough people. And all this has taken place all the while CapEx announcements haven't even been announced yet. We've had this high price environment for quite some time, which typically is enough to trigger the response. We don't see that.

Like, what do you see in terms of which is most critical aspect in the OFS business to be able to get people? What do you think it would take to get the people? I know you've mentioned an immigration policy like do you – are you – is there any feedback you're getting from the provincial government or any other bodies of government that are kind of giving you a sense of having this issue addressed in terms of getting people for your business?

Yeah. It is a very complex issue. Younger people, Canadians today. They want a lifestyle. And on the rigs, you cannot necessarily guarantee five days on, two days off per week schedule unless your customers are willing to do that. And if you understand the oil and gas game and the work that a servicer does, meaning the work that we target being production work. When a well goes down – ask any of the E&P guys on this call. When a well goes down and you call the servicer company to go and get that well up, a high producing cash-making machine, I need your rig and I need it now like in the next day because I need that well back on production.

If I go, oops, sorry. My guys are on a scheduled two days off. I can't get there for another two, three days. Guess what? That customer that was yours just went to the competition. And guess what? That rig that was working on a steady schedule is – those guys are looking for work now because I got to go find another customer for that rig. And so now what do they do? They go and get scattered. And so all of a sudden what I have in terms of work, I now don't even have a crew because they went elsewhere because they need work.

So, this is the real challenge in our industry is that to try and get a customer to set schedules. It's just not practical for our E&P customers to do that with us, even though that is what the younger generation would like to do if they want – because they want their Saturdays and Sundays off or whatever, right?

And then here's the other challenge. While I say that that younger generation wants those type of schedules that we are aware of, the guys that are on that rig who are the rig managers and drillers, they like the 21 and 3. They like working on for that much because they get tons of hours and they get paid. And so, I can't make everybody happy on the rig. And so, this is an extremely complex issue that we have tried to tackle over the years and still are struggling with the right answer.

Yeah. Because I mean, it's a big – I mean, that's a critical part. I mean, the 84 rigs parked, not enough people. This is – it seems like it's a situation that would probably get worse before it gets better if and when E&Ps decide to increase the amount of money that – increase their CapEx and it just continues to compound onwards, right?

Yeah.

This was a wonderful Space call, Duncan. It's been a blast. Thank you so much for participating. Great knowing about your company and learning about it and sharing the story with everyone else that's followed along with us on this journey of understanding Canadian oil companies and services a little bit better. It's been – congrats once again, Duncan. If anyone else on stage had anything else to share, closing statements, closing remarks.

And, Duncan, I could also send over this clipping to you as well. This recording may serve any benefit on your end in regards to an IR capacity. But anyone else here that has got any questions or closing comments to make, feel free to do so. Otherwise – or even closing comments from you, Duncan.

Yeah. I just want to say this community is great. I think this forum that you guys have created, it helps educate the investor base out there. I like what you guys have created here. And I thank, [ph] Sohaib (01:29:31), for inviting us to come talk to the community for the second time. I think I would love to do this maybe quarterly or every other quarter for you guys to help you understand our business a little better. And hopefully you guys think it was worthwhile and would be investors in CWC.

Absolutely. Thank you so much, Duncan. [ph] Joe (01:29:55), maybe considering you're the one who helped bring Duncan a second time, maybe any closing comments from you, [ph] Joe (01:30:02)?

Sorry, my dog is here. No, Duncan, again we chatted there at Schachter about you getting on the call and it was so great you already had that lined up with [ph] Sohaib (01:30:14) to do it. I think it's fantastic doing it after your earnings releases. And the insights that you provide to us just in terms of how your business is doing as well as the industry as a whole has been totally insightful for all of our comm folks that joins the – joined the call. Thank you.

Thanks, [ph] Joe (01:30:33).

All righty, fellows. Take care. Have a great rest of your evening and all the best. See you guys in the future Spaces. Take care.