Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Duncan T. Au — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, CWC Energy Services Corp.
Josef Schachter — Analyst, Schachter Energy Research Services Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Duncan, how you doing?

Very well, Josef.

I'm glad. I'm glad. It's nice to have you back, Duncan.

Thank you for having me.

We're going to go over your fourth quarter results. The good thing is that it's recorded. So for people that aren't able to attend, you're going to have an ability to get back to it via recording and catch up.

I'll pass it over to you, Duncan, for the new faces. Maybe we can begin with a brief introduction and a little bit about CWC before we start discussing this fourth quarter.

I'll pass over to you, Duncan.

Great. Thank, Josef. So thank you, again, to the comm community for having CWC on your Twitter Spaces. I think this is starting to be a quarterly thing for us, and we're very happy to be able to share our thoughts and have this type of forum available. And thank you, Josef, for creating this type environment for the community. I think it's a great outlet.

So a little bit about CWC before we begin, we are a contract drilling and well servicing company. We have operations in both Canada and the United States. We are one of the largest servicer companies in Canada with 143 service rigs, of which 64 are active. That's our production services division and in our contract drilling division, we are both in Canada and the United States. 7 drilling rigs in Canada and 15 drilling rigs in the United States.

We have grown significantly here over the last year. And we continue to think that 2023 is going to be another record-breaking year for our company [ph] as we do off (00:01:59) of the growth from the three drilling rigs that we bought in June of 2022, which we believe will be in service now in a few months. So we believe that we will have the customers there and that will start generating revenues for us, which will take us to even higher levels of revenue and EBITDA for 2023.

And, Duncan, the last time we met at the Schachter event, you were excited about the quarter that was coming up, and you'd mentioned in an after and the last basis a record quarter. This one is a record quarter as well. It says adjusted EBITDA and net income in CWC's 18-year history. Would you be able to talk about maybe the progression that you guys have made and maybe the impact that the current – or the last quarters has been on the company?

Yeah. So Q3 of 2022 was the best quarter in 18 years that CWC had ever had. We had about CAD 61 million in revenue. We did CAD 16 million in EBITDA. Q4 here is the best Q4 that CWC has ever had. So we almost hit the same number from a revenue perspective in Q4 at just over CAD 60 million in revenue, and we ended up getting CAD 13.7 million in EBITDA here for Q4.

And then, on the net income side, we did have a reversal of an impairment charge that we took in 2020 for our – mostly from our drilling rig division. Back, as you all recall, when COVID hit, nothing was turning a wheel on that side; and from an accounting perspective, every quarter, we are required to take a look at any impairments of assets that we have. We took a charge back then in 2020, about CAD 25.5 million, which you can see in our MD&A here. And now that we are back again to better days in 2022, it was appropriate and required actually from an accounting perspective for us to reverse those impairment charges. That's just the way accounting is now in terms of mark-to-market balance sheets.

And so we reversed the impairment charge that we took in 2020, mostly from the drilling division, a little bit from the surface rig side of the equation, about CAD 300,000 on the service rig side. The reason why it doesn't match exactly CAD 25.5 million impairment that was taken in 2020 to the CAD 23.3 million that we have in 2022 reversal is because you're required to take off the depreciation that you would have had had we not had the impairment. So that's why it's not an exact match.

But having said that, those impairment reversal charges speak highly to the relevance of our assets on a go-forward basis that they aren't really impaired. It was just that in that environment till 2020, when it wasn't working, wasn't – there was no revenue and no cash flow generation accounting requirements required us to take a look to see if any of our assets were impaired. So that's why we have the higher net income here, a record net income of CAD 26 million for the quarter and a record 2022 in terms of net income of CAD 41.7 million and net income for the year.

So the past two quarters that you've continued to do a lot better than the one previous, how is the guidance looking like for next quarter? Would you be able to speak a little bit on that, on whether you anticipate to have even a better quarter next one or not? I'll pass it over to you.

Yeah. Yeah. So from a Q2 2023 perspective, we do believe that we are going to be better at this point in time than our Q2 of 2022. And the reason we say that is because of the – of when our rigs started working, when we did the 10 rig acquisition in November of 2021, those rigs kind of really only got started going in April, May and June of that year. And as you all recall, we bought three more rigs here.

So we believe that we are – while there is some softness in the US market right now for our drilling rig assets and we're starting to learn more and more about that Rockies region in terms of the E&P customers and when they plan to work, their soft period is really the Q2 period, which I think is – it's a learning experience for us in terms of just being down there now, just over a year in terms of their planning period and working.

But we now understand and can understand why they find that period to be their soft period. If anybody has ever been to Wyoming, the winds blow heavy in Q1 and there are snow drifts everywhere, and it becomes, from a safety perspective, not ideal from a drilling perspective in terms of getting stuff done. And so that's why, they're softer in that period, much like we have spring break up here in Canada. Their soft period is Q1.

But given that Q2 would be soft in Canada, Q2 would be when they get – start get and go and real hard again down in the Rockies region and Wyoming, Utah, North Dakota areas. So we actually think that that's pretty good. It levels out our revenue and our EBITDA stream on a quarter-by-quarter-type basis, and so we think that that's actually a good thing for us.

And so if you can maybe even speak a little bit into that, so with your different markets, when it tends to be your busiest versus your lightest – I have for Wyoming, it picks up Q2, Q3 gets busier, and Q4 is the busiest is what I have written down here. And then if you could maybe speak to some of the other places as to how – what the activity level is usually like, just to give people expectations for the next – moving on for the next quarter is if they see dips, they realize that this is just part of the business cycle?

Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just to give you an overall sense of the industry, in the United States, we currently have – I mean, last quarter being Q4, we were at around 775 drilling rigs in the US basins, the lower 48 states. And that would be Baker Hughes numbers that I'm kind of quoting here. We're currently running in the United States about 760 rigs. As everybody knows, natural gas has kind of fallen off here a little bit. And so some of the rigs have kind of come down from that type of basis, but it's holding in pretty steady.

I mean, 10-, 15-rig difference is not a big material change from an industry perspective. And so I'm very optimistic going forward into the future at least for the next year that not much is going to change from a drilling perspective. Our E&Ps are very healthy from a balance sheet perspective as a overall group. And I think that they're going to continue with their plans, barring a major severe recession that actually happens in the United States or not, right?

So what we're seeing right now is there has been very little deviance from what we were expecting from our E&P customers from their drilling plans and activities.

And to talk about day rates, one of the most great indicators of profitability is the increasing rates. It looks like there has been an increase if I'm seeing this right. It was previously – it was – used to be 25,000, now you guys are currently at 31,959; on the US side, 29,847. Could you maybe speak a little bit to the day rates and how that's going to look like moving forward.

Yeah. So we have seen throughout 2022, month-to-month, quarter-to-quarter increases in our Canadian contract drilling day rates, as well as our service rate day rates for us in the United States because we're a new operator in the area that we are trying to get business in. You can see that it was more flattish for us. We didn't really want to go and increase rates. We wanted to be competitive and win the work and get the utilization.

Because as people may recall, what we actually bought for those 10 drilling rigs was just assets. We had no people, we had no customers. And so we took that risk. And in a very short period of four to six months, we were able to go – and of those 10 rigs, get six of those rigs working by June of 2022.

So you have to be a little creative in terms of getting an E&P to make a switch of their current service provider. And so that's why, we were price competitive on that side, but not giving it away for sure. So that's kind of what we did with the United States.

What I can tell you now is that in the beginning of 2023 January, what you're seeing us post as rates here in our Q4, our numbers are higher on a day rate, an hourly rate perspective on both sides of our businesses than what we did in Q4 of 2022. So the pricing continues to go up, and I think we're getting probably from a pricing perspective that it'll probably stay at these type of prices as opposed to continuing to go up. I think we've peaked for a little bit here, probably until the latter half of 2023.

And you said it peaked. So what's preventing from the day rates increasing even more? We've seen last year how service inflation wasn't an issue. And then third quarter or fourth quarter, it really started to ramp up. Is that something we can anticipate to see again? I just want to hear a little bit in regards to that, Duncan.

Yeah. You've got to appreciate the sharing mechanism between our customers and ourselves as suppliers of services to them. We all know that the commodity prices on both oil and natural gas over the last, call it, six months have been on a downward trend. Natural gas, more so, I guess, over the last two, three months. And so obviously, they are not getting the same type of rewards unless they have hedges in place on a higher number. They're not getting that type of cash flow. And so we think it's going to be more difficult going forward to continue our pricing march upwards. And so we are sharing with our E&P customers that risk profile of a commodity price.

So if we were – and in addition, we are seeing softness from our competitors' perspective, meaning some of our competitors' rigs are coming down in particular on the services side of the business. You have to appreciate that the federal government gave us a gift of CAD 1.7 billion to clean up inactive wells through the well abandonment programs in BC, Alberta and Saskatchewan. That came to an end here on February 14.

CWC pivoted in 2022 from – away from well abandonment work to more production-oriented work, because we knew this day was coming. But some of our competitors may not necessarily have done that. And so now, there is an excess of rigs that haven't had a lot of work in the last several weeks. And so they're going to get hungry for their rigs to go to work, and that might lead to some pricing pressure.

Having said that, CWC has not experienced a significant downfall in terms of our prices that we raised here in January. But am I expecting perhaps getting that pressure? I am expecting that pressure to come.

That makes sense. And in regards to the rig utilization, maybe focusing more on [ph] May, (00:15:36) Canada we see, it's around 61%. Would you be able to talk about maybe some of the things that prevent a higher number, is it labor issues or anything of the sort, if you could just talk about that CWC.

Yeah. So from a Canadian drilling rig perspective, I mean, we have only seven rigs here in Canada. All seven of our rigs were working here in last year, Q4 and all seven were working, saving except for moving dates, six or seven would be working. So we're as high as we can be from a utilization perspective. In Canada, we're one of the highest contract drilling companies consistently over and above the industry average.

And so there's not much more to get from a utilization perspective in Canada. In the United States, as I said, we have experienced some softness in the Q1 2023 time period. Having said that, we do believe that our customers that we work with and work for are going to get back on it here in April, May and June. So while we have only four rigs of the eight that we ran last year – at a maximum of the eight that we ran last year, we think that we're currently at four. We think we'll be at five in March, six in April, and getting back to eight by May and June of 2023.

And then, the rest of our rigs that we bought, those rigs were never expected to go back to work without some significant CapEx spend. And I think that if the market demanded more rigs from that spend – or sorry, more rigs that they couldn't find elsewhere, that we would end up refurbishing those rigs, so that they would be desirable in terms of the needs of our E&P customers.

And at $120 oil, I would have expected that those rigs would to get in that CapEx spend. So, saving except for the customer willing to sign a contract to pay for those expenditures. But we've always said that we won't make that spend on the spec of the play until we actually know that we're going to have a contract. So that de-risks our CapEx spend to make sure that we are going to get that recovered.

And I think that the discipline in the market with regards to – by competitors and drilling contractors of having that discipline throughout 2022, and I believe going forward into 2023, that that capital discipline is going to be there. It certainly appears to be that way right now in the marketplace. Suggesting that nobody is going to go and spend the whole bunch of money on CapEx to upgrade to third pump, 7,500 psi systems, 4 gens without actually having a contract in hand.

And, Duncan, what are some of the things that you'd like to share that you think is not currently being appreciated by or more of – that you think is not fully understood by maybe investors that are more focused on the E&Ps or not taking into consideration as to maybe how much meaningful the services side could be? Would you be able to share maybe a little bit in in that regards, Duncan?

Yeah. So we did a presentation here early in February at the World Outlook Financial Conference in Vancouver. I think it was February 3. In that presentation, which you can pull from our website, I started off by saying, why invest in energy. And the first slide basically was saying, energy is a very undervalued market on a historical basis. From a PE ratio perspective, from an EV EBITDA ratio perspective versus other industry metrics – sorry, other industries who basically are getting a much higher valuation than the energy industry is.

And I think all energy investors are a bit frustrated by that in terms of not more money is being applied to both E&P sector as well as oilfield services sector. But I don't think that many people appreciate the free cash flow nature, which is really what our energy sector is now all about in terms how much free cash flow we are generating as an industry, and in particular, the oilfield services side generating even higher free cash flow compared to enterprise value than the E&P is.

If you look at our story, CWC story, and in that presentation on slide 6, I actually talked about how cheap our stock is at CAD 0.23. We're trading on a 2023 EBITDA basis at about 2.6 to 2.7 times adjusted EBITDA multiples. And if you look at the overall Canadian contract drilling and well servicing sector, the average EV EBITDA multiple right now is between 3 times and 3.5 times for companies in our sector.

That is extremely cheap on a historical basis, where we have historically traded at a 6-time EV EBITDA multiple. And so I look at it, and in my history, I've never seen as much free cash flow being pumped out by our industry, our sector, in particular, the contract drilling well servicing sector, as I currently do now.

In my charts, I basically talk about free cash flow for the E&P sector, on average, being 11.9%. This source comes from Raymond James. I think it was January 9 that they basically put these sources on.

On average, the free cash flow coming from the oilfield services side is about 13.9% when they did this study. Using the same metric, the $0.23 a share, CWC's free cash flow in 2023 is projected to be 23%. And when you really think about that from a fundamentals perspective, we are better than our overall peer group in the oilfield services sector in terms of the amount of free cash flow that we're going to generate.

And that free cash flow is after interest costs that go to the debt holder and that is to the account of our equity holders. And if I am able to execute on our game plan here in 2023, that free cash flow is going to result in shareholder-friendly outcomes in terms of what – CWC's board of directors is going to make decisions on as we actually get it in the door and have to make some decisions in terms of distributions to shareholders, whether that's in dividends or share buybacks.

So what I'm suggesting is if we execute on our game plan in 2023 at CWC just with the assets that we have now, not even M&A or anything of that nature, we are going to be in a very strong position to make decisions with regards to shareholder-friendly outcomes of share buybacks and dividends. And that is the story, I think, for CWC right now that is not necessarily understood.

And every quarter that we produce results that the market doesn't necessarily appreciate where our day rates are, our hourly rates are, EBITDA generation, our utilization, all of those things that we're seeing in the marketplace right now and them being more scared from a macro perspective on a recession that may or may not happen here for the energy sector. They're just not taking that risk here today on energy.

So that, I think, is the biggest thing. So [indiscernible] (00:24:22) about CWC story that is not as well understood by, I think, the investor community.

We've got questions from the audience, #Oil, go ahead.

Thank you, Josef, and Duncan, thank you for your generous time in giving the comm sort of a better understanding of CWC and obviously very clearly why it's sort of undervalued and it has a good future.

My question pertains – I've got a few different questions but one of them pertains to just the conundrum that the oil services are in and I'd love your comments on things. One is these companies, as you're alluding to, have been a little bit more careful with where they're spending money on resource extraction. And obviously, you have to have expertise if companies are going to be a little bit more stingy with where they're going for the next hit, you want to have your best people there.

What's labor been like for you with respect to being able to hold on to these people, especially if there's not as this consistency as there was in the past and people – these E&Ps are kind of holding on to the first strings a little bit. So that would be question number one and how you would view that.

And number two is you're starting to see and we saw this just the other day some M&A in the E&P space. And how would that affect you? Is that something that you deem to be positive in terms of there being more opportunity for CWC, or is it something that you'd see as something where, for example, the leverage would be a little bit more difficult given the size of these entities? So I'd start with those questions and then I'll come back to some more, please.

Yeah. So to address the labor issue, we always have had turnover in the oilfield services space. The challenges today are not unique in terms of what the challenges we've had in the past. What is different this time around is the younger generation wanting to work in this oil patch and making a career of that.

I mean, a lot of our turnover is at the lowest level positions at floor hand, lease hand type positions, and we have the biggest turnover there. If you have managed to stay with this industry on the rigs for more than a year, we're likely to have converted you and you're going to make a career of it. We do not have a lot of turnover at CWC at the more experienced levels of rig managers and drillers at those levels, which – when we say we have a labor challenge, it's usually at the entry level type positions where they come and they try it out and then they say, this is not for me or it's too hard or what have you.

Having said that, we have in our company had some strategies as to how we can keep some of these guys around longer. For example, on the drilling side of our business over the last year, rather than having these guys come out onto the lease after they get all their tickets and they get oriented, we have them come out onto the lease site and not actually do anything. All we want them to do for a week, maybe even up to three weeks, depends on the person, is just to observe what's going on on the lease site. We burden that cost on ourselves, because we feel that the – all of the energy, time, money that we have spent on getting that person ticketed up only for them to leave within, say, a week to three months is not a good use of our time and money. And so we want them to have a successful future in our industry. And so we want them to make sure they are comfortable with what they're doing. And so all we really want them to do is just observe what's going on. And that's been successful for us. We've been able to keep a lot of guys. But again, this is hard work and it's labor. I mean, this is carrying heavy weight all day long. You get tired. And some of these guys, they go, wow, I didn't realize how hard to work at this. And so they choose to leave. But we're trying different strategies to try and retain as many of these guys that are coming in the door to hopefully have them stay for a longer duration than, say, less than three months. So that was the first question. Sorry. Your second question was in regards to M&A and our E&P side, is that right?

That's right. So if you have M&A in these companies that are getting bigger, obviously, they're using the cash flows, whether it's to merge or find a bit of accretion somewhere. How does that affect you in terms of your sort of pricing power and your ability to sort of make a good living on your end?

Yeah. So on that side, I think, well, I mean, eight years ago we had a lot more E&P names to choose from as customers. Today, we don't have as many. It's probably a third of what it used to be. My general comments on M&A are unique capital to make an M&A happen unless you're doing a share-for-share exchange in terms of two entities getting together. So my first comment is, if capital is coming into the industry to make those M&A transactions work from a cash perspective, then that's a good thing. So I'm happy to see that some of our Canadian, the latest one here this week being Baytex and Ranger, that there was actual cash and capital coming into the industry to do that. From a longer term perspective, I think, when you have healthier companies overall, and larger entities overall, they're going to have much more consistent drilling and well servicing program.

So not to say that I want to work all exclusively for senior producers because I don't, but it's very helpful when you have large entities that can basically have a full year's drilling program and you're not spending every several months having to find a new customer after you drill five wells for one customer with a smaller player. So from a short-term perspective, there might be some hits in terms of where the capital ended up, and when Cenovus and Husky got together, there was a period of time where they're trying to figure out what they wanted to do, and I would suggest to you, they're still trying to figure that out. But overall, from a medium to longer term perspective, I think it's healthy that we do have M&A activity. It just makes for a stronger industry overall. And it's up to us to basically go find customers for our rigs here today on a short-term basis if their programs get consolidated and they need some time to figure out what they want to do going forward.

Duncan, thank you. Josef, I'm going to recede the floor back to you, but maybe I would just one last question to Duncan, if I may. It's with respect to, so we're talking about E&Ps and obviously the future, I think that answer with respect to size and consistency of your customers, very helpful for us because obviously we see on our end that the bigger companies are just going to be continuing to get bigger. So that actually should be getting a piece of insulation for you, which is actually make for a very good thing. What's your sort of end game at CWC if you are able to share it? Like, is this business that you want to grow to a certain size and then have it become the market leader for an indefinite period of time, or is it something where you'd say, if somebody came along and wanted to merge or grow and combine entities, that's something you'd be kind of sort of open to if you wouldn't mind sharing a little bit about your sort of optimistic future.

Yeah. That's a loaded question. I would suggest to you that we have always been a willing participant on a consolidation strategy of our industry. We do feel that from a public company perspective, that there are a lot of names out there, all of which are too small for many of the generalist investors who want to invest in the energy sector. And so from a size effect, they're just going to go with the biggest names because they don't want to do as much work as, say, an energy specialty fund would in terms of picking out winners and losers on that front. So CWC, being a smaller name with a smaller market cap and enterprise value, is going to get bypassed by a lot of potential investors on the institutional side. So we have been and have wanted to consolidate our industry, whether that's us buying others or we being combined with a larger entity. So over the last eight years, I would suggest to you that those discussions have been ongoing with various parties throughout all that time.

The hiccup has always been the specific desires of your business combination partner in terms of valuation or other reasons or rationale as to why you haven't had more consolidation happening. I think there's like 40 – I'm going to take a guess, at about 40 public Canadian oilfield service companies, and the market just probably doesn't need 40 of us. They probably need half of those type of names. So I would suggest to you that CWC never stops looking at those opportunities from that perspective. But whether it is in the down cycle of the last – seven of last eight years, or on this up cycle of last year and this year, I think there's always going to be a business combination issue that isn't going to make those strategics necessarily happen. Having said all of that, our endgame is to make money for shareholders. And as you can all appreciate, we do have a very large shareholder in CWC, a controlling shareholder that owns more than 50% of CWC's stock, and they have been in the name for a very, very long time. And I would also suggest to you, that at some point they need monetization of that, but they're going to be patient about that.

But we have to start getting creative now with CWC to how we find a way, a mechanism to do that. There are several options now on the table that we can do now that we have some significant free cash flow in terms of share buybacks. We could go down the road of a substantial issuer bid. That is one option. I'm just laying out options. I'm not exactly saying this is what we're going to do, but these are all things that our board is very well aware of in terms of the options available to us. If there's a substantial issuer bid that we could do, that there is a potential to do, use this platform, CWC's platform as a public entity to do a roll up strategy of various oilfield services businesses and make it a growth company, which is a very viable option for us if there are no other like-minded strategics available to us to merge with. And I think that we have all of those options on the table, and we're in a very good position right now to pursue any one of those that makes sense for us with ultimately trying to accomplish the objectives of our shareholder base, our large shareholder base in particular.

Thank you for that. So Josef, back over to you.

Yeah. And to continue to expand on that discussion of insider ownership, would you be able to talk about talk about, maybe there's been a chatter about maybe the insider selling, would you be able to discuss that maybe a little bit more, and provide a little bit maybe closure to some of the investors that have been sort of chattering about that, Duncan?

Sure, Josef. So as you all appreciate, our insider group and, in particular, the disclosures that some of you may have been seeing in terms of insiders' disclosures of sales, our group is compensated by both a salary, a bonus and a long-term incentive plan being stock options and RSUs. We, in our company, have issued stock options and RSUs to our senior management team as well as our next layer, middle layer management team. One of the differences between us and many of our peer group would be that we, rather than allowing – we have the option to do a cashless exercise with them, meaning that we would end up paying out their long-term incentive plans being stock options and RSUs through a cashless exercise. So basically, we pay out a cash to extinguish those vested stock options and RSUs that are in the money, but we choose not to.

Instead, we asked all of our option holders and RSU holders, restricted award holders to exercise those for common stock or common shares. And so when you do that, you need to pay at the market rate, the date that you make the decision to exercise those long-term incentive plans, you need to pay the withholding tax to the CRA. So Justin and his [ph] Justin, JT (00:39:36) and his crew have their hand out before you even get a single dollar. You need to pay the withholding tax at 30% of the value of that option exercise or RSU exercise. And so when you think about where that cash comes from to do that, you have to write a check to CWC so that we can remit that cash to CRA as required by the CRA. So they have to write the check, they get the stock. Some of the insiders have been selling that stock so that they can cover off the withholding tax or for whatever reasons they want to monetize that stock.

The alternative here, and I will use an example that has in the last month been an eye opener to a lot of people, is one of our peer groups in the contract drilling sector had a stock-based compensation which they did a cashless exercise on, meaning they paid out all of that in cash to exercise and extinguish all of those option holders, RSU holders, PSU holders, DSU holders in their company. It amounted to CAD 75 million, and that was a huge hit and surprise to the marketplace to the point where their stock over the course of the last several weeks has fallen more than 20%. If I chose to do that for CWC and had that and you guys ended up going well, you already took it out of the company before you even gave it to the rest of us, it wouldn't go over very well in terms of the stock price as well, much like it was for these guys.

Now, having said that, maybe their plans were a bit egregious and all that kind of stuff, whereas I'm suggesting to you that our stock-based compensation amount is very reasonable and probably undervalued in terms of what my other oilfield service companies get for a long term incentive plan. But I think that investors spend too much time focusing on, are you insider selling or not. If you were to do that, I would hope that you'd take a look also at – and I'll just use myself as an example, take a look at my shareholdings on a year-over-year-over- year basis, even if I ended up selling a little bit of stock to pay my cash tax, am I still invested alongside with our shareholders and am I vested in making the right decisions for our shareholders, and in my particular case in the 13 years, my shareholdings in common shares of CWC have only grown year-after-year-after-year.

So hopefully, you guys will see the bigger picture in terms of, I mean, the suggestion that I think you guys are making is, if an insider is selling then there must be something wrong with the company. Well, last year we had insiders selling the stock. They sold it under CAD 0.20, call it CAD 0.165 to CAD 0.20, somewhere around there. Am I higher than CAD 0.20 today? So are you suggesting that there is something wrong with the company that those guys selling? I don't think so. So I think we're making too big a deal of insider selling in CWC stock.

Thank you, Duncan, for providing that clarity for a lot of the individuals that may be on and they may haven't been here as long. This is the type of clarity that helps sort of maybe part of the learning phase that they're going to learn along the way. So thanks for addressing that question. Even on the E&P side, there's a lot left to learn especially for the new guys that showed up post 2020. So thanks for being patient with us and addressing some of the maybe basic questions for individuals that have been here for a lot longer than the rest of us. So Duncan, if there is anything else, if there's anybody else in the audience that would like to come on up and has any questions, we would like to have you come on up at this point. Otherwise, to wrap this up, Duncan, perhaps you can maybe talk about some of the things, maybe two or three things that you're excited about moving forward for CWC.

Yeah. I think that the downturn really made our whole industry, the energy industry, both our customers and the oilfield services space, extremely lean and efficient. And I think that that is in this timeframe of the world worried about is recessions, interest rate hikes, inflation, it has made the energy sector extremely one of the best run sectors in my view. And I think that only goes to a very good stead for a longer term run in our industry. I think that even if we have a recession, this sector is going to come out on top. I think that when you come out of that recession, this industry is going to have a multi-year run on that type of front.

And if you're not just in it for a day trade, I think this is somewhere where you need to focus some serious money over the course of the next, call it, three to five years, because I do think that the amount of free cash flow, the fundamentals that are being driven us along with all of that as being one of the better managed from a leverage perspective, us now being less than 1 times debt to EBITDA and will be at 0.5 times debt to EBITDA by the end of 2023, is really setting up for very extraordinary returns, in my view, in the energy sector, and in particular, oilfield services sector, and then dropping that down to CWC as being one of the best, in my view, from a balance sheet perspective in that sector and a margin perspective.

I think we've had two of my competitors have reported as well, and I can tell you that our margins are better than that. So that goes to not necessarily speak to – it goes to speak to our cost controls at CWC and how well we've managed our company and continue to manage our company even in a growth period from a cost perspective. So all the learnings that we've had, all the right decisions that we've made over the last seven out of the last eight years until the last year, continue to get carried forward at CWC from a cost management perspective.

And the one thing I'm extremely proud of here at CWC, we didn't have one single salaried employee to part on his or her own fruition last year. No, no departures. I'm extremely proud of that. That shows me that we are doing the right things and that the team is intact. They like working here. It's a great culture. And I think that the team wants to stay together and even though there might be options elsewhere for them. So that's one of the things I'm proud of at CWC. And on top of that, I also want to point out the very thing that keeps me up at night is our safety record. In our 18-year history, we have had in 2022 the lowest TRIF record in our 18-year history, even as our man hours increase and we have more man hours, from a safety perspective, it just, it makes me very proud to say that our guys are all going home every night. So I'm extremely proud of that.

Awesome, Duncan. And one of the things I'm really happy and proud about is having service companies like yours willing to come on up and engage retail shareholders in what can be an apprehensive live format. That's why we had to create the podcast version. But no, thank you, Duncan, for embracing this format, which not any or many other companies would. There is the element of the live format makes it much, maybe a little bit apprehensive for some. So thank you, Duncan. And we've got just one last question to wrap up this session. We've got [ph] Teenan (00:49:09) with his hand up. Go ahead, [ph] Teenan (00:49:10).

Hey, guys. Can you hear me okay?

Go ahead.

Yeah. Right on.

I guess, first of all, Duncan, thanks for coming on here and speaking to us. I had a couple of questions about your rates and your utilization, but I think you've done a great job expanding on those. So third and last question here that you haven't answered is, how are you guys thinking about your 2023 capital allocation? I know you've announced a CapEx budget of CAD 30 million. You're sitting on, call it, CAD 40 million of long-term debt. You've got an NCIB option. But how are you guys weighting or how are you thinking about weighting your various options as you look further into 2023? Thanks. And I'll throw myself on mute here.

Great. Thanks, [ph] Teenan (00:50:00), for the question. So the way we are looking on all of that is, we know that our CapEx program is in part to make sure our rigs continue to be well maintained, as well as continue to grow with the relevance in terms of the type of equipment that is desirable in the industry, and fast becoming a new standard in terms of what our E&P customers want on the rigs, that being three pumps, four gens, 7,500 PSI pumping systems, that sort of thing. Those are quickly becoming asked for all around by most customers. And so we got to continue to invest on that side of things to make sure that we continue to get the utilization on a go-forward type basis.

Having said that, the way we look at debt in our company, now that we are at a level that's slower than 1 times is that, the amount of debt that we want to be comfortable with and we'll always have the option and ability to finance, we don't want to be a no debt – necessarily a no debt company, because I don't think you get the best leverage from that type of basis. So we look at debt now as being used to fund our working capital, meaning, if I shut down the company tomorrow, and we have to collect all our receivables and pay all our payables, that would extinguish our debt. And so that's kind of how we want to keep it, unless we find a great opportunity where we can go and have an extremely accretive growth for our shareholders of which we can do with debt and pay that debt off in a very expeditious timeframe, call it two years or thereabouts.

If we can find acquisitions like that, we will do that with debt and take that debt level up, and we've proven that we've been able to be good stewards of that capital and pay that back in a very short time period, as we've shown here with the 10 drilling rigs that's now all paid back. And with these three that we bought last year, that's going to get paid back here as well in a very short timeframe. So we will go to higher debt levels to do those sorts of things with the intention of being able to get back to the debt to fund working capital piece in the short-term phases. And then anything that takes us lower than that, we view that as shareholder money, meaning, we will do things that are shareholder-friendly with share buybacks or dividends. [ph]

Teenan (00:52:59) do you have any follow-ups to that or...

No. I think that was a well-rounded answer. Thanks, Duncan.

Yeah. Thanks.

Duncan, it was a pleasure having you, again. We've spent some time covering a lot of new things, and I think, maybe that pretty much covers it for this quarter. And if there's any other maybe closing remarks that you had to make, I'll invite you to make them. Otherwise, anybody else that showed up a little bit later throughout, that the recording will be available and you can feel free to tune in, and then we could take it from there. But maybe I'll leave it up to you, Duncan, for closing remarks. And once again, thanks for joining us and embracing your retail shareholders in this medium.

Yeah. Thanks, Josef, for having us on again here. I'm starting to find a very good value in terms of these discussions with the community. I also think that you branching out into the podcast here with Journey's CEO was fantastic. I listened to it for the 90 minutes that you guys had. I think that was a great, great thing. I would encourage you to continue those podcasts, and maybe you would want to have me on that podcast at some point. But I think that expanding it out that way was really a enlightening thing for the community, and I think, I would encourage you to continue to do those things. I think that this medium that you guys have created here is a very good way of reaching a lot of people in the short period of time at their convenience, and I would encourage you to keep this up.

Thank you so much for the kind words, Duncan. And I wish everyone else a great evening, and I'll see you guys all at a future's basis. All the best.

Great. Thank you.