corrected transcript


Denbury Resources Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Denbury Resources First Quarter 2005


Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. The following


discussion contains forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from


those discussed here. Actual information concerning facts such as price volatility, production


forecasts, drilling results and current market conditions that could cause such a difference can be


found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on


Forms 10-K and 10-Q.


At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Denbury Resources. Please go ahead,


sir.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer


Well, welcome everybody to Denbury’s First Quarter 2005 conference call. I have with me Phil


Rykhoek, our Chief Financial Officer. Also with me is Mark Worthey, our Senior VP of Operations


and Tracy Evans, our Senior VP of Reservoir Engineering.


Well, for the quarter, we earned 30.1 million, that’s 54 cents a share. Without the non-cash


charges, though, it would have been 34.7 million or 63 cents a share which was right on what we


were expecting.


It was another good quarter from a production point of view, our production growing to about


29,700 barrels of oil equivalent per day, and strong production increases in the CO2 areas, was


one highlight.


The company is extremely busy on all fronts at the moment. As we indicated in our press release,


we are considering increase the budget to take advantage of these opportunities. We are very


busy in Phase I of the CO2 play, in Southwest Mississippi, we are adding to the existing producing


fields Little Creek, Mallalieu, and McComb, but we are also adding new facilities at Brookhaven


getting ready for what we hope is a response later this year.


Phase II in East Mississippi there, that's where we need to build the new pipeline. That pipeline


permitting process is going well. We have got about – we have got a little over 80% of the permits


in hand. We hope to begin construction sometime later this summer. And, 3-D seismic at Jackson


Dome, a source of the CO2 is in and it’s being interpreted. Data quality is excellent, and we could


expect to spud some wells based on this data in the second half of the year.


The Barnett area, gas area west of Fort Worth, is also extremely busy.


We have finished a 3-D in the northern portion; that’s the Parker County area, primarily, of our


acreage. And, we have, we mentioned that only a modest amount, that is 10% to 15% of the


acreage there is hampered by this – what's called karsting by the industry, although it’s probably


not true karsting. It’s just flat structures which allow water to come through from the underlying


Ellenberger and so, you don't want to drill there. We have heard that a lot of other acreage owned


by our competitors is affected by as much as 50% by that type of karsting. And so, we are very


pleased that we have got such a low amount.


With that then, I would like to turn this over to Phil to give us a financial review.
corrected transcript


Denbury Resources Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Phil Rykhoek, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer


Thank you, Gareth. First, let me briefly explain the hedging charge in the income statement this


quarter that Gareth mentioned. As of January 1, 2005, we discontinued our use of hedge


accounting, which means that all the future mark-to-market value adjustments go through our


income statement rather than going through equity. This quarter we recognized 7.8 million of


commodity derivative expense which consisted of 1.1 million of cash payments, which is at least in


my opinion a real hedging loss, 4.9 million of non-cash mark-to-market value charges and 1.8


million of non-cash charges for the amortization of other comprehensive income.


This other comprehensive income, it’s the balance that existed at 12/31/04 that, because of our


change in accounting methods, we are required to amortize that over the remaining life of the


contracts. So, if you adjust our net income for these non-cash portions of the 7.8 million total


expense, net income would have been 34.7 million or 63 cents per share, rather than the reported


30 million or 54 cents a share.


As Gareth mentioned, production is up. It’s up 3% over the prior quarter. It’s anchored by the


increased production from tertiary and the Barnett Shale play, offset a little bit by some overall


declines in some of our natural gas wells in Louisiana.


Our oil production from tertiary operations increased 19% over last quarter, 37% over the first


quarter of last year and averaged 8,644 barrels a day. Work at these fields continues as planned


and we are on track for a 2005 forecasted average of 10,000 barrels a day from these operations.


Company wide, we are reaffirming our previously announced forecast of 31,000 BOEs a day for


2005.


Looking at revenues, they were approximately, excluding hedges, revenues were approximately the


same between the respective first quarters. The decrease in volumes between the two periods was


really – it was due to the sale of our offshore properties in July of 2004, lowered revenues by about


23 percent, but the higher commodity prices increased revenues by 24. So they were roughly flat.


NYMEX oil was just under $50 per barrel this quarter, up from $35 per barrel in Q1 of last year, and


NYMEX gas was about 6.50 this year versus about 5.75. Our net oil price didn’t increase quite as


much, as we were adversely affected by continued high differentials for our heavier sour crude. We


averaged 6.54 per barrel below NYMEX this quarter, which was very similar to Q4 of last year, but


about $2.30 per barrel worse than the 4.24 in Q1 of ‘04.


We have seen a slight improvement in these differentials in April, but they are still running higher


than historical averages. While we do expect the differentials to improve, it’s hard to give any firm


guidance on this. Although, we do know that if markets remains the same, we will gradually


improve our overall differential, as we continue to increase our light sweet oil production from our


tertiary program in Southwest Mississippi.


On the natural gas side, our differentials haven’t changed as much, as we are generally pretty close


to NYMEX prices. However, just for forecasting purposes, you might want to note that our Barnett


Shale production, as it becomes a bigger part of our mix, probably will affect the differentials a little


bit, as that production has been running about a dollar below NYMEX at current prices. Of course,


if you assume a lower price for either oil or natural gas, for those of you that run forecasts at lower


prices, I think, you will see these differentials on both products shrinking significantly.


Hedging was not much of a factor to us this quarter compared to last year, as most of our out-of-


money hedges expired at 12/31/04. As I mentioned a little bit ago, our cash payments on hedges


this quarter was only 1.1 million, as compared to 14.3 million in Q1 of last year. Our outstanding


hedges haven’t really changed for some time. So you can get those out of the SEC filings, I won’t


go through those.