corrected transcript


Denbury Resources Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to Denbury Resources 2004 Year-End Results


Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. The following discussion contains


forward-looking statements, and our actual results may vary materially from those discussed here.


Additional information concerning factors such as price volatility, production forecasts, drilling


results and current market conditions that could make such a difference can be found in our reports


filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.


At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Denbury Resources. Please go ahead,


sir.


Gareth Roberts, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome everybody to Denbury’s fourth quarter ’04 conference call. This morning, we


announced earnings of $22.5 million for the fourth quarter, or 41 cents a share and earnings for the


full year of $82.4 million, or $1.50 a share. 2004 was an excellent year for us with strong financial


results and strong organic reserve growth. But even more importantly, it was a pivotal year for us


in many ways. We sold our offshore division, which has reduced debt and allowed us to focus on


our CO2 play. We initiated our plans to build a CO2 pipeline to east Mississippi to allow us to


develop our Phase II oil reserves. Meanwhile, Phase I in southwest Mississippi is proceeding to


plan with strong production increases, and proving that clean living is a virtue, our Barnett Shale


play is proceeding with very encouraging results for the first seven horizontal wells. 2004 saw the


last of our significant adverse oil hedges expire. And also, the sale of our stock by our largest


shareholder in the beginning of last year, TPG, has improved liquidity in our stock.


We are now is a position to accelerate our CO2 play, spending 145 million in 2005 out of a total of


about 260 million. We also plan to drill 25 horizontals in the Barnett Shale. We feel that we are


now positioned to grow the company’s production by 10% per annum or greater over the next five


years, just from identified development projects in the CO2 and the Barnett Shale. We think that


long-term organic production growth is the ultimate goal to create value for an E&P company, and


we think that we have the strategy to accomplish it.


And with that, I would like to turn this over to Phil Rykhoek, our Chief Financial Officer, to review the


financial results.


Phil Rykhoek, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President


Thank you, Gareth. First, let me just briefly touch on cash flow numbers. As you may have


noticed, we had a significant difference between the GAAP cash flow from operations number and


what we call adjusted cash flow, which is the number that probably most analysts have used


historically.


Adjusted cash flow from operations this quarter was 48.6 million. That’s slightly higher than Q4 of


last year, primarily attributable to the higher prices. However, our GAAP cash flow amount was


only 17.7 million. And as you recall, the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP numbers is that


the GAAP measure includes changes in receivables and payables. This quarter, the most


significant difference relates to a reimbursement we made to Newfield, who was the purchaser of


our offshore properties in the third quarter, where we reimbursed them for their crude production


receivables that existed on July 20th, the sale closing date.
corrected transcript


Denbury Resources Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Since our transaction was the sale of a corporate entity, one of our subsidiaries, this was money


that was appropriately due them. In addition, we had a general reduction in other payables and


increase in crude production receivables as a result of higher prices, both of which further reduced


the GAAP cash flow amount. Looking at production, our fourth quarter production was 28,977.


That’s 4% higher than the third quarter and 4% higher than Q4 of last year if you adjust for the


offshore property sale.


In summary, most of the production growth is coming from our tertiary or CO2 operations. But, that


increase has been partially offset by declines in some other areas. Production from our tertiary


operations increased from just under 4,000 barrels a day in 2002. It was about 4,700 in 2003 and


about 6,800 in 2004. On a quarter-by-quarter comparison, our tertiary oil production is 30% higher


in Q4 of 2004 than it was in Q4 of last year, 2003, and would have been even higher this quarter


had we not shut-in the McComb Field for about 10 days in December to upgrade some facilities.


This program continues to work as planned. We had an average production rate during January


2005 of 8,300 barrels a day. And, thus far, is even higher in February. We expect this production


growth to continue as we are forecasting an estimated rate for 2005 of almost 10,000 barrels a day.


Conversely, partially offsetting this we had a few production declines, mainly with some of our


natural gas properties, the largest being Thornwell Field in Louisiana. Production at this field


declined from about 2,500 barrels a day in Q1 of ’04 to less than 1,000 in the fourth quarter. While


that would seem to be a negative, it has been one of our more profitable fields since we acquired it


in 2000.


Looking forward, you will note we raised our 2005 forecast slightly to 31,000 BOEs a day to


account for the well at High Island A-6. That’s one of the offshore wells that we excluded from the


sale package. That well is expected to commence production in the next month or two.


Overall, this represents an 11% increase in production in 2004 over 2003 if you exclude the


offshore production, and virtually all that is coming from internal organic growth. We expect our first


and second quarters to be up modestly from Q4 and then stronger growth anticipated later in the


year. Currently, we are running a little bit ahead of forecast, so hopefully, we are optimistic that we


can exceed this forecast.


Revenues increased 15% between ’03 and ’04 and 9% between the respective quarters, primarily


from higher prices. While our weighted average price per barrel excluding hedges increased


$13.82, it would have been even stronger had it not been for a deterioration of price of the heavier


sour crudes. Our average oil differential to NYMEX was $3.73 in 2002, improved a little bit in ’03 to


$3.60, but slipped to $4.91 during ’04, and the fourth quarter average was $6.48 per barrel. This


difference was most pronounced at year-end as we previously announced that it lowered our PV-10


value of our reserves by approximately $90 million over the average differentials for 2004.


Normally, we would expect our differentials to gradually improve as we are producing more and


more light sweet crude from our tertiary operations in southwest Mississippi. But, we cannot predict


the heavy sour market. With the strong projected growth in tertiary production from southwest


Mississippi anticipated in ’05, we would expect our overall corporate average, as far as NYMEX


differentials, to improve over 2004, assuming that the sour market doesn't get any worse.


On the gas side, there weren't any surprises as we averaged 2 cents above NYMEX, which is not


that different from our historical differentials. Although with the anticipated increase in natural gas


production in the Barnett Shale, this differential could slip a little bit as that gas is usually just a little


bit less than NYMEX.


Hedging was obviously a big factor to us in 2004. You might note we changed our reporting a little


bit, as we are required by GAAP to breakout the effective hedges from the ineffective ones, and we


had our first ineffective hedges during 2004 as a result of what happened to the sour crude market.