Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John Mayer — Director-Investor Relations, Denbury Resources, Inc.
Christian S. Kendall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Denbury Resources, Inc.
David Sheppard — Senior Vice President-Operations, Denbury Resources, Inc.
Mark C. Allen — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Assistant Secretary, Denbury Resources, Inc.
Matthew Dahan — Senior Vice President-Business Development & Technology, Denbury Resources, Inc.
Charles Meade — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Brad Heffern — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Timothy A. Rezvan — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc.
Jason Wangler — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Jon H. Dorfman — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Sean M. Sneeden — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Richard Merlin Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings welcome to Denbury Resources' Third Quarter 2019 Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to your host John Mayer, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call are Chris Kendall, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David Sheppard, our Senior Vice President of Operations; and Matthew Dahan, our Senior Vice President of Business Development and Technology.

Before we begin, I want to point out that we have slides which will accompany today's discussion. Should you encounter any issues with slides advancing during the webcast portion of the presentation, please refresh your browser. For those of you that are not accessing the call via the webcast, these slides may be found on our homepage at denbury.com by clicking on the Quarterly Earnings Center link under Resources.

I would also like to remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today. There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call. You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in the slides accompanying today's presentation, our most recent SEC filings, and today's news release, all of which are posted on our website at denbury.com.

Also, please note that during the course of today's call, we will reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliation and disclosure relative to these measures are provided in today's news release, as well as on our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Chris.

Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. In my comments this morning, I'll start with an overview of the quarter then, hand the call over to David who will discuss our operations and, finally, to Mark to walk through our financial results.

Denbury's third quarter results once again demonstrated our commitment to execution, cost efficiency, and capital discipline. Our key safety metrics are at all-time record low levels. Our capital program is delivering strong results with our successful recent projects at Bell Creek and Heidelberg highlighting both the technical quality of our teams as well as our consistent ability to execute capital projects on time and on budget. We made steady progress on our key greenfield EOR project at Cedar Creek Anticline and remain on schedule for the CO2 pipeline installation next year and commencement of CO2 injection in early 2021.

As a result of this great execution, we're on track to meet the midpoint of our previously raised production guidance even after incurring unexpected weather downtime in the third quarter from Tropical Storm Imelda. We expect to complete the year at or below the midpoint of guidance for every cost category including LOE, capital, and G&A highlighting our commitment to cost efficiency and capital allocation discipline.

We also continue to make great progress on the balance sheet. The recent exchanges that Mark will tell you about later in the call helped us reduce our debt by nearly $90 million, continuing a strikingly effective effort that has now reduced our total debt by $1.2 billion since the end of 2014 and reaffirmed my great confidence in our ability to continue to reduce debt to our target levels.

As you've seen with recent industry natural gas and NGL realizations, there are vast differences in value in the components of a BOE. Our 97% oil weighting once again contributed to a very strong operating margin. Our second quarter revenue per BOE was over $56 resulting in an operating margin of nearly $28 per BOE or roughly 50% of revenue. This high operating margin combined with our low capital spend supports the strong free cash flow that Denbury consistently delivers.

Our ability to consistently generate free cash flow is one of Denbury's most positive and distinguishing characteristics. We generated $44 million of free cash flow in the third quarter, and we're on track to achieving $140 million to $150 million of free cash for the full year. This is not unusual as over the past five years, Denbury will have generated over $600 million in free cash flow. The nature of Denbury's assets and how we run our business make for a great fit in today's environment where investors are demanding capital discipline and greater returns.

Before I hand the call over to David, I want to emphasize how fundamentally different Denbury is from the rest of the industry, well beyond the ability to consistently generate free cash. As the only US public company of scale where injecting CO2 into the ground to produce oil is our primary business, we are a key part of the solution to reducing atmospheric CO2 emissions while at the same time providing a vital energy source for the world's economy.

This is a solution that has broad appeal, and I see great opportunities to expand our impact in the coming years. As I've mentioned in the past and expect to continue to highlight in the future, I believe that carbon capture, transportation, and secure geologic storage will become an essential business, and Denbury's assets and expertise position the company to be a leader as this market develops.

In summary, I'm very excited about where this unique company is headed. We continue to perform safely to consistently deliver on our promises to deploy our differentiated CO2 EOR-focused strategy and every day to make steady progress towards securing our long-term success.

Now, I'll pass the call over to David for an update on the Denbury's operations. David?

Thank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Disciplined capital spending during the third quarter has kept us right on track to deliver full year capital expenditure at or below the midpoint of our 2019 guidance with approximately 76% of our 2019 capital budget deployed by the close of the third quarter. At Bell Creek, our Phase 6 development was completed during the quarter with production response expected in the first quarter of 2020.

In our Gulf Coast region, the Heidelberg Christmas Yellow and Brown redevelopment project was completed in the quarter and is responding in line with forecast. Rolling and coding in the pipe for the CCA CO2 pipeline has been completed and the pipe has been placed in storage awaiting installation in 2020. We recently drilled two successful wells as part of the Mission Canyon program at CCA and continue to evaluate additional exploitation opportunities across our portfolio, which I will discuss in more detail shortly.

Turning into slide 12, aside from the impact from Tropical Storm Imelda, third quarter production was in line with our expectations. Despite the impact from Tropical Storm Imelda, full year production continues on track close to the midpoint of our guidance range.

As we mentioned in our second quarter call, we anticipated an extended period of planned maintenance at our primary North Region CO2 source which significantly impacted quarterly production at Bell Creek. The maintenance period was conducted over a period of about six weeks during which time no CO2 volumes were provided to the field. We estimate the resulting impact of quarterly production at Bell Creek approach to 1,000 barrels per day.

Following this maintenance period, CO2 purchase has resumed and we are pleased to see production coming back nicely with current rates reaching the same levels as those seen prior to the CO2 supply interruption. Further, and as previously disclosed, our producing fields around the Houston area, predominantly Oyster Bayou and Conroe experienced power outages and flooding associated with the Tropical Storm Imelda during September.

The total impact of the storm on third quarter production was approximately 400 BOE per day at the lower end of our previously guided range as power was restored more quickly than expected at the fields. No significant damage occurred at any of our fields and near-full production was restored by the end of the third quarter.

We expect fourth quarter volumes to rebound from that third quarter levels primarily driven by continued response from the Heidelberg redevelopment, restoration of full Bell Creek production following completion on the North Region CO2 supply maintenance and resuming the Mission Canyon exploitation program. Based on current expectations, we continue to forecast our full year 2019 production close to the midpoint of our previously increased guidance range of 57,000 BOE to 59,500 BOE per day.

Lease operating expenses during the third quarter remained consistent with the prior quarter at $118 million with a slight increase on a per BOE basis due to change in production volumes during the quarter. CO2 costs were down in the quarter due to the maintenance period at our primary North Region CO2 source but were offset by moderate increases in other categories. Our ongoing cost management strategies continued to provide reliable, predictable spend levels, and we continue to expect that full year 2019 LOE will fall on the lower half of the previously guided LOE range of $22 to $24 per BOE.

As we begin to look towards 2020, we are focusing on sustainable improvements that will continue to drive cost out of our production operations. I will share more in the coming quarters as we implement new technologies and systems that we expect to increase efficiency and reduce cost.

Turning your attention to slide 14, third quarter 2019 net tertiary production at Bell Creek field was around 4,700 barrels per day, down from the record levels in the second quarter primarily due to the North Region CO2 source maintenance I previously mentioned. Since CO2 purchase resumed at Bell Creek, production has recovered to prior peak rates. Production growth is expected to continue at a modest rate through 2020 as Phase 6 begins to respond in the first quarter of the year.

During the fourth quarter, we plan to drill a second well in Bell Creek, targeting untapped accumulations in a previously completed phase of the development. This well will be a follow-on to the very successful well we drilled in Phase 4 earlier this year as highlighted in last quarter's call. In the third quarter, we drilled two additional exploitation wells in the Mission Canyon formation at Cedar Creek Anticline, one in Cabin Creek and the other in Coral Creek. Both wells have been completed, the first in late September and the latter coming online mid-October. Combined, the wells have an estimated IP of 1,000 barrels per day.

To-date, we have drilled a total of 12 horizontal wells within the Mission Canyon, achieving greater than a 90% rate of return for the total program. This program is a great example of the value that can be generated from within Denbury's asset base through combining the expertise of our teams with today's great technology.

Continuing to progress our plans for Charles B development, a full core of the Charles horizon was taken while drilling the previously mentioned Cabin Creek Mission Canyon well. We have also recompleted and tested three vertical wells in the Charles B benches. The core and all three vertical tests provided valuable information that will enhance our development plan and improve project economics. During last quarter's call, we had discussed plans to drill a Charles B dual lateral well late in 2019 but decided to defer that project while we incorporate the results from the core analysis and other test.

My final slide outlines our recent redevelopment of the Heidelberg field in the Christmas Yellow and Brown horizons. Similar to our previous Frio BC project at Hastings Field, the redevelopment project at Heidelberg used field specific learnings to optimize recovery through a series of new wells and workovers of existing wells. Although similar in some ways to the Hastings project, this redevelopment is different in that we utilize a top-down injection approach versus the Hastings bottom to top process.

The project is expected to be highly economic even at $50 oil prices. The development work has been completed, and we are seeing production response in line with our forecast. Current production rates from the project are around 800 net barrels per day, and we expect to see 1,000 barrels per day by the year end.

Next, I'll turn it over to Mark for a financial update.

Thank you, David. My comments today will highlight some of the financial items in our release primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the second quarter of 2019. I will also provide some forward-looking guidance for the fourth quarter and full-year 2019 to help you in updating your financial models.

Starting on slide 18, third quarter 2019 adjusted net income was $41 million or $0.08 per diluted share, slightly better than analysts' expectations. This quarter's $35 million of noncash income from fair value changes in commodity derivatives was the largest difference between adjusted and GAAP net income. Diluted earnings per share this quarter reflects the full impact of our convertible notes issued in June whereby the shares to be issued upon full conversion are added to the shares outstanding and the interest expense on the convertible notes, net of taxes, is added back to net income. More detail on this calculation is included in our press release.

Turning to slide 19, our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $126 million for the third quarter, down $19 million from last quarter driven primarily by lower realized oil prices and production. We generated free cash flow of $44 million in the third quarter after considering $21 million of interest that is included as repayment of debt in our financial statements and $60 million of combined development capital and capitalized interest.

With $109 million of free cash flow year-to-date, we are well-positioned to achieve our expected $140 million to $150 million of free cash flow during 2019. Our third quarter average realized oil price of $59 per barrel after hedges was down 4% from our realized price in the second quarter as oil prices and differentials weakened from last quarter.

Slide 20 provides a summary of our oil price differentials excluding any impact from hedges. Our realized oil price averaged $1.30 per barrel above NYMEX prices this quarter which is down a little more than $1 per barrel from last quarter but slightly higher than the guidance we provided in expectation of weaker differentials in both our Gulf Coast and Rockies production.

Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect that our overall oil differential will decline from the levels realized in the third quarter due to further weakening of the LLS differential and moderately lower differentials in the Rockies region. We currently estimate that our overall fourth quarter NYMEX differential will be in the range of flat to $0.50 below NYMEX prices.

Slide 21 provides a review of certain expense line items. As David already addressed LOE, I will start with G&A. Our G&A expense was $18 million for the third quarter, essentially flat from the prior quarter and in line with our expectations. On a year-to-date basis, our G&A expense was down 11% from the prior-year period. We expect G&A expense in the fourth quarter of 2019 to be similar to the third quarter in the upper teens with stock-based compensation, again, representing roughly $3 million of that amount. Net interest expense was $23 million this quarter, a slight increase from last quarter due primarily to the amortization of non-cash debt discount for the notes we issued in the June 2019 exchange transactions.

On the bottom portion of the slide, there is a detailed breakout of the components of interest expense and you will note cash interest remained consistent. Capitalized interest was approximately $9 million for the third quarter, and we currently expect our capitalized interest to be in the $7 to $9 million range for the fourth quarter of 2019.

Our depletion and depreciation expense this quarter was $55 million, a decrease of $3 million from the prior quarter due primarily to the curtailment of CO2 production in the Rockies as a result of planned maintenance at the CO2 source plant. As this item only impacted the third quarter, we expect the DD&A will be back in the $60 million range for the fourth quarter of 2019.

The next slide provides a current summary of our oil price hedges. Since the second quarter call, we have added to our hedges in the fourth quarter of 2019, and that continued to layer in hedges for 2020. We plan to continue to layer in additional hedges as we see attractive pricing levels. The weighted average floor price for our 2020 oil hedges is currently about $59 per barrel, similar to our average realized oil price through the first nine months of 2019 with more than three quarters of our contracts providing for upside exposure.

Turning to our next slide, between August and October of this year, we completed a series of open market transactions and privately negotiated exchange agreements that contributed to an $87 million reduction in our debt since June 30. During this period, we repurchased $54 million or approximately 15% of our previously outstanding senior subordinated notes in exchange for $11 million of cash and the issuance of 13.7 million shares of Denbury common stock. These transactions together with the debt exchanges in June resulted in total debt principal reduction of $138 million since year-end 2018, bringing our total debt principal reduction to $1.2 billion since year-end 2014.

Our bank borrowing base was recently reaffirmed as part of our semiannual redetermination process, and we ended the third quarter with $50 million drawn on our $615 million bank line, giving us $510 million of liquidity after considering letters of credit. Based on projections using recent oil prices we expect to generate sufficient free cash to pay down the $50 million borrowed on our bank line by the end of 2019.

Through the third quarter, our trailing 12 months leverage ratio was 4.1 times and has held relatively stable over the past year. We are pleased with the continued progress we have made with our leverage metrics over the last couple of years and reducing our leverage and improving our debt maturity profile remain top priorities.

We will continue to seek appropriate opportunities to further reduce leverage and extend maturities well in advance of our first maturities in mid-2021. In support of this effort, we are actively pursuing several initiatives, one of which is the evaluation of JV options for our CCA CO2 pipeline which would mitigate all or a significant portion of our pipeline capital spend in 2020. In addition, we continue to progress noncore assets sales such as our noncore productive acreage positions primarily around the Houston area. We completed $9 million in acreage transactions during the third quarter and closed an additional $5 million in October resulting in a total of $20 million of closed acreage transactions to date.

We have an additional $32 million currently under contract and several more tracks in various stages of negotiation and we continue to expect significant value from the remaining acreage. In addition, we are open to considering other JV transactions and noncore asset sales that could enhance liquidity and further our debt reduction efforts.

And now I'll turn it back to John for some closing comments.

Thank you, Mark. That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, can you please open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice. Please proceed.

Good morning, Chris and Mark and the whole team there. Mark, I'd like to ask a question.

Morning.

Thank you. I'd like to ask a question picking up on the point you ended there about the JV or what you guys are evaluating for financing the CCA CO2 pipeline. So you mentioned a JV and you mentioned that you're evaluating things that could take all or most of your pipeline CapEx for [ph] 2020 (00:22:30). Hence can you just give us an update on how long this process have been going, how your views have evolved, and what you think – what are kind of the leading candidates and the timeline for resolution are?

Sure, Charles. This is Mark. As we kind of talked about before, we kind of envisioned our Northern Rockies pipeline system there being contributing what we have in place and joining with the partner to help us complete construction or pay for construction of the remaining portion up to CCA and then have joint ownership in the pipeline infrastructure there going forward. We are running a competitive process. So I have to be – I probably can't say too much. But we're actively involved in that. We are, I would say, pleased with the level of interest that we've seen to this point.

I would expect over the next couple of months here that will continue to work through that process. And as we think about forming our 2020 capital plans, we'd like to have something in place there so that we know how much flex we have in terms of whether we're going to spend that on our own or if we're going to have a partner there. And so, I would say at this point we're pleasantly surprised, not necessarily surprised but very pleased with the amount of interest and we'll continue to evaluate that here over the next couple of months at least.

That's helpful color, Mark. Thank you. And then, if I could turn back to the asset base and ask a question about those two most recent Mission Canyon wells, I recall that you had an earlier – I guess, you had the early success with Mission Canyon. Some of your follow-up wells you had, I believe, some water. Maybe you drilled them a little too low on structure. Can you tell us with these two most recent wells, and I get they were in Cabin Creek and Coral Creek, do you feel like you've kind of solved the remaining pieces of the puzzle to really make this Mission Canyon zone work?

Yeah. Charles, this is Matt Dahan. Yeah. To answer your question, last year, we drilled a couple of wells that were certainly disappointing as far as the oil production rates go. And following that, learned some lessons on where to position wells, how to better drill them. And that sets us up for success on the remaining inventory.

Okay. And so what we're seeing here should be roughly a baseline for what we should expect going forward?

Yes. Certainly, well within the range of what we've seen on the successful wells.

Got it. Thank you, Matt.

Our next question is from Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Morning, everyone. Just as a follow-on to that last question, can you remind us what the remaining inventory of Mission Canyon locations is?

Yeah. We believe that's upwards of 12 wells.

Okay. Thanks for that. And then, you mentioned 2020 CapEx earlier in the call. Can you just give thoughts on what it looks like sort of the base CapEx, what the trajectory is going to be excluding the pipeline? And then, maybe a reminder of if you did fund the pipeline 100%, how much that would add to that total?

Sure, Brad. And this is Chris. Just jumping in to the latter part of your question first. We see that pipeline spend in 2020 as being in, I'd say, the $100 million to $120 million range. So, that's the piece that we see could flip in or out depending on how the process that Mark mentioned proceeds. What I'd say generally about 2020, as Mark said, we don't plan to communicate our 2020 full plans until we get into fourth quarter earnings similar to what we've done in the past.

But what I would share, a few things. I would share our priorities and how we use those to shape our plans for next year. Number one, the priority is to continue to protect the balance sheet. So, you should see us continue to work towards a cash neutral or positive position just as just as we did this year. And that is our top priority. Then second, we really have a great desire to push CCA forward. We see this as a foundational project for the next phase of Denbury's life. It's a huge resource base. It's just – it's a great set of fields that we can continue to develop over many years. So that's going to be a priority, and that's why we want to have that in front of even how we look at maintenance capital, for example.

When we think about production, honestly, we're thrilled about production this year, just stepping back a little bit and looking year-to-date how well we've done versus the prior year with, honestly, a very limited capital – maintenance capital budget. If you take our midpoint at about $250 million, our maintenance capital is probably in the low $200 million considering the pipeline spend we've had so far this year. And our production, the continuing production adjusted for sales, adjusting for the storm that David mentioned and the CO2 outage is down just under 2% year-on-year with a very low capital – maintenance capital level. So we feel good about that. I feel great about what our teams have been able to do. I'd expect to see more of that as we look at next year. And then, again, that maintenance capital level is going to be slipping a bit depending on whether or not we put the CO2 pipeline JV into the mix there.

Okay. Thanks for all the detail.

You bet, Brad.

Our next question is from Tim Rezvan with Oppenheimer and Company. Please proceed.

Good morning, folks. I had a couple of different ones that would...

Good morning, Tim.

I want to quickly – on CCA, I think David had mentioned that, I guess, you have the pipes and they're in storage now. So are we, in a sense, barring like a catastrophic decline in oil, is it kind of you guys are ready to go on that in 2020, JV or not, that's going to move forward?

Good morning, Tim, this is David. The short answer is, yes, we are ready to move forward with that project. Currently there's about 105 miles of 16-inch pipe that's rolled, coated and stored as well as 18 miles of 12-inch that's rolled and coated and stored too as well. Our current plans are to deliver that pipe to the field and begin installation in the third quarter of 2020. We're currently going out for pipeline construction bids, those are in-house. Now we're evaluating those. There's a high level of interest in those bids. So we've seen a great response to that. So, yes, the project is on full view.

Okay. Okay, thanks.

And then just what' I'd layer on top of that, Tim, is from a permitting standpoint, we see a clear path as well.

Okay. And what are the [indiscernible] (00:30:24)

Yeah, it's on permit.

...permitting side that are still out there?

No, all permit [indiscernible] (00:30:30)

Like you have permit in hand or you...

In hand.

Okay.

Yeah. We have what we need in hand.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And then on a different topic in CCA, I noticed third quarter production declined sequentially. I think it was 7%. I don't know if you touched on that and I missed it but can you talk about what happened on that kind of a bigger decline than we've typically seen?

Yeah. Good question, Tim. Of course, there was natural in the mix there. And obviously, there's two other elements in that. First of all is Mission Canyon, a decline is involved there, probably about 300 barrels on that associated directly with Mission Canyon decline in the quarter. And also there was some saltwater disposal maintenance that was ongoing throughout the quarter. That has been cleared up and all is back on line now.

Okay. Okay. So, I think going forward is should we think about the 3Q being more of a run rate or back to the sort of second quarter level?

Yeah. I'd say we're definitely seeing production back above what the third quarter run rate was. So, you should see something moving back north. Of course, we had the two Mission Canyon wells that have come online too as well. So those will be contributing in the fourth quarter. So it should be coming back up strongly.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And if I could just sneak one last one in for Mark. I appreciate the comments kind of on the balance sheet at the end. Kind of there's a lot of focus for investors on the second lien coming kind of due in 2021. Is it fair to say that you think you may be better served kind of getting some of these other asset sales or JVs kind of over the finish line before you look to kind of refinance? Just trying to understand kind of what investors can expect because it's obviously a big focus for people when they try to understand and come up with a value for the equity.

Sure. I think the sentiment that we've seen here for the last while hasn't really changed much. And so, obviously, it's been to the negative side and that's affected equity prices and bond prices. And so, we do think – obviously, it's not a great environment. We haven't seen a lot of transactions getting done in the capital markets. So we do believe what makes sense to continue to execute where we can and what makes sense for us to do. We continue to believe our second lien is a very secure instrument and we have a lot of optionality here in terms of how we can address things going forward. And so, we're going to keep that moving in the right ways and continue to work the balance sheet in the best ways that we can.

So hopefully along the way, we see some improvement in market sentiment as well. But we're going to continue working it, Tim, and we think we have a lot of things that we can do to progress the balance sheet here.

Okay. Okay. Thanks for all the responses, folks.

Thanks, Tim.

Our next question is from Jason Wangler with Imperial Capital. Please proceed.

Morning all.

Thanks Morning.

Morning.

You kind of walked through pretty nicely the opportunity at CCA and having the pipe and the permits. Is it just – there's a lot of moving parts there as far as if you wanted to move any faster? Or is there any gating factors that are kind of there that makes the 2021 event before you start injection?

Yeah. Jason, good morning. This is David once again. From a pipeline installation window, that is one of the throttles in the system here. Once again, we will start that in the third quarter. There that pipeline install will be completed in December of 2022 as well. After we go through commissioning, that line will start injection in that first quarter of 2021. So that is the main milestone there that we need to achieve.

And I guess that the permits are put there for environmental or other type of reasons, I guess, to start third quarter, I guess, is what I was asking unclearly.

That is correct. You're spot on.

Okay. And then just maybe one more in Mission Canyon, you mentioned the 12 locations. And obviously, you had a couple of good results there. I mean, as you think about next year and obviously, again, a lot of moving parts but with CCA specifically, how many do you think you'd try and go after next year and what do you think ultimately that you want to try and do to get those 12 up running in the next couple of years?

Sure, Jason. This is Chris. Just in thinking about that, as Matt mentioned, we have about a dozen locations left, and we've learned a lot as we've gone, and we feel good about the inventory there. When we think about 2020, a lot of it's going to come in and out depending on how we set up our capital program. Fundamentally, I'd like to continue a program at a pace that lets us continue to add these in a way that makes sense and is probably proportionally similar to the $20 million to $30 million that we spent this year looking at our capital budget here. So, it is something that we'll have to honestly really wait until we get to the point where we're finalizing the budget, and we decide how many of those to tee up for next year.

Fair enough. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thanks, Jason.

Our next question is from Tarek Hamid with JPMorgan. Please proceed.

Good morning. This is Jon Dorfman, on for Tarek.

Good morning.

Hey guys. Just wanted to get a quick refresher, I know we touched on it last call, but just on your availability to buy back junior lien debt or junior debt in general, if you could just touch upon that?

Sure. This is Mark. We have – our credit facility, there is a basket there. I guess it's about $94 million we have remaining for cash to address that, would be the short answer. We also have some baskets under second lien and things. But I think the biggest governor right now is what we have under the bank facility.

Okay. No, that's helpful. And I believe a good chunk of that is related to leverage ratios?

Yeah. So, it has to be less than 4 times or de-leveraging is kind of what part of the basket is geared around.

Okay. Thank you. And then I didn't notice in the release and you talked about it a little bit with the surface acreage. I think you touched upon and said $32 million in contract and more in negotiation. Could you just kind of provide us a little bit more on the timeline for those contracts in hand, kind of when you expect to complete those transactions and then kind of any color on the magnitude of what's left after that?

Yes, Jon. This is David Sheppard. Yeah, some more color on that. There's $32 million on a contracted acreage largely at our Keystone or Conroe track there. Right now, we expect that first tranche to close in 2021, about $16 million worth. The second tranche will be in 2022, equally $16 million there. The balance of the acreage that we do have remaining is in Webster, some components still in Conroe too as well, but the larger balance would be in the Webster area. A lot of ongoing negotiations there, a lot of high-value properties still remaining to come.

Okay. Great. That's extremely helpful. Thanks so much, guys. That's all from me.

Thanks, Jon.

Our next question is from Sean Sneeden with Guggenheim Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning and thank you for taking the questions.

Morning, Sean.

Just on [indiscernible] 00:38:58, you've mentioned it kind of jumped up on a unit basis there, I think, due to kind of lower volumes in the quarter and some higher workover activities. And the plan is to kind of get back to kind of the low-20s for the year and hopefully kind of Q4. Is that generally a good run rate to think about for 2020? I guess in particular when you kind of look at the individual line items, you did see higher workover and some higher labor numbers. Do those kind of normalize as kind of go into next year or how should we kind of think about that?

Good morning, Sean. This is David once again. Yeah, just directly there are a extreme focus on managing our costs. We have to do that and we're going to do that. As I said in the prepared remarks, we're really implementing some systems and technology that are going to help perpetuate sustainable cost reductions there. I talked about a couple of those in a general nature but we expect the largest benefit to be associated with the EAM implementation, enterprise asset management system and enhancing some of our supply chain focus there.

Secondly, we're really in the midst of deploying a mobility application tool that's really going to help reduce the amount of repetitive manual data entry that we have in our system plus make our workflows more efficient. We continually to look at workovers, things of that nature as well to deliver the most effective workover the lowest cost to achieve the objectives that we need to achieve. So our focus is to maintain that unit basis or even suppress it down over time.

Got it. That's helpful. And then Mark, I think Tim kind of ask a question about the second lien so maybe just kind of a follow-up to that. But you've been pretty successful about chipping away at the unsecured maturities and you're expecting to pay off RDL by year-end. I guess, do you feel like cleaning up the remaining portion of kind of the near dated unsecured maturities is kind of needed before you start to tackle the rest of the second liens? Or how are you guys kind of thinking about that as you enter next year?

Sure, Sean. Good question and like I said, I think we continue to do activities where we feel we can make the biggest benefit today and continue to progress the balance sheet forward. If you look at slide 23, and you really look at our maturities here over the next few years, we've got the sub notes down to $50 million in 2021 and $70 million in 2022.

Hopefully, we're reaching a point where people aren't seeing a real challenge with those. But we have a lot of first lien capacity to address things. And so, yes, we do have to address the second lien maturities here along with that. But like I said, we see several different ways to progress that and opportunities that we have. Our ultimate goal is continue to delever the balance sheet. And so, like I said in the past, that when people think about Denbury, they aren't concerned about our leverage.

We are a company with a lower decline asset base where we can probably handle a bit more leverage than other companies in the space, more shale-based, higher decline type assets. But that being said, we want to take this to a different place. And I think the thing as you look out here, we have time to do that just as we've done since 2014. We're going to continue to progress the balance sheet in a positive way. So, yeah, I understand the concern but I think as I look at it, I see many manageable opportunities in front of us.

That makes sense and thanks for that. If I can just sneak one more in. Chris, I know you're still going through the budgeting process. But I guess conceptually about 2020, is the kind of the bookends that you're kind of thinking about in terms of kind of free cash flow profile of kind of being neutral to positive, is that kind of the CCA pipeline whether it's funded internally or by external capital?

That's exactly how I'm thinking about it, Sean, is that we're going to, when we get into the end of year timeframe, look at what we expect prices to be next year. Of course, we have a nice hedge position built that will help us even if we trend a bit lower into the year. But we look at that, look at being cash flow neutral or positive and then whether that pipeline cost, like I mentioned, $100 million, $120 million flips in or out is going to be – to me that's going to put your bookends on it.

Perfect. I appreciate all the color, guys. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Sean.

Our next question is from Richard Tullis with Capital One Securities. Please proceed.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Morning, Richard.

Sorry if I missed this. What are the other noncore assets beyond the surface acreage that Denbury could look to as monetization candidates?

Sure, Richard. The main one that I think about is the set of mature assets that we had worked through last year and those – that set of assets that are really not core to our future growth. So I think about that as a key alternative as we look at what those other possible asset sales could be.

Okay. Okay. Thanks, Chris. And your comments in the opening remarks about the low carbon footprint were interesting. At a high level, what low carbon business opportunities could be developed by Denbury, say, over the next several years, including additional enhanced oil recovery opportunities on your current or possibly new acreage?

Sure. I think that is one of the things, Richard, that really sets Denbury apart here is, number one, we have the expertise in EOR. And so, our teams both in the headquarters and out in the field are used to designing for and dealing with CO2 in pipelines and facilities and in wells and in reservoirs. So, just a great set of expertise there. Along with it, all the assets that that go along with that expertise especially the pipeline infrastructure that we have along the Gulf Coast industrial corridor.

So going to your question, I think about where does this lead, and there's a strong push within government policy – US government policy right now to provide tax credits to those who capture and sequester CO2. And there's an aspect of that in EOR as you can imagine as we've talked about. But even beyond that, when you look at the future, there will be a great need, one of the great solutions to reducing carbon emissions in the atmosphere is through other forms of geologic sequestration that include putting CO2 into saline aquifers.

And what I think is where that will go and with the incentives that are provided by the government policy in the tax credits that will be available can make that a very attractive business and one that matches exactly with what Denbury does in terms of the assets that we have and the expertise that we have. It's still a few years down the road, I think, in terms of where we would be and in terms of turning that into a business. But I see that in the future.

Very helpful, Chris. Thank you. That's all for me.

All right. Thanks for the question, Richard.

We have no more questions at this time. So, I would like to turn the conference back over to John Mayer for closing remarks.

Before you go, for your calendars, we currently plan to report our fourth quarter 2019 results on Thursday, February 20, and hold our conference call that day at 10:00 AM Central. Thanks again for joining us on today's call.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.