corrected transcript


Denbury Resources, Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this Denbury Resources Third Quarter 2005


Earnings Results Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. The following discussion


contains forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from those


discussed here. Additional information concerning factors such as price volatility, production


forecasts, drilling results and current market conditions that could cause such a difference can be


found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on


Form 10-K and 10-Q.


At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Denbury Resources Inc. Please go


ahead, sir.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome everybody to Denbury’s third quarter ‘05 conference call. I have with me Phil


Rykhoek, our Chief Financial Officer; Mark Worthey, our Senior VP of Operations and Tracy Evans,


the Senior VP of Reservoir. We have good results. Production and cost show the effect of two


hurricanes which lowered production temporarily and caused other delays and stretched an already


overworked oil sector. But Denbury has come through virtually unscathed now this point. Some of


those communities in Mississippi and Louisiana are still badly affected though so we have been


very, very fortunate. We are doing our best to support them. If any shareholders want to make a


contribution to that relief effort, please let us know.


Well the most significant event in the quarter is actually not in the numbers: we were able to reach


total depth on the Wind River Well at Jackson Dome and that the logs there indicate that we’ve


found at least one Tcf of usable carbon dioxide because that’s subject to usual production tests and


that sort of thing, but assuming that this is correct this means that we can get started working on


another phase of tertiary oil play. We’ve also being finalizing our 2006 capital budget currently


coming out at around 455 million which in still within the projected discretionary cash flow at these


prices and that should result in production averaging somewhere around 35,000 BOEs next year


per day. And that’s about an 18% growth over this year’s average and virtually all of this is from


organic growth.


So now I will turn it over to Phil who is going to review the financial results. Please remember


everybody that when we talk about the share numbers we are using the – we are assuming the two


for one split that is going to happen next week. Thank you Phil.


Phil Rykhoek, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Gareth. Yeah we are happy to have another good quarter, in spite of the losses


associated with the hurricanes. As Gareth said, we have adjusted all the share numbers for the two


for one split that was effective on the record date October 31
 
st
 
. Although we won't begin trading


post split until designated by the New York Stock Exchange, which I believe will be next Tuesday,


after the additional shares have been distributed by our trustee next Monday. As we mentioned, we


lost about 350,000 BOEs of production because of the two hurricane giving us 27,345 BOEs a day


for the quarter. That’s about the same as Q3 of last year, but less than the second quarter. We lost


production in almost all of our operating areas resulting in sequential quarterly production declines


in all areas except for the Barnett Shale, which was the area least affected. It was only shut in for a


couple of days. We currently have almost all the production back on line with only isolated cases of
corrected transcript


Denbury Resources, Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


remaining shut in. For reference our tertiary oil production is currently running over 10,000 BOEs a


day and continuing to increase. Hurricane Rita did effect fourth quarter production also causing part


of our Louisiana natural gas to be shut in during the first part of October as result of flooding. We


expect – taking that into account we expect our fourth quarter production to be around 31,500


BOEs a day plus or minus a few hundred BOEs a day, which will give us annual production


between 29.5 and 30,000.


As Gareth said, looking at 2006 based on our preliminary budget we expect 2006 to be around


35,000 BOEs a day which is an 18% growth rate. We'll talk a little bit more about 2006 next week at


our Analyst Conference so you might want to look at the – listen to the webcast or review the slides


on the internet if you can’t attend.


In spite of the lost production with the hurricanes oil and gas revenues excluding hedges were up


34% between the respective third quarters. The decrease in volumes between the two periods


lowered revenues by 8% but the higher commodity prices increased revenue by 42%.


Both oil and gas were up substantially this quarter over last year. NYMEX averaged at about 63 in


oil and NYMEX gas about 9.50. Now, our net prices didn’t increase quite as much as NYMEX, as


their oil averaged $6.34 per barrel below NYMEX’s quarter which is a little worse than the $5.19


differential during the third quarter last year. On a year-to-date basis we've averaged about $6.45


per barrel below NYMEX.


On the natural gas side, our differentials increased significantly this quarter primarily because


natural gas prices increased throughout the month – or throughout the quarter. Since most of our


gas is sold on an index price, which is set at the first of each month, if prices increase during the


quarter, we end up with a higher differential. In this case, daily NYMEX prices averaged more than


a dollar higher than the first of the month index prices and correspondingly we were $0.97 below


NYMEX for our corporate quarterly average. This particular issue shouldn't repeat itself unless you


have another quarter with consistently increasing prices. However, on a more long-term basis, you


should note that our Barnett Shale production, as it becomes a bigger part of our mix, our natural


gas differentials will probably widen as this production has been running about $1 below NYMEX.


Keep in mind that both of these current differentials are in a high price environment so, if you were


to assume lower prices for sensitivity cases, I think, you would expect the differentials to decrease


significantly.


Hedging hasn’t been much of a factor to us this year as most of our hedges expired at 12/31/04.


Included in the results of operations is approximately 11.8 million of hedging losses of which 8.1


million were non-cash charges reducing this quarter’s income. And that’s really happening as a


result of our decision to discontinue hedge accounting last January. In particular, the 11.8 million


hedge loss consisted of 3.8 million of cash payments, and that compares to 22.2 million in the third


quarter of last year hedge payments. And the 11.8 also includes the non-cash pieces of 6.2 million


of mark-to-market value losses corresponding to the higher prices, and 1.9 million of expense


relating to the amortization of the other comprehensive income that existed at 12/31/04.


As you probably know, we are generally hedging less due to our strong balance sheet and we don’t


expect to change that philosophy in the short-term unless we make significant acquisitions. As of


today, all of our remaining hedges will expire as of this year-end. We don’t have anything at –


beyond 12/31/05.


Expenses – our operating expenses increased this quarter on both absolute and a per BOE basis.


Higher industry costs, higher fuel costs, the addition of operating leases and the incremental tertiary


operations all contributed to the increase in gross costs and of course the lower production as a


result of the hurricanes contributed to higher per BOE costs.