corrected transcript


Denbury Resources, Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Denbury Resources Second Quarter 2005


Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. The following


discussions contain forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from


those discussed here. Additional information concerning factors such as price volatility, production


forecasts, drilling results and current market conditions that could cause such difference can be


found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commissions, including our reports on


Form 10-K and 10-Q.


At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Denbury Resources. Please go ahead,


sir.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome everybody to Denbury’s second quarter ‘05 conference call. We had an


excellent quarter, increasing total production 11% year-on-year, which combined with excellent


prices allowed us to earn a near-record 40.7 million or 73 cents a share in the quarter. The


fundamentals for oil prices look very strong for the foreseeable future, but naturally all the costs in


our industry are rising as the capacity is strained and our costs are no exception. Our production


continues to increase in the quarter at our tertiary CO2 floods and is around the level predicted by


our long-term model for the quarter. However, we’ve made some minor adjustments to the long-


term model because of some operational delays we had in the first half of the year and a small


change in our working interest at Mallalieu, because of a minor working interest division that was


not previously included. Other than that, everything is proceeding to plan.


Now, I would like to bring Phil Rykhoek, our Chief Financial Officer to discuss some of the financial


results.


Phil Rykhoek, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer


Thank you, Gareth. And we are happy to have another quarter where we were able to be beat


FirstCall estimates, we are always happy to do that. It all starts with production; overall as Gareth


said, production was on forecast, we are up 3% over the first quarter and 11% year-over-year after


adjusting for the offshore sale.


As we mentioned, the production increase was anchored by increases from our tertiary operations


and the Barnett Shale play, generally offset by overall declines in our onshore natural gas wells in


Louisiana.


Our oil production from tertiary operations increased 9% over the first quarter 43 percent over the


second quarter of last year and we averaged 9,417 barrels a day in the second quarter of ‘05.


Production from tertiary is responded as planned, as Gareth mentioned we have had some


operational delays, so we have reduced our 2005 tertiary production forecast to a range of between


9,500 and 9,750, down from 10,000, but a number which still represents a 42% increase over 2004.


Companywide, we are not changing our forecast, we will stay with our 31,000 BOEs a day for 2005.


Revenues, excluding hedges, were up approximately 6% between the respective second quarters.


The decrease in volumes between the two periods which primarily was attributable to the sale of
corrected transcript


Denbury Resources, Inc.
 
DNR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


offshore properties, lowered revenues about 20 percent, but the higher prices increased revenues


by about 26 percent.


As you probably know, NYMEX was just over $53 a barrel this quarter, up from 38 in the second


quarter of last year, and NYMEX gas was just over 6.75, up from $6 in the second quarter of last


year. Our net oil price didn’t increase quite as much as NYMEX, as we still are adversely affected


by the high differentials on our heavier sour crude. We averaged 5.72 per barrel below NYMEX for


our net price in the second quarter of ’05, that is a significant improvement over the last two


quarters, which were both around 6.50 below NYMEX. But, we are still well below the 3.50 to $4


differentials that we enjoyed a year or two ago.


On the natural gas side, our differential hasn’t changed very much, we are still running very close to


NYMEX prices. Although, we do expect the differential to start to widen as our Barnett Shale


production becomes a bigger part of our mix, as that production runs between 50 cents and a dollar


below NYMEX. You might keep in mind that these current differentials are in a high price


environment for those of you that run price
 
cases, I think these differentials would be


significantly less if you get their oil price and gas price were less.


Gareth Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer


Yeah, perhaps running as a percentage it would probably be more, it would be more accurate I


think.


Phil Rykhoek, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer


Right. Hedging is not much of a factor to us this year, as most of our out-of-the-money hedges


expired last year end. Included in our results of operations this quarter is about 1 million of income


from hedges or commodity derivatives. That number consists of 1.8 million of cash payments,


which compares to about 18.2 million of cash payments in the second quarter of last year. It also


includes 4.6 million of mark-to-market value income and 1.8 million of expense relating to the


amortization of other comprehensive income that existed at 12/31/04.


As you know, we are generally hedging less due to our strong balance sheet and we don’t really


expect that the change in the near future unless we make a significant acquisition. I might also


remind you that we discontinued hedge accounting as of January 1st, ‘05 which is why mark-to-


market value adjustments are now flowing through the income statement. Although, since we have


so few hedges at the current time, the impact is relatively minor.


Our operating expenses increased this quarter on both a gross and per barrel basis; higher industry


costs, higher fuel costs, incremental tertiary operations all contributed to the increase. Adjusting for


the property sold in the offshore sale our workover costs were about 2 million higher this quarter,


which equates to about 72 cents per BOE compared to the second quarter of last year and that’s


primarily related to the mechanical failure and workover on one onshore Louisiana well.


Even after adjusting for the high workover cost, we still were a little bit above our expected range.


As such, with the cost inflation we are experiencing in high fuel costs, we are revising our operating


costs per barrel guidance, upward to around $9 per BOE for the remainder of the year.


Our tertiary operations also increased about a dollar per BOE, averaging $11.04 per BOE this


quarter. That’s primarily attributable to higher utility costs, which represent about 50% of the


tertiary operating cost excluding the cost of CO2.