corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling
 
DO
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Drilling,


Inc.'s Conference Call for quarterly earnings. At this time, all participants have been placed on a


listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for your questions following today's presentation.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Les Van Dyke. Sir, you may begin.


Les Van Dyke, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning. Thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson, President


and Chief Operating Officer; David Williams, Executive Vice President; and Gary Krenek, Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before Larry begins his remarks, I should remind you that statements made during this conference


call may constitute forward-looking statements and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and


uncertainties that could actual results to differ materially from those projected. Forward-looking


statements include, but are not limited to, discussions about future revenues and earnings, capital


expenditures, industry conditions and competition, dates that drilling rigs will enter service, as well


as management's plans and objectives for the future. A discussion of the risk factors that could


impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in


the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking


statements. The company expressly disclaims any obligation to release publicly any updates to


any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in the company's expectations or any


changes in events and conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is


based.


With that, I will turn the meeting over to Larry.


Lawrence R. Dickerson, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Good morning. I would like to start this morning by giving you a brief overview of a bit of the


market. We included that in our press release, but I will add some commentary on the numbers


that we had. Then, I will turn it over to Gary Krenek who will give you some extended commentary


on some of the dollar issues that were also in play in the fourth quarter, give you a little guidance


about how we see some of these issues coming into Q1 of next year and on into the full year, and


give you some cost as we see them for the coming year, 2005.


I think the most significant piece of news on the overall market front was included in the press


release. And, that is that we had a second generation unit at $110,000/day in the US Gulf of


Mexico. And, although we just have one in that category right now, that is the rate that we are


discussing on a variety of our rigs with a number of customers. There are nine second generation


rigs in the Gulf of Mexico active, we own four of them right now. There is two that are cold-stacked


that could come back to work, one of which is a Diamond Offshore rig and another one is a


Transocean rig.


I think the significant thing about that $110,000 rate is that is pretty much what the peak rate was


during the drilling upsurge that took place starting in '95 and ran through '97 – '98. And, we tended


to see those kind of rates at the – towards the end of it with some term attached. Yet, we are not at
corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling
 
DO
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the term stage, and these rates have continued to move. And, then, of course, the thing that is so


significant about that is that a year ago – 18 months ago, people were – the questions that we


would often get would be, what is the future for these rigs? What is the future for the water depths


that they operate in? And, clearly, this is illustrating that there is heavy demand for those particular


units. Once the supply got down by rigs moving to Mexico and in other places and the fourth


generation rigs in the deepwater and ultra-deepwater rigs being fully utilized, these rigs have really


moved to the forefront and I think are demonstrating what useful tools they are. We believe that the


rates in the US Gulf of Mexico will continue to set the pace and impact our substantial second and


third generation fleet around the world, not only for us, but for our competitors as well.


Talking about the deepwater, we have 5 of 11 units that are active today. 6 are owned by primarily


Novo, Transocean and GlobalSantaFe. And, we had seen those leading-edge rates right now in


the low 150s, which is below where they had peaked back in the '95 through '98 timeframe. So, it's


interesting again that the second generation units are really leading the pack in terms of where


those rates are vis-à-vis where we’ve been in the past. We continue to see heavy demand in that


water depth, we get called all the time from multiple companies having approved their budgets,


having a number of prospects that they want to drill in deepwater and ultra-deepwater. And right


now, ours and our competitors’ rigs are pretty much booked well into 2005, and there is just not


enough equipment, we believe, to service that. So again, we think that we are in a very strong rate


environment in there.


Again, I would point out that among our fourth generation deepwater units, of the five units, three of


those are upgraded rigs, with the leading edge rates at 150. This is well in excess of the rates that


we used back in ‘95 and ’96 to go ahead and do these upgrades of these rigs for this type of


service. It was a lower cost, you couldn’t certainly upgrade these rigs at this level and I don’t think


a price of 150 is going to encourage anybody to upgrade in here. And certainly, if you have units


that can, again, operate in the second generation market and earn those types of day rates, you


are not going to take them out of service either. But again, very strong rate environment there.


Around the world, we are also continuing to post increased rates, but they are increasing in a much


smaller rate environment, more of rates moving from 80 to 90 say in Southeast Asia for leading


edge commitments, our North Sea commitments are, of course, in terms, so we don’t fully have


some re-pricing opportunities right now, but we are obviously watching what the market is paying


for equivalent capacity rigs that our competitors offer.


And then in Brazil, we also have term and we don’t have our rigs rolling until Q4 this year. We got


two fourth generation rigs that will be rolling at that period of time and then in Q1 of ’05 we’ve got a


couple of third generation rigs that we will be rolling.


Jack-up rates are also strong and have been evidencing these kind of smaller scale increases in


rates, but that’s across a overall fleet of over 100 rigs. So that’s not surprising to us.


To come back to the ultra-deep, well, we’ve made an announcement yesterday, I am going to have


David Williams, our Executive Vice President, make some commentary on that.


David Williams, Executive Vice President


We did announce some contracts for both Baroness and the Rover with different operators. The


Rover is a contract essentially from today, we will run it at about three years to – estimates now,


early February of ’08. That contract has been in the works for a while. The rig came out straight


out of the shipyard after its upgrade to fifth generation capability and went to work for Murphy in


Malaysia in that state in that theater of operations and we’ve been eyeing this opportunity for a


while in conjunction with Murphy, we’ve been having discussions. And, so this is the culmination of


some discussions that’s been ongoing for a while. The good news for us is that it’s tied the rig up