corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling
 
DO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Drilling’s First Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator instructions] And it’s now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your


host, Les Van Dyke. Sir, you may begin.


Les Van Dyke, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson,


President and Chief Operating Officer; David Williams, Executive Vice President; and Gary Krenek,


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before Larry begins his remarks, I should remind you that statements made during this conference


call may constitute forward-looking statements and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Forward-


looking statements include, but are not limited to, discussions about future revenues and earnings,


capital expenditures, industry conditions and competition, dates that drilling rigs will enter service,


as well as management's plans and objectives for the future. Discussion of the risk factors that


could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be


found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking


statements. The company expressly disclaims any obligation to release publicly any updates to


any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in the company's expectations or any


changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.


And with that, I will turn the meeting over to Larry.


Lawrence R. Dickerson, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thank you very much Les, and welcome everybody to our conference call. We were pleased with


our results this quarter of $0.23, up substantially from $0.09, and I am going to make an opening


statement about a little bit about the components of that. I’ll talk briefly about costs that will be


followed after my remarks by Gary Krenek, our Chief Financial Officer who will give you some


elaboration on those costs and some data that might aid you in looking forward on how cost will be


developed. I’ll talk a little bit about the utilization of our fleet and then close by talking about the


dayrates and the point I am going to make on dayrates is that the $0.23 that we have reflected in


this first quarter results reflect improving dayrates over where we began last summer, but are still


very far away from the current market rates that we’re booking on into the future that we’re quite a


bit ways away from that, yet we still were able to increase our earnings substantially for the quarter.


Generally on our costs, our costs were very much in control. They were actually down quarter-


over-quarter and we had some unusual items in the last part of fourth quarter, but they’ve been


relatively flat or controlled, and Gary will give you some color on how that’s likely to develop here.


Utilization for the quarter: we had, in addition to our cold-stacked rigs, Liberator and New Era, the


Endeavor is down and will be down going into the future as we perform its upgrade. It’s on its way


currently to Singapore for that upgrade. We had stacked downtime that was not forecast in the


fourth quarter, we took 19 days on the Nomad and three days on the Heritage and between jobs,


we had 56 days of mobilization downtime on the e-Park in Australia, going to Malaysia, which


included a brief stopover in a shipyard where we attended to some repair issues. We had forecast
corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling
 
DO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


60 days in Q4, so that’s something you know about. And then, we had repair downtime across four


rigs – Alliance, Saratoga, Warwick, and Vanguard – of approximately 147 days and we had


forecast in the Q4 time period of approximately 143. So, all of that was very much inline. Our


unanticipated repair time was about 50 days. When you measure that across our active fleet that is


under 2% and that’s well within – we strive for zero, but we caution everybody that 98% normal


operating time is about what we are going to do as we move forward. And again, Gary will


elaborate a little bit on what's scheduled to be down in ‘05.


Talking about dayrates. As I mentioned before, the dayrates that are reflected in this quarter’s


results are a little up— are quite a bit a ways away from where we are booking forward


commitments. And you can do the math on this with our rig status report that indicates our current


projections on when rigs will roll and what those rates are going to roll towards. But, if I take just


looking at the Gulf of Mexico and our second-generation mid-water fleet, which consists of four


units, as those rigs began to improve last summer, they’re working generally in the 40s and we’ve


seen about six bumps in rates as we go forward. First commitments were at 50, then we took


commitments at 60, 70, 80, 90 and the most recent, the sixth of those bumps, have been for rates


over a 100,000, I think we disclosed this high as a 120. But, for the four rigs that we had in this


quarter, our average dayrates for those four rigs was $60,000 a day. So, we are right really just at


the edge of the second stage of those dayrate increases—quite a bit of ways away from where we


would expect to be later on.


As we roll forward we will expect to see, again looking at that rig status report, those rates rise


through Q2 and Q3, but it really— the entire fleet won’t be at those rates until we get out to Q4.


There is a similar patter in effect with our fourth generation fleet here in the Gulf of Mexico, which


consist of five units. It started around $65,000 a day, increased generally $10,000 per each of our


renewals. And of course each rig didn’t go 10,000 a piece, one rig would go from our beginning


point to stage one and the next rig would go from our beginning point to stage two or three. And


we’ve taken those rates on up into the mid 150s and they are even going beyond that. Those rigs


also had an average rate closer to a $100,000 for the quarter but we see those further along in the


development and as we enter Q2 we have a number of those rigs that are in the 120s, 130 rates.


So, we will be moving up a little more rapidly in those rigs, but again they still have a good backlog


before they would begin to reach the current high rates that we’re renewing.


And I won’t go through the rest of the fleet but the similar patterns hold, I guess the North Sea


we’ve got three rigs in the in the UK sector. For this quarter we had two of those working at one


year contracts, at 80 that really don’t expire until the end of the year and one of the rigs, the Ocean


Guardian, we are still working at its previous rate and doesn’t actually begin the $80,000


contractual rate until Q2 and it was working for this quarter in the high 50s. So, I would just caution


everybody to look at the rig status report as we go forward to be able to anticipate when we would


think those rigs would roll.


Our Jack-up fleet was— is much closer to the market and the rates on those, will be moving up


more quickly. To take one example from their Titan Tower, which are 350’ high spec units, those


two rigs worked in the quarter at average rates in the mid 50s. We’ve disclosed that we have future


commitments on those in the 70s, we’ll be moving up to those rates on at least one rig here in Q2


and another rig has commitments in the 60s, it will take it on in through Q3. So, we will be able to


rise before we get there, but generally those are much closer to the market rates than we see in the


floaters. So, with that I’ll let Gary make some additional comments on our operating cost.


Gary Krenek, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President


Okay. Thanks Larry. Larry said two things, I want to go over is one, comparing the first quarter


operating expenses to the fourth quarter and then a little guidance on what we see coming in the


second quarter and throughout the rest of the year.