corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling,


Inc.
 
DO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Denise and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Drilling quarterly earnings


conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speaker’s remark there will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions].


Thank you and it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr. Les Van Dyke, Director of


Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin your conference.


Les Van Dyke, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Larry


Dickerson, President and Chief Operating Officer, David Williams the Executive Vice President, and


Gary Krenek Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before Larry begins his remarks I should remind you the statements made during this conference


call may constitute forward-looking statements and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Forward-


looking statements include, but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings,


capital expenditures, industry conditions and competition, dates the drilling rigs will enter service as


well management’s plans and objectives for the future. The discussion on the risk factors that


could impact these areas and the company’s overall business and financial performance can be


found on the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Given these concerns investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking


statements. The company expressively disclaims any obligation to release publicly any updates to


any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in the company’s expectations or any


changes in advance, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.


With that I will turn the meeting over to Larry.


Lawrence R. Dickerson, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thank you very much Les. I am going to begin with some opening remarks, I am going to address


results for operations, what the current status of the market is, I will talk about the hurricane issues


and related to the hurricane mooring plans with regard to our floating drilling rigs here in the US


Gulf of Mexico.


To begin with I will just run through a brief reconciliation for everybody because of the hurricane


results and that's a little bit hard to figure out what kind of numbers did – maybe looking at, but


we’ve posted results of $0.60 a share, included in that was $0.17 of hurricane gain on the loss of


the rig, net of deductibles so if we back that out our non-hurricane results were $0.43 excluding that


figure again. However those results were lowered by $0.02 for additional costs incurred in the third


quarter for hurricane expenses not covered by insurance. And then we lost $0.04 of revenue due


to downtime during the quarter that wasn’t booked so to give you a non-hurricane adjusted – if


hurricane did not occurred we will run right at $0.49 for the quarter. We have very strong markets


today particularly I think it’s relevant to focus attention of jack-ups. We have in our fleet we have 11


jack-ups operating post the loss of the Ocean Warwick. In the US Gulf of Mexico we got two


international, we have two under construction, one here in the US Gulf and one in Singapore.
corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling,


Inc.
 
DO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The net two hurricanes of Katrina and Rita severely damaged or destroyed and I’ll let each of the


contractors who lost rigs make those that determination, nine major jack-ups, we lost the Ocean


Warwick in the first, the Katrina, I believe at that same time Rowan lost the rig and its Hercules rig


damaged and then there were six major rigs- jack-ups that were torn from their legs in the follow-up


hurricane.


For us, we declared the Ocean Warwick as a complete loss, but losing nine rigs out of a very


limited supply of jack-ups also added to that rigs that are otherwise somewhat damaged and rigs


that are being moved out of US Gulf of Mexico has had a severe reduction in supply at a point of


time when there was significant demand, immediately following the hurricane there was sort of a


pause as companies dealt with more pressing issues before they went out for bids and then there


were some sorting out and confusion in the market to see exactly where the numbers would land


up we can certainly report today that we – in our bid rates and where we are beginning to make


some commitments we are seeing significant increases in rates across the board. 300-ft units,


which is the bulk of our US Gulf fleet, three hurricanes or probably 70’s and 80’s and those rates


today are 105 on up to in the high 120’s. So, a significant move there at the same time our Mat


units when we have three in the Gulf of Mexico, we are now talking, in the 80’s which again is a


significant move. We got two 350 units, we just haven’t had a chance those units are committed to


beginning of ’06 and we have really had a commitment yet to talk about those, but I think it’s clear


that those rates have also significantly moved and moved above 300-ft units. So very, very strong


jack-up market to, again to the reduction in supply and great demand in that area.


In our floating drilling rigs in the US Gulf, our second drilling unit so, we had been making


announcements of 175, we are now looking forward to rates right at $200,000 a day for these units.


Fourth generation rigs, rates are, probably have remained close to where they have been for


maybe the last quarter to five or six months between – in the 320’s on up to 350 in that range, but


what we are really seeing there is significant demand for additional term, where we are bidding and


very close to making commitments for two and three year term for where we stand today. So, I


think that's significant and what we would expect in this market.


Fifth generation units also we are seeing significant demand for term in those particular units. So,


again very strong market – strong markets internationally, but the US Gulf of Mexico where we had


most of the reprising opportunities. The hurricane we’ll talk about what that impact was to our


company and lead into some of the mooring issues there, but I think everybody needs to remember


that there were no injuries to any of our personnel – any personnel that I’m aware of in the industry


that are – this industry knows very well how to deal with the hurricanes- we begin our evacuations


well in advance and we evacuate in such a manner and secured the wells in addition to no


personnel injuries, there is no wellboard pollution that has flown from any of the jack-ups or semis


in operation in the US Gulf.


We are also pleased to report that all of our employees and we had many employees that lived in


the impacted areas suffered any sort of serious injuries, although we did have approximately 30


employees, whose homes were totally destroyed in the hurricane and we, as well as many other


people in the industry have made appropriate efforts to assist these employees and their


recoveries. Our people were just great following the fact that we have many people who couldn’t


get on the road, other employees moved around and got out there and manned existing rigs and


we were reshuffling people around but, we were always able to have a crew out on our rigs and


continue operations and so, I thank all our employees that went through that particular effort.


On talking about the floaters, the big issue was moorings that parted virtually all rigs that were in


the path of both Katrina and Rita or close by on the bad side of the hurricane, suffered some


degree of mooring parting damages that we had on our particular rig, I’ll give you the amount of


down time on those rigs and the status I’m pleased to report that with the exception of one rig which


we expect to be back at work middle of November, all the other rigs are now back to work. The