corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc
 
DO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to your Diamond Offshore Drilling’s


Inc. Quarterly Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the


floor over to your host, Les Van Dyke. Sir, the floor is yours.


Les Van Dyke, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning. Thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson, President


and Chief Operating Officer; David Williams, Executive Vice President; and, Gary Krenek Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before Larry begins his remarks, I should remind you that the statements made during this


conference call may constitute forward-looking statements and are inherently subject to a variety of


risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.


Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, discussions about future revenues and


earnings, capital expenditures, industry conditions and competition, dates that drilling rigs will enter


service, as well as management plans and objectives for the future. Discussion of the risk factors


that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can


be found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking


statements. The company expressly disclaims any obligation to release publicly any updates to


any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in the company's expectation or any changes


in events, conditions or circumstances, on which forward-looking statements are based.


With that, I will turn the meeting over to Larry.


Lawrence R. Dickerson, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thank you, Les, and welcome everybody to the Diamond Offshore second quarter conference call.


We continue in an exceptionally strong market. We are seeing high demand across all markets for


drilling rigs. Floaters of all water depths have experienced the most dramatic increases in rates,


but jack-up dayrates also continue to increase. Recently, there has been a further dramatic upward


move in the rates for floaters. As an example of that, just this week, Diamond Offshore has


received a commitment on the Ocean Quest, the Gulf of Mexico semi with 3,500 feet of water depth


capacity. The Quest, currently working at a rate of $125,000 a day and this is incidentally the


highest rate this rig has ever received, has a recent renewal which will take effect we believe in


October and will increase the rate to $240,000 per day for a six-month extension with our present


customer. In addition, we are in advanced negotiations for some of our larger second generation


Gulf of Mexico rigs at rates in excess of a $170,000 a day. To respond to this strong market, we


are preparing to return the Ocean New Era, our final cold-stacked rig, a 1,500 foot second


generation semi to service in the US-Gulf of Mexico. This should cost us about $12 million to


activate this rig, and we expect to have the unit available in the fourth quarter of 2005. Already, we


have a six-month commitment to use this rig at a rate in excess of a $120,000 a day.


As noted in our press release, we have accepted a commitment for the Ocean Endeavor in the US-


Gulf of Mexico. The Endeavor is undergoing a $255 million fifth generation upgrade for service in


8,000 feet of water in Singapore. The operator has agreed to a minimum two year term on the rig


after its delivery in 2007. For a moderate period, I think lasting to about the end of the year, the
corrected transcript


Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc
 
DO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


customer has an option to extend this term commitment to either three or four years. At the four


year commitment, we estimate that cash flows will fully pay off the upgrade cost.


Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005, we believed that we will complete our purchase of the Garden


Banks, an additional Victory-class hull. Because all of our other Victory-class rigs have already


been upgraded or working currently as is, this unit will provide us with opportunities for a variety of


types of upgrades which would depend upon operator’s interest, completion of engineering and our


own investment plans.


This strong market has also caused us to take a look at dividend policies. As we announced last


week, we are doubling our quarterly dividend to an annual rate of 50 cents a share. This restores


the dividend to the level paid in 2003. In addition, we have announced the Board will consider


declaring a special cash dividend in the first quarter of 2006. It may consider paying annual special


dividends in future years. Our dividend announcement demonstrates our belief that Diamond


Offshore is in a strong financial position. And, most importantly, that our earnings outlook is good


since we believe that the current strong market can continue for some time. As a result, it is likely


that our cash balances will grow as the current robust market conditions continue.


Accordingly, in an effort to enhance shareholder value and to answer one of our most frequently


asked questions, what are going to do with your cash, management recommended and our Board


agreed to put a special dividend on the agenda once year-end 2005 results are in. I must caution


you that the Board has not established a formulamatic approach towards the special dividend. As


was noted in our release, management and the Board will consider the company’s financial


position, earnings outlook, capital spending plans and other factors believed to be relevant. A


formulamatic approach would, we feel, limit the Board's flexibility and potentially restrain the


company from taking advantage of opportunities that might arise. We currently believe however


that taking into account our current cash position, anticipated cash build-up and projected cash


needs, management should be in a position to recommend to the Board a special dividend in the


first quarter of 2006. Please note that the management and Board consider it financially prudent for


the company to maintain a substantial cash position even during a period of robust cash flows.


I will now turn the opening remarks over to Gary Krenek as is our tradition, and he will comment in


somewhat greater detail on our operating cost structure.


Gary T. Krenek, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Thanks, Larry. We want to look at two things here mainly. First is a review of the second quarter


results, looking at items other than those things that were covered already in the press release, and


concentrate on operating cost incurred in the quarter. And, second, take a look at some of the


things we expect to see during the third quarter of ’05 and then going forward into the fourth


quarter.


Looking at overall operating expenses, they increased from $148 million in Q1 to $162 million in


Q2. This increase was due primarily to two items. Last quarter, we pointed out that our major


project repair expense was lower than expected in the first quarter and that these costs would be


incurred over the remaining portion of the year. Those cost, we had said, were about $6 million


below expectations. During the quarter, we returned back to our budgeted amounts and saw those


costs increase by about that $6 million.


In addition, we have the Ocean Vanguard in Norway, cost for that rig increased by about $5 million.


This was due to two things. One, increased costs that we incurred getting that rig ready for its term


contract in Norway, which I am happy to say the rig is currently on and working, and also due to the


fact that we had charged some of the expenses in the first quarter to an insurance receivable. That