raw transcript


Eagle Bulk Shipping, Inc.
 
EGLE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 8, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and Gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2006 Eagle Bulk


Shipping Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Amanda, and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time I would like to turn the call over to your presenter for today, Mr. Sophocles


Zoullas. Please proceed, Sir.


Sophocles N. Zoullas, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I would like to welcome everyone to Eagle Bulk


Shipping's second quarter 2006 earnings call. A slide presentation is available on our new


improved website at www.eagleships.com. Please note that part of our discussion today will include


forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are


inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-


looking statements. We refer all of you to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


for a more detailed discussion of our results and risks and uncertainties that may have a direct


bearing on our operating results, our performance and our financial condition.


Please note on slide two that the format for the call will follow the same format as our previous


calls. After my opening remarks, I will discuss the second quarter highlights, and provide a detailed


discussion of our fleet and the industry. I will explain what we believe is our differentiated and


competitive strategy that gives Eagle Bulk a very strong position in the shipping market. Our CFO,


Alan Ginsberg will discuss the Company’s financial performance. I will then close the Management


discussion before inviting participants to ask questions.


Turning now to the slide presentation, slide 4. The second quarter of 2006 was a very active one for


Eagle Bulk and one in which we made notable progress, advancing key corporate growth


objectives. The company continued to deliver strong, stable, financial results with 100% of the fleet


fully chartered for the quarter. Gross time charter revenues were 26.2 million. Net income was 11.3


million including a non dilutive, non-cash compensation charge of 1.9 million. Adjusting for these


charges, net income was $0.34 per share. EBITDA as defined in our credit agreement was 19.2


million for the quarter. On August 3 we paid a Q2 dividend to our shareholders of $0.50 per share.


During the second quarter Eagle Bulk made significant strides growing the company and building


the shareholder value. First, we purchased three very modern Supramax vessels, two built in 2004


and one built in 2003 for $105 million. Second, we chartered the three vessels prior to their


delivery. Third, we successfully raised 33 million in an equity offering and fourth, we increased the


credit facility with Royal Bank of Scotland from 330 million to $450 million. As of June 30, Eagle


Bulk had approximately $250 million in liquidity which gives the company the strong financial


capability to continue to fund growth. We are pleased to announce that we have activated a


dividend re-investment plan for shareholders that allow everyone who owns our stock to buy


additional shares by re-investing the dividends or by making direct purchases of additional shares


through optional cash deposits into the plan.


Slide 5, we believe the acquisition of the three Supramax vessels in June once again demonstrates


the operational and strategic superiority of Eagle Bulk Shipping which is very beneficial to our


shareholders. Similar to most of our other deals, Eagle Bulk negotiated this private, off market deal


with no competitive bidding from other buyers at a time when charter rates had improved but asset


values had not yet increased. We believe the values of the three ships in our well timed acquisition


has already increased by 5 to 8% since the end of June. Of equal significance, unlike most shipping


deals where the buyer has to wait several weeks or several months for the ships to be delivered,


Eagle Bulk chartered and took delivery of all three ships within approximately 2 weeks from the
raw transcript


Eagle Bulk Shipping, Inc.
 
EGLE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 8, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


time the purchase contracts were signed. This means that shareholders benefit from the immediate


cash per generation that the new ships contribute to the company.


Eagle Bulk continues its strategy of bringing accretive deals to shareholders while maintaining the


cash flow, predictability and stability that is consistent with prior transactions. To this effect all three


ships are chartered for 12 to 20 months at rates that are approximately 2.5 times each ship’s cash


break-even level including a reserve for dry docking. This acquisition, the charters and the new


revolving facility have all been achieved while still maintaining a conservative 36% net debt to cap


ratio which gives Eagle Bulk liquidity of approximately $250 million to fund additional purchases.


Turning now to the operational benefits of this deal; first, we increased our fleet to 13 to 16 vessels


and improved our industry leading position in the new Supramax asset class, as we increased the


Supramax component of our fleet from 9 to 12 ships. Second, this acquisition increases the cargo


carrying capacity of the fleet by 24% to 796,663 tones. Third, we continue to focus on buying high


quality very young complimentary ships to our existing fleet and this acquisition achieves these


objectives by decreasing the average age of our fleet from 6.8 to 5.7 years and increases the


number of sister ships from 6 to 8. Lastly, and importantly our 2006 contract coverage increased to


97.5% on an available days basis.


On slide 7, you can see the homogeneous complementary character of the Eagle Bulk fleet. Some


key points, our fleet is almost one-third the age of the world fleet. The young age and high build


quality of our fleet makes Eagle Bulk ships very desirable to our charterers and provides us with a


greatest opportunity for uninterrupted revenue streams. Furthermore, the acquisition of the 3 new


ships which we have named, Jaeger, Kestrel 1 and Tern are assisting to strategically transform


Eagle from a Handymax company to a Supramax company as 12 of our 16 ships are Supramax


class vessels.


On slide 8, this chart demonstrates that Eagle Bulk has increased contract coverage on the entire


fleet to almost 98% for 2006 at a very strong $21,600 per ship per day. We continue to maintain our


strategy of delivering strong cash-flow to our shareholders without having to enter the spot market


and subject Eagle Bulk to the unstable and unpredictable cash flows associated with very short


term contracts. The best example of our effective chartering strategy is to look at the Peregrine


which we have recently chartered for two years at $20,500 per day. It is every important to point out


that this ship is not due to conclude our current charter until the fourth quarter of this year or the


beginning of 2007. This charter will generate approximately $15 million of revenues for the


Peregrine against approximately 5 million of expenses and may potentially employ the ship until the


first quarter of 2009.


Lastly the willingness of charters to take on two year commitments almost half a year before the


ship maybe delivered to them demonstrates the very strong market demand that exists for


Supramax ships today. We believe our young and flexible Supramax and Handymax class fleet


allows us to generate 100% of our revenues from medium to long term time charters at very


profitable charter rates. This policy limits our exposure to the spot market seasonality and volatility


and gives us stable and visible cash flows which provides a firm base for stable dividends and


planning future vessel acquisitions.


Slide 9, we will continue to provide investors with quarterly data on the cargos carried by the Eagle


Bulk fleet. As you can see, our fleet can carry many more types of cargo than Panamaxes or Cape


sized ships. This flexibility makes our ships very attractive to our charters, and we believe gives the


Handymax market typically more stable revenues than the larger ships. In fact, this year the


Supramaxes have proven their ability to outperform Panamaxes even though the ships cost several


million dollars less. Handymaxes, especially Supramaxes, compete in the iron ore, coal, and grain


markets of the Panamaxes, will also compete in the 850 million ton protected market of minor


bulks, and the major bulk markets, where larger ships are restricted by the vessels draft, length,


cargo size or cranes.