corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2010 eMagin


Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jennifer and I will be your operator for today. At


this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. And later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Paul Campbell, Chief Financial


Officer. Please proceed.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Jennifer. Welcome everyone, to eMagin Corporation’s second quarter 2010 conference


call. We are looking forward to sharing our strong second quarter results with you.


Before we begin, I would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part


of our 10-Q for the quarter-ended June 30, 2010 and that during today’s call, we may make


forward-looking statements as they are defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations,


projections, beliefs and estimates and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources, as well as statements containing words like expects, plan, target, will, intend,


could and other similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company’s Form 10-K report for 2009 on file with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake


no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new


information, future events, changes in circumstances or for any other reason.


I would now like to turn the call over to Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul, and thanks, everyone for attending our conference call. I’m going to begin by


reviewing some of the highlights of the second quarter and then Paul will take you through our


financial results. Following that, I’ll give you an update on how we have advanced the business and


the technology and then we will open up the call for questions.


I’m pleased to report that the second quarter was a very strong one, both financially and in terms of


eMagin’s technical and product advancements. We posted a record of $8.3 million for the quarter, a


41% increase over our second quarter 2009 and excluding a one-time charge related to severance


we generated record adjusted EBITDA of $2.4 million.


The company continues to gain traction in the marketplace. We are capturing share in the military


market and are capitalizing on the growth of the broader microdisplay market. I would like to


mention a number of second quarter achievements made by eMagin within the military market and


then I’ll highlight some of our successes in the commercial segment.
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


The company completed the design phase of a $3.2 million contract – subcontract for the U.S.


Department of Defense for our specialized OLED microdisplay. Production began in quarter two


with significant volumes to be delivered in quarter three 2010. We have concluded a segment of our


night vision R&D contract. This resulted in high brightness displays with three times the efficiency.


We are moving quickly to put monochrome displays into production using this technology.


We also continued shipments under a number of ongoing programs. For example, the Qioptic Vipir


II thermal sight program, a fielded program of 25,000 displays, which resulted in – which started in


2009 and will continue through 2014. The Sagem FELIN program, an infantry combat system for


the French military is in its first year of fielded shipments and we expect to ship up to 35,000


displays under this program by 2014.


We continue to ship displays for the man-portable javelin anti-tank missile system now in its fourth


year of fielding by the U.S. Army, U.S. Marines and 11 allied nations. Our customer is L3 Display


Systems who is under subcontract of Raytheon. eMagin already has notice of further orders for


Javelin and sources in the U.S. Army have called Javelin the weapon of choice for man-portable


missile systems through 2030. We are on track in meeting the objectives of the company’s $6


million program with TATRC, which involves the design of a dual-use microdisplay with over 7


million sub pixels for the U.S. military.


During the second quarter, we reached a significant milestone under this program with the


demonstration of a full-color display with under 10 micron pixels bringing us a step closer to


delivering a 1920x1200 that’s higher than HD display with the outstanding contrast and low power


that we have demonstrated on our SXGA display.


eMagin also partnered with Vuzix in supplying the Sarnoff Corporation with highly advanced optical


see-through helmet-mounted displays for inclusion in an augmented reality training system for the


U.S. Department of Defense. In the broader commercial market, one key achievement was


eMagin’s supply of OLED microdisplays to FLIR Systems, which utilizes our OLED microdisplays


and the electronic viewfinders for three of its state-of-the-art infrared cameras. These cameras are


used for predictive and preventive maintenance, as well as for a range of industrial inspection


purposes.


ECF Innovative Technologies in Scotland, a leader in ultrasound equipment for veterinarians is in


its third year of selling its trademark BUG or Binocular Ultrasound Glasses worldwide for scanning


of commercial livestock for pregnancy. BUG utilizes eMagin’s SVGA OLED microdisplays and


patented prism optics to provide a wearable, low power and rugged alternative to flat-panel displays


for use from the muddy fields in South Africa to the dusty outback of Australia.


NordicNeuroLab a Norway company continues to build viewing systems for MRI patients utilizing


eMagin SVGA 3D microdisplays. Earlier this week, we announced that we recently signed an


agreement to build the next generation OLED Deposition machine for manufacturing of OLED


microdisplays. We expect the machine to increase OLED capacity by approximately 10 fold,


increase yield significantly and contribute to a substantially more automated manufacturing


process.


An example of this last point is as follows. Our production process requires a vacuum of better than


1 billion of an atmosphere in order to deposit layers on the order of 1 millionth of an inch. And with


our current machine, we need to break vacuum to make a product change involving a move from


one resolution to another.


This forces us to pump down changes for many hours and then restart the machine. A key


contribution of the new machine is that it will enable us to make these product changes without


breaking vacuum. We expect the machine to be completed in mid-2011 with production beginning


in the second half of 2011.