corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2010 eMagin


Corporation earnings conference call. My name is Jasmine and I will be your operator for today. At


this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr. Paul Campbell, CFO


of eMagin. Please proceed.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Jasmine, and welcome everyone to eMagin Corporation’s first quarter 2010 conference


call. We’re looking forward to sharing our strong first quarter results with you.


Before we begin, I would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part


of our 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and that during today’s call, we may make


forward-looking statements as they are defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the Company’s current expectations,


projections, beliefs and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the Company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources as well as statements containing words such as believes, expects, estimate, plan,


anticipate, target, will, intend, seek, could, would and other similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the Company’s Form 10-K for 2009 on file with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake


no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of


new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reason.


I would now like to introduce Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul, and thanks, everyone, for attending our conference call. I’m going to begin by


reviewing some of the highlights of the first quarter and then Paul will take you through our financial


results. Following that, I’ll give you an update on how we have advanced the business and the


technology and then we’ll open the call up for questions.


I’m pleased to report that first quarter was a strong quarter, both financially and in terms of


eMagin’s technical advancement. We continue to build awareness in the market regarding the


superiority of OLED microdisplays.


eMagin posted increased revenues and net income in the first quarter. Net income was more than


double first quarter last year. The Company continues to gain momentum thanks to higher


customer demand for our Company’s proprietary OLED microdisplays. We posted revenues of


$5.9 million in the first quarter of 2010, a 16% increase over the first quarter last year.


Net income in the first quarter totaled $880,000, more than double the net income of $394,000 in


the first quarter last year. This marks our eighth consecutive quarter of positive operating income
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and our seventh consecutive quarter of positive net income, an achievement which is a direct result


of our decision in mid-2008 to refocus the business on our core OLED microdisplay manufacturing,


as well as our team’s ability to design and manufacture highly innovative products.


Thank you. I’ll now turn it back over to Paul to go through the financial results.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks. As Andrew mentioned, we had a strong first quarter, 5.9 million in revenue, up 16% over


last year, especially considering that historically, our first quarter is a lower revenue quarter. On


our call last quarter, we said that we expected revenue would continue to grow in 2010, totaling


between 28 million and 32 million for the year. Based on our current view of market conditions and


our visibility on order flow, we continue to expect strong full-year revenue growth totaling in that


same range.


Total gross margin was 56%, up 8 percentage points over first quarter of last year. The 8


percentage point improvement in gross margin was significant as the company continued its


initiatives to reduce the cost of goods expense.


Our manufacturing and R&D teams also continue to make strides in improving the OLED


manufacturing process. SG&A expenses increased just 10% as we were able to deliver on our


goal of containing expense growth below the percentage growth in revenue. R&D expenses grew


103% as expected due to investments that we are making to develop new products and technology


to drive future growth.


Net income for the first quarter of 2010 totaled 880,000, more than double last year’s 394,000, and


earnings per diluted share were $0.03 per share. eMagine was cash flow or EBITDA’s positive by


1.4 million in the first quarter.


The balance sheet continues to look good. We retired all of our remaining debt in quarter three of


2009 and we remain debt free today. We also have in reserve an untapped line of credit for $3


million. In addition to paying off all of our debt, we funded approximately $763,000 in first quarter


for our capital spending program. Our cash balance at the end of quarter one was $6 million


despite funding the CapEx and that number grew $700,000 from the end of last quarter.


I’ll now turn it back over to Andrew Sculley for some additional remarks.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thanks Paul. An important achievement during the first quarter was the driving of 2 custom


displays we’re working on closer to production. One of the displays will have a production run in


the second quarter and the other custom display will start production in the second half. Recall,


this is from design start in 2009 to production in 2010. By leveraging the basic pixel architecture of


our successful SXGA design in the new products, we’re able to produce these two products rapidly.


Thus far, this approach has been an outstanding success.


Our technical trip to Asia to discuss the procurement of a new production machine resulted in


quotes from two companies and a third company requested they quote as well. Our goal here is to


buy a machine that reduces downtime due to product changes and gives us the flexibility to


manufacture the many types of products we have in development today.


In the past, we had in production only the SVGA displays, our standard products with various


configurations like monochrome white, green or color and a few variations on the OLED stack in


electronics. Today we have many more products on the line than we did in the past. We are


running the SXGA and prototype versions of the custom displays and a small SVGA, again, all with