Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey P. Lucas — Chief Financial Officer & Investor Relations Contact, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, eMagin Corp.
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Michael Fawzy Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the eMagin Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jeffrey Lucas, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We are glad to have you join us today for our second quarter 2017 earnings conference call. During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections and beliefs and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.

Such statements include references, projections and future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, future contracts, product benefits, operations, future financings, liquidity and capital resources as well as statements containing words like believe, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control. Please refer to our earnings release for the second quarter 2017 and the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.

We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to eMagin's Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Sculley. Andrew?

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the call today. I'll discuss a few things this morning, our progress on the commercial front and high-volume manufacturing, give you an update on our military business, a few comments on our yield improvement efforts, and the advancements that we have made and demonstrated with our direct patterning technology. After that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff to review the financial highlights.

First of all, I'm very excited about the progress we've made in advancing our discussions with a number of potential commercial customers for consumer applications of our technology. The pace of our discussions has accelerated, which gives me great confidence that we will have an additional agreement by year-end with a major consumer electronics company. We're also making substantial progress in our partnering efforts with manufacturing partners to work with us for high-volume manufacturing to support these programs. I believe the timing for signing an agreement is the end of 2017 or early 2018.

As you can see from today's release, we have a couple of programs currently in place where we are designing and developing microdisplays for our AR/VR applications, partnering with consumer electronics companies, while today the revenue is in R&D and the future will be based on display sales.

Turning to our military business, we are pleased to report that we are progressing nicely on a number of programs, both U.S. and international. We continue to benefit from the ramp-up of several new military programs on which our displays are designed in. And as these programs progress from low rate initial production of prototype phase over the next several quarters, we anticipate the continuation of the sequential product revenue growth we have seen over the past several quarters.

These program wins speak to the superiority of our OLED microdisplays in a broad range of military applications. We're seeing great interest in the aviation industry where we have developed high brightness OLED for this industry because of the poor contrast of LCD displays in use today. One can find numerous references in defense industry publications about the green glow problem in current fixed wing aircraft helmets.

With LCD displays, the pilots will turn up the intensity of display so high that it creates a green glare that impedes the pilot's vision. The navy has stated that this green glare from LCD displays is a major safety hazard for pilots and is looking at OLED microdisplays as this solution. We are supplying eye brightness OELD green displays for fixed wing aircraft program, currently qualifying the helmet with our displays. We have begun to see the impact of the newer military programs after we saw the wind down last year of a number of existing contracts.

We won $1 million order for a new thermal weapon sight with a major European customer. Also the company was selected last quarter as the sole source provider of OLED microdisplays for a major U.S. Army helicopter helmet upgrade program.

We are on track with this program having procured tooling and delivering the initial OLED display, taper and lens assemblies to the prime contractor. As well we delivered our first 2Kx2K display to a defense contractor for integration in a new HMD prototype. We also delivered high brightness displays to another defense contractor for the U.S. Army soldier Visual Interface Technology program, that's SVIT for short. So, while we accomplished all of this and more for our military customers, we were still able, as I mentioned above to make significant progress on our discussions with potential consumer electronic companies and prospective mass production partners.

As you may remember, we have been actively involved in a multi-year program to improve our manufacturing yield and throughput. In connection with this effort, we have acquired new metals deposition tool and during the process of completing the design specs for another tool used in our process. While we expect these tools to help us improve overall yield, uptime and therefore production quantities, there may be some temporary impact to our production volumes as we bring them online. We're working very hard to strengthen our production resources wherever we can. The increase in complexity of our products and the variety of products that customers want provides an ongoing challenge.

We continue to make progress with our market-leading technology. Recently, we delivered engineering samples of our very high brightness full color microdisplays incorporating our proprietary direct patterning technology to current and potential consumer and military customers. Our technology uniquely meets the requirement of next-generation AR/VR displays and is helping to drive the interest we are seeing from potential consumer electronics partners as well as mass production partners.

It's important to note that we hear time-and-time again from the consumer electronic companies with whom we are in discussions just how absolutely critical high brightness is to both their AR and VR applications. AR needs high brightness in order to fight the external light, VR needs high brightness to eliminate the motion artifacts by running its display for only a part of each frame and to compensate for the inefficiencies in Harrington in the [indiscernible] (00:08:14). That is why brightness is one of the overarching objectives of our research and development strategic roadmap.

Our full color OLED direct patterning technology on silicon chips is the only display technology in the marketplace that has demonstrated the high brightness, high pixel density, for example, over 2,500 ppi, and very small spaces between the pixels.

Our display at 5,000 nits is over 10 times brighter than any of the other 2Kx2Ks introduced by competitors based on display analyst devaluations. Everyone we speak with about the VR market wants above 3,000 nits. Hence, we are the only company that has demonstrated this capability.

We demonstrated what we know to be the highest resolution and highest brightness OLED microdisplay available in the market today at the Society for Information Display's annual conference this past May. This is the premier event for display technology whose audience represents the leading and cutting-edge display manufacturers and users worldwide. I'm pleased to report that the response from the attendees to our 2Kx2K display was absolutely terrific and generated a great deal of interest.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff, and then we'll open the call up for questions.

Thank you, Andrew. We are seeing growing interest in our displays and, in particular, our direct patterning technology. As Andrew mentioned, we are in the midst of actively negotiating with several potential consumer electronic and manufacturing partners. Our numbers at this point, however, did not yet reflect the full story. As I communicated in previous quarters' calls, our product revenue, and consequently our performance, has been impacted by the anticipated wind down beginning in mid-2016 of a number of our older military programs.

We're seeing a pickup in product revenue since the third quarter of 2016 as several new military programs are coming online and in low-rate initial production mode. Our revenues are reflecting their ramp-up as we see sequential quarter-to-quarter improvements in our product revenues for the third consecutive quarter. We expect this revenue growth to accelerate beginning later this year as the production volumes on these programs pickup.

So, let me begin by walking through the income statement. Revenue for the second quarter was $5.3 million, down 5% from $5.5 million in the second quarter of 2016. Focusing on the revenue components, product revenue was essentially flat at $4.7 million versus $4.8 million in the second quarter of last year. However, on a sequentially basis from the first quarter, product revenues increased 7% from the gradual ramp-up of these new programs in the sale of $300,000 of newly developed display supported by internal R&D efforts over the past few years.

For the second quarter, R&D contract revenues totaled approximately $605,000, a decrease of 20% versus $752,000 reported in the prior year quarter. The overall figures match the growing significance of our commercial contract R&D work and the decline in military R&D contract revenues year-over-year were largely offset by the commercial R&D contract revenue to earned from multiple major consumer electronics companies, which no R&D revenues were earned in 2016. However, if you look at the six months' R&D revenues, they are up 57% over the same period last year. This is due to the addition of commercial R&D contract with several major consumer electronics companies as we were closely with them on the design, development and new display for the consumer product.

Gross margin for the second quarter was 24% and gross profit $1.2 million in line with gross margin of 24% and gross profit of $1.3 million in the second quarter of 2016. Gross profit from product sales were up 2.4% to $997,000 versus $974,000 from the second quarter of 2016.

Product gross margins of 21% this quarter were comparable to the 20% prior-year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, gross margins were 21% versus 30% in the comparable 2016 period. This was due to a slightly lower average selling price in the current period and the impact on our cost structure of lower production volumes than the year ago period.

Contract gross profit was $300,000 or 42% of revenues as compared to $400,000 or 48% of revenues for the comparable 2016 period. The higher profit in the prior periods reflects strong profit margins on a number of smaller projects that were completed during 2016 as well as favorable cost to complete adjustments last year on the ManTech government project.

Now, moving to our expenses. Total operating expenses for the second quarter of 2017, including R&D expenses, decreased to $3.3 million or 6% from $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2016. R&D expenses in the quarter totaled $1.2 million or 22% of revenues compared to $1.5 million or 27% of revenues from the year ago quarter.

We continue to focus on engineering efforts and invest in our direct patterning technology. This is the technology that our prospective commercial partners are demanding and that we have been developing for several years. However, our R&D expenses overall decreased on a percentage basis for the June quarter as compared to the prior year due to a greater allocation of our R&D resources to R&D contract work.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, or SG&A, increased $200,000 quarter-over-quarter to $2.2 million compared to $2 million in the same quarter of last year. This increase is reflective of higher travel and professional services, including legal fees, associated with our negotiations with prospective consumer electronics and volume manufacturing partners, as well as higher stock-based compensation cost in 2017.

We also recorded interest expense of $188,000 in the second quarter of 2017, which included a non-cash $158,000 write-off of capitalized debt issuance cost associated with the expiration of an unsecured debt financing commitment upon the completion of our equity raise in May.

Our operating loss for the second quarter was $2.1 million versus operating loss of $2.2 million in the second quarter of last year. Net loss for the first quarter of 2017 was $2.3 million or $0.07 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $2.2 million or $0.07 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2016.

As of June 30, cash and cash equivalents were $4.9 million. We had no debt outstanding and about $4 million of borrowing availability under our unused working capital facility.

In closing, I want to emphasize that our base business continues to grow as the military programs begin to ramp up. And as you win new ones, while at the same time making further inroads into the commercial markets. We have been able to accomplish all this, while still aggressively advancing our negotiations with several major potential partners. We are absolutely laser focused on our commercial efforts. And knowing that we have the right technology for the market, we're determined to being a commercial partner on board this year.

With that, we will now open for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Kevin Dede with Rodman. We will pause momentarily to assemble our roster. Okay. Our first quarter comes from Kevin Dede with Rodman. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jeff and Andrew. Can you hear me okay?

Yes, Kevin.

Fine, Kevin. Good morning.

Great, great. Okay. There was a little pause there for a while, I got tripped up. Thanks for taking the question. I've got a few. Could we start just going over the consumer opportunities that you've seen. I know they were a few in the works, and I'm kind of wondering where they stand. Not to mention the development work that you did last year, I'm wondering if you can give us an update on how you see your customer there proceeding.

Okay. They are few programs and I apologize I can't mention names, but I will go through them in a rational order I hope. So, there is one company that is very interested in our current 2Kx2K display, and that company wants a number of them. This year, smaller number, and then it will grow from there, and that would fit very well with our work with the mass production partner. So that's an easier one. It doesn't take any development. Of course, later on, they would like to develop new displays.

The next companies were actually kicked off a development in April this year, as we mentioned. So we're working on a new display. It's a significantly new design that would – really it's what we wanted to do with regard to the consumer market for VR applications or advanced AR as well. So that's what we're working one there, and that's a few million dollars development of this particular display. There is one other that actually we had mentioned a company paid us money in the first quarter, we mentioned that last earnings call. And this company was checking – needed to have some checks to see if this technology has legs, and it does. So we're working now on the next steps. This is a tough one. There are many, many next steps to go. But we expect that, as we said on the earnings call, we expect another one of these agreements to go before the end of the year.

Now, although there are other ones, you mentioned one that we talked about last year, we had an IP agreement. We continue talking to that company and they are interested in our displays, but more like the 2Kx2K display. And we had another meeting with them last week, we'll have another one this week. So that's still very exciting, we're not writing any one off yet, but we're concentrating on those first three that I mentioned. The other thing to talk about is, very important is we have a few companies that we're talking about mass production, and that is very important for us because we need to supply the displays after the designs are done. And that's an exciting thing too. These are eating up these discussions.

But let me just add a little bit to that, Kevin. Andrew talked about the companies with whom we're working, the prospective partners. Another point to make here, we tried to emphasize just how quickly these discussions are accelerating, and they're moving very fast now. We've talked in the past, maybe there were an exploratory stage, we're in discussions. Now, we're actually in active negotiations with many parties working out the actual terms and conditions, but these things are indeed happening quite quickly.

And just to give you one another feeling, we have multiple companies meetings every week on progress and getting agreements done.

Okay. Well, congratulations on that.

Thank you.

Yeah. Jeff, could you just offer a little insight, I mean, inventory was up to $9 million, up about $1 million sequentially and almost 2x what it was in March last year. And I'm just kind of wondering what's going on with the cache product that you're building?

Sure. The inventory that we're doing here is two-fold. One is, it's important anticipation of the growing revenues that we're experiencing and we'll continue to experience, particularly in some of our military programs. Secondly, we have some actually inventory build associated with our night vision consumer products, and the lion's share that being displays, displays are using both for the night vision product, but also for some actually foreign military customers who expressed interest in that as well. That's really been the lion's share of what's happening there, and we are – I think, a lot of this inventory build is largely behind us at this point. We don't anticipate to see much of that further inventory build going forward.

Okay. Andrew, you mentioned green glow, and both fixed wing and helicopter helmet.

Yeah.

I know that there was an issue with, I think, the helmet that Rockwell Collins is making for the F-35, and I was just kind of curious what you think the situation might be there?

Well, I think, certainly the navy realizes, this is a problem they try to do a fix, but it's not working. So, OLED is the next step, and we are working on this with – for the fixed wing aircraft with that company, our displays are the ones.

Okay.

Just to add to this a little bit, Kevin. This has been a major issue for the [Technical Difficulty] (00:23:24) sometime now. They've been doing a lot of research and exploratory work. We have been actually closely involved with that. And they're I think at a point now where this is going to be addressed going forward.

There is one other thing to say that this would be the first – well, not the first really, but this is a major fixed wing aircraft with an OLED display from us. The good news about that is, once this is qualified and everybody sees how well it works, then there is likely to be retrofit in the other fixed wing aircraft, and that's a big deal for us.

Yeah. We've talked in earlier earnings calls of previous quarters about our greater presence in the aviation market, and this certainly cements that. It opens a wealth of doors in terms of further opportunities that we're going to drive revenues over the next several years. It was very promising [ph] in that respect (00:24:20).

Okay. Yes. So, Andrew, integrating the screen, I mean, my understanding is that that aircraft has infrared cameras all around it, and are those cameras and their feed integrated into the visual display?

Well, the idea with an aircraft helmet is that during the day, they have icons on the visor to the helmet, so you don't have to look down at anything. And then, during the night, it's a full night vision. So, yes, that is the way the aircraft work, and the same thing with that helicopter program we mentioned, but we can't say anything about the name there.

Okay. You mentioned adding two new tools, and I was wondering if you could add a little color to that. I know that I think the last time you added a deposition tool one from Korea was a pretty big deal, getting your process up and running on it. I just was wondering – I think you mentioned one new deposition tool, and I my missed the second one. I was just wondering if you could just fill in some of the blanks and give us an idea on when you think you'll have them integrated in your production line.

In this case, the deposition tools and anode deposition, so it's not OLED. And in a case, we have tools already that we're bringing this other tool up, it will not be a tough thing to do, won't be as much of a struggle as it was on the older tool. And the other tool in the process is a simple process, doesn't mean the tool is cheap, but nowhere near the SNU cost. The second tool is below $1 million, so it's not a terribly tough one to bring up, but it's important because it will have additional – as new tools come down, this will have additional capability to make the process much better, and that's important for us. So, both...

Okay.

...of those tools, we mentioned the metals and we mentioned this second one, both of these have capabilities that are beyond the tools we have today. The other thing is that the metals deposition tool also gives us a backup because the old one also can step in. So if we have a tool down issue, we have a spare tool that we can run. So...

Okay.

...that is a big plus for us.

Okay. So, basically, I mean, boil it down for simpleton like me, it's just adding depth to your production process and not adding like another production line.

No, it is adding depth. So, in another words, you can go to tool A or tool B, you choose. Usually we'll go to tool A, i.e., the new tool, but if tool A is down, we can go to tool B, that's the idea.

Okay. Got it.

Kevin, just one comment here, if I can, but keep in mind that this also helps us in terms of capacity and throughput, because it helps at more production runs and greater shift, things of that nature. So it does benefit us certainly in the bottom line as well. It can help us get more product out the door. And given the heavily fixed cost nature of our manufacturing process than anyone in the semiconductor space, when you can increase your throughput that can have a very dramatic impact certainly on your gross margins and in turn on your bottom line. Sorry to interrupt there.

No, no. No problem. Then there is one other thing that, given the new capability in the tools, for example, second one, and I don't want to describe what it is, it's a unique process. But given the capabilities there, the yield will actually be better because of it.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was sort of how you introduced it in your yield improvement...

Yeah.

...initiatives. Okay. So my understanding is that you still have two – essentially two manufacturing line. Or you have your original tool and then the new, I guess, the SNU that you procured in Korea, and that's still the essence of your production?

Yeah. Let me just back up one moment, because the OLED process requires more than just an OLED deposition tool. The SNU tool is an OLED deposition tool. We have a seal system after it. But prior to that, we actually take the wafer without the last metal from the wafer fab and put a metal down, which is the anode, special unique process, unique anode. And then it goes into the OLED tool. So the OLED, we just simply have two OLED tools, one is the old one, the Satella; the other is the SNUs, newer tool.

Okay. I'll hop back in the queue. I'm sure there are other people, anxious staff you think.

Yeah, no problem. We're happy to talk to you and [ph] map that (00:29:29) out a little better for you.

Okay, thank you very much, Andrew and Jeff.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Mike Malouf with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks for taking my question. I'm wondering if we could just talk a little bit about the contract revenue [indiscernible] (00:29:54). Can you help us with just the mix between consumer and military as it stands now with the roughly $600,000 in the quarter?

And then, how much visibility do you have, I guess, when you talk about the $3 million deal that you have for the new design, should we expect to see that over the next six months come through or how is your visibility on the contract side, particularly on the consumer portion of that looks right now? Thanks.

Yeah. Just to know that it was a few million, not the specific number of $3 million, but that new display design takes approximately a year. This one is a little tougher because it's unique and very important for the space that we're going into. It will give us a leg-up. So that will be revenue that will occur over the next 12 to 15 months actually.

And how much – what other contract revenues do you have visibility on with regards to the consumer side?

I mentioned that we're working with another company to get another display design, so just for now you can simply take it as the same as that. There is more, and we have other work that there is more too within that but can't really talk about what it is we're doing there.

But, Mike, just to give you a context to this a little bit here, our negotiations with these prospective partners involves many steps, which [ph] meant (00:31:31) to their complexity. The key element for all of these certainly is a design development display, and that really begins in the contract R&D work. So, generally, you can see a pretty sizable ramp-up in that over the next several quarters. Not only for we have in place now what we have just spoke to, but also for ones that we're in process now of finalizing.

So, what you're going to see in terms of our contract R&D is, it's going to be increasing over the next several quarters and that consumer effort there is offsetting some of the maturing existing programs in which you're working. We've talked for the past several years about the ManTech program, and we're actually now in discussions about some of the next steps there. But that one is actually in sort of in the final stages here, expected to be completed this year. But again, overall, we're sitting and going to see a continued ramp-up in our contract R&D primarily almost exclusively because of what's happening on the consumer side.

I'll just add one other thing. As Jeff mentioned, we have submitted white papers for government R&D. It would help with the products that they want, and some of those can also be accepted.

Okay, great. And then, haven't heard anything mentioned about the consumer night vision products, is it true in the quarterly report on the call, can you give us an update on that? And what we can expect with that product and strategy going forward?

Yeah, sure. I can speak to that actually. I think we were pretty clear in the last earnings call that we've mechanized that the way to capture the greatest value here was the shifting away from the direct consumer approach, which is what we originally had in mind here and now focusing utilities and first responders. And we've also pointed out and certainly has borne fruit here the fact that while those markets are indeed have great promise, it's a much longer sales cycle, because you're working with major companies, major utilities. And as we're working with them and as they're sort of testing our products in the field, and as they're exploring further applications of our products, it's going to take a little while for us to offer these products really to begin achieving noticeable revenue.

So what are we doing here is, we're continuing our efforts in that area. We've scaled back very dramatically what we're doing in the direct consumer space. And in so doing though, we're also while those efforts are going on, it's going on sort of on its own to [ph] bid up (00:34:02) inside, because clearly the focus of our engineering and senior management teams here are on the [ph] CIMA (00:34:08) partnerships. So it's moving ahead, but we are cautious in terms of how we present that business, because we recognize that the sales cycle is indeed still long with the utilities in these [ph] persist longer (00:34:19).

Got it. Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure. Thank you, Mike.

Thanks, Mike. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from [ph] Tom McGuire (00:34:33), who is a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, gentlemen. It's exciting to hear you advancing in these discussions with these consumer electronic companies. My question is, where are you in terms of the discussion and what do you want out of this? Obviously, you're past the stage where there is questions whether you are the company to do the displays, et cetera. But what kind of structure of a deal do you want? Do you want an upfront payment, in equity investment, royalty, sales, and is that where the discussion is leading or is that – am I ahead of myself in that? Thank you.

Clearly all of them are different, but we – to give you an example, we've talked to a company about a display design that we're actually doing. And we've also talked to that company about mass production partner, they want us to have one, and they're interested in investment in the equipment needed for that mass production partner. So it would be display design now, and then later it would be revenue based on the production of displays with the mass production partner.

But Tom, just to expand upon that a bit here, it's not a necessarily one exact model because since we're talking to different parties, there are different approaches there. So, we're talking – first of all, they all compass of course on development in the initial phase here. But some are talking with [ph] a play (00:36:14) greater role and funding and building the low rate production line. Others, we are actually in discussions with the joint venture involved, where our contribution clearly would be the technology that would bring in also of course the process know-how.

But in all of those situations, we do look, we recognize the great opportunity here certainly what we get in terms of the backend, whether it's – however, that's done whether it's the license fee or some of that nature. And that's part of how we sort of structure these things in our discussions going forward.

Thank you.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. Our next question comes from [ph] Dennis Van Zelfden (00:37:11) with Brazos Research. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Hi, Dennis.

I was wondering, even if you signed a volume manufacturing partner between now and the end of the year, and given the long lead times, what would be the earliest that one of these Tier 1s could bring a product to market?

Good question.

Yeah, it's a good question. When we talked to the Tier 1s about products, they have their own roadmap, and the roadmap goes out to two years actually. So, there is enough time to bring up a line and to design the product for this.

Okay.

Let me just add one thing, because the one that I'm forgetting. Remember there is one that ones the 2Kx2K display we have today.

Right.

That one will be here as soon and that company is interested in investing in the line. So that will be here as soon as we can get the lineup and a deal struck.

Okay. All right, thanks.

And we can make 2Kx2K today, we can make the 2Kx2K today.

Thank you.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Andrew Sculley for any closing remarks.

I do want to thank everyone on the call for being here with us today. It is an exciting time for us. We worked very hard on this high brightness technology, and it is the only technology in the world that will satisfy both AR and VR, and I'd would be happy to explain in detail to anyone who wants to contact me why VR in detail what is really needed. And we are at a place where we can do this, we've demonstrated it at SID in both last year and this year, and we have proposed displays that will do what the AR/VR community wants, and that's why today we have a development going. We have a company interested in our 2Kx2K display, and we have a company that we're working with on – also a development project for the next generation. And that's why the manufacturing partners are talking to us now. So it is an extremely exciting time for us.

In a very fast pace time as well, we have the proverbial pedal to the metal here, and we encourage all of you to just take a look at it too.

Thank you very much.

Take care.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.