Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey P. Lucas — Chief Financial Officer & IR Contact, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, eMagin Corp.
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
John Phillip Morbeck — Director, First Washington Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and welcome to the eMagin Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeffrey Lucas, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Kate. Welcome, everyone. We're glad to have you join us this afternoon for our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. As always, before we begin please note that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our quarterly Form 10-Q for our third fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2015. During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections, and beliefs and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements include references to projections of future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, future contracts, product benefits, operations, liquidity and capital resources as well as statements containing words like believe, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

Our risk factors are included in the company's Form 10-K for 2014 once filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except where required by Federal Securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to eMagin's Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Sculley. Andrew?

Thanks, Jeff, and thank you, everyone, for being on the call today. I'll begin with some corporate highlights then Jeff will discuss our financial results. Following Jeff's remarks, I'll summarize a few additional items. And then we'll open the call up for your questions.

During the third quarter, we spent significant effort on our new products and new technology. These efforts were in support of customer programs and the U.S. government funded programs. The significant effort can be seen in the quarterly R&D costs and these are a critical need for our future programs.

We finished qualification of a higher brightness color OLED architecture that we're calling XLS on an SXGA resolution display with 9.6 micron pixels. The combination is SXGA096 XLS. We qualified both the OLED architecture and the new resolution at the same time. These efforts are extremely important for key new programs. This new OLED architecture and the SXGA096 display is important for a number of customers.

The OLED is white with color filters which can run at 800 nits maximum. And as you probably recall nits are candela per meter square, and that 800 nits is close to twice as bright as your smartphone. The display typically runs at 700 nits, that's what our customers typically use it for, and now our largest running color OLED product typically runs at 150 nits. So this 800 nits is much, much brighter. And just to note, that the 800-nit display is not direct patterning, so this is white OLED with a color filter. But it is a qualified production part today. This is something we had to get done. A 9.6-micron pixel pitch SXGA is smaller than our other SXGA display and, therefore, has lower manufacturing cost for the same OLED architecture.

We also put significant effort into our direct patterning. The results were better full-color WUXGA, and that's 1920 by 1200 displays which also have 9.6-micron pixel pitch. And we made samples of a direct pattern two-color display for aviation. The two-color display ran at 8,000 nits. The customers of this product were the Night Vision Lab, they're funding this effort with the army, and an aviation customer. They saw the display, they were very impressed, and the aviation customer took a couple of them home. So we're hoping that they'll be flying.

Although these R&D efforts generate expenses and take time away from display production, they're critical for our current customers. They need these displays for the upcoming programs, and they're also critical for the long-term. In order to continue with the new product development and technology development and expand our display production, we've increased our efforts on capacity expansion. This will allow us to increase flow of display production and development efforts.

The capacity expansion uses capital and engineering efforts to improve both equipment efficiency and yield. The capital expenditures are mostly small, like $50,000 per tool to improve our advanced seal system output. There's only one larger item, and that's a tool to improve capacity in an early step. It's a very old tool we need to replace it, but it's not an OLED deposition tool. I don't want to frighten you.

One of the areas requiring our R&D effort is augmented reality or AR. Higher brightness is required for some applications, and here the easiest one to understand immediately, that we're involved with, is the display in an aircraft helmet that reflects off a visor in front of the pilot's eyes. And, again, as you probably remember, this is I've got to see icons on the screen, so I don't have to take my eyes off the outside world and I have to compete against sunlight, and at night it has to do full night vision. And this is for both military and commercial aviation, and I'll remind you that there is a company, one of the four top companies working on commercial.

But think for a minute about a consumer application. If that same image can be reflected off a pair of sunglasses, it wouldn't need to be as bright and you and I could have augmented reality on our sunglasses. And this is where the 800-nit color OLED architecture could be important for these AR applications and also for applications in the industrial segment like inside a warehouse, et cetera. So we also have ways to take this 800-nit color display and make it significantly brighter, and that's an easy thing for us to do. For the extreme brightness applications like those military aircraft, et cetera, our direct pattern technology is critical. No other company has produced color displays that are as bright as our color OLED direct pattern displays, and I remind you we've demonstrated 6,500-nit color. Our continued R&D effort will bring these direct pattern displays to production readiness.

We continue to supply samples of our displays to Tier 1 companies working on VR and AR applications. We've been asked for proposals for large volumes of displays for future product generations by these Tier 1s. And we're also supporting a project with a Tier 1 company on a new design for VR applications. For VR, the Tier 1s tell us they need OLED for speed and that's, of course you remember reading all about the prior Oculus efforts. They were using LCD and people got sick, so the speed is needed to avoid sickness. But also they want high contrast which OLED gives, and the reason you wouldn't need the high contrast is you want the person wearing it to feel like he is in the picture, and high contrast is needed.

They also need higher resolution than an OLED cell phone. The key here is that the pixel pitch has to be high, or PPI it's called. Our higher pixel density displays are about 3,000 PPIs. The best AMOLED display that I could find is about 540 or so PPI, and I did find a higher PPI cell phone display which was about 800 but it's an LCD which, I remind you, the Tier 1 companies tell us is unacceptable. Given our pixels per inch, we can make an extremely high resolution display for an HMD that is much higher than the resolution a cell phone can deliver for a similar HMD either now or in the future. Ours is much higher. It'd be hard to beat 3,000. The project I mentioned above, on working on a higher resolution, will result in a higher resolution display. We're talking to potential foundry partners with the help of one of these Tier 1 companies for very high volume manufacturing.

I know or hope you've done your homework on these markets and looked at the size of them. One research firm is often quoted, they say AR and VR markets will grow to $120 billion and $30 billion respectively by 2020. Now, displays are only a component of this but it's a very important component. So another research company estimated the number of headsets for VR in 2020, and they say the headsets in 2020 will be 100 million sold. Now, some of those displays for those 100 million headsets will be pairs of OLED micro displays and some will be cell phone displays, and depending upon how you split that, we assume the OLED split will be significant, this will be an enormous addition to the micro display market that we see today. Again, our OLED micro displays have the pixel densities required by these applications, the speed, and contrast.

For the AR market, the research says it will be bigger but developed later than VR, so everyone's thinking VR is going to be here soon, if not now. Here, micro displays are essential; you can't put a cell phone display in an augmented reality device, it's just too big. And brighter displays are important, and that's why the XLS OLED architecture at 800 nits will be good for many applications. Recall that this is the architecture I mentioned above and we just qualified it. Future AR applications that require very high brightness will need our direct patterning technology.

There are a few companies that are interested in our 2K by 2K HMD. This is very exciting for us. The HMD group is also developing another unique headset which, if all goes well, will be out next year. We have increased our efforts here. As you know, we hired Dan Cui who has significant experience and contacts in the HMD market and he's done an outstanding workforce now, hooking us up with many companies or customers, et cetera. We have also hired Kip Kokinakis as the President of our Immersive HMD Group. Here, Kip comes to us with many years of experience in HMD development, design, and assembly, and he's run companies in the past, and he's using his experience for outsourced development and assembly of HMDs for our products. Success of these HMDs will mean more volume for our OLED displays because we plan on putting our OLED displays in them for the obvious reason that they're the best displays for these headsets.

Now, the expansion of capacity I mentioned above will not handle the volumes the Tier 1s tell us they'll need, but it is a needed step for our current customers, and these are both display customers and development customers, and it's also needed for the HMD Group. It is a first step in preparation, however, for the Tier 1's demand. Improving our current efforts will allow the better design of next-generation equipment for implementation with a foundry partner. With this in mind, we're discussing these markets with a number of potential partners. We're also searching for a new VP of Manufacturing with a background of scaling up processes similar to our OLED display processes. We have hired a new CFO, Jeff, and very happy to have them with us, and he comes to us with great manufacturing experience including scale up efforts. These efforts today are needed for our future success in AR and VR markets and they are clearly needed for our success today and the near-term next year.

On the military side, we submitted significant proposals to multiple prime contractors for U.S. Army's Family of Weapon Sights, and that's called FWS. Specifically, we've done this for the Crew Served and the FWS sniper programs per the President's 2015 budget. These programs are projected to have more than 20,000 units delivered between them. And you may have remembered, as I mentioned before, the 20,000 units over a couple years is a big volume for a military program.

During the quarter, we delivered SXGA096 high brightness displays with a low-power color XLS architecture to key government programs. These were the ones who we just qualified in the same quarter. More than 15 customers ordered for testing purposes small quantities of our new two products, that's the digitalized PGA and the SXGA096, that's in addition to the key customer above. And they, either on these displays, put our high brightness OLED XLS, that's a color 8,000 nits, or XLT, and just to remind you XLT is very high brightness monochrome.

The monochrome green can go well above 20,000 nits to about 24,000 nits, and that I haven't seen from anyone else. And I'll just mention one other thing that even at that very high brightness, our display has a contrast ratio of 50,000:1 and that's why, by the way, the navy pilots wanted to go to an OLED display because of that high contrast. And if you look at our only competitor in this market for OLED displays, they've shown at a military conference, their display went from between 8,000 nits and 10,000 nits, that's versus our 24,000 nits. And at that high luminance, their 8,000 nits to 10,000 nits, it was 5,000:1 contrast ratio and that's in comparison to our 50,000:1. So we are way ahead of our competition here. And this demonstrates the appeal of the capability of these displays and also the pricing, that we've got a large number of customers. 15 is a big number in the markets for these military, that's the ones who try them first.

So we've also improved and qualified our SXGA120, that's 12-micron pixel pitch high-brightness screen monochrome display, during the third quarter. They were for a lead customer and, obviously, the high brightness, one of the places that they're used is in aviation. The improvements in this display were reduced motion artifacts so the military pilots, no matter where they are in the world, don't want to see any motion artifacts at all. And we enhanced the uniformity at a high brightness level. That was something that the very high-brightness pilots need. Obviously, any other use of this, those two factors, will come in handy as well.

We're successfully satisfying customers who are building AR HMDs for the military and, ultimately, commercial aviation. We designed a new display for one company and improved a current display, that was actually the SXGA120 for another company, and they are aviation-related. These displays use the high-brightness screen OLEDs, and I should mention that 20,000 nits over 20,000 nits is 40 times brighter than your smartphone. I'd just like to give you a grounding. In the future, the military and commercial aviation customers will want color displays. They've told us this, the U.S. government told us this, and that's where our direct pattern displays come in. And plus, we're adding to that direct patterning a more efficient OLED architecture that we're inventing and working on, and also adding a new backplane design. The backplane will give 30% lower power. This is going to give the aviators what they need. Full-color displays, very high brightness, very high contrast, and also in the future, obviously, the AR market.

We had a successful review a couple of weeks ago with the sponsors of the three programs funding development of very high brightness displays. Those programs will give us those full-color displays, and these are color and they're at 10,000 nits. That's the brightness goal or above, and that's 20 times brighter than your smartphone, plus a backplane that takes 30% less power. The power consumption of these displays will be significantly better than our current displays would run at the same luminance even without the new backplane, so throw the new backplane in and they will be astounding. So you remember, I'll just remind you, the Google augmented reality device, that lasted for about 2 hours when it was run, that's tested by one of our folks on an Alps ski trip. So, obviously, they need better power consumption and that's where something like this will come in.

This was a very good meeting we had with the sponsors. The sponsors were very happy and impressed with the technology, the advancement that we've been going through, and this is the funding that's important to us because it'll help us develop the displays much more quickly. So, as I mentioned before, the sponsors were very happy with the progress and one of the customers took a few of those two-color displays shortly thereafter.

In the third quarter we've also been awarded two new development programs, subcontracts. These are important because they usually turn into something more important, and they're likely to continue into 2016. The first program is a Small Business Technology Transfer program with the Air Force Research Laboratory, and the second is a Small Business Innovation Research program with the United States Special Operations Command, that's SOCOM. Both programs are investigating improved OLED microdisplay design and performance. The Phase 2 follow-on programs are likely at the conclusion of these, and from past work we know that SOCOM is a very important customer. With leading-edge equipment, it is often adopted by the broader army. And we take programs like this because we see a great advantage for us, so it goes for both helps us in the future and it helps the people we're developing it for.

With that, I'll turn it over to Jeff to talk about the financial highlights.

Well, thank you, Andrew. I'm afraid my comments can be a little more mundane than the exciting developments about which Andrew spoke, and I'll now speak to the company's financial performance for the quarter beginning with the income statement. Revenues for the third quarter of 2015 were $5.4 million, $294,000 lower than the third quarter of 2014 and $1.6 million lower than the second quarter, which was one of the highest revenue quarters in over two years.

Breaking it down a little further, product revenue for the quarter was $4.6 million, which was about $530,000 lower than the third quarter of last year. Our average display price was about the same but we shipped around 5% fewer displays during the quarter than a year ago. The fewer units shipped and produced are largely attributable to lower production time due to scheduled maintenance, which there was none in the second quarter and less in the third quarter of last year, and also very importantly the commitment of production resources to R&D to both qualify new products and to expand our throughput volumes.

R&D revenues for the quarter were $772,000, that's about $245,000 higher than the third quarter last year and about $835,000 lower than the second quarter of 2015. Note that the second quarter's revenue reflected an unusually high level of activity with the ManTech project, about which I will speak in a moment, as well as about $300,000 for a few smaller one-off projects that were completed during the quarter.

R&D revenue during the quarter was derived from one new project and six continuing projects. The largest revenue contribution was from the multi-year ManTech contract awarded last year to develop and produce an ultra-high brightness, high resolution, high contrast, full-color OLED micro display at a lower unit cost. We have several prospective projects in high brightness in the works which we anticipate will offset the revenues foregone from the projects recently completed.

As you probably know, most of our contract revenues are comprised of U.S. government-related spending which has been impacted by fiscal budgetary issues and sequestration. As a result, quarterly R&D project revenues have varied significantly over the past few years, from a low of about $19,000 in the first quarter of 2014 to a high of $1.6 million in the second quarter of this year. We expect R&D revenues for the next few quarters to be comparable to this past quarter and well within this historical range.

Gross margin for the third quarter decreased to 21% of sales from 30% in the third quarter of last year. The company experienced lower margins in both product sales and in R&D revenues. Gross profit from product sales was $900,000, $625,000 lower than the third quarter of 2014. The lower margin was due to higher unit costs reflecting the absorption of the company's fixed manufacturing costs over fewer units produced. As you probably know, our fixed costs are a substantial portion of our total manufacturing costs, so fewer units of production over which to allocate those costs can have an impact on the unit cost and, on turn, on our product margins.

The R&D gross profit contribution in the third quarter was about $205,000 or 27% of our contract revenues. That's down from $716,000 or 44% of contract revenues in the second quarter. The prior quarter's gross profit reflect the stable revenue catch-ups from earlier quarters and approximately $75,000 of gross profit contribution from several non-recurring projects. During the third quarter, R&D gross profit was affected by the absence of these smaller projects completed during the second quarter and by the impact on the percentage of completion accounting, a projected higher material cost for one of these projects.

Turning to operating expenses, operating expenses in total increased by about $600,000 to $3.3 million from $2.7 million in the third quarter last year. Operating expenses are comprised of internal non-funded R&D expenses and selling, general and administrative or SG&A expenses. R&D expenses increased by $200,000 to $1.2 million (sic) [$1.0 million] in the third quarter from $1 million (sic) [$1.2 million] in the year earlier period due largely to a decrease in funded R&D which resulted in higher R&D expense for eMagin, and expanded development activities to qualify new products and, very importantly here, to increase manufacturing volumes to greater throughput and higher yields as we prepare for the higher volumes required by our commercial customers, and that does require a substantial amount of our time.

SG&A expenses increased by about $400,000 to $2.2 million from $1.8 million in the year earlier period reflecting mostly severance and other non-recurring charges which offset the comparative savings from the lower administrative cost structure we've been putting in place over the past year. These expense reductions, however, were offset somewhat by personal expense increases in our HMD, or head-mounted device group, reflecting Dan Cui and also, as Andrew noted, the addition of Kip Kokinakis during the quarter.

Operating loss for the quarter was $2.2 million, $1.2 million greater than the loss in the corresponding quarter of the prior year. EBITDA for the quarter, excluding non-cash stock compensation charges and the non-recurring items noted above, was a negative $1.2 million in comparison to a negative $363,000 in the prior year period.

I think it would be worthwhile to briefly take a measure of where we are for the year-to-date in comparison to last year. Through the third quarter, we achieved revenues of $18.4 million, $570,000 or 3% lower than prior year revenues of $19 million. Gross margins for the nine months ended September 2015 were 32% in comparison to 31% in the prior year. Gross profit for 2015 year-to-date to September was about $5.9 million versus approximately $5.8 million in the prior year. Operating expenses of $7.8 million in 2015 were $1.7 million lower than the prior year, and of this amount $900,000 pertains to lower R&D expenses and $800,000 pertains to lower SG&A. Operating profit for the year-to-date to September 2015 was about $2 million, $1.7 million less than for the year-to-date to September 2014.

Looking at the balance sheet, our cash balance including investments was about $5.1 million at September 30, down from $5.4 million at June 30. The negative EBITDA was offset by an approximate $2 million reduction in working capital primarily attributable to a reduction in accounts receivable which offset an increase in inventory during the period. Capital expenditures during the quarter were $625,000 primarily for manufacturing equipment. In reference to our financing activities during the quarter, we continue to have no debt. We have launched an at-the-market or ATM equity raise in September. Through the end of the quarter, the company raised about $19,000 through that effort. I will note that this is the company's first equity raise in over six and one half years.

And finally, regarding our guidance for 2015, based on our current backlog and expected orders for the balance of the year along with our existing production capacity, we have lowered our guidance and expect to achieve revenues north of $24 million for the year in total.

And with that, I'll turn it back over to Andrew for some further comments.

Thanks, Jeff. I just want to summarize a few points. We successfully qualified products and demonstrated technology for customers, mostly military-related today but in the future they will be both commercial aviation and the AR and VR applications. We've enhanced our capacity to handle the continuing increasing demand for displays in development and prepare for their future. This work in enhancement we've started or put more effort in it in the third quarter and we will continue that. The AR and VR Tier 1 companies have sampled our displays and are discussing future requirements with us. And the HMD group is working on opportunities for the 2K by 2K HMD and developing a new HMD that we expect to be out next year.

So now with that, I'll open the call up for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from [ph] Dennis Van Zelfden (30:39) of Brazos Research. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, Andrew.

Hi, Dennis.

Andrew, I was wondering if you could reconcile last quarter's comment, and I don't have them in front of me, but the last quarter's comments regarding record booked orders and the fact that revenue, I guess, in my opinion was kind of poor this quarter, and again not in front of me, but it looks like next quarter's revenue is not going to be anything good to write all about, either.

Yes. I don't have it in front of me, either. But if it was record booked quarters, remember that's all the POs and those POs go over for more than one quarter. Some of them might be – a number of them might be out in the next year as well. So this quarter I think we could've done better, and we're improving or enhancing our capabilities so that we can do both the R&D programs and the production and have better future quarters.

Is there a lot of R&D programs booked for the fourth quarter that are going to take away from regular business?

Well some of them will certainly and we do have some control over that. The ones that will be in this next coming quarter are the three programs for enhanced brightness, and they certainly take tool time away from normal product production because you take the tool and use it for a week of R&D as opposed to production. With the qualification of the products which takes running products, we probably have one more left that would be good to do a little work but it's not going to be significant. So remember, when you follow...

Okay...

Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead.

No. No. I was just going to move on. I guess the last question, in this conference call you talked a lot about setting the stage for higher production in the future, and you're doing a lot of things for that higher production. What is the likelihood or can you handicap for us whether these customers that you're talking to will ever actually come through with big commercial orders, and kind of a timeframe for that?

Yeah, I understand. Well, certainly, we've talked to some that have given us ideas of what's the next-generation product that will be higher volume, and they're not right around the corner for us because, well, I'd give you one example, if I might, and this is from my past. Here, we put in machines that would be bigger than five times what our wafer size is in area, and if you design the machine and build it, and this is for somebody like, I'll just mention, is ULVAC or Tokki, the two I like best in Japan. So they take about nine months to build this, they'll put it in your facility in three months and then you have a ramp time, and that ramp time depends on how advanced the machine is, et cetera. But over the next year you'll be ramping.

So if somebody came to us today and said we've got a huge volume, we need to take some time to put the equipment in and, in fact, when they talk to us about this we tell them this is how much it'll cost for capital equipment to do that type of volume. And it depends on who it is we're talking to; some of them blink and some don't, some say that's what I expect. So it will take some time but I would think that it will become clear that companies are interested in working with us because we will get closer and closer and we'll be able to tell you something. Now we can't, we have strict confidence with anyone we're working with.

Okay. So, I guess, if I can summarize, tell me if I'm wrong, the announcement or the talk of potentially linking up with some big customer for volume production could come in 2016 but the actual revenue from that would be more like 2017? Would that be correct?

That's actually true with one exception and caveat, and that is that the small volume start can be in 2016 or today because they're not going to take a product and then pay for a huge volume piece of equipment until they pay for samples. And so they're more likely, and that's why we're enhancing our capacity now, they're more likely to ask for smaller volume upfront and put that smaller volume headset out with the terrific display that only we can make as a prototype or a high-end version.

Okay. Thanks for the clarity.

Yeah. No problem. And thanks for the questions. It's a very difficult thing for such a small company, but people are talking to us about investment in that respect, investment and tools.

It's a good question.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Kevin Dede of Rodman. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Hi, Kevin.

Hi, Kevin.

Hi. So could you give us the number of R&D contract customers you had and the number of commercial customers just so we could check those numbers versus the prior two quarters?

Number of commercial customers...

Well we actually did business with about 60 customers during the quarter. We did about 75 in the previous quarter only but not that there's any diminution of customer base overall. The fact is in terms of the business [ph] so once you work (36:33). And for the contract side we have six customers primarily being military.

Okay. Thank you. Jeff – I'm sorry.

I'll just mention, in prior quarters we had customers for development. They were customers developing for the aircraft. We did a new display for one customer and modified. I mentioned that in here, we modified a display for another customer for military helmets, and in the future commercial as well. So there's a couple that don't fall into the next quarter. Okay?

Okay. Andrew, you talked a lot about direct patterning and the development of that technology. Could you give us a little bit more background on that and how that capability might distinguish you from competitors?

Yeah. Well remember I talked about OLED cell phone displays, the pixels per inch. So there's about 540 pixels per inch, maybe they'll go up to 600 pixels per inch, and our best displays are over 3,000 pixels per inch. So the companies who do cell phone displays, and there's really only one today doing OLED cell phone display, they can directly pattern and they use technology called fine metal mask, but they put the pixels down so that there's only 540 pixels, 3 subpixels in there in an inch. So our direct patterning puts down 3,000 pixels per inch in the same size, and you can imagine that it's so much more difficult to do that. In fact, there is no technology in the general market that can do anything like that. So [indiscernible] (38:31)

Okay. Now, it seems to me that, or perhaps I just misunderstood your discussion, but it seems to me that this, I guess, this direct patterning is something that you've developed more recently and I'm just kind of wondering how that transition came to be?

Well, remember the U.S. government night vision light came to us and said the Navy pilots are having a tough time with the contrast of their LCD or LCOS display. So we developed a very high brightness screen and we had a helmet. We put color displays in there. This is one of the jet helmets. We put color displays in there and they liked it so much. They asked us to develop color displays, and the only way to do that is to take the color filters off. Color filters will, you lose 4 to 5 times, maybe 20% of the light comes out because the color filters, by design, cut out two-thirds and they're not 100% efficient. So you get maybe 20%, maybe 25% out.

So how do you make the OLED so efficient it can go through that and still be bright? You really can't. The only way to get to 10,000 nits is to take the color filters away. In order to do that, you have to put little dots, I'll call them, of red, green, and blue OLED, and the problem with those dots is they have to be 2 to 3 microns wide and the technology that exists today cannot do that. And people have tried very many technologies and the only one that really works today in the industry itself is a fine metal mask. We're doing something different.

And so that is a recent development but we were working on this. Last year we got a ManTech award last year, I think it was September, that's for 30 months, and here the task is now nice we've seen you can do it, now make it manufacturable. So this is an outstanding project for us.

Now as I understand it that three-color direct pattern is pretty important for your 2K by 2K, and my understanding is that you're at two-color but not at three, I'm kind of wondering if you can give us sort of an update on how that capability is going and whether or not you think it makes the prototype that you hope to demonstrate at CES in January?

Well, the current display is a two-color display that we put together, and don't confuse this with the two-color display that I mentioned when I was doing my run through. So we have a two-color display that we did for the Navy but it's white with color filters, red and green color filter, and now the question is we need a full-color display, so we've done two things. One is we said, hey, we can do this very quickly and use the same technique that other companies like the OLED cell phone company, Samsung. They actually do a PenTile display. So we asked ourselves, could we do that and make three-color, and the answer is yes. We do it very quickly, we don't have to respin the display or anything.

So that's, in a sense, what Samsung does is they do a green and red pixel then the next pixel is green and blue then green and red. Get what I mean? So it's clearly [ph] shifting (42:21) a little bit. So we can do that, and we can do that very quickly. In fact, we have already. So we can put those in the headset and then show it to anybody, and right now we're showing it to companies that are very interested in it. Frankly, I think that's much more important than CES but we can do this today.

Then what we want to do is respin the display and make it three-color, white with color filters. So for a VR application like this, you don't really need the high brightness. So it would be much better for us in terms of capability and capacity to do a three-color 2K by 2K display, red, green and, blue subpixels in each pixel, and that we can do by next year.

Okay. You did mention that you were working on a supplemental 2K by 2K that you hope to have ready next year, and I imagine that's the one you were referring to?

Yes. And my point is we really have a full-color one today, it's a PenTile architecture, but it exists today and, actually, we let people look at it and they didn't come back and say anything because the pixels are small enough, the display looks great enough that they didn't see any issue with it at all. But we would like to do a three-color side-by-side as well.

Okay. Given the – maybe this is better for Jeff and then I'll cut myself up, otherwise I'll go all afternoon. I'm wondering, Jeff, how you're looking at your OpEx going forward? The top line guidance is now down to $24 million for the year. I'm just kind of curious about what you're expecting on OpEx given the new hires and maybe an indication of where you think margins go based on volume expectations you have for the December quarter?

Sure. First of all, I just want to clarify, our guidance is north of $24 million, so you got to keep that in mind there. But secondly, from a standpoint of what we see happening with operating expenses, I pointed out that we had some substantial non-recurring cost severance and things of that sort that were incurred in the quarter. If you were to back those out, you can get a pretty respectable run rate for it and will be going forward. Perhaps the only additional expense we might incur that's not reflective for the most part in September's numbers would be the fact that we are doing some additional investment in the head-mounted device group, some of the product development efforts there, so we'll be incurring some small additional expense there. But outside of that, I don't see a whole heck of a lot changing.

One thing to keep in mind though, and I know this has come up from previous earnings calls, is that we've had some variability in terms of the bad debt reserve and that's had a big impact, for example, in the first quarter of this year. So I'm assuming really no dramatic change in the bad debt reserve because that has had a significant bearing in terms of the operating expense overall.

Okay. So, sorry to cut you off though. What's your thinking on what that – if you mentioned it, I apologize, I missed it. The non-recurring portion of your SG&A cost in this past quarter.

It's about $400,000.

Okay.

A little north to that, actually. About $400,000 to $500,000.

Okay. All right. Fair enough. Then what's your thinking on margins? I mean, they were down both even on the contracts side sequentially and pretty much lower than where I've seen them trend versus the past, say, six quarters, five quarters anyway?

Okay. Well let me speak first. Well on the product side, I think we are going to see some improvement in the margins, so we'd expect that. And if we take a look at where they've been historically, that range, I'd be pretty comfortable indicating where we expect them to be, the margin percentage for products to be in that range. In terms of the contract, these actually will be separate this quarter with our margins on the R&D contract work in large part because we did have some additional material expenses at some of the projects and budgeted for the projects overall, and as a result of that you have sort of this catch-up accounting that goes with percentage of completion. So we got hit a little more severely this quarter than you otherwise normally would because of some of those costs. So I would expect an improvement definitely in the contract margins, getting sort of the midrange where we've been historically over the next quarter or two.

Okay. Fair enough. Thank you, gentlemen.

Say, Kevin, if I didn't explain things well enough for you on the three-color versus two-color direct patterning, et cetera you can always come back to me, write me a note or something like that. Do you want to...?

Yeah. Thank you, Andrew, for making yourself available. I appreciate that. It's a little embarrassing, I guess.

No. No. I just don't want to give anyone the wrong idea, and sometimes it's complicated. That's all.

Well, understood. Thank you very much, Andrew.

Okay. Thank you, Kevin.

Thanks, Kevin.

[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from [ph] Tom Macquire (47:49), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Hi, Tom.

My question is I know you're talking with lots of companies and OEMs, and you have been for some time, and we shareholders are just waiting for the day we wake up and see a press release that indicates you got a contract or you got a strategic relationship or whatever. So, Andrew, I hope this is not unfair, but why don't you handicap that happening? What do you think? I mean, you've been in discussions, you've probably gone far with some and all that, and what do you think you can get a deal done somehow that's attractive to shareholders and allows the company to have some cash to increase its production and hopefully become a significant player in these new markets that you're developing products for?

I think with all the companies that we've talked to, and this is on both sides, foundry partners and as well our manufacturing partners and as well the companies who would want these things, the first question you have to ask is is augmented reality and virtual reality going to be a significant thing, and I think that you and I would both agree that this is a high probability. It will be a big deal in the future and we're not alone in guessing that. You can listen to many people like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook; he said the same types of things. And the companies talking to us feel it's going to be a big deal. So if that's probable, I think it's also highly probable that we hook up with one of these or a couple of these companies to make it real because our display technology is that good, that they are talking to us.

Let me try one other way to take a look at this. Consider for a minute a large Tier 1 company. Why in the world would they come to this little company, eMagin, in the military business? Why would they do that? They would do it because we have the technology and the know-how to get it done. That's why they come to us. Otherwise, they also must be going to those big OLED companies, but the big OLED companies don't make microdisplays, and I'm not saying that they never had. You could read that Samsung had done some work on a microdisplay in 2011 for their digital camera, I'm just being open and honest here, but they don't make them and they would have to start from scratch to design the silicon instead of TFT and design OLED that works in a seal system that, I'll just mention one other thing, forgive me for the technical stuff, but just to show you that it's different.

The seal that companies making cell phones, et cetera use when they're doing a thin film seal is about 5 to 10 times thicker than ours; you can't have that for a microdisplay. So there's a lot of work and effort going into to doing that. That's why we're ahead and that's why these large Tier 1s talk to us. Otherwise, it wouldn't give us the time of day.

So, Andrew, what kind of timeframe do you think is out there in terms of, perhaps, hearing or seeing some sort of press release or some sort of deal with one of these big companies? Is that six months, three months, a year? What do you think?

I think that we're trying like mad to get close enough to them so that they have to do something that requires us to get a press release to satisfy everyone, including ourselves, and feel much better. We can say something real then and I would hope that we can do something during next year, but I don't want to give you a month.

Okay. Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Tom.

The next question is from Jack Morbeck of First Washington Corp. Please go ahead.

Andrew, business model going forward because you're pretty much just a development company even though we've been hoping that that wasn't going to be the case but you have this technology that is unique, though. Is the business model going forward or is it if someone, one of these companies decides to adopt your technology, is it you're going to be paid a royalty and someone else is going to have to manufacture and that you'll remain more of a development company [ph] all along (52:57). Because, say, you're a year away from anything, perhaps a year away, maybe if someone comes in to adopt it, that that's kind of what the board or you guys have decided that this is what the future is?

No. We think we're...

We were hoping at one point. I mean, if you look back five years ago, you probably did more revenues than you're doing now. I don't have the figures in front of me, I just know that at one point we're hoping we'd get to $50 million of revenues or something, but we're doing contracts with the military, et cetera, et cetera but as a development company. So I guess my question is, as you look forward, the success is going to be paid, perhaps, a royalty on that. I'm interested in what you think the company could look like if you are successful.

I appreciate the question, Jack. Well there are, obviously, multiple business models going forward but we do have manufacturing technology as well, and we would want to be a part of that. So getting to that $50 million is not out of the question. We're still breaking our necks to hook one of these larger customers and get there. We also, however, know that a significant capital would have to be built if, as I mentioned in 2020 one of the research companies said there'll be 100 million virtual reality headsets. If they were all OLED [indiscernible] (54:41) displays, there'd be 200 million displays and, as you can guess, that's many more than we make today. So significant investment would have to be in equipment, and whether that comes from the customers or foundry partners, either one of those make sense to us. Obviously, you could be an IP play as well, but we're a manufacturing company at heart and we believe we'll play a significant role in manufacturing for those displays in the future.

Mr. Morbeck, do you have another question?

No, I don't think so. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

Jack, anything you like to talk to us about your thinking here would be fine. Let us know.

Thank you.

No problem. Thank you.

There are no additional questions at this time. This concludes the question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Andrew Sculley for closing remarks.

I'd like to thank our shareholders for being on the call and the questions. I'd also like to thank you for ideas that you've given us and things that we should think about. I know it's a tough technology and a long time for the AR and VR market to develop and there are a lot of things that we have to put in place to make that happen, and we are working very hard on them. So I'd like to also turn my attention to the team that we have in place, that we're doing so many things and we're devoting our efforts to getting that capacity by tool efficiency and yield up to where our capacity is higher so that we could satisfy both sides of the equation and see growth on both development and product revenue.

I'd like to thank the headset group, Dan and Kip for coming to join us and working like mad to get somewhere significant with this headset idea, and we do have a couple of customers, companies, who are interested in the headset, so we're all working very hard and we're looking forward to success. And next year we're looking forward to success so that we can satisfy everyone, that there is a company very interested in our microdisplays outside the military for a consumer application. That's what we're looking forward to.

So I thank you, everyone, for joining the call. And the eMagin team, I thank you very much for working as hard as you do.

Thank you all for joining us this afternoon.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.