corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q3 2009 eMagin Corporation


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Glenn and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time,


all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference, Mr. Paul


Campbell, CFO of eMagin Corporation. Please proceed.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Glenn. Welcome everyone to eMagin’s third quarter 2009 conference call. Before we


begin, I would like to remind you all that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our 10-Q for


the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and that during this call we may make forward-looking


statements as they are defined in the Securities – Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations, projections,


beliefs and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up its production at our manufacturing facilities,


future contracts and commercial arrangements, future production benefits, future operations,


liquidity and capital resources, as well as statements containing words like believes, expects,


estimate, plan, anticipate, target, will, intent, seek, could, would and similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company’s Form 10-K report for 2008 on file with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by federal securities laws, we undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new


information, future events, changes in circumstances or for any other reason.


That said, I would now like to introduce Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul, and thank you everyone for participating in our third quarter conference call. I am


going to review some highlights of the quarter. Paul will then review the financials. And finally, I’ll


give you a brief update on our R&D efforts and advances that we have made with our proprietary


OLED technology before we then open up the call to questions.


I’m pleased to report that eMagin posted record sales and solid profits during the quarter and that


our business continues to gain momentum operationally and financially. This marks our sixth


consecutive quarter of positive operating income and fifth consecutive quarter of positive net


income.


eMagin reported revenues of 6.1 million in the third quarter, thanks to increasing demand for our


high resolution microdisplays, and nine months revenue were up 27%. Net income totaled $1.2


million, more than triple the $361,000 recorded in the third quarter of last year.


eMagin’s performance has been a testament to our team’s ability to continue to focus on our core


business, the manufacturing of microdisplays, where we have improved yields while reducing costs.


For the third quarter, our product revenue increased by 26%. Our new SXGA display continues to


have very good customer acceptance. As our customer’s products gain more market acceptance
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


in an increasing number of applications and fields, both military and non-military, awareness about


the superiority of OLED microdisplays is growing.


One exciting example of this from the quarter, is that our OLED technology is being used in


prototype equipment in space. OLED microdisplays are a key component of Liteye Systems head-


mounted display product that has been incorporated into the Belgian-based Space Applications


Services’ Wearable Augmented Reality program known as WEAR, which the European Space


Agency developed for the International Space Station.


In this case, the WEAR system superimposes video, animations, graphics and text in the fields of


view of the astronaut. This assists him in localizing and manipulating complex equipment just at


the moment he needs the support, greatly simplifying his job. The prototype device has already


been successfully tested in the International Space Station, where an astronaut used it to change


an air filter. We understand that a variety of ground-based applications are also being considered


for this new augmented reality system.


We are just starting the next phase of a multi-year program working with the US Army Telemedicine


and Advanced Technology Research Center. This phase is funded at over $6 million over the next


two years. The objective of the program is to develop an ultra-high resolution 3D capable


microdisplay with 1920 by 1200 color pixels and a wide viewing angle – field of view –


Telemedicine application. This display will enable head-mounted display virtual reality equipment


to be used for enhanced training for military and civilian medics and physicians in traditional and


innovative procedures. The display developed in this program will also be suitable for night vision


and a variety of other military and commercial applications.


Our manufacturing and R&D teams continue to work together to deliver improved manufacturing


processes that reduce manufacturing defects and increase yield, improvements that can be seen in


our higher gross margins and profitability. And our sales teams continue to strengthen our


foundation that will deliver more design wins in future quarters. Notably, we received orders from


two key customers, one for the development of a custom display, and the other for viewfinder


modules. We expect that these will be used in upcoming military programs. We hope to be able to


give you more detail about these wins and the applications in future quarters.


Finally, our continuing growth has been recognized by Deloitte’s Fast 500 ranking of eMagin as the


309th fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life science and theme technology


companies in North America. This is the third consecutive year that eMagin has been recognized


in Deloitte’s Fast 500 list.


Now I’d like to turn it back over to Paul, who will take you through the financial results.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Andrew. Third quarter revenues of 6.1 million were a record high revenue for the


company, and exceeded last year’s Q3 total by nearly $1 million. Trailing four quarter revenues


totaled $22.4 million, up 24% over the prior trailing four quarters. We expect revenue will continue


to show a strong growth in Q4 exceeding last year’s fourth quarter as we close out the year.


Gross margin exceeded -- increased 11 percentage points to 57% compared to Q3 2008. As


Andrew mentioned, our manufacturing team continues to improve the OLED manufacturing


process. For example, in Q3 the team was able to install an improved process for manufacture of


color OLED displays. The manufacturing improvements and cost reductions we have discussed


over the past year continue to drive the higher gross margin.