corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2008 eMagin


Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Crista and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At


this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. There will be a question and answer session


towards the end of this conference call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, ladies and


gentlemen, this conference is being recorded.


I’d now like to turn the presentation over to Paul Campbell, CFO of eMagin. Sir, please go ahead.


Paul C. Campbell, Interim Chief Financial Officer


Thank you very much, Crista. Welcome to eMagin Corporation’s third quarter 2008 conference call.


Before we begin, I’d like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our


10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and that during today’s call, we may make forward-


looking statements as they are defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations, projections,


beliefs, and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources, as well as statements containing words like “believes,” “expects,” “estimate,”


“plan,” “anticipate,” “target,” “will,” “intend,” “seek,” “could,” “would” and other similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company’s 10-K report from 2007 on file with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by federal securities laws, we undertake no


obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new


information, future events, changes in circumstances, or any other reason.


And now I’d like to introduce Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation to make a


few introductory remarks.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you for attending our third quarter conference call. We are pleased to report that we had


another very successful quarter. We earned a net profit of $361,000 or $0.02 per diluted share and


generated $1.2 million of positive cash flow. This is a major milestone for the company and is truly


a reflection of the plan that we put into effect earlier this year.


As we’ve told you during the last earnings call, our first step was to ensure EBITDA positive results


through the focusing of our core business and cost reduction efforts that would help us meet this


goal.


Paul will now review the financial highlights for the quarter, then I’d like to take a few minutes to


discuss our operating initiatives and give you some insight into our longer-term outlook.


Paul C. Campbell, Interim Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Andrew. During our call with you in August, we mentioned we expected revenue for the


third quarter to approximate 4.5 to 5.5 million. We met that expectation. Actual revenue for the third
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter in 2008 was $5.2 million as compared to approximately 5.1 million for the same period in


2007. We expect revenue for the fourth quarter to again approximate 4.5 to $5.5 million.


Last quarter, we reported that we expected to exceed 2007 full-year revenue in 2008 even though


2007 revenue was more than double 2006. We believe we are still on track for that revenue


increase.


Our manufacturing team’s results continued to improve, which is reflected in sustaining a greatly


improved gross margin compared to last year. The gross margin was 46% in third quarter 2008


compared to 40% in third quarter 2007.


Operating expenses for the third quarter 2008 were $1.6 million, down from $2 million in third


quarter 2007 and down from $2.3 million last quarter. These lower operating expenses are due


primarily to cost reductions implemented by management and to some R&D personnel being


redeployed to contract services and their expenses charged to cost of goods rather than to


operating expenses.


Operating income for third quarter 2008 totaled $785,000 compared to $14,000, third quarter 2007.


eMagin was cash flow or EBITDA positive by $1.2 million. This is the second consecutive quarter of


positive operating income and cash flows.


Net income for the third quarter 2008, as Andrew mentioned was $361,000 or $0.02 per share as


compared to a loss of $12.7 million or $1.06 per share in 2007.


Now I’ll turn it back over to Andrew for a few additional remarks.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul. I think if we look at eMagin today, we have to realize that we have achieved a


very important goal in an extremely short period of time. Over the past six months, we’ve been able


to show two quarters of profitability and have generated cash flow, which has enabled us to move


forward in our product development efforts. We were able to do this because we have a strong


base of customers who have chosen eMagin near-eye displays for equipment that they supplied to


the military as well as a growing base of commercial customers. At the same time, we instituted a


cost reduction program and realized a 24% reduction in SG&A expenses this quarter.


Finally, we have turned to careful eye to our manufacturing processes and been more attentive to


detail. This has helped us to significantly improve our yield while meeting the increased demand.


Clearly, we are not done. We have close to 200 customers who have either commercialized


eMagin-equipped products or are at various stages of evaluation, product development, or


conducting field trials prior to commercialization across a diverse variety of industrial, medical,


military, and consumer applications.


Our design wins continued. Notably, as announced earlier this year, we were selected for inclusion


in the US Army Thermal Weapon Sight Remote Viewer Program as a key component of the system


developed by our customer, OASYS. As part of OASYS’ $26 million contract, we received a


purchase agreement to ship 20,000 displays over several years starting in the second quarter of


2009. We have booked or have commitments for over $10 million for government R&D contracts


over the next two years, which are for developing technology in display products. One of our multi-


level contracts is related to the development of power-efficient night vision displays for the Army.


Night vision and thermal imaging are constantly cited as a major need within the Department of


Defense. The development efforts should result in at least three times reduction in power from


legacy technologies and match the latest thermal camera specifications.