Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey P. Lucas — President & Chief Financial Officer, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — Chief Executive Officer & Director, eMagin Corp.
Eric Des Lauriers — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the eMagin Corporation Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jeffrey Lucas, President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. We are very glad to have you join us today for our third quarter 2018 earnings conference call. During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections, and beliefs and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.

Such statements include references to projections of future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, future contracts and agreements, product benefits, operations, future financing, liquidity and capital resources, as well as statements containing words like believe, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control. Please refer to our earnings release for the third quarter of 2018 and the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information concerning factors that could cause actual result to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or our circumstances.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Andrew Sculley, our CEO.

Thanks, Jeff. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on our third quarter earnings call. We had another very strong quarter with solid demand and good operational execution as well as continued progress on our strategic initiatives. On the demand side, we saw a growth in both our military and commercial businesses here in the U.S. and overseas.

This quarter, 57% of our total revenue was generated from international markets compared to the 50% that we typically have reported in prior quarters. We have also made a concerted effort to target new markets with our leading edge OLED technology. As a result, we continue to expand our customer base through aggressive pursuit of programs globally.

For example, earlier this year, we announced that we were participating in a Defexpo 2018 show in India. We have already begun shipping displays for new customers into that market and now, I have five new active clients there. We expect this to be a growing market for us and hope to participate in some significant programs.

In the commercial market, we received a $780,000 order this quarter from an existing customer in the medical field to upgrade their current technology to our highest brightness XLT displays. We will be delivering displays under this order for the next 12 months and anticipate follow-on orders from this customer based on our discussions with them.

Also, we have a new medical device customer from whom we just received our second order. They are developing a new device for non-invasive medical applications using our displays. This customer expects to begin delivering these new systems in early 2019.

Revenues this quarter were $6.9 million, a 60% increase year-over-year from the third quarter of 2017. While this was primarily driven from a 51% increase in product revenues, we also had a nice lift in our contract revenue which Jeff will discuss in more detail.

A key takeaway from this quarter is that overall demand for our products, as well as our R&D contract revenue, was strong. We generated revenue from 66 customers this quarter, including eight new customers and supplied product for 23 new programs in our existing customer base.

We continue to leverage these demand trends to further drive profitable growth through increased production yields which have improved throughout the year. As we mentioned last quarter and reiterated today, we have received $830,000 in U.S. Army awards to help us improve OLED production yields and expand capacity. This project is having an impact on our performance as we delivered yield improvement in the quarter which helped drive our product and consolidated gross margin to 35%.

From a strategic standpoint, we continue to have productive discussions with our consumer electronics partners to advance our product and technology to meet the demands of mass production. We are currently upgrading our custom Direct Patterning production equipment and expect that these upgrades will significantly increase our product yields, lower our unit costs, and extend the lifetime of the display.

The tool will be operational in the second quarter of 2019. Although the expected timeline for mainstream AR/VR has been pushed out a bit, we will continue to innovate and improve product quality as customer performance requirements for this market will remain extremely demanding and it is imperative that we remain at the forefront.

One of our Tier 1 consumer electronics partners approved our microdisplay design this quarter. The design has been given to our foundry partner to manufacture the initial wafers. After we receive the wafers, we will directly pattern the OLED. Our consumer electronics partner needs very high brightness, very high resolution, which is needed in order to get a wide large field of view and no screen-door effect. We are the only company with the design and the OLED process capable of making this display. If all goes according to plan, we expect to deliver those prototypes for the consumer electronics company in the second quarter of 2019.

Finally, I want to discuss our management changes this quarter. As many of you are aware, we run a pretty lean operation for a tech company that has and continues to develop cutting edge technology. I believe that these changes will further increase our efficiency-enhanced productivity. Amal Ghosh, recently promoted to Chief Technical Officer, will focus on technological change and development of our OLED microdisplays, with only a handful of engineers we have been able to develop display technology that other companies, including the large ones, have not.

Under his direction as CTO, he will continue to drive further advances as he has done so successfully in the past. For myself, I plan to continue to work on [audio gap] (00:07:34) as well as [audio gap] (00:07:38-00:08:29).

...was driven by strengthening demand trends in the military and commercial markets. Ongoing yield improvements, as evidenced by our four highest volume microdisplay product types exceeding their respective yield targets in the quarter, favorable margin trends year-over-year in solid bookings and reported backlog as of the end of the quarter.

Revenue for the quarter, as Andrew pointed out, was $6.9 million, up 60% from the same period of 2017. Product revenue for the quarter was $6.2 million compared to $4 million in the third quarter of last year, a 51% year-over-year increase. The improvement in year-over-year product revenue was fairly broad-based among U.S. and foreign military programs as well as commercial customers.

During the September quarter, 35% of our revenues were derived from exclusively commercial customers compared to 22% in the previous year's quarter. We also benefited from higher averaging of prices, reflecting the continued shift in mix towards our higher priced products.

Contract revenues in third quarter were $819,000 compared to $266,000 in the prior year quarter. The increase is primarily due to a higher level of activity on our consumer development work along with expanded activity with a major aviation program in our U.S. government-funded yield improvement projects.

Regarding profitability, the reported gross margin for the third quarter was 35% compared to 7% in the prior year quarter. The favorable year-over-year comparison was due largely to the impact on last year's gross margin, our production issues that have since been resolved. The 2018 third quarter gross margin also benefited from increased volumes and higher yields, resulting in lower cost per displays as well as the contributions from several military and government-funded contracts.

On the product side, our product gross margin was 35%, up from 5% in the prior year period. This reflects the benefit of higher volumes in the average selling price combined with the leveraging, our fixed production costs over a greater product sales compared to the prior year's lower volumes, and production-related issues. The high gross margin also reflects the impact of our ongoing yield improvement initiatives.

In our contracts business, we reported gross margin of 31%, an increase from 25% gross margin in the third quarter of 2017. Last year's gross margin reflects additional costs incurred as a multi-year man tech project approached completion. This year's gross margin also included the cost to complete adjustment of one of our design projects, but of a small magnitude and not anticipated to reoccur in future quarters.

Now, moving to our expenses in the quarter. Total operating expenses from the third quarter of 2018, including research and development or R&D, were $3.6 million, up from $3.2 million in the third quarter of 2017. As a percentage of sales, operating expenses declined to 53% this quarter compared to 76% in the third quarter of last year.

The increase in operating expenses was due to higher R&D expenses, which increased $319,000 year-over-year to $1.6 million. This reflected ongoing development on the company's proprietary Direct Patterning technology as well as costs associated with improving our manufacturing processes for our brighter displays.

Selling, general and administrative expenses or SG&A of $2 million was flat with well – with both the year ago period in the second quarter of 2018. As a percent of revenue, SG&A declined to 30% of net revenue in the third quarter compared to 46% in the third quarter of last year. We reported an operating loss for the third quarter of $1.3 million compared to an operating loss of $3.0 million in the third quarter of last year. Other income for the third quarter was $1.3 million and was primarily due to the non-cash income recognized for the decrease in the liability associated with the fair value of warrants outstanding.

Net income for the third quarter of 2018, inclusive of $1.3 million for the warrant liability revaluation, was $63,000 compared to a net loss of $3 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2017. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was negative $600,000 compared to negative $2.4 million in the prior year period.

Regarding our liquidity, at September 30, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $6.2 million, working capital of $11.5 million, no outstanding borrowings under our asset base loan facility and borrowing availability under the facility of $4.9 million. Total backlog at the end of September was $10.9 million, an increase of $1.3 million from the beginning of the year.

Now, I'd like to take just a few moments to discuss our military programs and operations. We have been involved in many of these military programs for a number of years and believe that we have laid the foundation to generate substantial growth in profitability in the next few years. In addition, this business has provided us the financial flexibility to advance our technology.

During the quarter, we had several notable customer wins in the military end market, highlighting few of these. First, we received a $400,000 order in support of the Javelin Missile program Command Launch Unit in the third quarter. We anticipate receiving a follow-on order worth about $560,000 in further support of the program. These orders are in addition to those we received during the third quarter where displays incorporated into the Javelin trainers.

Second, we received a follow-on contract for the Family of Weapon Sight – Individual (sic) [Family of Weapon Sights) (00:14:28) program following the delivery of displays for the limited rate initial production (sic) [low-rate initial production] (00:14:32) phase of the program late last year. We are currently in the process of finalizing a follow-on contract for this program.

Third, in September, we signed a long-term agreement with a major French defense contractor to supply all the microdisplays for their weapons products and markets. These orders are in addition to the noteworthy wins we received in the commercial market that Andrew mentioned for the medical device field.

Turning to operations, our production team continues to make noteworthy improvements in performance, both yield and throughput, that will help us lower unit cost and increase capacity in gross margin. These lower costs also allow us to compete profitably in many markets where we had not previously had a presence.

Our business development team has been working very closely with our existing customers to expand our sales to them while also exploring and pursuing new commercial and industrial markets for the sale of our products. The lower unit costs I noted above allow us to compete profitably in many markets where we previously had not had a presence and we are pursuing these markets aggressively.

In conclusion, we strengthened our company in several fronts in the quarter. We continue to grow our market share with an expanded military, aviation, and commercial presence. We are effectively executing on our yield improvement initiatives and are well-positioned to achieve, if not surpass, yield targets in the fourth quarter for our four highest volume microdisplay product types.

As a result of volume and yield improvements, gross margin and adjusted EBITDA trends were more favorable on a year-over-year basis and finally, the quarter reinforced our strong strategic position, particularly in the military end market as the only manufacturer of OLED microdisplays in United States.

With that, we'll turn it back to the operator for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Eric Des Lauriers of Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on a solid quarter.

Hey, Eric.

Thank you, Eric.

I was wondering if we could drill down a little bit more to that medical device opportunity. If you could just help us quantify that, that would be helpful.

By quantify, you mean the number of displays, that sort of thing?

Just overall. I mean, the virtual reality front has sort of been pushed out a little bit. It seems like you guys have gained some nice traction on this – on the medical vertical. So, I was wondering if -- how you guys think about this, whether this is kind of a two-customer thing or if you see this as a vertical that you guys can sort of strategically pursue.

Yeah. Thank you and actually, there is more than two customers we have on the medical field and we see things like training and simulation and one of the devices is for eye surgery, [ph] cornea map (00:17:51). I'm giving you examples and then we have the other application of non-invasive measurement type things and there are a number of applications of that. So I think this is a big vertical for us.

And as you know, AR/VR in the consumer space is pushed out, but in the non-consumer space, we believe that's a place we can play very strongly. In fact, for the same reason that the displays that are used today, the military, as you know, switched to OLED microdisplays for size, weight, and power; high contrast, high speed and now, we even have the necessary brightness to go into a fighter pilot helmet. I think you'll see the same exact thing on enterprise solutions in medical devices.

Just to add to that a little bit here, medical device has been an area we've been focusing on for several years now. I mean, as we've mentioned in previous earnings calls, it can take a little while to establish a presence in a new segment. We've been getting quite a bit of traction here. We've been seeing that accelerating over the past quarter or so and we anticipate that continuing into the future. Quite clearly, the device field is seen at a performance, the specific [indiscernible] (00:19:05) performance of our displays are exactly what they need for their higher end equipment and that's presenting a lot of opportunities for us.

And one other thing, as you know, the military is tough to get approved in a device, well, so as the medical. So the fact that we're in there means this is good news for us.

Yeah, absolutely. That makes sense. And then switching gears to the consumer front, look, you guys have some good progress with the OEM design approval. Any change in the tone or expected timing? I know it was pushed out last quarter. It seems like some of the overall buzz in activity had died down but perhaps seeing a pick-up now. Just wondering how you guys are reading that.

I think that the event for us will be the actual -- this display. It's a prototype coming out and we -- this consumer company is very interesting to us because they will allow us to sell the displays to other companies once they have it and taken a look at it. So I think the event will be that when you see this display, it's a VR display, this is the display that everyone needs.

And one of the reasons I can't help but think that the VR space doesn't take off today or hasn't taken off today, is the display is aren't what's needed. This display is. It meets the qualifications: very high resolution, very high speed; some of the things we'd put in it like addressing all the pixels at once, a global addressing. High brightness, very high brightness, full color display, that's what's needed. So we are very enthusiastic about having this customer see this display.

Yeah. You got to definitely appear to have sort of nailed down that market as the go-to display for virtual reality, so that's great.

Correct.

Final questions for me regarding the manufacturing partners that you guys are in talks with. I know you were originally talking with one and then I think it expanded to two. Just wanted to see if there's -- if you guys have continued to open up that search to include more partners and then...

Yeah...sorry [indiscernible] (00:21:28).

....just a follow-up to that, wondering if you could give a little more color on what the hold-up or a sticking point is in terms of getting a partner signed? Thanks.

Yeah. On the – we have opened it up to search. There's two others who are very interested in working with us on this and we are pursuing that as well. So the only hold-up is they want to see the market take off, make sure it's going to take off, before we move forward with the production equipment. And I think, again, the event we have here is the display that's coming out in the first part of the second quarter. That display will be an absolutely astounding display and people will see that that's what's needed.

Okay. That makes sense and then last question for me, just wondering if you had sort of narrowed down the possible partnership structure you're looking for, whether it's a JV or license scenario. Any progress on that front? Thanks.

Well. It's different depending upon whom we're talking with. [indiscernible] (00:22:43)

All right. That makes sense.

Some companies, the best thing to do is to have a license structure; others, the best thing to do is to have a -- more of a we're really 100% involved.

But the point to make here also, Eric, is that we actually have had discussions with a variety of structures here, but we haven't – we don't think it's appropriate this point in time to commit to any one particular structure as our discussions are ensuing.

Okay. That makes sense. Thanks. Appreciate the color.

Thanks, Eric.

Thank you, Eric. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Kevin Dede of HCW. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Back to Eric's on the medical side, can you can you characterize, I guess, what you'd expect the percentage revenue contribution to be given the overall consumer side, the overall military side – sorry, the overall commercial side versus overall military. Can you talk to how much medical could potentially be within commercial?

We're not going to give a hard and fast number there. Generally, we don't. As we pointed out, commercial this quarter was about 35% of our revenues in comparison to 22% in last year's quarter. So obviously, we're seeing an increase in that area. We anticipate that continuing. At this juncture, I think -- so the lion's share of that will largely be in medical device as we are working to expand our presence in other segments as well. Now, we're going to growth in there too.

Well, we've got a bit of a lead here in medical device because we've been working with these companies now for a while here till they expect to gain and to continue to gain our traction in that a little earlier than we are in some of the other areas.

But I will say overall that our military business has been strong. It is strengthening as the number of programs in which we're on it go from prototype to low-rate initial production to normalized production, those [ph] rates (00:24:42) are going to increase. But we're also anticipating that our commercial endeavors are going to increase probably [ph] even (00:24:47) at a faster rate albeit from a smaller base.

And I'll just add one other thing. On the military side, remember, when we say military, people tend to speak – think of U.S., but outside the U.S., we are very strong. And that ...

Yes, Andrew. Thank you for raising that point because that was my next question. Jeff, in his prepared remarks, mentioned the long-term agreement for microdisplays in France, obviously displacing a manufacturer there or at least that's the assumption. But I was [ph] offering -- (00:25:18) if you could offer a little more color on that particular deal. What's the application and what's the potential size of the market?

Well, actually, the French market has been one of our largest markets that we're seeing this year and this particular application [ph] hatches (00:25:37) for a thermal weapon site. But that being said, we're in discussions about another – with a lot of other companies in that region about applications beyond just from a weapon site, but that's been a primary focus at this point for this particular contractor.

Okay. So, that weapon site, is that an infantry application where you'd imagine that there would be a lot of unit sales? Or is it perhaps more maybe lower volume and higher cost. Just -- if you could help characterize that. [indiscernible]

(00:26:17) there are a lot of – this is the high volume application here. So, it is going to have higher volumes and actually pretty high pricing as well.

Okay. You guys, I guess for the past couple of quarters, have talked a lot about yield improvements and I know I've asked about it before, I was just wondering if you could go through some more of the detail on various improvements specifically and how -- I guess how that manifests in your production going forward. The concern is obviously that given how sensitive the production process is that things might not remain stable. I guess I'm just wondering if you could just talk to those improvements and how they've been integrated in your production and how you think they can be translated to another manufacturer once an agreement is finalized.

Well, first of all, let me start off and then Andrew can add color to this but as you are getting much greater consistency and stability and part of the reason we're having the yield improvements is not only because our specific yields by products are improving, but the plans we're having less variability within those yields as well. So, therefore, the average yields is certainly increasing quite a bit.

So, this is certainly benefiting us as you would anticipate with lower unit material costs where it's also beginning to help us and where we're going to see greater impact of this going forward is that this also allows for higher volumes because therefore we have more throughput, higher capacity that's going to lower our fixed costs which, as we've said in previous calls, is a substantial portion of our overall manufacturing costs and that we think is going to have a dramatic impact on our margins as well.

So in other words, to date, the improvement we're seeing in margins has been driven largely by lower unit material costs. As our volumes are increasing and as our yields go up and our throughput and our capacity increases, we're going to have to dramatically lower unit fixed costs as well that's going to give us better margin.

Just a few other things on that. Besides yield, it's also a throughput and machine uptime. Much of this is improvement from the addition of a high volume manufacturing. The senior vice president for manufacturing, he's come to us and we've put in place the things needed to keep these machines running, to keep them up all the time, and also to control the process so that the yield is better.

For example, the OELD process is more tightly controlled and that type of thing is very good for us. We're seeing the results of that now as you look at our margin improvement and that will continue because we have a ways to go.

On transferring it to someone else, if we did a licensing agreement, there are two things advantage there is, one, we can transfer the know-how on OLED to someone else. And if it is – it would be a mass production partner. They also have their own mass production expertise with help. So it would be a symbiotic relationship.

Okay. A question on the second quarter display that has a higher brightness, global pixel manipulation and addresses perhaps better the AR and VR market. You mentioned, Andrew, that your partner there would be able to sell it through to other customers and so I'm presuming that's on a licensing arrangement. Is that the right way to think about that?

Now, let me say again. Really, the partner will allow us to sell to other companies. Let me give you a few examples. There are many different people in this AR/VR space who are interested in having it take off because they have other things to sell and the two obvious ones are chips for GPU/CPU and software. So this company might be one of those and they want to have the market take off. They're not necessarily going to be the premier headset manufacturer in the world or headset seller in the world, but they want this market to take off. That's what I'm talking about. They'd like us to sell the display to everyone.

Okay, that helps. Last comment, congratulations, Jeff. Sort of a change up in your responsibilities. I'm wondering if there is going to be someone else to help you on a controlling accounting finance side.

Well, we're very fortunate to get a lot a strong bench strength on our finance team. And our Corporate Controller, Mark Koch, has been doing a great job. He's been with us now about two and a half years, so he's rapidly taking over a lot of responsibilities that I was having in the past. But we have strengthened our team and that's beneficial, let's expand upon that, not only in terms of our reporting publicly but also, very importantly, in our management reporting as well so we can have finer tune and better manage our internal processes and Mark has been very instrumental in that.

Great. Okay. Thanks for the color, gentlemen. Thanks for taking the questions. [Operator Instructions]

There are no other questions at this time. This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Andrew Sculley for closing remarks.

Again, thank you, everyone, for joining us. This has been an outstanding quarter making progress going forward in both the military and I'll just emphasize again, military is outside the U.S. Again, 57% of our sales were outside the U.S. and that is a growing market for us.

The medical device field is one that we're very, very happy to be in and very happy to push on that to see it expand. That's one of the enterprise solutions that we look forward to. Then the consumer progress has been – is very good. We'd be sending the wafer out to be – or sending the design out to be made. It is moving forward and I – we also mentioned that our Direct Patterning equipment is out to be changed so that it can be ready for the next stage in yield improvement and also lifetime improvement, significant improvements there. And that is necessary for the next step to mass production.

So we are very happy to be where we are today and I thank everyone on the eMagin team. We're an outstanding team and it's a privilege to work with them.

Thank you.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.