Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey P. Lucas — Chief Financial Officer, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, eMagin Corp.
Michael Fawzy Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright
Nehal Sushil Chokshi — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the eMagin Corporation First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jeffrey Lucas, CFO. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. We are very glad to have you join us today for our first quarter 2018 earnings conference call.

During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections and beliefs and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements include references to projections of future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, future contracts and agreements, product benefits, operations, future financing, liquidity and capital resources, as well as statements containing words like believe, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control. Please refer to our earnings release for the first quarter of 2018 and the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Andrew Sculley, President and CEO.

Thank you, Jeff, and welcome, everyone, to our first quarter 2018 conference call. Let me start this morning by saying that I'm very pleased with our progress this quarter and believe that we were off to a great start this year. We continue to enjoy strong demand for our microdisplays, both domestically and internationally, as evidenced by the growth in our backlog. The production process improvements, which we're making, will result in better throughput in yield and will allow us to handle the additional demand at better gross margins.

We are seeing broader accelerating interest within the consumer AR/VR market. New opportunities continue to surface for our high brightness, direct patterned OLED microdisplays. Consistently, we hear from prospects in the consumer segment that our cutting-edge technology is a key enabler for the next-generation HMD products.

I'm also happy to say that the design of our next-generation display is on track and going well. We look forward to having prototypes available for customers by the end of the year 2018 or early 2019. So far this year, we've had inquiries from four new potential consumer electronic customers about designing and developing displays.

Discussions are also moving forward with potential mass production partners to help scale production. Our discussions have expanded as we were recently approached by another group and need to evaluate the best path forward that will give us the broadest application of our technology and the best return for our shareholders. It is encouraging to us that we have seen renewed interest and underscores our belief that we will be a very active player in the AR/VR marketplace.

We have experienced a notable upswing in our business, both domestically and internationally. Our backlog at the end of the first quarter was $11.8 million, a greater than 20% increase from the end of 2017. This is on top of the 54% increase in our backlog at December 31 from a year earlier. It is noteworthy that we are accelerating these deliveries based on customer requests, particularly for our international customers. This in turn has led to additional orders.

Demand is growing across the board, particularly with new and existing international customers, an area that we have targeted for growth. We believe that we are well-positioned to broaden our presence in foreign, commercial, industrial, and military markets.

To further this effort, we are participating in numerous trade shows and exhibiting both here in the U.S. and abroad throughout 2018. As an example of this, we recently launched a major push into the rapidly growing Indian defense and commercial markets through our participation in early April at the DefExpo 18 India show. Our superior microdisplay performance was of great interest to both the commercial customers, as well as the Defence Ministry (sic) [Ministry of Defence] of India.

Looking at our ongoing military programs, we continue to make progress with a major aviation prime contractor for an OLED upgrade to a production helmet for a multi-service, fixed wing aircraft. We completed and delivered the first set of new microdisplays for which an initial qualification has been completed, and we are on track for delivery of a subsequent set in the second quarter. This is a very important program for us, and we continue to receive praise on the performance of our displays during flight testing.

Domestically, we have continued to deliver displays for the low-rate initial production phase of both the U.S. Army's Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III and FWS-Individual programs in connection with the $3.7 million worth of contracts received previously. During the quarter, we also delivered displays for prototype systems for the FWS-Crew Served program for two defense prime contractors.

Additionally, we delivered displays for the Light Weight Thermal Sight program, which will continue through 2018. We continue to support a major U.S. Army helicopter helmet upgrade program, and we delivered 2Kx2K direct patterned displays to a major aviation prime in support of the next-generation fixed wing helmet.

On the international front, we delivered displays to a European military prime contractor for a see-through head-mounted system to support airborne and ground mission requirements, and we provided technical support to a major foreign defense contractor for high brightness 2Kx2K microdisplays used in an aviation helmet prototype with initial test scheduled for this month.

Finally, we are continuing to develop new products for both consumer and military applications and are pushing our technology to the next level. To achieve our objectives, such as reducing microdisplay with the brightness of 10,000 nits in full color, we are designing further improvements to our direct patterning equipment that will improve production yields and expand [audio gap] (07:58) devices. We would like to have these changes completed by the fourth quarter of this year. In addition, we are upgrading our production equipment to improve display performance and increase yield for all our products.

With that, I'll turn it over to Jeff to review the financials.

Thank you. As Andrew mentioned, we are having a good solid start to the year.

Revenue for the first quarter was $6.9 million, up 13% from the same period 2017. Breaking down the revenue components, product revenue increased by 34% to $5.9 million versus $4.4 million in the first quarter of last year. This increase was due to the ramp-up of new U.S. military programs and a strengthening demand from international customers. Contract revenue was $1 million versus $1.7 million in the first quarter of last year. The contract revenue this quarter was from a number of consumer and military projects, whereas last year's first quarter contract revenues were primarily earned from work for one large consumer customer.

Gross margin for the first quarter was 29%, and gross profit of $2 million compared to a gross margin with 30% and gross profit of $1.8 million in the prior-year period. During the quarter, we made significant improvements in manufacturing yields and in throughput volumes which positions us well with anticipated growth in product revenues. However, these were offset during the first quarter by changes in product mix versus the prior-year quarter, higher unit material cost, and lower contract revenues from which the company generally earns a higher gross margin.

Now moving to our expenses. Total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2018, including R&D expenses, were $4.5 million, up from $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2017. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 66% this year compared to 63% the first quarter of last year. The increase in operating expenses were due to higher R&D expenses related to the company's direct patterning technology and greater spending in professional services, legal and travel expenses for negotiation with prospective consumer electronics customers and potential volume manufacturing partners. Also included were about $240,000 for transaction fees incurred in the January 2018 equity raise associated with the fair value of the warrant liability and, in accordance with GAAP, treated as an operating expense.

Operating loss for the first quarter was $2.6 million versus an operating loss of $2 million in the first quarter of last year. Net loss for the first quarter of 2018 was $2.1 million or $0.05 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $2 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2017. The net loss includes a $500,000 gain in the first quarter of 2018 reflected in other income for the reduction in the fair value of the warrant liability associated with the May 2017 and January 2018 equity raises. There are no such gain in the year-ago quarter.

At the end of the first quarter, the company had cash of $9.8 million, working capital of $16.5 million, and borrowing availability under our working capital facility of $4.4 million and against which there were no borrowings.

During the first quarter, we completed an upsized underwritten public offering and received net proceeds of $11.7 million, significantly improving our financial position. In addition, certain of our directors and officers participated in a private placement alongside the offering from which the company received an additional $0.3 million in net proceeds.

We are making progress in all aspects of our business, work with consumer electronics customers and potential new ones, manufacturing partners and mass production, advancing our leading OLED technology from microdisplays, including our direct patterning technology, and improving our production processes to meet increased demand.

We believe that we are taking market share from competitors, especially in the military market both here and abroad, as well as expanding the market of microdisplays into new applications. We continue to see a tremendous amount of opportunity for our technology and are pursuing all avenues of growth.

And with that, we'll now address your questions. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Malouf of Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks, guys, for taking my questions.

Hey, Mike. Good morning.

So, it sounds like you've had a little bit of development on the manufacturing partner. And with this new partner or potential partner coming into the mix, can you talk a little bit about how you think the timing is affected by this other partner? I know that you were sort of hoping to get something wrapped up very soon. It almost sounds like perhaps this could be a little bit extended as you sort of consider your options. Can you give us a little color on that? Thanks.

Yes. We do have to consider the options. We're very happy with this other potential manufacturing partner coming to us, so really there's a few now that we're dealing with, the one that we've talked about earlier and a couple more. And we really need to do the best for the company, and that's what we're working on now. And it will likely take a little longer than we thought because of this.

Okay. All right, thanks. And then when you – you're talking about a lot of OEMs coming in and having interest in your next generation. You sort of specifically said that you have expectations to put out prototypes by the end of the year or early next year. Are those prototypes on 4Kx4K or are they higher than that? And can you give us a sense of what kind of prototypes you're sort of aiming to deliver to these OEMs?

Yeah. This would be what we're working on is like a 4Kx4K. I can't give you exact numbers because we don't necessarily want to divulge that, but it's the design that when we go to companies and talk to them, this is the type of display they want for VR or mixed reality. And so, we are designing that display with this one company and it's funding this design. We've recently had, as we said, a number of other companies, one of which has asked us for three different scenarios, and one scenario fits very well in this camp. So it is 4Kx4K.

Okay, great. Thanks. And then maybe a question for Jeff. As we look into the rest of the year, can you give us a sense of where you think R&D and SG&A will trend? I know that SG&A was up a little bit this quarter because of the transaction in January, but that level still was above I think where the average was last year and I'm just trying to get a sense of what the go-to rate is right now.

Yeah. So the expectation is that the R&D will be a little lower by $100,000 to a couple hundred thousand in the quarters going forward. And SG&A will be lower for the primary two reasons that we pointed out, one of which is we had the $240,000 of expenses as you noted, Mike. So with the financing which, of course, I am not going to repeat.

And also we did lay the foundation for a lot of the negotiations that we were doing in the past quarter and incurred some pretty steep legal fees in the process. While we will continue to incur legal fees in our discussions and negotiations going forward, it will not be at that level. So the SG&A I anticipate will be several hundred thousand dollars lower by each quarter as well. So to answer your question, in summary, I think this quarter was a little bit of an aberration in terms of what we saw primarily in the SG&A and, to a lesser degree, on the R&D.

Okay, great. Thanks for the help.

Sure.

Our next question comes from Kevin Dede of HCW. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, Andrew and Jeff.

Hi, Kevin.

Thanks for taking my call.

Good morning.

So, Jeff, you brought up a really interesting point I thought in your remark about taking share from competitors. And I was wondering if you wouldn't mind elaborating on that a little bit? Specifically, I guess in foreign military applications, but I'm wondering which technology you're displacing and why you think that's happening?

Yeah. I think I'd argue that foreign market as well as the U.S. market; U.S. market, we're taking share from others. And the technology really is OLED versus what was in there formerly. I did mention during my part of the conversation that we're with two primes in one of the programs and, usually, the government doesn't take more than two primes. So OLED is displacing the legacy technology, and you can see that in the aviation market as well. We are displacing what's there.

On the foreign military, we are seeing interest in, as we mentioned, India is gearing up their military and we are participating. We have participated in European militaries in the past, and we still are. They're gearing up as well. So things look very good to us.

What's really bearing fruit here, Kevin, is the fact that we've launched a concerted effort in our foreign markets to really gain greater exposure, as referenced by that note in the release about our present participation in the India show. And that, in a sense, the growth that we're seeing in those markets and potential growth certainly is far better. I should say the growth that we're seeing in our sales in those markets is far in excess of the growth in those markets.

And just to give you an example here, we sold as much to India in this first quarter as we did all in the fall of last year. So, in that sense, we are gaining share because we are seeing some pretty impressive increments in terms of revenues, and we're looking for that to continue moving forward.

I should mention one other thing, and that is the technology. When you compare our technology to others, and here you can speak about two sides, one of them is the high brightness color. No one can match that. No company has demonstrated anything like the brightness we have in full color with high pixel density. But on the other side, even the monochrome green, which is what the aviation market wants today – tomorrow they'll want color, but today they want monochrome green – we've looked at every microdisplay company, and no company can make that technology, the brightness we have and the enormous contrast we have even at the very bright colors or very bright luminance. So our technology is really better than everybody else.

Okay. Andrew, could you be a little more specific about which ones you're showing, I guess, the most market improvement over and I guess the ones that you think probably you have the largest share to lose?

By which ones you're talking about, which countries?

No, no, no, which competing technologies specifically.

Oh, there's two competing technologies. One is competing technology in the OLED space. And as you know, we are the only U.S. manufacturer of OLED, so that the U.S. military favors us. And the other technology in the – for example, we always hear in the F-35 today is LCD technology. And in aviation in the future, I would expect that all to be OLED.

Okay, fair enough. Thanks.

And just to make it clear, we are much better than the other microdisplay companies in terms of our technology in terms of brightness and contrast for...

I wasn't sure if maybe you were seeing some LCOS out there still, and is it still LCD primarily holding share and for military and monochrome green?

Oh, in monochrome green, LCOS or LCD is the aviation today, but the problem is, and you've heard this before, is when the pilot, especially the aircraft carrier landing pilot dials that luminance up, the entire visor turns – emits light and, therefore, it obscures the vision and that's the green glow problem you've heard of. So the idea's you need a much higher contrast display. Our display is much higher contrast because it's OLED, but I have to tell you it's much higher contrast than other OLED companies as well.

Okay. You both mentioned yield improvements. I was wondering if you might just talk about a little bit. You ran in both deposition machines. I'm just kind of curious as what the details are there. And given sort of this 30 gross margin percentage on the product side, where do you think that goes?

Well, certainly with better yield. I'm not going to tell you the numbers, but with better yield, the gross margin goes up. Let me just mention some of the things we're doing. With the new Manufacturing VP, we're putting in new equipment, new processes which make our throughput much better. And with the better – we've got better uptime, better yield and better throughput, and that is – that we're demonstrating in now in the first quarter and on into the second. So although new equipment, I have to caution you, if you put in a new piece of equipment, it takes a while to bring it up to speed and qualify it. So we look for that more later in the year.

Let me expand upon that just a little bit because the key part of it truly is yield because that actually lower the unit material costs and allows for higher throughputs. But very important because of some of the improvements that Joe, VP of Operations, had made, is that we are now seeing – certainly we have a higher capacity here and given that fixed cost, a substantial portion of our overall cost structure on a unit basis, those volumes increase as the yields improved. Not only do you see material cost on a unit basis coming down, but also certainly the overhead portion or the fixed portion of those costs coming down as well. So, collectively, given the volumes that we're anticipating and that we are seeing, we are expecting conservatively a few percentage points improvement in the margin, of course, targeting better than that.

Okay, fair enough. Jeff, will you offer the backlog figure each quarter going forward? I mean, in the past, it was just on an annual basis.

Yes, we plan on doing so.

Okay. I guess the next question for me and last – I'll turn the floor over – is just could you talk a little bit about the manufacturing runs, how you're able to switch from product to product given that your product portfolio is broader and whether or not that's played into the change in yield?

Well, what we have done here is we've made a concerted effort to say that within a period of time where the machine is running continuously, we don't want to change products. I mean, that's the smartest thing to do. The older machines would take a day to come back up again. The newer one takes eight hours or so. So, it doesn't make sense to do that, and we've put that process in place and actually we're following it. It's working very well. I'm impressed.

Actually, Kevin, we love that question because we're having such great success we feel on the operations side. But we are having longer production runs. And as we talked about at the last earnings call in late March, part of our goal was to build a little bit of inventory because with these longer production runs, obviously, you can get better yields and much better performance, and that does involve sort of building up some of the product over time.

Actually, if you do take a look at our – when the 10-Q comes out, you'll see that our finished goods inventory came down about 12% from the end – from December 31. And while we are actually working towards sort of building up a little more inventory here, we're also, of course, shipping quite a substantial volume and that's working certainly in our favor.

So, I know we did mention in the past two earnings calls we have an inventory reduction initiative in place. We are making some good inroads there, as I mentioned, by our finished goods coming down. What you will also see, just to make a note here, is that our raw material in our WIP did go up actually in the first quarter, and that was truly in anticipation of the higher volumes that we'll be producing and shipping in the second quarter.

Okay. So, is it fair to assume that inventory levels should still come down a little bit but your – the idea is to maintain what you – or I guess, sort of inventory levels of product that you know you'll need for, say, the next 6 to 12 months?

Let me answer a little more specifically. We do anticipate the finished goods to actually – inventory levels coming down, continuing to come down as part of our plan, our considered plan here. As what's happening in the material and the WIP side, that's really driven largely by our order book and by our demand. And so, with that in mind, given the fact the strength that we're seeing here, we may continue to have an increase in those components of inventory. But again, the finished goods we do anticipate coming down a little bit.

Okay, fair enough. Thanks, Jeff. Thank you, Andrew, for indulging me. I'll pass the floor.

Thanks, Kevin.

Our next question comes from Nehal Chokshi of Maxim. Please go ahead.

Thank you. And glad to hear that you're going to be disclosing backlog going forward, which means that we're all going to be asking questions about your order book. And that question would be for the March quarter, it sounds like you had about $8 million in product orders. Presumably that's all military. That's the first question, and then I'll have a follow-on.

So, no. We don't have all military business. We have some medical and industrial, so part of that is in there.

Okay. And so, now the big story here is that you've had a significant uptick in your international business. For that $8 million in product orders, can you give us some sense as far as what percent of that was international?

You could argue it's pretty much proportional to actually the sales that we had in the first quarter in terms of how much is international. So, actually, a little more than the majority of that was actually international.

Okay, great. And then my final question's that can you just remind us of what you expect breakeven to be? What revenue run rate? And I do recognize that's dependent upon what gross margin you'll have, which is dependent upon your yield. But should you answer, it'll be helpful.

Sure. I mean, I probably should be pretty good at answering this by now since I think we've been asked it on every earnings call that we have, justifiably. So we've indicated in the past that our breakeven is around $7.5 million to $8 million, and that number remains there. I would argue that at this point, it's sort of toward the higher end of that range. But as we continue to see our yield and operational improvements, that number will be coming down to the lower part of that.

So just to be clear then, that's implying a 50% gross margin at that $8 million run rate, correct?

Yeah. A little actually. I think not quite that 50% margin, but that's correct.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thanks, Nehal. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Dennis Van Zelfden of Brazos Research. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, Andrew and Jeff.

Morning, Dennis.

Hi, Dennis.

I just want to follow up a little bit on your potential new manufacturing partner. I'm curious did these one or two new partners approach you? Did you approach them? Were the terms that you were potentially going to get on your existing potential manufacturing partner not good enough? Just a few more details, if you could.

Well, the one that has talked to us for a while and now is coming to the point, this is not the one that we've been talking to for a while and told you about. The other ones, there is two. The one came to us but through another partner. So another partner put some pressure on and said, please go talk to them, and they are, and they're very interested. So the terms that we take should be the best for you, the shareholder, and that's what we're looking at. And we're looking at can we broaden what it is we're doing so that we become a larger part of the market more quickly. So that's what we're looking at. And there's one other one that has now made a plausible path forward in terms of what they've talked to us about, and I apologize that I can't tell you what these things are.

Well, that's fine. It seems like the original one that you've been talking to them for, I don't know, maybe a year or so, I'm just wondering if you're just starting with the potential new partners, are we looking at another year delay or...

Well, no, I wouldn't say that at all because the real thing you have to look at is the market. Now, as you know, we're coming out with a new display at the end of this year and that's the thing – or the beginning of next – and that's the thing that we've got to target. That new display will be something that no one else has built. It will have the pixel density that's needed. It's designed for the optics that this company is building, and it will have the brightness that's needed for the VR.

It also has other things in it that I can't mention, so I apologize, that are what is really needed for the VR market. And one of the things I can mention, a 120 hertz, of course, in terms of speed, but many other things to make this work very well. So I think that's what is needed. And so, no, it's not going to take another year to get there because now we have some competition here.

Okay. Well, I guess it kind of follows into my next question. My last question is that given some sort of a delay here, months maybe, and given the long lead times than any whoever you end up going with, given the long lead times of the ramp-up and stuff, what does that delay do to a Tier 1's plans to roll out a product, I don't know, in the 2020 timeframe? Does that impact all that?

Well, in the 2020 timeframe, to put in an OLED line, we've said in the past that 18 months, so we're not impacting it yet. The ramp of the product will be reasonable on the side of the consumer company, right? It won't start at millions per month but will grow to that. And 2020 is the year we have to hit.

Okay. Well, I guess my last question is that I'm sure the Tier 1 that you're working with knows all of this about what you're doing in terms of negotiating with these manufacturers. Are they saying, come on, eMagin, pick somebody because we don't want to be delayed if we decide to go ahead with a product?

Yeah. Well, certainly they want to see the success and they are. What can we do to help you, that's the thing that we're asked, and we are using those Tier 1s for that help.

Yeah. And they're a part of the discussion as well, Dennis, so they are intimately aware of how they are contributing or, in other respects, slowing the process down here a bit.

And we've had three-way discussions with that first manufacturing partner, with these Tier 1s, and we've had three-way discussions with one of the companies and the new manufacturing partner as well, the newest one.

Okay, guys. Appreciate it. Good luck.

Thank you, sir.

Thank you, Dennis.

Our next question is a follow-up question from Kevin Dede of HCW. Please go ahead.

Hi, Andrew. Since you're on the consumer partner topic, would you mind just sort of reviewing where you are I guess with other partners not on the manufacturing side but on the interest to have you manufacture product for them? You mentioned four inquiries in the March quarter. And I know that you're – you had five or six relationships before. Can you just kind of summarize that for me, please?

So although the number is getting large, so it's tough, I'm going to speak to a few of them that I'm really excited about. The one we've mentioned that we're designing a new display, and I've said some of the qualities of that new display. And we had a design review this month and it went very well. So, it's on track and this company can't wait to get their hands on it. And to tell you the truth, neither can I, because it will be an outstanding display. So, that one's going very well.

We had mentioned in the past the chip partner. They're helping us with a number of things in terms of sourcing, but also with helping us with manufacturing partner as well. And we mentioned some new companies coming to us. The one company is very powerful in the space and is interested in – and we're putting scenarios together on a few different displays, AR and VR, and they are also interested in the display that we're building that I had mentioned for that other company, and we asked the other company if it's okay to share. So, we've had another new one come to us that is also interested in a number of displays, and we're putting together scenarios for them.

And I think that this is a very good story. We are hopeful that the display we're building will satisfy a number of customers and the company for whom we're designing that is interested in having others use it. I mentioned one other one because there's another company that is building a headset with our 2Kx2K display, which is important to us because we already make it.

Okay. So, with these inquiries, are there any NRE dollars associated?

Yeah. Well, if we do design a new display, there would be, yes.

But at the inquiry level, no.

Well, no...

It's just still negotiations.

Yeah. Negotiations, we're putting together scenarios for the new guys that say, here's what this display looks like, here's the cost, here are the features. And if they take the one we're already designing, that's fine. If they take a new one, we have to build it or design it, so that would be NRE.

Okay. And last question for me just on the fixed wing development there, the display that you need meets the specs or the display that you need to meet the specs is designed and built. It's just a matter of the integration process, correct?

Yeah, we did design a special display for this. And the OLED is monochrome green. And you might recall in the past that 17,000 to 24,000 nits, and even at that, so it's very high brightness. Your Apple phone is 500 nits. Even at that very high brightness, the contrast ratio is enormous. That's why LCD can't compete, and that's why other OLED manufacturers cannot compete with us. So, the display is designed and what it's doing is going through qualification. And we're putting it in a very expensive airline – airplane, not airline, airplane – and therefore, the qualification is a long process. But we're on schedule to sell more displays to them, go through the second stage, and this will be ramping up and displays, it's actually what's in there for the other company.

Okay. Could you just give us a hint on the timeline there? Do you think qualifications finish this summer and you start shipping volume this year or...

End of the year is more likely and, therefore, next year, too.

Okay. So, next year would be...

The real volumes – Kevin, I'm sorry. The real volumes we're going to start seeing would probably be in 2019, particularly in the second half of 2019.

Yeah.

Oh, okay. Fair enough. Thank you, gentlemen.

Sure.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Sculley for any closing remarks.

So, I just wanted to say thank you for everyone for being on the phone and thank you for the questions. This is a very exciting time for us. And it's exciting because of the success we've seen in designing that new display, other companies coming to us and liking what the specs of this new display in terms of the brightness, the size, et cetera. And the manufacturing partners, additional ones, coming to us and talking to us is couldn't be better. The other thing is internally. In terms of the operations, that's going very well. And the eMagin team is, as usual, working like mad to get things done. So, I want to thank the eMagin team as well.

Thank you all.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.