corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 eMagin


Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Stacy, and I’ll be your conference moderator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer


session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference


call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today to Mr. Paul Campbell, CFO. Please


proceed.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks very much, Stacy.


Welcome everyone to eMagin Corporation’s first quarter 2011 conference call. Before we begin I’ll


remind that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our 10-Q for the first quarter of 2011


ended March 31st 2011. During today’s call we may make forward-looking statements as they are


defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements


are based on the company’s current expectations, projections, beliefs, and estimates and are


subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include: reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources, as well as statements about containing words like believes, expects, estimate,


plan, target, will, intend, could and other similar expressions. Risk factors are included in the


company’s form 10-K for 2009 and 2010 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Except if it’s directly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly


update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future


events, changes in circumstances, or any other reasons.


At this point, I would now like to turn the call over to Andrew Sculley, President and CEO.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul, and thanks everyone for participating in our conference call.


I’ll start with a snapshot of our business and then Paul will take you through our financial results,


following that I’ll have few additional comments then we’ll open up the call for questions.


The first quarter of 2011 was a challenging period for the company as we continue to address


production issues that impacted our revenue. Our team showed an outstanding effort and these


production issues have been addressed. We use 24 hours per day and weekend work so that we


could catch up on shipments, restore our production schedule and improve our yield. While we are


obviously disappointed to have reported a loss for the quarter, we expect to return to profitability for


the second quarter and anticipate further improvements going forward.


Our business remains robust and we continue to win new contracts and are pursuing others. For


example, we’re moving ahead with a project that involves productization of the WUXGA display. By


staying on the cutting edge of innovation and next generation technology, we have participated –


positioned ourselves as the partner of choice for the industry’s high resolution, low power/high


contrast microdisplays.
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Both our VGA OLED-XL and a monochrome WUXGA prototype OLED-XL were well received at the


recent SPIE Defense Security and Sensing Conference and Exposition. We demonstrated our new


15-micron pixel VGA OLED microdisplay, which combines a voltage drive pixel approach with


eMagin’s True Black technology to provide a 0.5 inch diagonal display. The monochrome version


uses less than 60 milliwatts of power. This is less than half the requirement for the eMagin’s


successful SVGA+ OLED-XL microdisplay. The VGA produces sharp images at contrast ratios of


about 100,000:1.


We will be showing a color WUXGA display at SID or Society of Information Display’s next week.


This show attracts all of the display companies and their customers. The WUXGA has a 1920 x


1200 pixels resolution which is higher resolution than a full HDTV. This display has the smallest


color sub pixel pitch of any display we know less than 3.2 microns. Earlier this week a number of


eMagin Board members including retired General Seay saw the display; they were all very


impressed, especially General Seay who knows the military applications well. I know this is


uncharacteristic of me to use non-technical language but this is a beautiful display.


As part of our funded research we are working on even smaller sub-pixels. This will have – our


work will have a sub-pixel of under 3 microns. One other benefit to this additional work is it will


result in a smaller display and therefore lower manufacturing cost. The military’s interest in our


proprietary display technology has not diminished. We have agreement on a statement of work for


a project with a new military agency and are working on a proposal with yet another. These are in


addition to the work we’re doing with TATRC and Night Vision Labs.


We’re also working on proposals with new vendors that do not use our display. Thus we remain


excited and optimistic about the future. Our R&D initiatives and custom development of


microdisplays have further strengthened our market leadership position. We expect contract


revenues to rise although uncertainty in funding from the U.S. government may push some funding


for new programs into next year. Currently there are several programs where we are a favorite


display and we believe our product will be incorporated into the proposal submitted by a number of


military contractors. We think this bodes well for future demand and gives us comfort that we have


a strong pipeline of business. We continue to build a strong pipeline of business that will positively


impact the company’s financial results in future periods.


As you may recall, we are supplying the display beam combiner assemblies that include eMagin’s


OLED XL microdisplays to ITT. ITT’s night vision and imaging business unit is moving into the next


phase of competition to supply the army with an enhanced night vision goggle. If awarded, this


contract has a potential value of $15.2 million to eMagin. This would result in revenue over the next


12 to 18 months with the bulk of the revenue contribution occurring in the three years following, a


typical timeframe under military contracts. It’s noteworthy that eMagin’s microdisplay components


are being used by two of the three other military contractors still in contention for additional


Enhanced Night Vision Goggle contracts. Excluding the aforementioned subcontract already


awarded to eMagin by ITT, these two awards have an additional potential value of $7.6 million and


$5.5 million respectively to the company.


We have won new development contracts worth $1.3 million in this past quarter. eMagin supplies


its high resolution OLED microdisplays to customers in 32 countries outside the U.S. and has a


strong foothold in some of the most modern military programs in the world, in countries such as


France for their FELIN program, Israel, United Kingdom and Germany. Soldier modernization


programs of nations that are developing militarily as well as economically also represent a new


frontier of growth for eMagin. For example, we expect to benefit from the upside of soldier


modernization in growth markets such as Turkey and hope to win new business in countries such


as India, which are expected to allocate significant dollars to the upgrading of their militaries and


soldier modernization programs in the next decade.