corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2009 eMagin


Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Keisha and I will be your operator for today. At


this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Paul Campbell, CFO of eMagin. Please proceed sir.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Keisha. Welcome to eMagin Corporation’s first quarter 2009 conference call.


Before we begin, I would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part


of our 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and that during today’s call we may make


forward-looking statements as they are defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations,


projections, beliefs and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources, as well as statements containing words like believes, expects, estimate, plan,


anticipate, target, will, intend, seek, could, would and other similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company’s Form 10-K report for 2008 on file with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake


no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new


information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reason.


I would now like to introduce Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you all for attending our first quarter conference call. I’m pleased to report that eMagin’s


business continues to gain momentum and post increased revenues and profits. Revenues in the


first quarter 2009 were up 93%, totaling $5.1 million compared to $2.7 million in the first quarter of


last year. Net income totaled $394,000 compared to a loss of $2.7 million last year. This marks our


fourth consecutive quarter of positive operating income and third consecutive quarter of positive net


income. This performance is a direct result of our team’s focus on our core microdisplay


manufacturing business and the progress we are making in sharing with our customers the


advantages of our OLED technology.


Our manufacturing and R&D teams are working together to deliver improved manufacturing


processes, reduce manufacturing decrease – defects and increased yield. The yield increases are


driven – driving our gains in gross margin and net income, and demonstrating that OLED


microdisplays are manufacturable and can be produced profitably.


We are out in the marketplace educating potential customers on the clear advantages of OLED


microdisplays and building a foundation to deliver more design wins and sales in future quarters.


Systems with our OLED microdisplays were exhibited at the recent SPIE Defense, Security, and


Sensing Conference in the booths of premier military suppliers such as Elbit, Intevac, Liteye,
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Oasys, Qioptiq, and Thales. These systems are indicative of the use of our power-efficient


microdisplays in a growing array of demanding commercial and military applications.


And finally, I’m happy to report that eMagin recently solidified its relationship with two key members


of the management team who have contributed significantly to the recent turnaround at eMagin.


Paul Campbell, who has overseen our financial turnaround in an interim capacity, now formally


joins us as our CFO. And my former colleague from Kodak’s OLED Division, Dr. Amal Ghosh, has


renewed his commitment to spearheading our research and development efforts.


Amal has an outstanding capability with OLED displays, and he and I have a long history with


OLED. We were colleagues when I was the General Manager of OLED’s -- of Kodak’s OLED


division. Amal and I worked on a joint venture between Sanyo and Kodak that started in 2001. The


joint venture started up three OLED machines and commercialized the first Active Matrix OLED


display for direct view. Amal is and will continue to be one of the driving forces behind our


technology development.


I look forward to continuing to work with our entire management team. And with that, I’ll turn it back


to Paul to go through the financial results.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Andrew. As Andrew mentioned, our sales team delivered revenues up 93% from first


quarter last year, and revenues for our last four quarters totaled $21.2 million. Last quarter, we


reported that we expected to exceed 2008 full year revenue in 2009 and we are currently ahead of


that pace.


Our manufacturing team’s results continued to improve. Following a scheduled manufacturing line


maintenance in January, yields were at a record high in February and in March. We also produced


a record number of microdisplays in March. This performance resulted in a strong gross margin of


48% in the first quarter 2009, compared to 13% first quarter last year.


Significant yield breakthroughs due to process changes have been incorporated into our ongoing


manufacturing process. And it’s worth highlighting that these breakthroughs were achieved without


manufacturing line equipment upgrades. We believe yields will increase further through additional


process changes and especially with the completion of our planned capital spending program.


Operating expenses for the first quarter 2009 were 1.9 million, down from 2.5 million in first quarter


2008. Lower operating expenses are due to cost reductions implemented by management during


the past year and to more research contract revenues because the expenses related to research


contract work are charged to cost of goods sold.


Net income for the first quarter 2009 totaled 394,000, compared to a loss of 2.7 million first quarter


last year. eMagin was EBITDA-positive by 743,000 in the first quarter 2009 and has delivered over


3.3 million in positive EBITDA in our last four quarters.


We reported last quarter that we retired all of our long-term debt with an equity transaction back in


December. One result of that accomplishment is that our interest payments have decreased


substantially, resulting in increased net income and increased production of cash. We paid $38,000


in interest in the first quarter 2009 compared to 166,000 last quarter. Since December, we have


paid down our line of credit by $1.7 million to just 681,000 and had a cash balance of 2.4 million at


the end of the first quarter 2009.


I’ll now turn it back over to Andrew Sculley to make some additional remarks.