corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies, and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2009 eMagin


Corporation Conference Call. My name is Sharla and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the


end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for


replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Paul Campbell CFO of


eMagin. Please proceed, sir.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Welcome to eMagin Corporation’s fourth quarter and full year 2009 conference call.


Before we begin, I would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part


of our 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and that during today’s call, we may make


forward-looking statements as they are defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations,


projections, beliefs and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.


Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product development


and production, the company’s ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing facilities, future


contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations, liquidity and


capital resources, as well as statements containing words like believes, expects, estimate, plan,


anticipate, target, will, intend, seek, could, would and other similar expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company’s Form 10-K report for 2008 and 2009 on file with the


Securities and Exchange Commission. Except if it’s directly required by federal securities laws, we


undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a


result of new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reason.


I would now like to introduce Andrew Sculley, President and CEO of eMagin Corporation.


Andrew G. Sculley, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Paul, and thanks everyone for attending our conference call. I’m going to begin by


reviewing some of the highlights of our fourth quarter and the year 2009 and then Paul will take you


through our financial results. Following that, I’ll give you an update on how we have advanced the


business and technology and then we’ll open up the call to questions.


I’m pleased to report that eMagin posted record revenues and pre-tax profits in the fourth quarter


as well as its first full year of profitability. The company continues to gain momentum thanks to a


higher customer demand for the company’s proprietary OLED microdisplays, we posted record


sales of $6.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, a 28% gain over the fourth quarter of last year.


And revenues for the full year 2009 were up 27%. Net income in the fourth quarter totaled $1.3


million and more than doubled the net income of $576,000 in the fourth quarter of last year. On the


strength of improved manufacturing yields and higher volumes, this marks the seventh consecutive


quarter of positive operating income and our sixth consecutive quarter of positive net income, an


achievement which is a direct result of our decision in mid 2008 to refocus the business on our core


OLED microdisplay manufacturing as well as our team’s ability to design and manufacture highly


innovative products.
corrected transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMAN
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Now 2009 highlights. 2009 was an excellent year, both financially and in terms of eMagin’s


technical advancement. I would like to begin by highlighting a few examples of recent design wins


achieved as our sales team continues to build awareness in the market regarding the superiority of


OLED microdisplays. We made substantial progress towards development of an ultra-high


resolution 3D capable OLED microdisplay for several applications for Army, medicine and military


simulation and training as well as for broad military and commercial uses. The display is being


designed to be less than one inch in diagonal with over seven million sub-pixels. This delivers


higher resolution than an HDTV.


In the third quarter, we announced the continuation of this project with the U.S. Army’s


Telemedicine and Technology Research Center that’s TATRC for short and $6.4 million in funding


over the next two years. In 2009, display sales represented about 75% of our total revenues. We


continue to attract new business and book strong and steady orders from our core customers. Our


new SXGA displays beginning to gain customer acceptance and looks to have strong future sales


potential. The SXGA has already been incorporated into number of new products such as Rockwell


Collins’ two new SimEye helmet-mounted displays that provide fully immersive simulation and


training, and Intevac Vision Systems’ Night Port, a Digital Image Intensified Night Vision Viewer.


Our SVGA plus OLED microdisplay is a key component in Liteye Systems’ model 750A HMD


display product that has been incorporated into Belgium-based Space Applications Services’


Wearable Augmented Reality program. The lightweight compact prototype device superimposes


text, graphics and video on to an astronaut’s field of view. The displays have been used in the


International Space Station since October and as a result the Liteye 750A is now classified as a


spaceworthy by the European Space Agency. Liteye is also expected to announce two new eMagin


OLED equipped products in April.


Another customer has been awarded a program for Fusion goggle systems for the U.S. Special


Operations Command that utilizes our OLED microdisplays. UK based, Qioptiq unveiled its new


MIRIR family of compact, lightweight, uncooled thermal weapon and surveillance sights targeted at


law enforcement and Homeland Security markets. Equipped with eMagin’s SVGA plus OLED,


Qioptiq’s MIRIR portfolio utilizes the latest low powered, uncooled IR or infrared camera technology


and includes a variety of Qioptiq’s sophisticated thermal weapon sights.


The distribution of eMagin’s total revenue was 57% U.S. and 43% international during 2009. We


believe the breadth of our consumer base, customer base and geographic diversification will


continue to serve the company well in future periods. Our manufacturing and R&D teams have


worked together to deliver improved manufacturing processes that reduced manufacturing defects


and increase yield. The manufacturing improvements can be seen in our increased gross margins


and profitability. Paul will discuss this in greater detail later.


For the third consecutive year, eMagin was recognized as one of the fastest growing technology,


media, telecommunications, life sciences, and clean technology companies in North America by


Deloitte LLP. The company placed 309th on Deloitte’s 2009 Technology Fast 500.


Thank you. I’ll now turn it back over to Paul to go through the financial results.


Paul C. Campbell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Andrew. We had record revenue of 6.7 million in the fourth quarter, was up 28% over the


fourth quarter of last year. And the total revenues for 2009 were 23.8 million, up 27% over the prior


year.


On our call last quarter, we said expected revenue would continue to be strong in quarter four and


exceed last year’s fourth quarter, and indeed it did, we exceeded it by about 26%. Based on our