raw transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patients and welcome to the Fourth


Quarter and FY 2005 eMagin Corp. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Bill and I will be your


coordinator today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only model. However we will conduct


a question and answer session following today’s prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions].


And I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. John Atherly,


Chief Financial Officer.


John Atherly, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. And welcome to eMagin’s Fourth quarter fiscal year 2005 earnings conference call. I


am John Atherly, CFO of the eMagin Corporation and I will be joined by our CEO Gary Jones.


Before we begin, I would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part


of our 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, which will be available through the SEC’s


EDGAR system.


During today’s call, we will make forward-looking statements, as defined in The Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company’s


current expectations, projections, beliefs, and estimates, and are subject to a number of risks and


uncertainties. Such statements include reference, projections of future revenues, plans for product


development and production, the company’s production manufacturing facilities, future contracts


and commercial arrangements, future product benefits and future operations, liquidity and capital


resources, as well as statements containing words like believes, expects, estimates, plans,


anticipate, targets, will, intend, target, plan, seek, could, would, and other similar expressions. Risk


factors are included in the Company's 10K/ST reports from 2004 filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission, Except as historically required by the federal security laws, we undertake


no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of


new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reasons.


I will now turn the call over to Gary.


Gary Jones, Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you John, and welcome to those of you listening the call. During today’s call, we will update


you on the status of our recently completed third quarter financial results. We have made


significant progress in production and sales since our last report. But before John covers this


quarter’s details, I will briefly review the big picture and our overall expectation. For the three


months ended, September 30, 2005, revenue was 1.1 million which was a slight increase from a


year ago and up 69% from last quarter’s results.


During this past quarter, we made significant progress on many fronts. Production is ramping back


up after considerable equipment downtime during the first half of the year. We improved our OLED


fab uptime over 2 times since the first half of the year. These gains involved operator training and


other extensive efforts that are still underway. This quarter marked a major milestone when we


began shipping our first direct-to-consumer product, the Z800 3DVisor which delivers capability


beyond those of almost all current professional simulation headset to even 20 times the price.


Initial production is now ramped to almost a 100 units per day.
raw transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


One of customers Daeyang recently showed for the first time, their planed consumer, product using


our SVGA-3D display at the CEATEC, Consumer Product Trade Show in Japan. This was just last


month. And we look forward to a product launch announcement probably very soon. We have


expanded the number of OEM customers evaluating and integrating products with or using our


displays to over a 170. Market awareness and interest in virtual imaging is building rapidly. In


large part due to the new product and efforts through many trade shows and press publications.


For example, Fortune Small Business ran stories about eMagin in the quarter, highlighting our


OLED displays and their excitement about virtual imaging after using the Z800 as did Forbes


Online.


We were recently featured on CBS and MSNBC and other networks due to efforts extended during


the third quarter. Keeping this awareness growing is important to our success as we open this


emerging market for virtual imaging and virtual reality, VI and VR is what we call them. Expected


announcements very soon about a high profile award earned by the Z800. We began fulfillment of


direct-to-customer – direct-to-consumer orders taken on our e-Commerce side, a channel that we


believe would be the key to Z800 growth and a follow-on product distribution and success scenario.


We completed the design of the new lower cost SVGA-3D-shrink on schedule and our CMOS IC


foundry in Taiwan has processed the first wafers to begin prototyping.


We continue to advance our R&D and furthered our readiness to release new OLED materials on


our displays with even much higher efficiency and luminous light capability. The new OLED


materials that plan for introduction in the near term for customer qualifications is also expected to


permit enhance enhanced OLED deposition rates and thereby increase our production lines


capacity. And we also just recently completed $9 million financing.


As I talk a little bit more about these highlights though, I’d like to give you some perspectives about


where our next opportunity lies and where the display industry especially, in relation to liquid crystal


display or LCDs is positioned. First, as most of you know, there are basically two types of display,


the first being direct view such as computer screens, notebook screens and the like, and the


second being micro-display, which can be projection displays or near-eye displays such as ours


which are magnified with optics to create a large virtual or projected image.


In the worldwide arena of direct view displays, OLEDs are displacing LCDs at high rates with


makers of MP3 players already having switched to OLEDs and many cellphone OEMs have


already switched over their premier product lines to OLEDs. This is happening because of the


much better power efficiency, viewing angle and temperature range of OLEDs, compared to LCDs.


Furthermore, OLEDs have the potential to have a much – very similar base cost structure to LCD


but without the need for added light sources or and would have lower cost interfaces. Therefore,


OLED-based systems can use lower cost batteries or obtain much longer battery life with a given


size battery. This provides a large system level combined performance and cost advantage for


OLEDs.


Given the very low price passive matrix OLEDs do not suffer from the speed and smear [ph]


problems of LCDs. OLEDs are being increasing used for small format medium to low resolution


displays. Higher quality large area polysilicon active connecting matrix or other active matrix


infrastructure has been developing for larger area displays. But the small format displays are still


an high growth area due to the rapidly growing market for handheld displays with high quality


imaging capability.


Our micro displays use even higher speed single crystal silicon and are built with full pixel memory


underneath of every pixel permitting eMagin’s displays to outperform even the large area display.


Through our years of work since the earliest of OLED when we became the first company to ever


commercially set full color or active matrix ourselves – full color or active-matrix OLEDs, eMagin


has developed important intellectual property that can provide advantages to both small and large