raw transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the eMagin Third Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Rachael and I will be your coordinator. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session following


today's prepared remarks. If at any time during the call you do require assistance, please press star


followed by zero and a coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder ladies and gentlemen,


this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


And I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. John Atherly,


Chief Financial Officer.


John Atherly, CFO


Thank you and welcome to eMagin's third quarter of fiscal 2005 earnings conference call. I'm John


Atherly, CFO of eMagin Corporation and I will be joined our CEO, Gary Jones. Before we begin, I


would like to remind all of you that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our 10-Q for the


quarter ended September 30, 2005, which will be available through the SEC's EDGAR system.


During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's


current expectations, projections, beliefs and estimates and are subject to a number of risks and


uncertainties. Such statements include reference projections of future revenues, plans for product


development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production at its manufacturing


facilities, future contracts and commercial arrangements, future product benefits, future operations,


liquidity and capital resources as well as statements containing the words like believes, expects,


estimate, plan, anticipate, target, will, intend, plan, seek, could, would and other similar


expressions.


Risk factors are included in the company's Form 10-K SP report from 2004 filed with the Securities


and Exchange Commission. Except if it's directly required by the federal security laws, we


undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a


result of new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reasons.


I'll now turn the call over to Gary.


Gary Jones, President, CEO


Thank you, John. And welcome to all of those of you listening to the call. During today's call, we'll


update you on the status of our recently completed third quarter financial results. We have made


significant progress in production and sales since our last report, but before John covers this


quarter's details, I will briefly review the big picture and our overall expectations. For the three


months ended September 30, 2005, revenue was 1.1 million, which was a slight increase from a


year ago and up 69% from last quarter's results. During this past quarter, we made significant


progress on many fronts. Production is ramping back up after considerable equipment downtime


during the first half of the year. We improved our OLED fab uptime over two times, since the first


half of the year. These gains involve operator training and other extensive efforts that are still


underway.


This quarter marked a major milestone when we began shipping our first direct-to-consumer


product, the Z800 3DVisor which delivers capabilities beyond those of almost all current
raw transcript


eMagin Corp.
 
EMA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


professional simulation headsets at even the 20 times the price. Initial production is now ramped to


almost 100 units per day. One of our customers, [indiscernible] recently showed for the first time


their planned consumer product using our SVGA 3D display at the CTech [ph] consumer product


tradeshow in Japan. This was just last month. And we look forward to a product launch


announcement from them very soon.


We have expanded a number of OEM customers, evaluating and integrating products with or using


our displays to over a 170. Market awareness and interest in virtual imaging is building rapidly, in


large part due to the new products and efforts through many trade shows and press publications.


For example, Fortune small business ran stories about eMagin this quarter, highlighting our OLED


display and their excitement about virtual imaging after using the Z800, as did Forbes Online. We


were recently featured on CVS, MSNBC and other networks due to efforts extended during the third


quarter. Keeping this awareness growing is important to our success, as we open this emerging


market for virtual imaging and virtual reality, VI and VR it what we call them – expected


announcement very soon about a high-profile award earned by the Z800. We began fulfillment of


direct-to-customer – direct-to-consumer orders taken on our e-commerce site, a channel that we


believe will be the key to Z800 growth and a follow-on product distribution and success scenario.


We completed the design of the new lower cost SVGA-3D shrink on schedule, and our CMOS IC


foundry in Taiwan has processed the first wafers to begin prototyping. We continue to advance our


R&D and furthered our readiness to release new OLED materials on our displays with even much


higher efficiency in luminous light capability. The new OLED materials that's planned for


introduction in the near term for customer qualifications is also expected to permit enhanced OLED


deposition rates and thereby increase our production lines capacity. And we also just recently


completed a $9 million financing.


As I talk a little bit more about these highlights though, I would like to give you some perspective


about where our biggest opportunity lie, and where the display industry, especially in relation to


liquid crystal displays or LCDs is positioned. First, as most of you know, there are basically two


types of displays. The first being, direct view, such as computer screens, notebook screens and the


like. And the second being microdisplays, which can be projection displays or near-eye displays


such as ours, which were magnified with optics to create a large virtual or projected image. In the


worldwide arena of direct view displays, OLEDs are displacing LCDs at high rates with most


makers of MP3 players already having switched to OLEDs and many cellphone OEMs have


already switched over their premier product lines to OLED. This is happening because of the much


better power efficiency, viewing angle, and temperature range of OLEDs compared to LCDs.


Furthermore, OLEDs have the potential to have much – a very similar base cost structure to LCDs,


but without the need for added light sources or – and would have lower cost interfaces. Therefore,


OLED based systems can use lower-powered batteries or obtain much longer battery life with the


given size battery. This provides a large system level combined performance and cost advantage


for OLEDs. Even the very low priced passive matrix OLEDs do not suffer from the speed and


severe problems of LCD. OLEDs are being increasingly used for small-format, medium-to-low


resolution displays. Higher quality large area polysilicon active matrix or other active matrix


infrastructure has been developing for larger area displays. But, the small format displays are still at


high growth area due to the rapidly growing market for handheld displays with high quality imaging


capability. Our microdisplays use even higher speed single crystal silicon and are built with full pixel


memory underneath of every pixel, permitting eMagin's displays to outperform even the large area


display.


Through our years of work, since the earliest days of OLED when we became the first company to


ever commercially set full color or active matrix – full color active matrix OLEDs, eMagin has an


developed important intellectual property that can provide advantages to both small and large area


OLED screens. We just announced winning a Navy contract to further develop encapsulation


technology with an eye for applications of this important OLED technology. For direct view or


flexible displays, this technology has a good fit. We expect this technology to be most valuable to


potential manufacturing partners or possible licensees, even though our business focus will