Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark Koch — Vice President-Finance, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — Chief Executive Officer & Director, eMagin Corp.
Jeffrey P. Lucas — President & Chief Financial Officer, eMagin Corp.
Mike Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the eMagin Corporation Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Koch, Vice President of Finance.

Good morning, everyone. We're very glad to have you join us today for our third quarter 2019 earnings conference call. During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections, and beliefs, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements may include references to projections of future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, the company's ability to reduce its cost structure, future contracts and agreements, product benefits, operations, future financing, liquidity and capital resources, as well as statements containing words like belief, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are in some cases beyond our control. Please refer to our earnings release for the third quarter of 2019 and the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.

We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.

During this call, we will also refer to adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure to provide additional information to investors. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is provided in the press release that we issued this morning. Non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our GAAP financial measures and financial statements.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Andrew Sculley, our CEO.

Thank you, Mark, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call. We are very pleased with our results this quarter which improved on several fronts including yield, throughput and profitability. Our output for the quarter was 50% higher than the second quarter, supported by initiatives such as optimizing production runs, enhanced maintenance support and yield improvement projects. As a result, we are able to ship $7.3 million worth of product and record an operating loss of $400,000 versus a $1.3 million loss in the same quarter last year.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the period was positive by approximately $300,000 versus a negative $600,000 a year ago. Jeff will discuss the operational improvements and cost reduction efforts that have helped us post these much improved results. Then he will provide further details on the third quarter financial highlights. I will then talk about some of our ongoing programs, new opportunities for eMagin and progress on new products. After that we'll open the call for Q&A.

I'll turn the call over to Jeffery Lucas our President and Chief Financial Officer. Jeff?

Thank you, Andrew. As you can see from our release this morning and as Andrew pointed out, we have reported significantly improved operating and financial results this quarter. Our product revenues of over $7.3 million were at the highest level in six years and the second highest in the company's history. We have been targeting cash breakeven run rate by year-end and we achieved cash profitability in the third quarter with adjusted EBITDA positive $263,000.

Operationally, our gross profit improved significantly through the combined efforts of our research and manufacturing engineering teams who working with our operators and technicians drove throughput in yield improvements. Our output this quarter was [ph] 50% (04:59) higher in the second quarter and we were able to build inventory to meet customer requirements, improve delivery times and shorten order lead times. Our on time delivery at the end of this quarter was 96% the highest in several years.

Our production yield was up substantially over the second quarter and had a comparable level to 2018's third quarter, our recent year's high-water mark for the company. This puts us back on track towards the targets we set under our long-term yield improvement initiative and expect production improvements to continue into the fourth quarter as well as we are implementing other actions that we anticipate will further improve yield and throughput.

This improvement in operating performance was due to many factors including daily collaboration between our R&D team and manufacturing engineers to identify and resolve the yield and production issues. The onsite engagement of an operating engineer from one of our OLED deposition tool vendors to work with our people to improve throughput.

Enhancement of our equipment maintenance, including around-the-clock maintenance staffing, and rigorous preventive maintenance practices, and implementation of expense reductions and controls to reduce our overall cost structure, which also lowered R&D and SG&A expenses both the year-over-year basis, as well as sequentially from the second quarter.

As a result of these efforts, operating expenses were 21% lower than the year-ago quarter. Operating expenses, as a percent of sales, declined to 36% in the third quarter compared to 53% a year ago and 57% in the second quarter of 2019. We had taken more cost actions in October, including changes to our senior management compensation structure and negotiating lower fees with service providers, which will be reflected in the current quarter's results. Overall, we anticipate that on an annualized basis, these measures will reduce our expenses by over $2 million.

Turning to our third quarter numbers, total revenue a $7.9 million, an increase of $1 million of the third quarter 2018 and an increase of $2.8 million sequentially from the second quarter 2019; product revenue $7.3 million, an increase of $1.3 million year-over-year and a $2.3 million increase from the second quarter of 2019. The year-over-year increase in product revenue was due to higher customer demand and the ability to meet the demand through higher production volumes from increases in throughput and manufacturing yields.

Contract revenues totaled $600,000 in the third quarter, compared to $800,000 in the third quarter of 2018 as higher military and government-funded contract revenues do not fully offset lower commercial contract revenues. Overall gross margin for the second quarter was 31% and gross profit of $2.5 million, compared to a gross margin of 35% on a gross profit of $2.4 million in the prior year period. The higher gross profit dollars reflects both higher product revenues as well was lower unit costs from the yield improvements and higher production volumes of which fixed production costs are spread.

The lower gross margin percentage however reflects spending and production improvements in a lower allocation of production capacity costs to R&D as a result of the engineering focus during the quarter on production improvements. Operating expenses for the third quarter 2019 including R&D expenses were $2.9 million, as compared to $3.6 million in the third quarter of 2018.

As I mentioned above, operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 36% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 53% in the year ago period. R&D expenses were lower in the third quarter in comparison to the prior-year quarter and the previous quarter, reflecting lower internal R&D activity as we focus on production improvements.

SG&A expenses were lower in the third quarter versus the year-ago period due in part to lower spending on professional services, legal, and travel and other discretionary expenses which were all part of our ongoing cost reduction initiatives.

The lower SG&A does not include the impact of further cost reductions made in October including a reduction in management compensation that are expected to benefit results in the fourth quarter. Operating loss for the third quarter of 2019 was $394,000 versus an operating loss of $1.3 million in the third quarter of last year.

Net loss for the third quarter of 2019 was $315,000 or $0.01 per diluted share. The net loss included other income related to the change in fair value of warrant liability of $120,000. In the third quarter of 2018, the company reported net income of $63,000 inclusive of other income of $1.3 million for the warrant liability revaluation. Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $263,000 versus negative $600,000 a year ago.

As of September 30, 2019 the company had cash and working capital of $2.6 million and $8.5 million respectively in borrowings and availability under our ABL working capital facility of $2 million and $1.2 million, respectively.

With that, I will turn the call back to Andrew.

Thanks, Jeff. Demand for our OLED micro displays continues to be strong. Our backlog of $6.3 million reflects the fulfillment of several sizable orders during the quarter and an approximate $1.1 million reduction from the government's cancellation of the ENVG-III program, as it begins fielding the large ENVG-B program, where we are supplying displays to the two prime contractors on the program. We believe our backlog in the near-term will return to or exceed recent levels as our business development team is currently negotiating a number of large orders.

Let me now highlight a few of our new programs. We won a helicopter program and are currently manufacturing displays with shipments to begin in the fourth quarter. With respect to our medical business, we received initial orders from two new customers in the third quarter and continued to supply Alcon's ophthalmic surgery group in Germany under a long-term contract. Our high brightness, SXGA displays for Alcon are being used in a new cataract operating system. A surgeon using this high resolution OLED image-guided technology can digitally measure and mark the preoperative eye to ensure customized incisions, alignment and lens placement for each patient.

We also have a number of ongoing high-volume military programs that are expected to run for several years. As mentioned above, we are supplying both prime contractors for the ENVG-B program, which is expected to encompass more than 108,000 systems. Additionally, we are receiving orders and supplying OLED micro displays for the F-35 program.

On our website, we have posted an article from Naval Aviation News that appeared over the summer. In that article, it was reported that the improved Generation III helmet, which incorporates our OLED displays, will be fully implemented to the entire F-35 community. I would encourage you to take a look and read it. It is very interesting and highlights how new naval pilots have successfully completed night carrier qualifications using our OLED in the F-35 helmet mounted display systems.

From a new product perspective, there are a few items to highlight. As we noted in the release, we are still on target to reach a brightness of 10,000 nits in full color by the second quarter of 2020. Our three-year goal is a brightness of 25,000 nits in full color, and this is what has been requested by the US military. As part of this effort, we expect to receive some government fundings to support the project.

Also, for the XLE, our newest display, we are planning to have engineering samples for the fourth quarter and to have product qualified by the end of Q1 2020.

Before I turn the call over to the operator for questions-and-answers, I personally want to thank all of our employees for their hardworking collaboration. We are all very pleased with what we have accomplished together this quarter, and are excited with the many new opportunities that our business development people are bringing to the table. Operator?

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Malouf with Craig-Hallum.

Great. Thanks, guys, for taking my questions, and well done on the rebound, pretty dramatic, so it's nice to see.

Thank you, Mike.

I wanted to talk about a couple of things. Well, first off maybe you can give us just a little bit of an update if there is one at all on the consumer product?

Yes. I'll give you a general update on what we're doing on the consumer side. We are in discussions with a number of companies both on the design of a new product and as well as manufacturing. In fact just to give you some feeling for that we had a meeting last week in California on manufacturing and we have two next week, and we have weekly calls with another Tier 1 company on kicking off a design. And the reason these companies come to us is because we have both the capability to design a very high resolution display as you all know we did a 4,000 resolution display and this requires more skill than a simple small display. And we also have the capability to do very high brightness display with our direct patterning technology. And to this date we have not seen anyone else who can duplicate that. And that's one of the reasons why the manufacturing companies talk to us about moving this forward.

So that's where we are there. The other one I think you're asking about is the 4K display. The company asked us to deliver displays in the talking about the first quarter and this is their own item because they're working on something the – their prior generation before the OLED display. The other thing is we've actually taken our direct patterning equipment down for a moment and we have a few more updates that we want to do on it, so it's back to the vendor's location so that we'll be back at the end of the year so that we can start up again.

Okay. Great. That's good to hear. And then just to comment on gross profit, obviously a big improvement there, you know running close to 30% now on the product side. I'm just kind of wondering, as you look out over the next several quarters, where should that trend to?

So we will see if we – if they see a continuation of improvement in terms of the gross margin percentage and the gross profit we expect to continue to increase as well, not only the top line growth but as we make improvements our continued improvements in both our yields and our throughput. So we are actually – we're anticipating getting to the mid-30s and then even moving up from there as part of a long-term yield improvement plan.

Okay. That's great. And then just one final question, when you talk about some of the cost savings you had certainly seen that in the P&L. Particularly on the R&D side, where do you plan to keep that R&D over the next several quarters? It's come down dramatically over the last two quarters?

Yes. So it has come down as we pointed out in the quarter just ended because a lot of our engineering folks were dedicating their efforts working hand-in-hand with our production engineers and our operators and technicians to improve the yields. We do anticipate that the R&D spending is going to return to the more normalized level that we've seen over the past couple of quarters.

Okay, great. Thanks for the help. I appreciate it.

Sure.

Thanks, Mike. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Kevin Dede with H.C. Wainwright.

Good morning, gentlemen, and thanks for taking my call.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning.

So, Andrew, you mentioned your customer in Germany. I'm wondering, if you peel the onion back a little bit on product revenue, can you talk to the mix now? It seems that the commercial side is kicking up a little bit, and I'm just wondering you know I had great numbers coming out this quarter, I'm just wondering if you can tell us a little bit more about how the commercial side and the military side mixed for that?

Well, let me before I [indiscernible] (19:11), let me just give a context to that. You're right. If you take a look at where we were in the third quarter of last year for comparison, roughly 80% of our business was purely military. About 11% was commercial and roughly 10% was a mix of the two. Whereas in the quarter that just ended overall about 60% was purely military. 20% was commercial and 20% was sort of a mix of the two predominantly military.

So you're right, just to put that into context here that there was a large portion. During this quarter of our revenues that were commercial. But bear in mind again that we are enjoying growth in all of our sectors here. So, despite the fact that our percentage mix may have changed a little bit, we are still getting a lot of support and a lot of efforts here and going on both military as well as what's happening in the commercial side.

And I just wanted to add that both military and commercial is very important to us. And that's why we're pushing hard to make sure both of them grow.

Okay. Andrew, you mentioned that you'd expect to see a little government funding on 25,000 nit initiative over the next three years.

Yes. Yes.

How do you see that influencing contract revenue?

Oh, it will be an add to contract revenue. But obviously, other contracts will come off as we complete them. But overall – Kevin, let me just add a little bit of color to that, if I may. In addition to what Andrew just said, I think we're going to start seeing a little more of a ticking up of our engineering revenue or a contract revenue than we've had actually in the past year. I think getting closer to some of the levels that we saw two years ago and even a 1.5 years ago that the engineering – as the funds – or I should say, the engineering contract work increases both to get to the 28,000 nits by the way, as well as for our yield improvement initiatives.

Okay. Just on that thought, Jeff, what other contracts do you see or can you speak to that you see supporting that number? And is it all military?

No, we're obviously working on the consumer side. It's very important for us. And we are working to kick off another design on the consumer side and also to complete the design that we did for the 4K. Both of those are important to us.

Okay. Obviously ENVG-III is gone, but ENVG-B is here to stay. Can you help us think about the pricing on the display in that deal?

We have our eyes very careful what we share about pricing. So we don't mind I'll get them more enhancing and answer that question because obviously we still are doing good. But you know it's that we feel that good pricing and competitive pricing. I'm going to have to leave it at there.

Good and competitive. Okay. I know you talked about having one of your equipment supplier engineers onboard to help you manage through the production improvement process. I'm wondering if that person is no longer there. If and if the fact that that person is gone has benefited your OpEx costs?

Oh, but it's one person and I know [indiscernible] (22:52) consultants, very small.

Okay. Still on board though, Andrew?

Well, was it through you? Person isn't here today, but we're thinking about bringing the existing hose and outstanding help to us.

He was a great resource to us and we have an ongoing relationship with them. And we are right now actually in discussion in terms of the next steps of working with him.

Okay. You'd now – Andrew, in response to Mike's question, you talked about not having a particular production or tool on board, I guess through until later in the year. Can you kind of refresh my memory on that? I apologize for [indiscernible] (23:37) with it.

No problem. That's just a direct patterning tool we had to take back here. You remember we redesigned it so that it was – had numerous improvements and could show the path to mass production. We redesigned it, had it back here, send it back because we had a few other things that we wanted to put into it and we'll be back later this year so that we can start direct patterning again.

And that that's for what your – your bright color displays?

Yeah. Very high brightness color displays, and as Jeff reminded us all, it's really 28,000 nits is the government number. And we do have a path by the way to get to 10,000. We knew exactly what we're going to do, and a path to get the 15,000 after that and then the 28,000. We have that path lined out. And again no one has demonstrated anything close to this in OLED micro displays.

So you're confident you can – you'll get to 28,000 within that three-year timeframe?

Yes. We are, and we're excited to get moving on this. So we want that tool back here. This is an upstanding time for us.

Last question for me. Could you just review the F-35 timeline production timeline again when I mean – I understand you're shipping displays now but clearly it's, it's not full production.

Yeah. Sure. I can talk to that a little bit. So we are continuing to provide them displays for what's called IOC or Initial Operational Capability stage, and we're going to anticipate that those shipments are going to continue into early next year. We are now actually working on the production readiness development mode. And so far our work is actually progressing ahead of plan and that's allowing us to put some schedule compression which the prime is quite pleased about. So that's what we had.

We anticipate production, limited rate initial production for us beginning probably around the fourth quarter of 2020 into the first quarter of 2021. So that's actually progressing quite – that program for us, it's progressing quite nicely.

Okay. And could you just refresh our memory on the quantity that you might see once you go beyond LRIP?

We have not disclosed quantities for this program in the past, but it's sizable, leave it at that. I mean, we're talking you know discussions of OLED 7,000 to 9,000 displays approximately over the you know over the initial life of the project of the program.

Okay. Thank you.

By the way I'm sorry, 7,000 to 9,000, yeah, that's correct. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

Okay. Thank you for entertaining my questions. Much appreciated.

Great, Kevin. Good to talk to you.

Our next question comes from [ph] John Pearson with Retail (26:46).

Hello, Andrew and Jeff. Thanks for taking my call and congratulations on an excellent quarter.

Thank you, [ph] John (26:58).

I'd like to ask about the 4,000 prototypes that you delivered to your customer. I guess I just want to clarify. Were they delivered the prototypes that you had to direct pattern? And can you talk about that the response?

Well, we – there are a few things we have to change in the display itself, i.e., backplane, so the customer asked us to deliver after the direct patterning comes back and we'll be doing that. They have seen and got a chance to be very impressed by the display that we put together for them. So, deliveries would be next year beginning. And remember, it's small volume because that's – it's a small volume effort that we have here.

Did we lose your, John?

No, I lost the connection on that. But I'll relist into your answer later, if I...

Sorry, John. I'm fine.

I don't know what happened there, but anyways, did you mention you would have to read – you would have to wait until your equipment came back before you made those prototypes?

Well, certainly before we do the – what we would like to do is change the design of the backplane a little bit to satisfy a few other things that both the customer and we would like to put in the display. And then we will direct – carefully pattern those. And when we directly pattern, we obviously have to wait for the equipment to come back. The other thing we have to do is, we have to implement those designs with the wafer foundry, and we're waiting for the kick off from the customer on that.

Okay. And this other design that you mentioned, is this with the same customer or is it a different customer?

No, it's different.

Different? Okay.

Yeah. And again, the thing that – first, the 4,000 customer allowed us to show this product to many people at the Society of Information Display last year and it was impressive. And that is why this next design kickoff can happen.

So this different customer has already seen the 4,000 and they must have some different requirements that they need.

Oh, yes. I've learned that everybody has a different requirement.

Okay. Could you talk a little bit about your non-military aviation market? And how are they? Are they shaping up? Are they something to get excited about?

Future certainly, it's small right now but there are companies that are military-focused that also are looking at commercial.

Right. And as a matter of fact, there is one in particular, a large prime with me working with several years and have actually been involved in expanding their efforts on the commercial side as well. So, it's an area that we haven't realized a lot of value at this juncture but it's certainly had a lot of value potential going forward.

And again, it's the same thing that drives us in the military, drives us here too, our displays, our outstanding displays with high brightness, high contrast.

Okay. I think I lost the connection again. Are you guys still there?

Yes. We're here.

Okay. Thanks. Can I ask a little bit about the Soldier System 2030 technology suite, if you have any, any more information? And I guess as part of that I am a little bit confused with – there's the TAR, the IVAS, the SVIT. I'm not sure they're all in – are they all different kind of programs They are – are they different – did they get swallowed up by the IVAS program? Could you talk a little bit about that?

Well, you've got an [indiscernible] (31:41) soup there, the acronyms and the various programs all of which are largely different. We're involved in one capacity or another with those and including talking to many different of the prime contractors for various parts of the 2030 program. So, that's kind of – I think I'll leave it that at this juncture. We may down the [indiscernible] (32:00) have a little more report about that, but that's largely where we are. We're in discussions. We're working with a lot of folks at this point on those programs.

Okay. I guess my last question would be along the lines of funding. You have mentioned in the past that [ph] DTA Title III (32:22) is a possibility and IVAS as a possibility and I was wondering if you could just give us an update on that situation.

Yeah. So we are making progress here. As a matter of fact, our discussions are intensifying. We just had a visit last week from several of the various departments there. So that's moving ahead. We're optimistic. Our feeling is it's not a question going to be a question of if, it's a question of when. And we feel that timeframe is actually sort of compressing a little bit. But we can't speak definitively with how the government works or the timing and threat of challenges with the CR, the Continuing Resolution. So with all the other developments out there which we have no control all we can really say at this point is that we're making great progress in terms of getting a message out there. We're seeing a lot of evidence of support from the various branches and various departments, but we're just not in a position to give an exact time or timeframe of when that's going to happen, but we're still very optimistic about that.

Do you if that – if funding did happen, do you foresee any kind of – would you foresee that equipment coming to your location in New York? Would you actually expand at that location and have a dedicated line or is that – could that be another location or?

Well...

Again, I guess as part of that would that be dedicated to military or would it be also possibly for commercial and consumer displaced manufacturing?

So the place that would make the most sense in terms of where the equipment is would be right here. We have the people, we have the other equipment that it needs to fit into. So it has to be here really. And the lines, the equipment would be dedicated to our customers in total. There are some military programs that of course are defense related and we have to make sure we get them out. But as we improve the manufacturing and increase the capacity due to the throughput, the yield, the issue of being constrained goes away. So we don't have a problem.

Look the primary purpose of it is for military applications. But recognize the fact that given the cost threshold we have here where the more units we produce the lower the unit costs are you know that the opportunity here in the interest in having some availability of the secondary or excess capacity applying for the commercial usage because they're doing that we're going to have higher volumes and that's going to lower our costs and lower the price for everyone including the military.

Is that situation possibly delaying your consumer side manufacturing plants where you're trying to see what's going to happen with military funding or are these totally separate plans?

No, they're really separate. The title funding would implement – would be an addition to the factory here.

All right. Thanks a lot for answering my questions. I appreciate.

Okay. Thank you, John.

As we have no further questions, this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Andrew Sculley for any closing remarks.

I want to thank you, all, for joining us. We're very excited with the effort that the team has put in. We have spurned great or given gotten great creativity for the team and much of the improvement you see is from that creativity. And we're very happy to continue and make improvements in the future as well.

So I just want to add here we are a competitive company, and I want to underscore that we are the only US manufacturer of OLED micro displays, and we recognize the critical role that we play in the military as well as the opportunity that we see in commercial markets. And that's critical because as an example here we had the question about the F-35 program. All F-35 helmets will be migrating over to OLED micro displays. That puts us in a terrific position going forward. And I do want to just sort of echo Andrew's comments about the role everyone here has played. You know our dedicated production folks, production engineers, the R&D engineers who work hand-in-hand to get our yields back and to improve our throughput to meet the growth ahead, our business development team that works closely with our customers and fosters deep relationships with them and all the support folks who keep this place humming.

So on that note, we say thank you very much.

Thank you.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.