Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mark A. Koch — Chief Financial Officer, eMagin Corp.
Andrew George Sculley — Chief Executive Officer & Director, eMagin Corp.
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the eMagin Corporation Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode and we'll open the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your – over to eMagin Corporation's CFO, Mark Koch. Sir, the floor is yours.

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to eMagin's first quarter 2021 conference call. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that in the following comments and in the Q&A session, we will make statements about expected future results, which may be forward-looking statements for purposes of federal securities laws. These statements relate to our current expectations, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and they prove not to be accurate, especially in light of the effects of COVID-19. Actual results may vary materially from these expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and we undertake no obligation to update these disclosures. These forward-looking statements should be considered only in conjunction with the detailed information contained in our SEC filings including the risk factors described in our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K.

During this call, we also refer to adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to provide additional information to investors. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is provided in the press release that we issued this morning. Non-GAAP financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our GAAP financial measures and financial statements.

With that, I will turn the call over to our CEO, Andrew Sculley.

Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. We hope that you, your loved ones and your work colleagues are staying safe. On today's call, I will provide some key takeaways from our quarterly results and provide color regarding our end markets, technological advances and equipment schedule. Mark will then discuss our consolidated results in greater detail.

Our first quarter was characterized by continued strength in our product sales, which offset decreases in certain government contract work. Amid the positive macroeconomic trends of the quarter, we saw signs of recovery and sales across the number of markets that were impacted by the pandemic, along with an overall increase in international sales.

In the first quarter, we continued to supply sole-sourced displays under the Enhanced Night Vision Goggle-Binocular or ENVG-B program, as well as other key military programs worldwide. We are a proud supplier of the microdisplays that provide critical information to our soldiers in the battlefield, and we are still the only manufacturer of OLED microdisplays in the United States. In combat and in training, soldiers value the super-fast response times of our displays, their high brightness and contrast, power efficiency, environmental ruggedness and their thin and light form factor. The soldiers' positive feedback is very important to us.

Bookings in the first quarter represented a number of market segments and geographies. We saw a strong uptick in order activity from our medical and veterinary customers as well as thermal sites for hunting and military applications. We are optimistic that these areas will continue to grow as the pandemic subsides.

Internationally, we saw strong orders across multiple segments. In addition to the growth in existing programs, we saw new program activity in several military helmet mounted display programs, industrial security applications and new hunting scopes. In all, as of March 31, our sales backlog was $10.7 million.

Our ongoing work with NordicNeuroLab is representative of our capabilities across a broad range of industries. As we recently announced, we have a strong relationship with this maker of functional MRI brain imaging applications. They have integrated our WUXGA display for their binocular head-mounted display system, which is designed for near-to-eye applications, to project high-resolution 2D and 3D images to patients undergoing fMRI scanning. Our proprietary OLED technology delivers high brightness, extended life and sharp contrast under all conditions and is ideal for medical applications that require stringent specifications and exacting reliability.

We are making steady progress in developing our Direct Patterning Display or dPd technology and remain on target for a peak luminance of 10,000 candela per meter squared for the high resolution prototypes we're producing for a tier 1 consumer company this year. At the same time, we continue to advance our XLE technology, which will give customers a sizable boost in luminance and/or lifetime over their current eMagin displays. We remain confident that the further improvements in this technology will be manufacturable in volume in the near term.

As a result of the long-term lease we signed last quarter for our Hopewell Junction facility, we have increased our manufacturing footprint by more than 25% and are in the early stages of ordering and installing new equipment funded by the US Department of Defense. As we noted last quarter, we are increasing our engineering head count and with our continued investment in R&D, we're enhancing our technical capabilities as we build for the future.

With that, I'll turn the call over to, Mark, who will discuss our financials.

Thank you, Andrew, and hello everyone. At the outset, I'd like to mention an accounting change in allocating overhead that we made in Q1, which you can read about in our earnings release and 10-Q. With this change, overhead is now fully allocated to products, resulting in an increase in standard cost and inventory values. In Q1, the impact of this change was an increase of approximately $0.9 million in the carrying value of the company's work-in-process and finished goods inventory, with a corresponding decrease in product costs of goods sold.

Turning to our Q1 numbers. Total revenues were $6.8 million compared with $6.7 million reported in the prior year period. Total revenue consists of both product revenue and contract revenue. Product revenues for Q1 were $6.1 million, an increase of $0.5 million from the prior year period. The increase in display revenue for the quarter resulted from higher sales to medical and veterinary customers. Contract revenues were $0.7 million compared with $1.1 million reported in the prior year, reflecting the completion of several government contracts during 2020.

Total gross margin for Q1 was 25% on gross profit of $1.7 million compared with a gross margin of $21% on gross profit of $1.4 million in the prior year period. The increase in gross margins reflect higher product revenues and the impact of a change in overhead allocation partially offset by lower contract revenues compared with the comparable 2020 period.

Operating expenses in Q1 including R&D expenses were $3.7 million compared with $2.8 million in the prior year period. Operating expenses as a the percentage of sales were 54% compared with 41% in the prior year period. The year-over-year increase in R&D expenses was the result of investments related to our dPd technology and the development of the XLE display.

Operating loss for Q1 was $2 million compared with an operating loss of $1.3 million in the prior year period. Results for the current period reflected $2 million gain on the forgiveness of the company's PPP loan. Net loss for the current period also includes a $7.2 million non-cash loss related to the change in fair value of a warrant liability. Therefore, a net loss for the first quarter of 2021 was $7.4 million or $0.10 per share compared with a loss of $1.4 million or $0.03 per share in the prior year period.

Excluding the impact of the change in the fair value of the warrant liability, net loss for the first quarter of 2021 was $0.2 million or zero cents per share versus a net loss of $1.3 million or $0.03 per share in the year ago period. Adjusted EBITDA increased to $0.8 million compared with a negative $0.8 million in the prior year period.

Turning to the balance sheet, as of March 31, 2021 the company had cash and cash equivalents of $10.7 million and working capital of $8.3 million. During the first quarter, the company repaid $1.7 million under its asset based lending or ABL facility and realized proceeds from the exercise of warrants of $5.1 million. Borrowings and availability under the ABL facility were $0.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2021.

In January, the company took delivery of an advanced wafer inspection tool valued at $1.1 million, which was the first equipment to be received under the combined $39.1 million in US government funding to enhance our manufacturing capabilities as the only U.S. provider of OLED microdisplays. We continue to place down payments with vendors that are building the equipment requested under the government funding awards, and the company remains on track with the program's requirements.

With that we will open the call for questions. Operator, please go ahead.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the Q&A portion of today's call. [Operator Instructions] And we do have a question coming from Kevin Dede. Kevin, please announce your affiliation and pose your question.

Good morning, gentlemen. Kevin Dede, H.C. Wainwright. A few questions for you gentlemen. Mark, could we first go over the gross margin discussion. You spoke to better product sales then the change in the overhead allocation, and you mentioned an offset. Given the accounting changed why is it that you don't have to restate the prior year? And I don't know maybe just sort of fill in what the drivers were here and please, I apologize, but if you could just kind of review your prepared remarks for us.

Certainly, Kevin. So this was a change at our method of estimating overhead for to product. So within the accounting world there is changes in estimate, which the requirement is you do it prospectively. You just do it for the current quarter and move forward. Certain other more involved changes to inventory such as going from LIFO to FIFO would require a restatement of prior periods. So with this change involved is just fully allocating our overhead to product whereas in the past for a variety of reasons we were not fully allocating it product and some of that overhead just would drop directly into COGS.

So due to changes in our product mix and moving to more larger, more complex displays, we've just looked at our allocation and we thought it's just more appropriate to move to this full allocation of overhead going forward. So we disclosed the impact with a positive $900,000 – excuse me, positive $900,000 on the first quarter of this year and we basically don't expect we expect to be at a level inventory increase. We're not expecting that to reverse. We're just expecting to get that behind us in Q1 move forward. It also helps us with pricing and just better understanding the cost of our displays. So all-in it's just a move to a more preferable accounting method.

Okay. Thanks Mark. What was – obviously this helped the change – the accounting change in concert with the higher product sales bolstered gross margin but you also mentioned an offset and I missed that.

Well, one of the offsets was in the first quarter of 2020 we're coming off a quarter of very high production, so the COGS were slightly lower in – the product cards were lower because we had produced as volume in the quarter before, we were building a lot for a upcoming order. And then there were also some changes in kind of pricing and product mix in Q1 of 2021 that were slightly adverse. Again, more of just the timing and the mix of products and pricing for various customers.

Okay. Okay. All righty. Maybe help understand the change in the warrant liability and the exercise of the warrants. Was that primarily driven just by the stock price? I just kind of want to understand how that happened.

Yeah. So taking the warrant liability first, so that's a – it's a non-cash liability as we've always disclosed. So that's driven by a rather complicated formula, the Black-Scholes, an option pricing model. The key drivers are the share price and the volatility of our share price, meaning the movement from month-to-month. So again, given the movement in our share price and the elevated – and the higher level at the end of the quarter, both of those drivers serve to move that amount, up considerably. Again, it's a non-cash impact. And it – and that's something that just varies from quarter-to-quarter according to those inputs.

In terms of the proceeds from the warrants, we had a number of investments who had participated in offerings and received warrants at lower exercise price, thought it was in their interest to exercise those, so they spent – they send exercise price to the company to receive the shares due to the increase in the share price. So we received a total of $5.1 million in proceeds from those investors in the first quarter.

Okay. Could you just go through the book of warrants that you have left and a rough average exercise price?

Yeah, one moment Kevin, please. One seconds.

Thanks, Mark.

Sure.

I apologize for the off-ball question, but...

No, yeah. We have [ph] $9.7 million (00:19:11) outstanding with the exercise prices ranging from a low of $0.78 to a high of $2.60 with the majority being in the – with $1.55 to $2 range.

Okay. Thank you. And then another question for you, while I have you, Mark. What was the value of machine, the tool that you had shipped, the inspection tool and is it up and running?

Yeah. I mean, it was $1.1 million. We took it in early January. It is up and running and we're doing various recipes for testing the wafers. It's been very successful for us. The production team is very happy with its performance.

Okay. Then, have you taken the full amount of the – or I guess your lease now accounts for the full amount of space that will accommodate the tools that are coming in the future? Or do you still need more room, I guess is my question.

No, no, that accounts for it – I mean, accounting-wise, we're building out a clean room. It's part of the state, so we – yeah, I mean, again just in terms of some of the accounting the rents will increase slightly probably in the end of May or June when the landlord finishes the work they need to do to get us ready to begin construction on that space.

Okay. So, Andrew, you spoke obviously to the dPd and XLE moving forward.

Yes.

The 10,000 NIT product will be ready for prototype by the end of this calendar year?

Yeah, we would ship prototypes prior to the end of the year and that's on the roadmap with that particular customer.

Right. And that's sort of a consumer and application, right?

Yes.

And if I understand correctly, you have – already have an agreement with a foundry to build that to volume.

Oh, we have an agreement with the foundry, yes.

Okay.

And they're very excited to do that.

Okay. Congratulations on the progress there.

Yeah.

On the XLE...

Yeah.

...could you give us a little bit more of the detail – the spec detail – the technical detail? And you did say an improvement in luminance. I guess I just lost where you were on timing and what you think the applications are.

Okay. Let me just also on the foundry, I just want to make sure, the foundry is the wafer foundry. I just want to make sure that that's clear. They've already given us a number of first batch of wafers that we need to put dp, direct pattern OLED on it. On the XLE, the use of it is in long run, it's a color display white with color filter. It's much higher luminance and therefore better power efficiency when run at the same rate as our current products. And it also has a longer life and is capable of brighter. For example, nominal luminance today – our normal product is about 150 candela per meter squared and this will be 1,500 nominal luminance. And if you go up to maximum it's – both are higher than that. So it's significantly better.

Okay.

And the use case is anything if you have a need for high brightness like day time in a situation awareness, a rifle scope and it's also obviously good for nighttime use as well. So it's one of the great things and OLED microdisplay, we can do both low light levels and high light levels and perform very well.

Okay. Could you guys give us a little insight, $6.1 million in product, obviously up nice year-over-year, but is – I mean you spoke I think more to some of the consumer enterprise applications that you have [indiscernible] (00:24:12). Can you give us some insight of the mix of that $6.1 million, how much was DoD versus not defense?

Okay. And that's product revenue, the $6.1 million is – so about 70% is defense and I just want to make clear that to everybody if you look only at our displays, half – more than half actually are outside the US. So when we say defense, we're not talking about only the United States. Half that revenue is outside of the US. And the rest of that 30% are many, many items. For example, we have hunting scopes. We have numerous medical products and some industrial as well.

Okay. So on medical side I'm not familiar with fMRI and how do you suppose the OLED was a good fit for that application?

Well, first of all, just to let you know we can send you a picture of this because we actually announced it as you know. The patient is looking through a device to see images and then the MRI is looking at the patient's brain to see what's going on. So in this case the images they give the patients sort of make the patients think differently between images. So the OLED, it's got to look as real as possible, and that's why the OLED is important, high contrast, the right brightness, bright lifetime, the display itself is 1920x1200. So it's a high resolution display, and there're two displays, one for each eye, so that they can also see three dimensions. And here the examination is about the brain.

Right. Okay. Okay. So the PPP loan, that – what was the forgiven amount there, Mark, because it looks like there's still some on your balance sheet.

No. No. It's $1.96 million, Kevin.

Okay.

The entire amount was forgiven. We do have a revolving credit, an ABL facility, so it was about $200,000 of debt there.

Okay.

Might be what you were seeing.

Oh! I see. Okay. All right gentlemen. Oh! One last question for you, Andrew. So can you give us an update on the F-35? We haven't heard much on that lately.

Well, as you may recall, we finished the last display design and that was last year, the customer is very happy with it. And just to make you think a little bit about why the display design was very important, this has to run at very low luminance for thermal images and icons at night. And it has to run at very high luminance for daytime. And the helmet would be such that you can actually also set it up so you can see through the aircraft if you look down, you're looking at cameras, et cetera. So, it has to run very bright and very low light situation. And it has to run for a long time, so that lifetime of OLED has to be good and we have designed the display, so that it handles both these situations very well. And the lifetime is what it needs to be and the brightness is what it needs to be. And this is upwards above 25,000 NITs almost to 30,000 NITs in terms of brightness during the day. So we've finished the design. The customer likes it. It's being qualified in the aircraft. And again, we get feedback that says this is very, very good.

Okay. So given that circumstance what do you suppose happens next?

Well, I think it would go into low rate production next and we're waiting for the customer to tell us when that will be.

Okay. If you were to hazard a guess, what would you imagine you would guess, on timing?

I'm not going to give you an advance notice about that, I apologize.

Okay. No problem. I appreciate your candor Andrew as always. Thank you very much for taking my questions gentlemen.

Well, thank you. One other thing, Kevin, the other thing that you did not ask about was the ENVG-B and that's going very well. And as you know we're the sole manufacturer of displays for that. And we often get customer feedback, i.e., the soldiers that that is an outstanding headset. So the display is obviously outstanding as well.

Okay. Thanks for adding that color, Andrew, no pun intended. And thanks again.

Well thank you, Kevin.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions in queue at this time.

Oh! Okay. Thank you. I think that wraps up the call. I'd like to remind everybody that we have three speakers from eMagin coming up on Display Week May 17 through 21. We'll be presenting at Needham on May 19. And we have our annual meeting on June 10, where Andrew will provide an update as well. Thank you, everybody for attending.

Thank you.

Thank you, again, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's conference call and webcast. You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day. Thank you for your participation.