Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey P. Lucas — Chief Financial Officer, eMagin Corp.
Andrew G. Sculley — Chief Executive Officer & President, eMagin Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the eMagin Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Jeffrey Lucas, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, please go ahead.

Thanks. Welcome, everyone. We're glad to have you join us this afternoon for our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call. As always, before we begin, please note that we will be referring to numbers that are part of our quarterly Form 10-K for the full year ended December 31, 2015.

During today's call, we may make forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the company's current expectations, projections, and beliefs and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements include references to projections of future revenues, plans for product development and production, the company's ability to ramp up production, future contracts, product benefits, operations, liquidity and capital resources as well as statements containing words like believe, expect, plan, target, et cetera.

Our risk factors are included in the company's Form 10-K for 2015 once filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except where required by Federal Securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to eMagin's Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Sculley. Andrew?

Thank you, Jeff, and thank you, everyone, for joining us on the conference call. Let me start by saying that 2016 will be an important year for us. In 2015, we advanced our market-leading technology by continuing to produce brighter OLED microdisplays with higher efficiency and actually the highest resolution in the market today for microdisplays. We have a 2,000 x 2,000 resolution microdisplay.

For 2016, our strategic focus will be on advancing our technology, continuing to support our military business and making inroads into the consumer market, all while maintaining a solid balance sheet.

Let me start by talking about our military business, which is core to the company's success and provides funding for the advancement of our superior technology. We currently develop and design displays for international companies and numerous agencies within the U.S. government. Our work on military projects helps us better manage our fixed cost while providing us the R&D funding to supplement our expenditures. This is important to us and will remain a key part of our corporate strategy.

We had a number of major wins in 2015. During the fourth quarter, we booked customer orders for 23 new projects, including a major design win with a European customer with display orders now for over $800,000, a new international order for our Digital SVGA display for a new handheld night vision system. And in fact, if you look at the top 10 bookings in 2015 for these new projects, six of them or I should say six of the bookings – largest bookings were for new projects. So, that bodes well for the future.

In 2015, we had over 30 customers sample our new displays for new products and projects with those new displays or the Digital SVGA. The SXGA096, that's an SXGA with a small pixel pitch of 9.6 microns and the VGA display. Six customers went into production with these new displays in 2015 and that's [ph] passed 00:04:22 for military, were mostly military. And those six customers had a total booking exceeding $1.4 million.

Now, as you know, that our military product runs for many years and switching to different displays requires a new qualification. So for new projects or products that use our displays, this is very good for the future.

So we've seen a high level of interest on our new displays and this speaks to the strength of our displays within the military market. During 2015, we also set the stage for opportunities in this year. We have been working diligently on displays for use in avionic applications. In 2015, we shipped displays samples to government customers, as well as seven other customers and they included our very high brightness Monochrome XLT, we call it Green OLED displays which are capable of 24,000 nits now. The ground you maybe all know this by now, but your cell phone is – if it's an Apple, maybe I shouldn't say that, but it's [ph] rated 00:05:30 at 500 nits. And I should mention that we haven't seen this brightness from other OLED microdisplays.

We've seen 10,000 nits for monochrome green in Europe and China versus our 24,000. And the contrast to these other displays at the very high brightness is also not as good as ours. For example, at a military tradeshow, the European display was 5,000 to 1 contrast at 10,000 nits, our Green XLT display is 50,000:1 at 24,000 nits, so 10 times higher contrast at 2.5 times higher brightness.

And it's important here to remember that the reason we were asked to develop this high brightness technology in the first place by the military was the Navy pilots complained about the contrast when they're landing their planes. So it's very important. It's also important for other things like consumer displays.

We also supplied color ultra-high brightness prototype displays using our direct patterning technology. Here, we've done both full color with direct pattern red, green and blue subpixels in our WUXGA. That's 1920 x 1200 and the two-color direct pattern 2000 x 2000 display for avionics. The customers are excited about this technology.

Now, several versions of our displays have completed military flight testing, all with excellent results. Additional flight testing is ongoing and we have received positive indications that our OLED displays will be selected for production during this calendar year and obviously then the production ramp in the future.

We have a number of other programs that are progressing nicely in 2015. We qualified the SXGA096 with an XLS stack, OLED stack which is 1280 x 1024 resolution display with a 9.6 micron pixel pitch and the XLS OLED structure is rated at 750 nits, so better than your cell phone and much better than our normal displays and anybody else's normal displays for that matter.

This is interesting to a number of customers for new programs in the military. We finalized design requirements for a new full-color 2K x 2K, so 2000 x 2000 display to support a new government program, very unique and very exciting for us. The silicon wafer design began the first part of 2016. And in parallel, we're trying to be efficient for both. In parallel, we're designing a new 2K x 2K for virtual reality use.

We're also doing a new version of the company's WUXGA microdisplay silicon backplane, and this was released for fabrication in November. Initial samples are expected in this quarter – first quarter of 2016. And the improvements were implemented to improve manufacturability as well as some performance characteristics. So we're moving on all fronts here for these displays.

While funding for new programs have been under pressure for the last few years and you just have to look at our R&D funding, for example, over the last few years, we're now seeing encouraging signs of new programs moving forward. And this is also evidenced by the increase in the Department of Defense budget for both 2016 and the proposal for 2017. So we're excited about this.

We continue to deliver OLED microdisplays in support of the Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III program. You'll recall we're on the version 2 program, and that's winding down. Now, we're supplying displays for the qualification of ENVGIII, as it's called. But also, we're supplying displays for a Family of Weapons Sights, that's FWS it's referred to, for the individual program and this is in production, qualification, testing and low rate initial production. So we're in that. We propose display solutions to multiple defense contractors for the [ph] Family of Weapon Sights-Crew Served 00:10:07 program and Sniper program, so we propose for two and we're in the – certainly in the first one.

The combined estimates for ENVG III and the three Family of Weapons Sights variants through 2020 equates to a potential of subcontract awards for displays in excess of 100,000 displays over five years. Now, we believe we're in a good position on all of these contracts. Now, even if we don't get it all, it's a very positive future for us.

We're also submitting proposals in support of Joint Effects Targeting System. That one is easy to remember, JETS, as well as [ph] Laser Targeting Locator Module 00:10:58. And the estimate for award for these programs is greater than 2,700 and 10,000 systems respectively.

So again, we're feeling very good about these military programs. Now, the military programs are very demanding for us with higher standards for performance and reliability, i.e. zero tolerance for failure than what is typical in the commercial marketplace. We also have this huge temperature range and has to work over and work well over that temperature range. We've made great strides in making this technology and developing it for our military customers. And it is effectively raising the bar for microdisplay technology. Technology advances that we pioneered through our military work really sets the standard and expectation also in the consumer marketplace.

The features in today's consumer VR and AR applications will not satisfy the user for a long time. I can give you many examples of the issues. As a novelty, as these new devices begins to wear off, as you know, the consumer will start looking for a higher quality experience. And the manufacturers of the headsets will look for better displays. The features that we have in our OLED technology will enable the next generation of VR and AR products to satisfy these requirements for superior and satisfying experience.

If I look at the OLED technology, it is superior to anything on the market today, and I mean that for microdisplays as well as larger displays. And we have the ability to advance applications of this technology for many end markets as we've shown in the military markets. Recall, we have gone from simple applications like situation awareness in the military and training in simulation, although that last one isn't really simple at times, to advanced devices for the foot soldier and finally, to aviation. This has been a steady progression of technological advancement leading to design wins.

And frankly, I have to guess that we have the largest worldwide military market share today, and we didn't always have that. It's important to realize that the connection between the consumer requirements and direct patterning for aviation. There are a number of consumer companies with whom we've discussed our roadmap and their requirements, although many consumer companies don't ask for military brightness for full color, they do want higher brightness for the augmented reality applications. And that the brightness they want is higher than any other OLED manufacturer can make today. The level of brightness can be met by a direct patterning technology. The military wants over 10,000 nits in full color. However, most consumer companies are below 5,000 nits is good for them, and we've demonstrated over 5,000 nits.

So, where are we on this direct patterning technology? The government-funded program for R&D effort will bring us to manufacturing readiness in 2017. We have made new designs for some of the equipment, and we actually designed equipment and put in it a made direct pattern displays. And now, we've taken a look at how it performs and made new designs, and we're having new tools fabricated right now beginning in this quarter of 2016.

This is important to get the brightness goals with the efficient displays and high throughput capability and that's what these designs are meant to do. Now, the government is funding the R&D effort but we, eMagin, are funding the equipment costs. The government doesn't usually do that. So, that's why we have to have a good balance sheet. All of this equipment incorporates our design effort with the [ph] tooling 00:15:16 manufacturers, which results in additional new valuable IP for eMagin.

Remember, no other company has demonstrated direct patterning at microdisplay pixel sizes, no one. So what application needs this brightness? I think it's important to give you an example and this is a real example, but I thought it would be good to give it to you. So it's a mixed reality example. Now, mixed reality is really an augmented reality device but the term is used to give the reader the impression it's not just a data glass. You remember, the Google was a data glass or some of the sports goggles are data glasses, just your speed, how far you've gone, et cetera. So, the headset or HMD must be small for comfort, like a pair of glasses. Hence, it really has to have of a microdisplay.

The possible used example I want you to imagine you're sitting at a meeting room with some of your colleagues in chairs around the table and a number of empty spaces, all of which you can see through the pair of glasses you're wearing which is the headset. Imagine that some of your colleagues aren't in the room but they have a video camera taking their video and sending it to your headset. So the people not in the room actually appear to you as if they're in chairs around the table.

Now, in a still image, you call this a photoshop image, but this is a video of what the person is doing at that moment. And when you add sound, you have some virtual attendees at your meeting. So what do you need for something like this? And there are a whole bunch of other examples of this technology, but I thought this was an easy one for everyone to get.

So, what is needed for this is you really have to have the image look real. So you need a high resolution with minimal spacing between the subpixels. So, no OLED cellphone display will work here because one is too big for that simple pair of glasses. And also, you get the screen-door effect. An OLED cellphone display today has under 600 pixels per inch and as an example, our WUXGA has over 2,600 pixels per inch. The 2K x 2K is even higher than that, 3,000. You need fast speed because you want the video image to look real and keep up with the voice. Therefore, an OLED is needed, the LCD [ph] won't 00:17:53 do.

Finally, you need brightness to combat the light in the room and also any inefficiency in the optic, it tends – if you have a very small glass-like device on your head, something like a waveguide optic is needed, and that tends to make it inefficient. So I believe there's only one display company that can meet these requirements, and that's us. So we're very excited about this, and we're very excited when we show our roadmap, and the guy on the other side of the table says, yes, I need samples.

So I've attempted to show that we have the military as our base business, and by virtue of that, the best product and process technology in the market today. Now, how are we capitalizing on the superior technology in the consumer market? Well, we're gaining traction in the marketplace as we sell companies our displays for their development programs. They all – everybody who we talk to who has a cellphone display will tell you that there's an issue with the screen-door effect. That's why they ask for our samples.

So we're establishing these beachheads in a number of fronts. And as we increase our penetration into this market by supplying displays, we're really raising the bar by showing the superior features of our displays and capabilities that microdisplays offer versus the lesser products with whom we compete.

We have ongoing discussions with a number of very significant interested parties and [ph] we've had 00:19:32 them already. And in December, we completed a strategic licensing deal in the commercial sector with a display supply as part of the IP agreement. Now, the IP is for the headset we design and our display supply is part of that.

And we also have other discussions. Examples are we have supplied displays to seven Tier 1 companies for testing in their next generation VR or AR headsets. We're supplying samples of our ultra-high brightness WUXGA prototypes for customer to use and design of the next generation HMD. And we're working on a radically new display design for a particular company's HMD effort.

We're in actively discussing volume manufacturing with a number of companies and that is companies that could help us with this volume manufacturing. And that would be taking our technology to a very high volume manufacturing with a partner company.

We expect a number of these efforts to make significant progress during this year. Some require our ultra-high brightness technology which will not be production-ready until 2017. And you'll recall the Man Tech program or Manufacturing Technology program, the goal was to bring us to this technology that we invented to manufacturing readiness by 2017.

As mentioned above, we're talking to potential partners for high volume manufacturing of our displays. Again, to reach the consumer marketplace, we need very high volume. We recognize that as AR and VR become more mainstream, we'll need manufacturing partners to help us meet demand for our microdisplays as we do not have the resources for high-volume production today. Our expertise in the development and design of OLED microdisplay technology and OLED technology in general makes us a desirable partner for mass production. We are well-positioned to pursue our objectives for 2016, including advancing our technology through our funding and our government programs, partnering for high-volume manufacturing and potentially supplying for the consumer market.

We've had no debt, over $9 million in cash on the balance sheet. We're comfortable that in 2016, we will finally begin commercializing our market-leading technology.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff to discuss 2015 financial results in more detail.

Thank you, Andrew. Turning to the company's financial performance, I'll start with the fourth quarter income statement. Revenues for the fourth quarter were $6.7 million, flat year-over-year and up 24% sequentially from the third quarter of this year.

Quarterly product revenue of $5.8 million was up 1% over last year and 17% higher than in the third quarter. Unit volumes for the fourth quarter in comparison to the prior year's quarter were 5% lower, offset by unit pricing about 4% higher. And this is reflecting the shift to a more advanced higher price Digital SVGA or DSVGA, SXGA096 and WUXGA microdisplays.

Quarterly R&D revenue of $965,000 was down 8% from last year and up 25% from the third quarter. Last year's fourth quarter R&D contract revenue reflected a high level of activity on the Man Tech contract and it continues to be the largest contributor to quarterly contract revenues. During the fourth quarter, the company worked in a number of contracts including six major contracts at which one of them was new.

Turning to gross margin, gross margin for the quarter was [ph] 13% 00:23:40 and gross profit of $900,000 compared to 23% and gross profit of $1.5 million in Q4 of last year. Excluding a $1.2 million onetime inventory write-down, the gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2015 would have been 32% and gross profit of $2.1 million. Absent this inventory write-down, this represents an improvement over the third quarter gross margin of 20%. The higher margin in the fourth quarter excluding the write-down reflects the absorption of overhead costs over a higher number of units produced along with greater equipment utilization and [ph] certainly 00:24:20 improved manufacturing yield.

As I noted at the end of 2015, we elected to write down $1.2 million of inventory in connection with a previous contract in which a stop order was placed in 2014 and subsequently cancelled. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we wrote down the value of the inventory to its realizable value, made some projected consumption of the product over the next two years. When or if new programs materialize, this inventory can be utilized. And I do want to underscore here that we did not scrap the inventory, we wrote it down, broke down the value of it.

Now turning to expenses, R&D expenses for the quarter increased by 29% to $1.1 million versus $800,000 in the fourth quarter of 2014 and down sequentially by about $60,000 from the third quarter. The higher expense in comparison to the prior year's quarter reflects the company's continued investment in our leading technology. The decrease from the third quarter is due to the higher level of R&D contract activity during the quarter and accordingly the greater proportion of R&D cost committed to this customer-funded projects.

SG&A expenses for the fourth quarter were $1.9 million, that's a 15% decrease from $2.3 million in the fourth quarter last year, and a 12% decrease sequentially from the third quarter. The year-over-year comparisons benefit from a charge in the prior year for doubtful accounts in connection with a slow-paying customer. The favorable comparison with the third quarter was driven largely by non-recurring severance and litigation-related charges that were incurred in that prior quarter. Overall, the total operating expenses for the fourth quarter saw a slight decrease to $3 million from $3.1 million a year ago and was down approximately $300,000 sequentially from the third quarter.

EBITDA for the quarter excluding non-cash stock compensation charges and non-recurring items was a negative $1.6 million in comparison to a negative $1.1 million in the prior year, and $1.2 million in the third quarter. By the way, the EBITDA for the quarter includes the $1.2 million non-cash charge for the inventory write-down. Operating loss for the fourth quarter increased 31% to $2.1 million from $1.6 million in the fourth quarter last year driven largely by the $1.2 million inventory write-down.

Now, briefly turning to full year 2015 results. Full year 2015 revenues of $25.1 million were approximately $570,000 or 2% lower than 2014. Product revenues of about $21 million were approximately $3.1 million, a 13% lower than 2014. R&D contract revenues, however, of $4.2 million were proximately $2.6 million higher than for 2014. Total revenues for 2015 exceeded the guidance we provided during the third quarter by over $1.1 million.

Full year gross margins were 28% on $7 million gross profit compared to 29% and $7.4 million gross profit in 2014. Exclusive of the fourth quarter inventory write-down, the 2015 gross margin would have been 32%. The gross margin on product sales was helped by the increase in manufacturing overhead absorption over the prior year.

R&D expense for the full year of 2015 decreased by approximately $400,000 or about 10% to $4.1 million. Overall, R&D spend was higher in 2015 than 2014 as the company continues to invest and maintain the technology lead. However, more of the R&D spending was absorbed by the higher volume of contract R&D activity during the year.

Full year SG&A expenses decreased by approximately 14% reflecting lower administrative costs particularly salaries and benefits, offset by higher non-recurring charges for severance and litigation. The stable year-over-year comparisons also benefited from the reversal of an allowance for bad debt, which have been established in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Overall, full year 2015 operating expenses decreased 13% to $11 million from $12.6 million in 2014. The EBITDA for 2015 was a negative $1.5 million, an improvement of $1.4 million over the 2014 EBITDA of negative $2.9 million. Excluding the non-cash charge for the inventory write-down, inventory for the year will be about negative $300,000.

Finally, the 2015 operating loss of $4.1 million, which includes the inventory write-down, represents a $1.2 million improvement over the $5.3 million operating loss in 2014.

Now, taking a look at the balance sheet. At December 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.3 million compared to $6 million at the end of 2014 and we continue to have no outstanding debt. Our quarterly cash level was boosted by the equity raise we completed in December. Additionally, we ended 2015 with significantly higher accounts receivable and unbilled revenue from Q3 driven by the timing of customer shipments and invoicing, further boosting our working capital from the prior quarter.

And finally, regarding our thoughts for 2016. Our base business continues to be sound and our military business continues to be solid. In entering 2016, we are strategically focused on supporting our military business and advancing our presence in the consumer marketplace. As we look ahead, we are encouraged by several factors including growth in Department of Defense budget for 2016 and 2017 after several years of flat-to-down spending.

In our commercial business, we are encouraged by the level of interest from well-recognized entities with whom we are in conversations. Additionally, we are actively meeting with potential partners for high volume manufacturing to help us meet expected demand for commercial applications of our displays. In 2016, to speak to what Andrew mentioned before, we are looking to achieve several key milestones to drive sustainable shareholder value including keeping the momentum going on in the partner front and remaining focused on our path back to profitability from our existing products and services business.

We expect to make progress on our business development efforts while achieving stable revenue performance over the short term. Overall, we are very excited about the year ahead as we look to build on the momentum we have established to drive shareholder value in 2016. Finally, we are working steadily to advance technology and anticipate the launch of new consumer and military products this year.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Andrew for any additional comments.

Well, thank you very much again, everyone. What I'll do now is open the call up for questions, and after that, maybe I'll do more comments as well. So, operator, can we have the list of questions? [Operator Instructions]

And our first question today comes from [ph] Dennis Van Zelfden 00:32:09 from Brazos Research. Please go ahead with your question.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Hi, [ph] Dennis 00:32:16 .

Hi, [ph] Dennis 00:32:16.

Hi. I was – a couple of clarifications to start off here. Regarding your IP licensing agreement, does that cover the current 2K x 2K product? I mean is the product finished being developed?

Yes. Thank you very much. Just to make sure that the license actually is – the IP is the headset IP. So we're not licensing a consumer company for the display technology. That's ours. And the display that they want is a full color, of course, that has that high resolution and has the size that our 2K x 2K does.

Now, what we're doing, remember I mentioned in my part of the talk, that we're designing a new 2K x 2K for a military program but we're also in parallel doing the same thing for the consumer. And we had two choices here. We did produce 2K x 2K with a PenTile-type architecture. And that just so everybody on the phone knows, that's what Samsung does for their cell phones. It's one pixel is green and blue, the next one is green and red, next one is green and blue. And we could do that with the original 2K by 2K. But we thought it's much better to let's move ahead and design the full three color, so every pixel is red, green and blue. So that's what we're doing. And the timeframe for this design meets the timeframe of the need of the company. Remember the company with our headset IP would have to design whatever headset they're doing, they're using our IP to do that. So they're not [ph] competing 00:34:02.

And again, they're using your IP for the headset and your current 2K by 2K display will go in that headset?

No. Actually, the new one will.

The new one.

What they – yeah, that's much better. I'd rather have – I don't want to copy Samsung cell phone of that red, green, red, blue. That's really not as good. Only the green is. It would be 2K by 2K. The others would be 1K by 2K. That's not as good. So the headset – the part of the IP deal says they will – we'll supply them displays and they want to – they rather have a full color as well, three color.

Okay. So any potential revenue from the displays that would go into the headset IP or even a new headset IP, it's quite a ways away like not this year, correct?

Well, that's not quite true. And in terms of that, they're designing a headset, right, and we're designing new displays. We'll have displays out at the end of the year so they can put it in their headset then. I would hazard a guess it will be as fast designing the display as they will be their headset.

Okay. So you're basically saying that the new, improved, enhanced 2K by 2K full color, everything will be in production – could be in production by the end of this year.

Yeah. What would be more accurate is we'll have samples at the end of this year.

Okay.

And then we'll supply companies and they tell us they would like production and we'll go into production.

Okay. One last quick question here.

Of course, no problem.

Correct me if I'm wrong. But I think it was a goal of yours is to build inventory of products in order to be able to have much longer production runs going forward. One, is that correct? And two, has that initiative been started yet?

Yeah. Actually yes, it is correct. And just so everybody on the phone knows because Jeff over here might not want to build the inventory but the idea here is that when you – it doesn't matter which OLED tool we're talking about. When you stop and change something, the one tool takes two days, the old one. The new one takes really a shift to – changing the masks is easy now but then when you get the tool up and running with the new, since you shut it down for a moment, cooled down the sources, it takes a while to get it running. It may take the rest of the day. So we wanted to stop that and actually we have done very nicely in this first quarter on building the inventory, getting the yields were helping us pretty well.

And part of our goal here was to spend the capital to replace some equipment, and we're doing that. Some of them are small costs, $50,000. And there's one larger cost but nowhere near a new OLED tool, and that's going forward quickly. We're also hiring a few more engineers so that we can get the yields to hit our goal by – through this year and next year.

Let me just add a comment there, just a clarification. Just so – when you look at our 10-K, you're actually going to see that our inventory went down by about $650,000 in the fourth quarter. That's not including the write-down on the inventory because our intent was actually to pare down our inventory. But to what Andrew is speaking to, as we've sub-optimized the formula between longer production runs and better yields on the one hand versus higher working capital on the other, those benefits you're really going to start seeing in the first and second quarters.

Yeah. That's right. What I'm talking about it right now.

Right.

Okay. Thanks, guys. Good luck.

Hey, good memory. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from [indiscernible] 00:38:10 Valley Asset Management. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, Andrew and Jeff. How are you guys doing?

Hi. Hey, Tom.

Good.

So just one more clarification on the licensing deal. The $1 million, was that – did that flow through the P&L in the quarter?

No. No, it has not.

Okay.

So, actually, I mean it hasn't. I mean, as you're going to see, we're going to start seeing the impact of that actually this year. But not – it didn't have any bearing on the fourth quarter.

Okay. So is it recognized ratably somehow?

That's correct. We're still working on it right now in terms of whether our [indiscernible] 00:38:49 to recognize that revenue?

Okay. Got you. All right. Thank you for that. And then, I guess you obviously didn't give revenue guidance for the year which you, as a practice, did in the past under the former CFO. So I'm just wondering can you qualitatively give us some idea if we will see sequential revenue growth as we move through the quarters of 2016.

Yeah. Let me speak to that, and then Andrew, you can add to it [indiscernible] 00:39:28. Yeah, I'm the guy to blame for that, probably. But first of all, it's important that we underscore here that our revenues are solid, and we're entering a year with good momentum. I want to put you at ease there. Our top line is stable, and we're actually seeing opportunities in the military business that could even boost our revenues for this year.

But I do want to just point out why we ask you to change its position or this change in philosophy, and our goal here, just to be clear, is to sort of move away from revenue numbers and to change the focus of our discussion to what we're doing really to drive shareholder value. Now clearly, revenue is one of these.

But the other initiatives in which Andrew, I, the other members of the management team are working are the key elements of that shareholder value. And quite frankly, these are drivers that won't dramatically impact revenue in the first year. So that's kind of the thinking that we had. But as I will point out, again, our revenues are solid and stable and I think we could be looking at a good year.

Anything you want to add to that, Andrew?

Again, there are some uncertainties to the upside, so we don't want to overstep our bound so that's one of [indiscernible] 00:40:37 things in this consumer marketplace.

Okay. Thank you. And then, I guess I was hoping that, I mean you mentioned a couple of design wins in your press release. Is there any additional color that you can give us on any of those design wins? You mentioned several military wins in 2015 and then a new major design win with a European customer and so forth. Can you give us color on those?

Well, in that case, in the press release, I think we talked about two design wins, one was a handheld night vision device, so most likely that's military and one there's another [ph] Asian 00:41:30 one. So that these are military programs, two big ones that are moving forward and it's good that they're international. I mentioned earlier that the French Soldier Modernization Program is winding down. So it's good to get other international companies going up. And the other ones that I did mention is the aviation.

Now that doesn't mean that the aviation will be a big number in 2016, but certainly for the future, we're on it. We've actually again flight tested in a few of these and there are only a few companies that do this sort of thing. And we're getting good feedback. So that plus the new direct pattern displays with very high brightness that we've sampled to military for aviation and frankly, there's another company interested in commercial aviation as well. I think they're all very excited about that. So we should see that in the future as well. Now, that's not to say that, again, it would be a big thing in 2016, but I think it would be a big deal for us in the coming years. Maybe at the end of this year and going out into 2017-2018 These are long-term programs.

Okay. Great. And then one more from me and I'll turn it over. You talked about new equipment and tooling that you're installing that sounded like during the current quarter. When do you expect to have that up and running the way you need it to be?

We actually have a roadmap for this that goes out into 2017. And that roadmap is – what we've done is we sat down and we said, we need a little money. So we raised a little money. And what we've done is said here are issues with both uptime of the equipment and yield and here's the things we have to fix.

Some of them are rather long term, but some of them are immediate. And what we've done is – and I can give you an example, we have the highest tool on the list. So probably the highest, it's about $1 million, a little over that, $1.2 million and that, when that goes down, it's very old. When it goes down, we end up having to substitute a tool for dual use and that does two things.

One is it takes our throughput way down, cuts it in half and it also every time we do this, it affects the yield. It makes the yield terrible. So the tools have been going down in 2015 and enough is enough. So we have to replace it. But that tools are a little big, not another SNU-type size tool and it's going to take us a while. We've got the design. We've got the vendor. We have the roadmap to put it in, but it's going to take us many months to get the tool built and put it in and then get it up and running. The other ones are smaller and faster. And there's one other one that I don't want to talk about because I don't want to give any listeners in France or China any ideas, but the other one will take a little longer.

So do the – are these [ph] interdependent 00:45:07 or can you – each one be installed independently of the others.

Yeah. They're independent. They really are.

Okay. All right. So...

And now...

...So, do you anticipate any disruption of your production as you're working on this?

Well, the only one would be that longer term one that I want to talk about that we got to plan very nicely so that we don't interrupt production. But it's a longer term thing, so you have to worry about that in 2017 not this year.

Okay. All righty. Thanks. I'll turn it over to another questioner. Thanks for your time.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, [indiscernible] 00:45:46 [Operator Instructions]

And ladies and gentlemen, at this time, it's showing no additional questions. I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.

I'd like to, again, thank everyone on the call. Thank you for your questions. This is an exciting time and I know that many of you who have been with us a long time have been waiting for this time for a long time as well. But the VR and AR market is heating up. There was recently a report put out by Goldman Sachs that is very exciting and that's a good firm. So, I'd encourage you all to take a look at that. And that's the kind of thinking that goes into our capacity planning. That's why we're talking to potential partners to make sure we can gear up on time.

We look good in production. We are in the first quarter of this year. We are building the inventory like we said we should and therefore, we're ahead of the curve. And therefore, we're not switching products so rapidly within – we're not switching products within the week. That was our goal that we're doing. The other thing, just to thank everybody. We all have so much to do within this company with working on the consumer, potential consumer companies, keeping the military programs on track, making our new technology work. So everybody in the production, in the R&D, in the people working on the yield, in business development working with customers and the team of management here working on potential partners. It's been an outstanding effort by everyone.

So I want to thank everybody and the people in the administrative group keeping our numbers straight. They've done an absolutely outstanding job as well. I want to thank Jeff, in particular here, for coming on board and really cranking up what it is we need in terms of the financial management and the plan going forward. So I appreciate his help as well.

Well, it's a very exciting time.

It is. So we're looking forward to great news in the close of this current quarter and talking about how the performance is going and where the exciting things are. So thank you very much, and thank you with all of the eMagin team. Outstanding effort is going on in this floor. Okay.

Thank you all.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for attending. Today's conference has now concluded. We do thank you for joining. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.