Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Vice President, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent E. Thielman — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Bill Baldwin — Partner, Baldwin Anthony Securities, Inc.
Bradford A. Evans — SVP, Director of Equity Research, Heartland Advisors, Inc.
Robert H. Johnson — Analyst, Satuit Capital Management LLC
Tom Brashear — Founder & President, Preston Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Second Quarter Conference Call. My name is Lakiba, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, the President and CEO of Encore Wire. Daniel Jones, you may begin.

Yes, ma'am, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Encore Wire. With me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

Continuing the positive trend we saw developing throughout last year, the second quarter was encouraging. Unit volumes were up in all building wire products. We believe our expansion of product offerings to our existing customer base over the last several years has been critical to maintaining or perhaps boosting our market share, as our capital expenditures help to drive increased sales.

As we have repeatedly noted, one of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold, and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period. The spread decreased 9.9% in the second quarter of 2014 versus the second quarter of 2013, while our copper unit volume shipped in the second quarter of 2014 increased 10% versus the second quarter of 2013.

The copper spread contracted as the average price of copper purchased fell 4.4% in the second quarter of 2014 versus the second quarter of 2013, but the average selling price of wire sold fell 6%, as a result of slightly unfavorable pricing discipline in the industry. The same trend was evident on a sequential quarterly comparison, as copper unit sales increased 14.9% or the 6.1% decrease in spreads.

We believe that certain competitors cut prices in the second quarter of 2014 to try to remain competitive with our superior service levels. Although the continued success of our aluminum building wire launch, the increase in copper unit volumes drove earnings per share in the second quarter. The aluminum building wire products grew to 8.9% of net sales in the quarter, driven by a unit sales increase of 28.9% on a sequential quarter basis.

We continue to try to lead or follow industry price increases to achieve profit growth. We produced these results due to our low cost business model and aggressive cost control in all facets of our operations. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field.

We believe our performance is impressive in this economy. We thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have received a copy of our press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet, or you can call Tracy West at 800-962-9473 and we'll be happy to get you a copy.

Before we review financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain SEC's legislation, and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involves certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today. I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties.

Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors, are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now the financials. Net sales for the second quarter ended June 30, 2014 were $307.1 million, compared to $289.5 million during the second quarter of 2013. Copper unit volume, measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 10% in the second quarter of 2014 versus the second quarter of 2013, accounting for most of the increase in net sales dollars.

Aluminum building wire sales also contributed to the increased sales, constituting 8.9% of net sales dollars for the second quarter of 2014 versus 6.6% in the second quarter of 2013. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 6% in the second quarter of 2014 versus the second quarter of 2013, offsetting the increase in sales dollars to some extent.

Net income for the second quarter of 2014 was $10.2 million versus $15.5 million in the second quarter of 2013. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.49 in the second quarter of 2014 versus $0.75 in the second quarter of 2013.

Net sales for the six months ended June 30 of 2014, were $584.3 million compared to $554.8 million during the same period in 2013. Copper unit volume in the six months ended June 30, 2014, increased 9.6% versus the same period in 2013, offset by a 6.2% drop in average sales prices. Aluminum building wire sales contributed to the increased sales, constituting 8.4% of net sales dollars for the six months ended June 30, 2014 versus 6.1% in the six months ended June 30, 2013.

Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2014, was $21 million versus $21.9 million in the same period in 2013. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $1.01 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 versus $1.06 in the same period in 2013. On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the second quarter of 2014 were $307.1 million versus $277.2 million during the first quarter of 2014.

Copper wire unit volume increased 14.9% on a sequential quarter comparison, offset somewhat by a 4.6% decrease in average sales prices. Aluminum building wire sales also contributed to the increased sales, constituting 8.9% of net sales dollars for the second quarter of 2014 versus 7.9% in the first quarter of 2014. Net income for the second quarter of 2014 was $10.2 million versus $10.9 million in the first quarter of 2014. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.49 in the second quarter of 2014 versus $0.52 in the first quarter of 2014.

We continue to maintain our strong balance sheet. We have no long-term debt, and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $19.1 million in cash as of the end of the quarter. We also declared another quarterly cash dividend during the past quarter.

You should note that this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please call 888-843-7419, and enter the conference reference number 6194224 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Daniel?

Thank you. As Frank highlighted, Encore performed well in the past quarter. We believe we are well positioned for the future.

Now, Lakiba, we'd like to open it up for questions.

Perfect. Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Okay, and our first question is going to come from Brent Thielman from D.A. Davidson. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. Good morning.

Hey, Brent.

Hi, Brent.

Yeah. I was hoping to dive into the competitive pressure on pricing a little more this quarter. Obviously, you don't want to name specific participants, but was the pressure coming from any potential new entrants or was it sort of existing competitors that you sort of seen this behavior from before?

We've seen the behavior before, out of the one or two of the particular competitors that come to mind. There still is discipline in the market from one or two of the guys that we compete with, and there clearly was some type of motivation that we're not familiar with from a couple of the others that really, without going in too much detail and what have you, but products literally being quoted at or below the price of raw material and labor.

So we have seen it before. Typically, it's not something that lasts. What we've seen in the past is that type of behavior precedes some type of structural change in the industry, either buy, sell, merger, something of that nature, shutdown a plant, what have you. But it really was not something that we thought would happen in the second quarter. Again, business was good, the quote pace was good, the lead time and quote to order was positive. All these typical signs were very positive other than one or two really bad actors. I'd love to go into detail, but I'm not supposed to.

No. That's fine. And did this kind of develop late in the quarter, Daniel, and is it continuing to Q3 or is that pressure sort of subsided at this point?

Well, we saw it mainly, Brent, first part of May into the end of May, there was quite a bit copper volatility within the three months of the quarter. The difference between start to finish didn't end up in COMEX pricing to be a huge gap. But within the three months from low-to-high that was cumulative. There was about a $0.46 per pound change or volatility in COMEX. So I don't think you could tie it to that specifically, but the actions were not consistent with the way costs were moving. I don't know how to rationalize the price-cutting piece.

The good thing is in June, it was pretty consistent from the start of the month to the end. Although in trough month, there was a low of about $3, I believe, a pound of copper. But overall, June was a little more consistent, if you will. And without going into detail again, too much into the third quarter. It seems to have leveled back out somewhat. There's been a couple of price increases, posted, announced, published in typical fashion with the industry. So I think, it's going to be good going forward. I mean, it looks better than the month of May for sure.

Okay, great. And then, I know that the spread is kind of the primary driver here. But were there any other factors that may have had impact on margin this quarter, or was that principally it?

Not really. I mean, the spread really is the story. A pinion spread is equal to be about $0.02 in EPS at the run rate of copper volume that we had in Q2. So, this spread's a big number, obviously. And it's driven from both directions, cost and sale price. We feel like, and I'm very confident that we have a handle on the controllable piece of that, which is the cost side, a little better pricing environment. And again, it doesn't take a whole lot to pop that spread again. So, it clearly for us, is the spread, it wasn't a cost issue.

Okay. And then, just one last one on the volume side, nice to see you're still seeing good solid growth here, and looks to be broad-based. Will those kind of volume trends pretty consistent across the quarter?

Yeah. That was very satisfying to see that April, May and June all three. We had, again, good quote volume. The lead time from quote to order was short, which we like. And again, the pace of business in Q2 was up a little bit. Customers, face-to-face meetings, we were on the road quite a bit, seeing customers pretty much all quarter. And most of the folks that we met with were a little more positive than in the past, and most of the end-users that we met with, if not all, have a pretty good backlog of business going forward. There's some pretty large jobs going on around the country, cranes in the air in most of the major cities, which is always a good sign. And the other piece of that is that we're getting paid on time in the second quarter, which is also good indicator. So, overall, April, May, and June were very consistent and business was good.

That's encouraging. I have to watch you in Q3.

Yes, sir.

Great. Thank you. Okay. And our next question is going to come from Bill Baldwin of the Baldwin Anthony Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Okay. Thank you. Good morning, Daniel. So I don't want to kill a dead horse here, but I thought I'd just throw out and ask you, if you think perhaps higher than comfortable inventory levels with some of these folks maybe could have attributed to some of their actions, since we did have a fairly long winter, and perhaps your inventory levels just – they don't have the financial wherewithal that you do, I'm sure to a large degree. Do you think that played any role in this, Dan, or is it just pure speculation?

It's hard to say. I mean, deliveries from our competitors have been decent, not great, but decent, relatively speaking. So, that certainly could be a piece of it. I really don't know for sure. Again, we did the best we could to get information to maybe rationalize what we're seeing or not seeing, and confirm what we're seeing and hearing. And again, there just really was not a strong overriding business topic, if you will, for the price cutting that we saw.

Yeah.

It wasn't a consistent order level, or it wasn't a consistent geographical situation. It was very random. It was very sporadic. And again, involved a couple of the competitors that we've seen that from in the past. The only, again, business piece that we could maybe tie it to, was some type of management turnover, expectations changed. I don't know, maybe board decisions, parent company decisions, it was really kind of all over the board. It's tough to put our hand on it. I think the speculation of inventory certainly could be a piece of it.

Would you say that the second quarter – let me put it this way. Do you think there is seasonality to the spreads that kind of show up in the second quarter on the low side? I know we've seen that in a few years past, 2012 particularly, and then you see a real strong snapback in the third quarter and fourth quarter?

Yeah, we have. I mean, that's a good point. We've seen that in the past. July is typically a big vacation month domestically, and then August is vacation month in Europe. And so, maybe there's some seasonality to those two factors. But again, business has been good. We're getting paid on time, which is obviously something that we focus on, and I really don't, without it being a clear and evident business decision to do something the nature we saw in the second quarter. We've been doing this quite a while, I don't see what the reason would be going into the third quarter for any reason.

Okay.

We're ready for it, if it happens. But again, we think going forward, it looks good.

Let me change the subject here just briefly, you are obviously having very good execution, good volume, and so forth. I know in previous conference calls, you've indicated that perhaps you had an issue with one or two product lines in the aluminum plant that weren't exactly running the way you wanted them to run. Any update on the status of how that's evolved here in the last quarter?

We currently don't have any major equipment issues whatsoever. The plants are running great. It's hot in the plants. The workforce is doing a great job. The management is doing a great job of controlling the cost side. So, really nothing negative to report there at all, Bill. Looks good.

Very good. Well, good job. Thank you.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. And then our next question is going to come from Brad Evans, out of Heartland Funds. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Hey, Brad. How are you doing?

Good morning.

Doing okay, thanks. How about yourselves?

Good, yes.

Glad to hear you guys aren't making wire for practice.

There you go.

Just I had a few questions, just on the discounting or the little irrationality you saw earlier in the quarter, was it from your competitor that's owned by a large insurance company or is it from your competitor that recently did a larger acquisition and took on a lot of debt?

I don't know. I mean, I do. But I don't want to, into too much detail. No, it's kind of a sketchy area to begin with. But for the most part, it's a couple of guys that for whatever reason, I don't know if they turn your sales reps lose on the fax machine or the phone or whatever, but it's consistent with some of their behavior in the past. And again, I just don't want to get too specific, Brad, but...

I understand, I understand, I appreciate that. Hey, Frank, just in terms of, as the quarter progressed, can you give us any data as to whether the spread in June of 2014, was the spread a positive comparison versus the spread in June of 2013?

We're looking at that right now, Brad. Give me a moment, I'm looking back to 2013, good question, Brad. It was actually down, consistent with what we reported for the quarter.

Okay, but it sounds like, as you said, July is kind of taking a step in the right direction.

We hope so, I mean, again there's a couple of price increases that have been posted, and really that's kind of where we're at. You kind of got to stay ahead. In all of the years if you get, at least you get trends in copper, I think more so lately, we get a bias in copper one way or the other. In the past, as you guys know, copper on the way up, and the bias or trend, whatever it might be, we do very well.

And for whatever reason this time, they were intra-month moves on COMEX, that there was a reaction to a cross reaction. And I'm not sure if a couple of the competitors were looking at one particular report, and felt like they were going to get ahead of the decrease in the value of a pound of copper or what it might be. But just for example, in May, we started the month at $3.02, COMEX, and ended up at around $3.13, $3.15, COMEX. But with that $0.17 of volatility within those months, we had quite a bit of pricing movements.

So, if the price increase is put out the date before or a couple of days before COMEX drops $0.08 or $0.10 during the month, it basically kills that price sheet for whatever reason. In the month of May and June, specifically, we saw a couple of competitors consistent, basically with the theme of this call, that when copper did drop post-price increase announcement, they didn't go back to existing levels, they went back and went a little bit deeper, for whatever reason.

Moving inventory, getting ahead of their speculation on copper going down, maybe they were looking at last month's copper average instead of current month's copper average, which is in this industry, a kiss of death. But again, right when we thought we had a handle on why they would be doing it, conditions would change a little bit. So, we had a week or two where things were fantastic, and a week or two where we're sitting here scratching our head, what are these guys are trying to do? So, because again, the typical signs are there for good business. We're getting paid on time. The volume of quotes for the product that we offer, and the markets that we serve is still good. So, I want to go too deep into July really, but we hadn't seen that so far, we'll see.

Good to hear. Just one last question for Frank, in terms of just for the quarter. What percent of sales were commercial versus residential? And then, could you give us the year-over-year change in volume for those respective categories for the second quarter please?

Sure. At second quarter of 2014, the residential pounds constituted 22.6% of our total pounds, and that is up from 20% last year. And if you're asking what the growth is year-to-year, it's 24%. And I've been cautioning you over the last couple of quarters, be careful with that growth percentage number, because it's coming off as we all know, a real low trough. Our commercial pounds grew over 5% for the year-over-year quarter comparison.

And then, I'm sorry, just last one, let me sneak one more in terms of just for Daniel. I just want to know, what do you see in the copper scrap market in terms of availability? And then, in terms of on the commercial side, do you think you're feeling any of the demand, at this point, on the Gulf Coast, that the large investments are being made on the Gulf Coast in terms of petchem, are you feeling any of that yet? That's it from me then. Thanks.

Yeah, thanks for the questions, Brad. We've seen and visited with customers in tow, some of the job sites that are started. We're participating in some of the pre-order top steps that we'd like to take on some of the larger jobs that are out there, and quite a few medium and small jobs.

The copper scrap question. Again, during the quarter, we saw a little volatility in the scrap. There were weeks where scrap looked decent. We're getting about what we wanted. And then, there were weeks during the same month, where we didn't necessarily get as much as we wanted, but overall for the quarter itself. I wouldn't say that scrap is super tight like it's been in the past, but it wasn't like it was super plentiful either, but it definitely was more available in the second quarter than we saw in the first quarter, no question.

Okay. Good luck in the third quarter, guys. Thanks.

Thank you, Brad, appreciate it.

Thank you. And then our next question is going to come from the Bob Johnson out of Satuit Capital. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Dan, just another shot at a, perhaps exogenous variable, that could have had an influence. It wasn't that many weeks back that there were articles in the financial paper about Chinese banks and the financing of inventories. And specifically, it related in a couple of articles I read to copper. I'm curious whether that conceivably could have been interpreted by some as representing something disruptive that could have implied price weakness in copper. We did see some weakness, and trying to figure out what's going on in China is difficult. But I'm just curious whether that may have had any influence as you look at that equation? And given the rise in copper today, and the fact that you ship on very short notice, your finger on the pulse is still pretty good, and it may well be that those things have receded to the past. So, I'd be interested in any reaction you might have along those lines?

Well, you must have been sitting in on some of our meetings or listening in. We certainly watch that closely. We gave most of the volatility, a swing of $0.17 within the month of COMEX was certainly not justified by the published inventories.

So clearly, the swing in COMEX pricing could be attributed in some part or whole to the Chinese stories. Because if you look at April, May, or June, any one of those three months, again, there was $0.12, $0.17, and $0.17 in order, volatility within the month from high to low. So, that's a lot of volatility within a 30-day period. So, we gave the Chinese inventory questions and articles, credit for the COMEX volatility from one day to the next, or from one week to the next, because we didn't see the swings in the available or published inventories to justify a swing either way.

I think certainly, there has to be some credit given to those stories, as possibly input for the decision-making process on whomever has pricing authority at the couple of competitors that were a little on their own, so to speak. But it's just tough to rationalize from a business standpoint, because again, if its COMEX prices went down $0.07 in a day, because of the Chinese inventory issues, it would come back up the next two days or three days, $0.07 or $0.08, because of the Chinese stories on inventory.

So, we gave it credit on the COMEX volatility. We just had a hard time relating that to a business decision on the price of building wire when business was good. There was no real reason to be cutting prices, when our own customers are asking for service and cost solutions, other than selling price. So, I think you're on to something, Bob. I really do. And we kind of justified it in our own minds, and gave that credit to the COMEX volatility.

Well, thanks for that extra color.

Yes sir.

Thank you. And then our next question is going to come from Tom Brashear out of Preston Capital Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen. Are you getting any read on any basic economic trends in construction from your order flow and your conversations with your customers?

As it relates to some of the articles that we read and some of the data going backwards, it's not always a match in the field. When we're with some of the contractors and end users, with distributors on site, business is good. They've got a backlog. They're finding ample labor to get the job done. And again, they're paying the distributor on time, the distributor is paying us on time for the most part. So, business seems to be and feels like, and we've witnessed the commercial/industrial market looks good.

Again though, I think you can find an article, probably several articles if you want to, to support either conclusion. By that I mean, if you think it's going down, I think you can find an article that says it's going down. And the same for if you feel like it's going up. So, we stick basically to the fundamentals here, and travel quite a bit, and spend time in the field with customers, end users, and try to help supply solutions to immediate issues they have in the field, and for the most part, business is good.

Excellent. Well, appreciate you guys, and respect what you're doing.

Thanks, Tom.

And thank you. And we have no additional questions at this time, Daniel.

Well, we appreciate the questions that we've had, and we certainly appreciate the support. And Lakiba, you've done a fine job and look forward to speaking to you guys after the Q3 announcement. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.