Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent Edward Thielman — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sylvia, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note, that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, Chairman, President, and CEO. Mr. Jones, you may begin.

Thank you, Sylvia. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. As stated, I'm Daniel Jones, the President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire. And with me, this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

We're generally pleased with the first quarter results. The unit volumes were up over the first quarter of last year. Margins, however, declined slightly in both copper and aluminum wire sales. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The copper spread decreased 4.2% in the first quarter of 2016 versus the first quarter of 2015, and 1.2% on a sequential quarter comparison. The copper spread contracted 4.2% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 20.7% in the first quarter of 2016 versus the first quarter of 2015, and the average selling price of wire sold decreased 15.4%. Aluminum spreads were down 0.3%, and 4.0% versus the same respective periods. The margins were off somewhat due to the timing of at least two attempts by the industry to raise prices that were announced just ahead of a week of soft copper commodity prices. As price increase attempts had difficulty gaining traction, and margins dropped slightly, do not necessarily view this as a poor industry discipline, but more a case of unfortunate timing, which happens from time to time. Our discussions with our distributor customers and their contactor customers indicate there is a fairly good outlook for construction projects this year.

Although, we are steering through headwinds generated by concern about the national political landscape and other factors. We continue to strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We have been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us. We believe our performance is impressive in this environment. We thank our employees and associates for the tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our CFO, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review the financial results for the quarter. After the review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have received a copy of press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet, or you can call Karen Wagner at 800-962-9473 and we'll be happy to get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation, and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com

Now the financials. Net sales for the first quarter ended March 31, 2016 were $225.5 million compared to $250.3 million during the first quarter of 2015. Copper unit volume measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 5.2% in the first quarter of 2016 versus the first quarter of 2015. Aluminum unit volume was up 11.6% in the first quarter of 2016 versus the first quarter of 2015. Aluminum building wire sales constituted 10.5% of net sales dollars for the first quarter of 2016 versus 9.4% in the first quarter of 2015. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 15.4% in the first quarter of 2016 versus the first quarter of 2015, driving the decrease in net sales dollars. Copper wire sales prices declined primarily due to the lower price of copper purchased, which declined 20.7% versus the first quarter of 2015.

Net income for the first quarter of 2016 was $8.6 million versus $10.8 million in the first quarter of 2015. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.41 in the first quarter of 2016 versus $0.52 in the first quarter of 2015.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the first quarter of 2016 were $225.5 million versus $250.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2015. Sales dollars decreased due to a 6.8% unit volume decrease of copper building wire sold coupled with a 3.9% decrease in the average selling price per pound of copper wire sold on a sequential quarter comparison.

Copper wire sales followed the price of copper purchased, which declined 5.3%. Net income for the first quarter of 2016 decreased to $8.6 million versus $10.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.41 in the first quarter of 2016 versus $0.53 in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Our balance sheet is very strong. We have no long-term debt, and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $78.6 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter.

I want to remind you that this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of the session. If you wish to hear the tape to replay, please dial 888-843-7419 and enter the reference number 6908494 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and CEO. Daniel?

Thank you. As Frank highlighted, Encore performed well in the past quarter. We believe we're well positioned for the future. And Sylvia, we'll now take questions from the listeners.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman from D. A. Davidson.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, Brent.

Hi, Brent.

Hey. Daniel, I was just interested to hear your comments on kind of the customer feedback about project activity, any more color on what they seemed to be seeing out there and kind of where it's happening?

Yeah. Within the quarter, there was quite a bit of activity starting off the New Year. February slowed a little bit with some weather issues and some volatility in the commodity market that we pointed out. And then, the March seemed to be back to business as usual, unusual for us currently. There is a pretty heavy – the activity on the quote desk is pretty heavy. There's geographic regions that are dealing a little bit better than others. But for the most part, most of the states that you would expect to heavily populated areas we're doing. Several projects each area, there will be colleges expanding, medical buildings, strip malls, more commercial. And then, we also have seen a little uptick in the residential demand. Both areas seemed to be busier. Looking back over 2015, in the first quarter for us in 2016, I don't want to get too far ahead in 2016 yet.

Sure. And so looking at that, kind of 5% growth in unit volume, [ph] fair to say (10:06), that was kind of negatively skewed by February, but January and March might have been stronger than that.

Correct. Great read, yeah.

Okay. And then, on the margins this quarter, obviously the spread is key, but wondering kind of what affects the mix of products you're selling, might be influencing profitability here, [ph] kind of higher and, lower in cables, can you wire any thoughts there? (10:27 -30)

Yeah. It's a great question also. I mean, [ph] especially stuff (10:33), as they're typically as with jobs, there's always French items that would be a non-catalogue-type color combination of something of that nature that comes up, but which is typically better margin. But for the most part, margins were good, the volume is decent, we had a month in a quarter that was a little difficult. There were a three or four reversals of the [ph] bias (11:08) within the month on the cost, and three or four attempts at leading, initiating a price increase. When you have three or four in one month, it's clearly once a week, and there's some structure out in the market that we compete with that prevents that type of movement on a price increase from sustaining itself, unless, the [ph] bias (11:37) turns into somewhat of a trend. That made February very difficult, we had one, two, three – we had four reversals in the month of February alone on Comex and it may be difficult. I mean the real issue with the first quarter was trying to right that pricing model in February and just it wouldn't there, it wasn't going to happen. There is a competitive situation that we deal with. They just don't move their prices that quickly and I don't want to get too dip into that, but they're committed in some way contractually or whatever to allow longer buying at the old price level so to speak and it causes problems when you have a volatile month from a cost standpoint.

Sure, Right. I appreciate that. And then on – Frank on SG&A, a little higher than I guess I had expected, anything unusual, I guess with respect to that 8% increase year-on-year?

We did have an accelerated depreciation on a particular asset in the quarter so that did bump it up by about $900,000.

Okay. Yeah, that covers the difference. Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Brent.

And your next question comes from Michael Conti from Sidoti & Company.

Hi. Good morning.

Hey, Michael.

Hi, Mike.

Just with your aluminum facility, can you just give us an update on its utilization and if there's any room for efficiency improvement on the extended aluminum facility that can maybe move the needle and get margins at a higher than they are now?

Yeah. The utilization number right now depending what the denominator would be, but we're looking at running at about above 60% to 65% currently depending on product mix, and our sales department drives that, and what else we want to take or not take in that sense. And then, from the 65% number, depending on the product mix, it could be plus or minus 5% on net number and there are clear opportunities for us to improve on the cost side. We've made some pretty aggressive changes in that in plant six in the last 30 days, 45 days and starting to see the numbers show up that we would like to see, and it's actually been a good expansion for us.

Sure. Okay. And then with capital spending, I mean, I know, is that something that we should I guess model in that you guys would be more incline to increase the efficiency on your plans on the capital spending side, maybe targeting bottlenecking areas, et cetera?

That's fair to say. We're wrapping up a small building, we're doing a little add-on right now, that's should wrap up, late this summer. And after that occurs, the current intent is to go into a little deeper in some of the equipment that we have, and make changes where we think we need to, and it's something that we're constantly doing. So, I think it makes sense for you to at least have the number in your mind.

Great. Okay. And then just last one, do you have the year-over-year growth for volume ship to the residential and commercial-end market?

Yes. You are talking Q1-to-Q1, Mike?

Yes.

Q1-to-Q1, the residential units were up 4%, and the commercial and industrial on the copper side were up about 26%. And obviously on the aluminum, which is also a commercial and industrial product that was up 11.6%.

Great. Thank you.

You're welcome.

And we have no further questions at this time.

Give it a minute maybe. Well, if there is no more questions, again, we thank you folks for calling in and always appreciate the questions and look forward to catching up after the next quarter. Sylvia, thank you very much.

Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.