Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent Edward Thielman — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Cynthia, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note, that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. You may begin.

Thank you, Cynthia, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I am Daniel Jones, the President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire. With me, this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

We're pleased with the third quarter results, unit volumes bounced back in the third quarter after the rough spring weather we endured in the second quarter. On a sequential quarterly comparison, copper units were up 10.1%, aluminum units were up 20.2%. Margins also improved in both cooper and aluminum wire sales. We continue to execute our strategy of attempting to be an industry pricing leader and believe this contributed to our improved margins during the quarter. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The spread increased 4.5% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the third quarter of 2014 and 3.3% on a sequential quarter comparison. The copper spread expanded 4.5% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 23.1% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the third quarter of 2014. But the average selling price of wire sold decreased only 15.2% as a result of somewhat improved pricing discipline in the industry. The aluminum building wire products grew to 10.5% of net sales in the quarter versus 9.4% in the third quarter of 2014. We continue to strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins.

We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast. We've been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us.

We believe our performance is impressive in this economy. We thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the review, we'll take any questions you may have.

Each of you should have received a copy of Encore's press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet or you can call Karen Wagner, at 800-962-9473 and we'll be glad to get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise all of you that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com

Now the financials. Net sales for the third quarter ended September 30, 2015 were $262.8 million compared to $297.4 million during the third quarter of 2014. Copper unit volume measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 3% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the third quarter of 2014.

Aluminum building wire sales constituted 10.5% of net sales dollars for the third quarter of 2015 versus 9.4% in the third quarter of 2014. Aluminum unit volume was up 2.2% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the third quarter of 2014. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 15.2% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the third quarter of 2014, driving the decrease in net sales dollars.

Copper wire sales prices declined primarily due to lower copper prices, which declined 23.1% versus the third quarter of 2014. Net income for the third quarter of 2015 was $14.5 million versus $11.1 million in the third quarter of 2014. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.70 in the third quarter of 2015 versus $0.53 in the third quarter of 2014.

Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were $766.8 million compared to $881.6 million during the same period in 2014. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 10.7%, while copper unit volumes sold declined 3.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus the nine months ended September 30, 2014.

Copper wire sales prices followed the price of copper purchased, which declined 17.3%. Aluminum building wire sales constituted 9.8% of net sales dollars for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus 8.8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2014.

Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $36.7 million versus $32.1 million in the same period of 2014. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $1.76 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus $1.54 in the same period of 2014.

On a sequential quarterly comparison, net sales for the third quarter of 2015 were $262.8 million versus $253.7 million during the second quarter of 2015. Sales dollars increased due to a 10.1% unit volume increase of copper building wires sold offset by a 7.1% decrease in the average selling price per pound of copper wires sold on a sequential quarter comparison.

Copper wire sales prices followed the price of copper purchased, which declined 11.9%. Net income for the third quarter of 2015 increased to $14.5 million versus $11.4 million in the second quarter of 2015. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.70 in the third quarter of 2015 versus $0.54 in the second quarter of 2015.

Our balance sheet is very strong. We have no long-term debt, and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $58.8 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We also repurchased 92,804 shares of our common stock on the open market for approximately $2.9 million during the quarter. We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter.

This conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please call 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference 5651067 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and CEO. Daniel?

Thank you, Frank. Encore performed well in the past quarter and we believe we're well positioned for the future. Cynthia, we'll now take questions from our listeners.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman. You may begin.

Good morning. Congratulations, great quarter.

Thanks, Brent.

Dan, nice to see that the volumes are obviously back here in good territory and appreciate the sequential improvement. But when you look at it from a year-over-year perspective this quarter, at least relative to some prior periods over the last couple of years, what do you kind of hear from the channel that you think might be still weighing on the industry, getting a little more momentum than what you're currently seeing?

It's not money, Brent. We're hearing really good things on a lot of the larger jobs, larger projects are moving forward. Some of the medium-sized projects in the field are a little slower to get started than what we would have liked and then the small projects are certainly happening, following with the larger projects. But for some reason, in particular markets, geographically, even some of the jobs are being pushed out a little bit. It's not necessarily – we don't see that it's a money issue, it's certainly not an interest rate issue. The money is there. It's more of timing. Maybe some of the hangover from second quarter weather, first quarter weather, I'm not really sure exactly what it might be. But they all tell us confidently that they're going to move forward.

So it's not the larger marquee jobs that everybody knows about, it's not some of the smaller ones that follow. It seems to be more of the middle-sized jobs. And then certainly as inventory is drawn down and with copper coming off of the high end May of, I think it was around $2.89 per pound in May, down to around $2.30 per pound, mid-$2.30s per pound in Q3. When you have that bias or that trend downward with the metal, folks are certainly less anxious to load up on inventories. So it's kind of a combination of both.

Okay. That's helpful. And the last point, do you think you saw destocking more so than what you have expected to see this quarter?

Yeah. A little bit. Some of the guys, I guess the best way to put is our average order size was a little bit less than what we'd have liked it to be based on historical, but it seems to be coming back a little bit. I don't want to get too specific with what we're seeing right now, but the destocking part of it, I'm not even sure that it's that technical, but it certainly is a feel in the market relative to the metal when it's biased or there might be a trend one way or the other. Folks really watch the copper price daily. We even have competitors that put out the price of copper open and the price of copper close each day, which is ridiculous. But it's certainly got a lot of attention that's for sure in the third quarter.

Sure. That's helpful. And then what do you think is kind of behind the better industry pricing discipline, is it that there is just a little more business out there for everyone now or it's something else because it seems like it's generally sustained here for a few quarters now?

Yeah, I think so. I have some thoughts on it for sure. I don't really want to go in too much of that, but we've been – I guess, the best way to answer would be is, yes. There's better discipline, we've got some competitors where there's a little bit of turnover. Sometimes that's good, sometimes that's bad. For the most part, we – in-house opinion here is it's going to be good. There just seems to be more discipline, I mean tightness on different raw material areas forces it on occasion. It may not last through 60 days or 75 days, but in any particular month if one or two of the basic raw materials become tight or there is suspected tightness in the market, it forces discipline, so it's a combination of things. It's not really any one big event, there's a lot of smaller events that kind of add that up to pretty good discipline and actually most recently even we've seen some really decent leadership of the competition, so it's been good.

Great. I'll get back in queue. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Michael Conti. You may begin.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning Mike.

Hey Mike.

Frank, what was the breakdown between commercial and residential spending for this quarter and what was the year-over-year growth?

Are you talking units, Mike?

Yes.

In Q3?

Yes.

The residential constituted exactly 20% of the copper pounds versus obviously 80% for the commercial and industrial. And the residential growth year-over-year in units was 3.5% while the commercial grew at about a 3% pace. So they were very close.

Okay. And then with the sequential increase, did that have any push impact on work that should have been completed in the third quarter, that's now getting pushed to the fourth quarter?

Can you repeat that question Mike? I didn't catch the first part of it.

With the sequential increase in your orders.

Yeah.

Did that have any push impact on work that should have been completed in the third quarter that now is getting pushed back to the fourth quarter from your customers?

There will be some of that, yes. There were some jobs that were held up for different reasons and they continue on and we're making shipments, and whatever, but there is some of that for sure.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, I mean obviously, you guys, had nice growth in the spread for the past couple of quarters here and I'm just curious as to what's it going to take for the spreads to maybe narrow at this point? Is that more of a function of industry pricing discipline or maybe a spike in copper prices which participants can fully digest that price increase quick enough? I mean just any color on that would be great?

Well, I think both of those are obviously to us important. If you get a bias or a trend on the upside from copper it might take – it's a possibility, sure. You could have folks that don't react as quickly as necessary or drag their feet for whatever reason but, again, from the pricing discipline standpoint competitors have been very disciplined in their approach. The jobs are moving along like they're supposed to move along. And what could make the spread narrow? It's really a function of the prices going down and the metal going up in some fashion, either one of those are possibilities. That's not what we're seeing though, we've seen some really good discipline on the pricing side and had very good success with price increases during the quarter that were timely and necessary and I don't see that that's going to change it. It looks as if for various different reasons in the industry things are looking good, they're not great, but they look good.

That's helpful. Then I've been hearing from other companies just regarding labor, I mean is that – has that impacted your volume shipments in any way, shortage in construction labor or lack of drivers or it had maybe impacted capacity on the end-user to accept some of your shipments?

A lot of the folks that we've met with and specifically through the third quarter with end users and customers, labor clearly is an issue. There is meetings to be had on things going forward with labor savings ideas, and as you're familiar with our story pretty well, we've been pretty successful in that area and it clearly is a topic that comes up routinely in the meetings with end users and with our customers as well, not just the installers, but, as you mentioned also, the delivery drivers and just basic labor seems to be pretty tight. And even with us here with some of the growth in different areas that we've had where you might enjoy getting 30 or 40 people to choose from, you're getting 15 or 20 people and train them a little more and work a little harder on employee retention, so it definitely is – labor definitely is an issue, Mike, it's a good point.

Sure. And one last one before I defer to others. Construction is growing, but have you seen any increase in capital spending from competitors to increase capacity or increase their product offerings to benefit greater in the cycle?

Yes and no. I mean some of the guys that we compete with haven't really done a whole lot and then there's a couple that seem to be pretty active. Net effect if it's an actual increase in capacity, I really couldn't tell you specifically...

Pardon for the interruption, this is the operator, [ph] Mike (20:11), are you on this line. [ph] Mike Judge (20:12) [Operator Instructions] All right, at this time, I'm getting no response. I'll place you back in.

...but rationalization of existing production facilities and locations and shipping points and inventories and all of those things are super, super hot topics in meetings and I think it's indicative of the constant battle in our industry to find ways to low your cost and be competitive.

Again, though I don't want to confuse timing with genius, but when you have copper go from a peak in May of about $2.89 a pound, we lost about $0.50 a pound through September on that inventory cost. So there are some things there that could happen from a increasing capacity standpoint, but nothing major. The things that we're hearing are more about taking care of bottlenecks and maybe swapping out some older equipment or an announcement of adding 50,000 square feet or 60,000 square feet if you covered the entire floor with equipment. That's not a significant announcement in our eyes.

Great. Now, that's helpful. I appreciate it.

Thanks, Mike.

And we have no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, Cynthia, thank you for handling the call and thank you for the two guys that spoke up and look forward to seeing you again next call. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.