Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent E. Thielman — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Bill Baldwin — Partner, Baldwin Anthony

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Fourth Quarter Conference Call. My name is Christine, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, President, CEO and Chairman. You may begin.

Thank you, Christine, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones and with me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

The fourth quarter was good from a volume perspective. Aluminum unit volumes were up strongly in the fourth quarter and the full year as we continue to grow that portion of our business. Copper wire units were also up in 2014 versus 2013. The overall construction and building wire markets did not show any significant improvement over last year. Anecdotal information confirms our belief that we're outperforming the industry in volume growth.

Our fourth quarter copper wire unit volume is near the average of the first three quarters. And as we have previously noted, one of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period. The copper wire spread decreased 2.5% in 2014 versus 2013 while our copper unit volume shipped in 2014 increased 3.6% versus 2013.

Copper spreads decreased 5.7% on a sequential quarter comparison. The total year copper spread contracted 2.5% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 5.7% in 2014 versus 2013, driving the average selling price of wire sold down 4.8%. Aluminum spreads were down 8.1% in 2014 versus 2013 as a competitor appears to be cutting prices to make up for poor delivery performance. The aluminum building wire products grew to 8.9% of net sales in 2014, driven by unit sales increase of 34.4% in 2014 versus 2013. The decreased spreads accounted for 92% of the drop in pre-tax income in 2014 versus 2013.

Our new aluminum plant expansion is proceeding on schedule and will begin producing wire in the second quarter and will ramp up through the end of the year. Copper and other commodity prices trended down in 2014, contributing to the margin deterioration we endured in 2014 versus 2013. However, margins can reverse course quickly in this industry. And bear in mind that the copper spread was down only 2.5% year-over-year.

We've seen price cycles before and the national construction forecasts appear upbeat about 2015 with the Dodge Report forecasting double-digit growth in commercial construction. We continue to strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We've been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us. We believe our performance is impressive in this economy. And we thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel.

For our listeners today, if I sound a little froggy, I apologize. I'm fighting off a bit of something that I can't identify but I feel good. In a minute, we'll review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the financial review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have received a copy of our press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet or you can call Karen Wagner at 800-962-9473 and we'll get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain Securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today. I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties.

Also reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including for example, EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors, are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2014 decreased to $285.3 million compared to $293.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2013. Unit volume measured in copper pounds contained in the wire sold increased 2.4% and was offset by 6.3% decrease in the average selling price per copper pounds sold in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus the same period in 2013. Sales prices declined primarily due to lower copper prices which declined 7.9% versus the fourth quarter of 2013.

Aluminum building wire sales continued their growth pattern, constituting 9.2% of net sales dollars for the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 8% in the fourth quarter of 2013. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $5.1 million versus $11.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.24 in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus $0.54 in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014, increased to $1.167 billion compared to $1.158 billion during the same period in 2013. Copper unit volume increased 3.6% in 2014 versus 2013. The volume increase was offset by a 4.8% decrease in the average selling price per copper pound sold in 2014 versus 2013. Sales prices declined primarily due to lower copper prices, which declined 5.7% in 2014 versus 2013.

Aluminum building wire sales continued to grow, constituting 8.9% of net sales dollars in 2014 versus 6.9% in 2013. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2014, was $37.1 million versus $46.9 million in 2013. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $1.78 for the year ended December 31, 2014, versus $2.26 in 2013.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the fourth quarter of 2014 were $285.3 million versus $297.4 million during the third quarter of 2014. Copper unit volume increased 1.4% on a sequential quarter comparison despite the fact that the fourth quarter is generally a slower quarter in the construction and building wire industries.

Net income for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $5.1 million versus $11.1 million in the third quarter of 2014. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.24 in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus $0.53 in the third quarter of 2014.

Our balance sheet continues to be very strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we have $54.7 million in cash at the end of the year. We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter.

We also want to point out that this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please dial 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference number 7201305 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our President, CEO and Chairman. Daniel?

Thank you.

As Frank highlighted, Encore performed well in the past quarter. We believe we're well positioned for the future. And Christine, we'll now take questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Brent Thielman of D.A. Davidson. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, Daniel, Frank.

Good morning, Brent. How are you?

Doing well. Daniel or Frank, in prior quarters you guys talked about some challenges in terms of kind of industry price discipline on the copper side. Have you seen things level off there or are you still encountering some pressure there?

We're trying to stick to the fourth quarter and what have you, but just in general, we ran into some aluminum pricing pressure in the fourth quarter and also some on the copper side. Wasn't a lot of discipline or business credit that you could give to that, but based on folks that we were talking to and common distributors and what have you, it seem to be there was one particular competitor maybe more than one, I guess, but pushing product and so forth, trying to hang on to customers maybe, trying to hang on to something, I'm not real sure exactly what it might have been but it seem to have kind of halfway cleaned itself up.

Okay. So you've seen things resolve themselves here more recently or?

Yeah. In general it's better.

Okay.

I don't want to say too much about Q1 on this call, but yeah, things are better.

Understood. And did you guys see any major changes in terms of customer buying patterns this last quarter that you typically don't see in fourth quarters? I know there is some seasonality to it.

Yeah, it's a great question. We actually did. The volume and intensity – if that's even the right word – but the volume and intensity picked up from a quote standpoint. The quotes themselves, there was a shorter amount of time from quote to purchase order which was good. I think business for us in the fourth quarter was again there was no way to justify that price cutting situation because business was decent. There were several distributors that were active pretty much across the board geographically.

There was some weather issues in some areas that prevented maybe some of the orders to be placed timing wise but overall the feeling was good. There was an intense sense of urgency, if you will, in the sales office as far as quotes and purchase orders. The transportation piece was good. Again from the normal operational standpoint, things were good in Q4. It was just no way to justify. We're always cautious and why and how and whatever we say when it comes to competitors but it was pretty obvious in the fourth quarter for some reason.

Sure. And respecting you don't want to say too much about the current quarter, but just anything you can say in that regard given we've seen some kind of bigger moves in commodity prices since January 1.

Yeah. Obviously, we don't have the trend in copper anymore that we used to many, many years ago. We have more of a bias now from one or two days at a time type deal but less emphasis on the commodity prices so far. It's really more about service levels and value added type stuff. And what things are unique on each particular job and how we can help going forward with someone's stocking patterns to help maybe alleviate some of the anxiety, if you will, about the commodity pricing, so very positive.

Interesting, okay. And then how much incremental spend do you have left on the new aluminum facility?

For the year, we're still thinking we will spend easily $30 million in CapEx and the bulk of that will be in Plant 6, which is the new aluminum expansion for those of you who don't know our nomenclature.

Okay. Thank you so much and good luck, guys.

You bet. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Bill Baldwin of Baldwin Anthony. Please go ahead.

This is Bill Baldwin.

Hey, Bill.

Good morning, gentlemen. The last question got the CapEx for 2015. Can you tell what the CapEx was for 2014, Frank?

Yes. We spent just over $44 million. And again the bulk of that was on the aluminum expansion. All the other stuff was about $14 million of that. So $30 million of it was in Plant 6 in aluminum expansion we're doing.

Looking out beyond the aluminum expansion program, are you all in a position to offer any color on what type of CapEx projects that you're considering or looking at?

We've got some ideas, Bill, nothing though that we're prepared to announce going forward.

Frank, can you tell us what if any impact LIFO had on 2014?

For the quarter or the year?

Both. If you would, please?

Sure. In Q4 of 2014, LIFO was fairly minimal. It was a $2.2 million credit or decrement to cost of sales. And for the year, it was $9.2 million the same way, credit or decrement to cost of sales which would be consistent with what you'd expect in a falling copper commodity price market.

The two things that drive LIFO is price and units on hand. And our units on hand in the copper side did not change a whole lot.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Yes, sir. Bill, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Kerry Rigdon (17:14) of McPherson & Mayberry. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi, Kerry.

Hi, Kerry.

First of all, Daniel congratulations on the Chairman announcement.

Thank you.

Do you have a particular target for aluminum sales as it relates to total sales volume? Is that something that you guys are looking at or is that just, as that ramps up, you're going to see how it fits in?

Right. We do have an in-house number that we look at but again maybe restating this at some point but what we're currently trying to do with the aluminum, the approach for us has not changed. There's significant orders in the marketplace and significant distributors that need the aluminum to go with the copper. Our intent is to not overtake anyone in the aluminum market at all. That's not the intent. The intent is to not lose the copper business.

As we got into the aluminum, may be timing, our performance, a lot of things, I'm sure feed into that, but we clearly underestimated the demand on the aluminum side to be coming from us because we do serve a very narrow and specific market category with the aluminum. Hence, the expansion to the new building, so the actual percentage of sales number, again, it's going to depend really on the copper piece overall but it's not driven solely by just the aluminum as a standalone product.

Terrific. Thank you.

Yes, sir.

Thank you and I'm showing no more questions at this time.

Well, Christine, thank you very much and thank you for the callers that called in and we look forward to speaking to you at the end of the first quarter. Thank you.

Thank you. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.