Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent Edward Thielman — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Bill Baldwin — Partner, Baldwin Anthony Securities, Inc.
Fritz Mowery — President & CIO, Mowery Capital Management, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Karen, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, Chairman and President and CEO. You may begin.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire and with me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

Looking at the third quarter results, there are some key items to note. Unit volumes were up 1% in copper pounds shipped and 4% in aluminum pounds shipped over the third quarter of last year. Margins, however, declined in both copper and aluminum wire sales. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The copper spread decreased 10.3% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015, but increased 1.3% on a sequential quarter comparison. The copper spread contracted 10.3% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 10.9% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015, and the average selling price of wire sold decreased 10.7%.

Bear in mind, the percentage drops on sales are on a higher nominal dollar amount than on purchases and therefore spreads drop on a nominal dollar basis.

Aluminum spreads were down 17.9% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015 and 3.6% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2016. The margin declines were due to the competitive pricing environment in the industry. We've previously noted that the timing of price increases by the industry is critical and announcing price increases just ahead of a week of soft copper commodity prices can result in price increases having difficulty gaining any traction. While this is usually, true there are two other competitive factors currently at work in the market.

One of our larger competitors announced the purchase of a smaller competitor during the quarter. While these industry consolidations generally lead to better industry margin discipline in the long-term, in the short-term, it can lead to erratic pricing if the selling company pumps sales volume into the market pre-sale and dumps remaining inventory post sale. In addition, we believe a different, financially stressed competitor, has been acting erratically in the aluminum wire market. We believe both of these factors have impacted our spreads negatively.

We also took a non-recurring write-down of assets in the quarter that affected EPS by $0.05 per share. Based on discussions with our distributor customers and their contractor customers, we believe there's a good outlook for construction projects for next year, although we are steering through headwinds generated by the concern surrounding political landscape going forward.

We continue to strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We believe our performance is impressive in this economy and environment and thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss the results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review Encore's results for the quarter. After the financial review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have already received a copy of the press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet, or you can call Denis McCarthy at 800-962-9473 and we'll be glad to get you a copy.

Before we review financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation, and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

I refer you each to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now, the financials. Net sales for the third quarter ended September 30, 2016 were $237.2 million compared to $262.8 million during the third quarter of 2015. Copper unit volume measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold increased 1% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015. Aluminum unit volume was up 4% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015.

Aluminum building wire sales constituted 10.6% of net sales dollars for the third quarter of 2016 versus 10.5% in the third quarter of 2015. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 10.7% in the third quarter of 2016 versus the third quarter of 2015, driving the decrease in net sales dollars. Copper wire sales prices declined primarily due to the lower price of copper purchased, which declined 10.9% versus the third quarter of 2015.

Net income for the third quarter of 2016 was $6 million versus $14.5 million in the third quarter of 2015. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.29 in the third quarter of 2016 versus $0.70 in the third quarter of 2015. The third quarter of 2016 includes a non-recurring charge to selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.6 million or $0.05 of net earnings per share, while the third quarter of 2015 included a positive net tax refund of $300,000.

Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were $701.5 million compared to $766.8 million during the same period in 2015. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 14.6%, while copper unit volumes sold increased 6.5% in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 versus the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Copper wire sales prices followed the price of copper purchased, which declined 18%.

Aluminum building wire sales constituted 10.3% of net sales dollars for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 versus 9.8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $22.4 million versus $36.7 million in the same period in 2015. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $1.08 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 versus $1.76 in the same period in 2015.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the third quarter of 2016 were $237.2 million versus $238.8 million during the second quarter of 2016. Sales dollars decreased due to a 2.4% unit volume decrease of copper building wire sold, offset by a 0.9% increase in the average selling price per pound of copper wire sold on a sequential quarter comparison. Copper wire sales prices increased slightly due to an increase of 0.7% in the price of copper purchased.

Net income for the third quarter of 2016 decreased to $6 million versus $7.8 million in the second quarter of 2016. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.29 in the third quarter of 2016 versus $0.38 in the second quarter of 2016.

Our balance sheet remains very strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we have $79.9 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter.

I want to remind you this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of the session. If you wish to hear the tape replay, please call 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference 8140369 and the pound sign, or you can visit our website where we have it posted.

I will now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and CEO. Daniel?

Thank you. As Frank highlighted, we performed well in the past quarter and we believe we're well positioned for the future.

Karen, we'll now take questions from our listeners.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman from D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, Daniel, Frank.

Hey. How are you doing, Brent?

Doing well. Thanks. Hey, Daniel, outside of the two competitive factors you called out here particularly with this quarter, how would you characterize kind of the actions of the rest of the actors in the copper and aluminum sides of the business?

Well, the volatility from a pricing standpoint, you had copper movement within the quarter from, I don't know, $2.21 down to $2.06 within the quarter. You could try to initiate price increases or even follow a price increase on the copper side and it didn't make a whole lot of difference. There was so much chaos in the market during the day – during the week from one quote to the next, it just created a lot of doubt. There wasn't a lot of confidence to go forward from the customers' standpoint. We verified that on several occasions and some of the orders or some of the demand was pushed out, some of the more urgent stuff. You had to take advantage of as quickly as possible. There were orders that we walked away from that were below breakeven and there was orders that we took at lower prices than we wanted to. But within the quarter, it was pretty chaotic. It started a little bit prior to the third quarter just not as substantial. But clearly in the third quarter, the chaos was – had to do with pricing.

Okay. I appreciate that. And then, I'm wondering if you might be able to comment on your past experiences seeing these sorts of situation where [ph] competitor folks are (13:01) gets acquired. How long do you typically see this sort of inventory, I guess, bleed into the market?

We went through in 2002 with General Cable, I think it was 2007 with Essex, and 2009 or 2010 with AIW. And prior to that, I've seen – going back to late 1980s, we saw with Laribee Wire and [ph] a couple and Triangle (13:28) nearly 1996. This is not a new cycle. We used to have may be 20, 25 competitors in the market when I started back in 1989. And today, we're probably down to handful, six or seven or so. But in that vein, and more directly answering your question, it depends on the volume and the structure of the deal. You hear things and see things, and pick up information from different sources. Most of the time, looking back at our earnings history and break it down by quarters, it's usually a done deal, and the following quarter ends up back to whatever normal is for this industry. And in that scenario, if it started at some point in second quarter, and hopefully cleaned itself up in Q3, don't really want to discuss Q4 yet, just kind of want to stay the guard rails and talk about Q3. But, our guys, our sales office, the team around here did a phenomenal job, navigating those issues. We've seen it before. The good thing is, it's temporary. At some point, there won't be enough to go around, and it picks back up. So it's a long answer to your question, but we think it's over. We think the Q3 was the end of it and we'll move forward.

No, that's helpful, Daniel. And then, just lastly, your comments – the feedback from customers has been pretty good, just kind of around next year, but it sounds like the election among the other things is causing some uncertainty. Is that to mean, or should we take it to mean kind of this political landscape's causing customers to hold back on projects today, and things are slipping a little bit to the right until we get some clarity there? How could we kind of think about that?

Yeah, a great question too, Brent. What we're seeing and we just – I just spent some time with the sales guys, sales [ph] team (16:05), with a couple of groups that represent a significant amount of sales volume for us, two different customer groups, and sitting and talking with those guys for few days. Look, everybody is upbeat, everyone's busy. There's projects out in front. We've had phenomenal weather, things are going along great in that fashion, but in that same conversation at some point, someone interjects the election, or Trump or Clinton or in some fashion it comes up and that waters down the conversation a little bit.

We're not seeing it actually delaying orders from that standpoint, it's just – it comes up in the conversation and kind of takes the space of something else that you could talk about. And quite frankly, it's positive. It's almost as if we're talking business, and it's super positive and then the election or something in the news about the candidates starts to take over the conversation a little bit from a negative perspective. That's the reason for the comment.

How much it affects pricing or volume remains to be seen, but for the most part, jobs are already financed, projects are already financed by the time our product enters into the job side. So in that vein, I think things are going relatively well and most customers are upbeat. There seems to be a decent backlog of business with the contractors that we have relationships with and speak to through our distribution partners. And again, though, just the only caveat would be the conversation usually involves the Presidential or the election coming up. So I think business is good. Whether you like it or not, one of them is going to be President it looks like. So I think we're past the almost two years' cycle of campaigning, I'm not sure, why it takes that long. I think we could learn what we've learned about these two in 60 days or 90 days. But we've had two years of this campaigning and it just enters into the conversation and derails it for a little bit.

I appreciate all of that and best of luck this quarter. Thank you.

Thanks, Brent.

Thanks, buddy. I appreciate your support.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Michael Conti with Sidoti. Michael, your line is open.

Hey, good morning.

Hey, Michael.

Mike.

Yeah. Just to follow-up on the construction question. Just want to make sure I'm understanding correctly. So, you're saying that we should not expect an acceleration of volume shipment to service these projects once this election overhang is over. That's the right way to think about it?

I don't know that that's how I'm thinking about it. I understand what you're saying, but in my mind, business is good today. As far as the third quarter goes, sticking to the third quarter call, we had quite a few challenges, but looking forward, business is good. As far as what effect the election's going to have, I think the term you used was acceleration. I don't know how to predict that sitting here today, but I do know that our contractor customers and folks that we've partnered with over the years through distribution have a very healthy backlog of business. They're super busy. There's a lot of activity around projects and discussion of projects going forward. We just don't have a scenario of weather or something that you can throw at that to slow it down. They're only what if again that's come up in conversation has been the election. Now whether or not that accelerates it and doesn't accelerate it, I don't know the answer to that. I just know we're busy, we're getting busier. Our customers are super busy. It's a very positive environment from that standpoint.

Okay. And then aside from a good backlog, are your customers saying anything about capacity constraints on their end or any labor constraints on their end that's maybe limiting the amount of volume that they're going to accept from you, and then think of that as maybe being translating into a longer construction cycle?

Yeah. That's a great point, Michael. A lot of the conversation typically about expanding any business I think is about who's going to run it from the people's standpoint. So a few of the distributor customers that we met with over the last couple of weeks are very focused on training people, as we are here getting ready for growth and what have you, you have to have obviously, it goes without saying, you need to have the people trained and whatever. But I think the feeling in the market is, from meeting with the customers, that their customers are busy, we're busy. There's always going to be that management piece of training your people. There's plenty of resources to help get that done is the feeling. And I really didn't have a conversation that I can recall where there was something brought up as the one event it had to repair something that was or wasn't broken. The only negative, again to repeat it, the only negative in any conversation so far with customers, it has been only the election part. There is obviously – with the larger competitor buying a smaller competitor, there's going to be some realignments in some markets on who's partnered with whom, and not everybody that was buying from the smaller one wants to buy from the larger and vice versa.

So once all of that in decision and change and shift in business and whatever, okay, all of that is in the market. Our consistency and reputation of being consistent with delivery and what have you, I see it as a positive. I think even from the customers' standpoint, the feedback we got the last couple of weeks directly face-to-face, things are positive. I did not see a people shortage as much as I heard people talking about their training programs and excitement surrounding the things they're doing for their people. So I think it's positive.

Okay. And then I guess just turning to capital allocation, just really want to talk more about M&A, and any opportunities out there that you're seeing, just given good amount of transactions call it over past five years. And then maybe any new product introductions to limit competitive pricing pressure, really just want to drill down maybe any – some areas where you do see growth and opportunity in which you're currently not in now?

It's a great question. Again, you guys are helping move this along. But as far as the M&A, if there was something there that fit and adds to the value that we bring to our customers, we would love to do that. But again, the key there is fit. I don't want to get larger and poorer. I've seen that repeat itself in this industry four or five times now and we actually don't compete with three or four of those companies anymore. They're not around. So, if it fits what we're doing and makes us a better company, I am in, but just get larger and poor, that's not me.

The answer to your question of new product offering, we have a pretty full catalog. We're always looking for opportunities. There's a couple that we're pretty heavily focused on right now to see if there's something there for us, but we did not announce anything in the third quarter. And the last part of your question, there is a lot of room for us to grow within the market that we're serving. We did shift some things the first part of this year away from one market segment and refocused in another, and we're seeing growth in unit volume in that area. And I'm looking at the screen. We've got three or four of our competitors on here. I don't really want to get too specific on what we did, but it's working. Look, things are going along well. We've got the right guy and the right girl in the right position with solid backups and we're ready to keep moving things forward.

Great. Very helpful.

You bet.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony Securities. Bill, your line is open.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Frank and Dan.

Hi, Bill.

Hi, Bill.

Couple of items. First, would you describe what's going in the aluminum market that is somewhat temporary, Dan, or is this something that it's hard to put a timeframe around?

Well, we're hoping it's almost wrapped itself up, Bill. We saw a significant downward pressure on the aluminum pricing starting in the later part of the first quarter this year. It picked up some steam in Q2 a little bit, and then it seems like the industry caught the disease in the third quarter. And there is investigations going on, there is all kinds of conversations surrounding, who is doing what, and what have you. Just in my opinion, the built-up in-house here, there's some importing of aluminum that's coming to the market that is significantly too cheap, that's been addressed as we speak. As far as the manufacturing competitive piece domestically, we've got a competitor in the aluminum market that for whatever reason feels the need to discount their products significantly. And again, navigating that, as our sales office is done, has been fantastic. We've seen it before. We've gone through it cyclically before. This one has all of the characteristics of the last couple of cycles we went through. It's an attempt I believe to buy market share. It's no different than a serial company or a gas station cutting their price, you're going to get one box or one tank full, and then the entire market lowers and then you're out back to doing business the way people like to do business. So, we think it's temporary. We're seeing some signs of that already. We had a really good end of Q3, the last couple of weeks of Q3, a lot of things were wrapped up, cleaned up, and I think it's because a lots of things were made public. And as you know, and people are being stupid, when it becomes public, they don't like that to be exposed. So they either clean it up and disciplined is forced, or they start to do things that appear to be smarter. So that's my answer on your aluminum question.

That's a good answer. I appreciate your insight, Dan. It's helpful. Secondly, are the plants operating efficiently for you? And do you have any areas, Dan, where you've got limitations, I mean where you're running close to capacity in certain product areas? And if so, are there debottlenecking efforts going on, capital spending going on to alleviate that?

We're always upgrading the equipment. That's an ongoing project. As you know from touring the place, it's in constant change.

Right.

As far as the efficiency goes, we moved some things around in the latter part of 2015, the first part of 2016, and we feel like the efficiency piece is exactly where we want it. We're geared up with the right guy and girl and with the right equipment, and we think with the right product offering today, to take this thing to the next level. As far as capacity goes, again, great question, you've been through the plant, we set ourselves up based on 100% order fill, which means we have to have some flexibility built into our production capacity.

So, [indiscernible] (31:00), Bill, I have no concerns about the efficiency numbers nor the capacity numbers. We're ready. We're sitting here in great shape. And to repeat, the meetings with the customers last couple of weeks were fantastic. Their customers books are full. Our distributor customers are getting paid on time, some of them were even bragging about cutting a few days out of their receivables, which is a very positive sign for us. So we think the efficiency and capacity coupled with those customers that are fantastic in the industry, but let's go wholesale distributor, pace is very good for us.

In the non-res market, Daniel, with I guess a number of developments in – I mean, capital spending in the petrochemical and industrial area, does that skew your product demand towards some of your heavier higher margin products?

It do a little bit. There was some move, as you can predict, the oil and gas piece was clearly built-in regionally. But other parts of the country, and even now going back into talking about the third quarter specifically, even though we have the chaos that we had, there were some significant wins within the quarter also that had to do with folks that really shut down and put a pencil to the value that's behind, maybe paying a little extra for our product, but the lower cost to market model that we have, there's some wins there. And posturing in the market again was a competitive change. Like I've said, we went through it over the years, most recently in 2010 with AIW, but they're really – without being too specific with product categories, they're doing – there's some categories that are doing very well numbers wise and their margins are good. It's not all just a fight on the higher visibility stuff. But – and I don't want to go far. I hope that answers your question. But yeah, we're doing very... [ph]

I heard. (33:26)

Yeah, doing very well with some of the other products.

Let me finish with this, just a question, when you have applications that are – that can be filled by either copper building wire or aluminum building wire, how generally does the customer make the decision on which product to go with, the copper or aluminum, how's that analyzed and looked at?

I want to be very clear and state very openly. I prefer to ship and sell copper. Copper is first and foremost for us here. The aluminum is a great expansion to our product offering to help us to continue to grow the copper side. But what happens more directly to your question, here is the answer. It has to do with a term that has been picked around all over the place. I mean it's mostly true sometimes. What they'll say is, is they want to value engineer the job. What that means more specifically to your question is, they can take the copper feeder, replace it with aluminum feeder and lower their purchase price on the overall material list of wire. That's where it ends. Because from that point forward, the conduits going to be upsized, the lugs, the terminations, there's a lot of things that have to occur to make the aluminum perform the way the copper perform. So that's basically what happens. Somebody comes in and they're going to value engineer and they take the list of material. And the easiest thing to do upfront is to try to convert the feeders from copper to aluminum and then upsize this circular mil size. At least to some other things, there's some costs that are increased in other areas, but when it comes down to is, it's the management's decision or an owner type decision on which one you would like to have in your project going forward. But not something that we push, we literally push the copper.

Thank you very much.

You bet, Bill. Appreciate your support.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Fritz Mowery from Mowery Capital Management. Fritz, your line is open.

Thank you. Hi, Daniel. Hi, Frank.

Hey, Fritz. How are you doing buddy?

Hi, Fritz.

I'm good, I'm good. Thank you. You answered one of my questions on M&A, that's good to hear. I wanted to not to belabor this point, but I had several questions like this on other conference calls and it goes back to the Clinton, Trump issues. Have you and your senior staff had talks about what happens either way and that what it might mean either to labor costs or insurance costs and how you would address that?

Superficially, over lunch or something of that nature. But again, controlling the controllables is where we think we're really good. And as far as changing a position one way or the other, based on who gets in, the answer would be no. We're going to do our thing, Fritz, as you know, as we've done in the past and be as flexible as we can and take it on as it comes. I think we could have a political discussion maybe some other time about whichever, whatever. But, look, there'll be an effect at some point whichever.

Right

And we'll have to address at that time, but to predict it, we're already super conservative, you can check our balance sheet, but I just don't know what we would do differently, honestly.

Okay. And you seem to be talking about this third quarter, talking about the pressure on pricing and looking like there was a price war going on by one of people in your industry really cutting prices significantly impossibly. And that tends to – price wars it seems like tend to increase demand? I am curious, did you see an increase in demand or did it demand slow as well?

Well, it's unfortunate for our industry, but for 27 years – and one of our co-founders used to tell me that it was the same going back to the 1950s, early 1950s. When we have a competitor that offers by email or fax or text or Twitter or Snapchat or Instagram or however they put their prices out there, when there's a cheaper price offered in the market that does not initiate a purchase order, what happens it triggers all kinds of chaos for people to call the people that they want to buy from and see if they'll match or meet those lower prices that were offered for no apparent reason, other than whatever their own situation is. I can just tell you a lot of the money here is mine and to call up someone and offer a cheaper price is not going to happen. It doesn't stimulate a buy, it causes people to doubt. In fact, a lot of our customers have inventory on the shelf and you call up and offer a lower price than what they bought at last week, they have to run those guys out. I mean there's no other way to see it, but it is a little counter intuitive. A lower price offer doesn't necessarily stimulate a purchase order and we did that a lot. It happened, like I said, 27 years. It happens all the time.

Okay.

The good thing is those folks that go to market with price are the ones that I named earlier that we don't compete with any more.

So, you mentioned you feel like you're pretty much at full capacity or...

No, no. I did not [indiscernible] (40:10)

You did not, okay.

No, we're not at full capacity. We have flexibility built in. As the product mix changes on the purchase order, we can react. Where we're at 100% is our fill rate and delivery. We're not at the 100% capacity.

Got you. Okay. So, you feel like your labor staffing is intact to handle everything that you have coming in, hopefully, in the fourth quarter being – hopefully, being better and your labor is positioned well.

Yeah, I think so. We've got a very talented team around here, obviously. We've got sufficient numbers. We could hire 30 or 40 people today. We're always in that situation as far back as I can remember we're hiring people. Today, you hire 50 or 20. You're going to keep 10 or 15 of them. That's a good number. I think it's a very positive environment for us today to get good quality people. We got the chance to do some upgrades in some departments and we're doing them. People, plant and equipment, the market itself, specifically from the third quarter looking forward, it looks great. It looks fantastic to me. We're in good shape.

So no significant changes in labor cost then? [indiscernible]

(41:44) we got a great team.

Okay. Last question, and I appreciate, these are great. Do you or could you do any hedging on your raw material price?

The best hedge that we have that we talk about publically is we turn our finished goods once a month. We bound a month average and we tip our inventory once a month. That's the best answer for that.

Okay. Hey, thank you for everything. Have a good luck in next quarter.

Yeah. Great to hear from you, Fritz. Thanks a lot.

You bet. Bye-bye.

Thank you. And we have no further questions in queue.

Karen, thank you. We appreciate everyone's participation and we'll talk to you next quarter.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.