Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent Edward Thielman — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Greg A. Eisen — Analyst, Singular Research
Bill Baldwin — Partner, Baldwin Anthony Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, and welcome to the Encore Wire Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jason, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, Chairman, President and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Jason, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. With me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer. We're generally pleased with the second quarter results, with unit volumes up over the second quarter of last year, as well as the first quarter of this year. Margins, however, declined in both copper and aluminum wire sales.

As stated before, one of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wires sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period. The copper spread decreased 8.5% in the second quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015, and 3.3% on a sequential quarter comparison. The copper spread contracted 8.5% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 22.1% in the second quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015. And the average selling price of wire sold decreased 17.8%.

Aluminum spreads were down 14.2% and 8.9% versus the same respective periods. The margin declines were due to the competitive pricing environment in the industry as well as the timing of at least three attempts by the industry to raise prices that were announced just ahead of a week of soft copper commodity prices. The price increase attempts had difficulty gaining any traction and margins dropped. Our aluminum plant expansion is now fully operational and progressing well towards targeted efficiency levels. Based on discussions with our distributor customers and their contractor customers, we believe there's a fairly good outlook for construction projects as we continue through the year.

As we strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins, we believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We've been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us. We believe our performance is impressive in this economy, and we thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss your financial results. Frank?

Thanks, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the financial review, we will take any questions you may have. Everyone should have received a copy of Encore's press release, covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet, or you can call Denis McCarthy at 800-962-9473. We'll be glad to get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation, and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

I refer you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now, the financials. Net sales for the second quarter ended June 30, 2016 were $238.8 million compared to $253.7 million during the second quarter of 2015. Copper unit volume measured in pounds of copper contained the wire sold increased 14% in the second quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015. Aluminum unit volume was up 14.3% in the second quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015.

Aluminum building wire sales constituted 9.8% of net sales dollars for the second quarter of 2016 versus 9.4% in the second quarter of 2015. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 17.8% in the second quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015, driving the decrease in net sales dollars.

Copper wire sales prices declined primarily due to the lower price of copper purchased, which declined 22.1% versus the second quarter of 2015. Net income for the second quarter of 2016 was $7.8 million versus $11.4 million in the second quarter of 2015.

Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.38 in the second quarter of 2016 versus $0.54 a share in the second quarter of 2015.

Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were $464.4 million compared to $504 million during the same period in 2015. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold dropped 16.6%, while copper unit volumes sold increased 9.6% in the six months ended June 30, 2016 versus the six months ended June 30, 2015. Copper wire sales followed the price of copper purchased, which declined 21.4%.

Aluminum building wire sales constituted 10.1% of net sales dollars for the six months ended June 30, 2016 versus 9.4% in the six months ended June 30, 2015. Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $16.4 million versus $22.1 million in the same period in 2015. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.79 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 versus a $1.06 in the same period in 2015.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the second quarter of 2016 were $238.8 million versus $225.5 million during the first quarter of 2016. Sales dollars increased due to a 7.3% unit volume increase of copper building wire sold offset slightly by a 0.5% decrease in the average selling price per pound of copper wire sold on a sequential quarter comparison. Copper wire sales prices declined slightly despite an increase of 1.1% in the price of copper purchased.

Net income for the second quarter of 2016 decreased to $7.8 million versus $8.6 million in the first quarter of 2016. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.38 in the second quarter of 2016 versus $0.41 in the first quarter of 2016. Our balance sheet remains strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we have $81.1 million in cash at the end of the quarter.

We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter. I'd like to remind you this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the tape replay, please dial 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference 7023532 and a pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and CEO. Daniel?

Thank you, Frank. As Frank highlighted, we performed well in the past quarter and believe we're well positioned for the future. And, Jason, will now take questions from our listeners.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman from D.A. Davidson.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Hey, Brent. How are you doing?

Good morning.

Doing well. Hey, Daniel, on the spreads in the quarter, when we look at your average selling price and then the average cost of copper purchased that you guys provide, you still have a pretty wide gap between the two. And when I look at that, can we infer that exclusive of these instances where the price increases failed, you're somewhere still in the range of spread expansion, it seemed last year that 3% to 11%?

Yeah. I think that's fair. We had probably five or six different occasions and we started May about 2.26% on copper and ended up going as low as 2.02%, 2.03%, somewhere in there, maybe 2.04% in the month of June. And with that kind of volatility, obviously, the price increases that we're trying to hang on to that spread, we're kicked in the teeth the next day with the COMEX close being down or the bias starting to go down. But there were points within the [ph] month (10:53) where things were obviously what we consider to be more normalized pricing relative to where the copper pricing was.

And were those increases failed? Does that have a significant impact on your volume, because obviously your volumes are still very good?

Well, it does, which is very positive to see that the volume is up in the teeth of the intra-month volatility with COMEX. That's a really good sign. And I think the pricing piece of that, what I've seen over the years, it's typically a timing issue. And it will catch up and correct itself; it has to. And more than anything, I think there were probably eight or nine price swings, changing direction just within the month of June on COMEX. So, clearly, the timing on a price increase the day before a drop in COMEX, it'll catch up. It always does. So it'll correct itself and typically overcorrect for a while.

Sure. Okay. And then, on the aluminum side, it doesn't seem like aluminum prices were quite as volatile as copper during the quarter. Is the primary challenge there still more on the competitive front?

It is. Without going into too much detail, there's clearly a couple of things in the market that competitor-wise, that don't necessarily make a lot of sense on the aluminum piece, but that also, I think, is a timing issue and will also clear itself up going forward. We've seen specifically sticking with the second quarter information, I'm pleased with where the aluminum situation is. And going forward, what will happen as you lose some traction occasionally on copper. It's clearly not as volatile, but sometimes, aluminum may catch the disease a little bit, so to speak. And you have some of that. But overall, the aluminum piece clearly is less volatile and is very solid for us currently.

Okay. And now you're running full bore at the new plant at this stage?

Full bore today, the answer would be yes, but as a capacity number, no. We're ramping up as we need to. The plant is fully operational, all the equipment's been shaken down. Everything is where it needs to be. It's clean. It meets our standards on where we want it to be. And we're going to run it as efficiently obviously as makes sense from a cost standpoint and it's ready to go. It looks great. Morale is good. People are good, fully staffed. Everything looks great in the aluminum plant.

Okay. Thank you. I'll pass it on.

Thanks, Brent.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Michael Conti from Sidoti & Company.

Hey. Good morning.

Hey, Michael.

Hi, Mike.

Yeah. So just a nice increase on the volume side. We heard some wet weather in Texas. Anything to note there? Any idea on how much volume was delayed or anything into future periods?

No. There were a few jobs sites clearly that were affected. Potentially, some sentiment toward that in areas that needed inventory restock on the shelves. But nothing super-specific that sticks out in my mind in either April, May or June that would have been significant. If it's too wet to get the trucks in, we'll push it back out. That seems to clear itself up pretty quickly in Texas. When the sun comes out, it's hot and dries things up, but there's no real super delays in anything.

The volume in the quarter was good. The activity on the phone lines in the sales office were good. It was good. The quote to purchase order timeframe has narrowed some which is a bullish sign. There's a lot of – we're getting paid on time. Our customers are getting paid on time. The typical signs are there. Things are good. Not great, but good. Solid recurring business from solid pay-their-bills-on-time customers, things in the quarter, they look good.

Okay. And then just on the competitive pricing comment that you've mentioned is more or less on the aluminum side. Do you have an idea that's applied to a specific geographic area? And if that's something that as we exited the quarter, just trying to get an idea if you guys continue to plan on walking away from low margin.

It was basically one particular competitor that got a little wacky for some reason. We can speculate us to reasoning for that, but it started to clear itself up toward the end of the quarter, which was a good sign and confirmed our thoughts and speculation on what their purpose was or wasn't going into the quarter, but it's hard to going to these public calls and just not call it out like I see it, but keeping the names out of it, I think it's cleared itself up.

Got it. Perfect. And then, Frank, can you give us the year-over-year growth volume shipments to your commercial and residential end markets?

Are you talking Q2 to Q2 or six months to months?

If you have both, that'd be great.

Q2-over-Q2, residential was up to 7.1% and commercial was up 16.2%. In the six-month period, residential was flat and commercial was up about 12%.

Got it. Thank you.

Thanks, Michael.

And our next question comes from Greg Eisen from Singular Research.

Thanks. Good morning. Going back to the...

Hey, Greg.

Hi. Going back to the margin, could you talk about the linearity of the margin change? It sounds like the margin decrease was most pronounced in June based upon what you were saying about the volatility. Is that correct compared to the earlier months – compared to April and May?

Yes, it is correct. Just to give you some idea within April, starting the month out around $2.16 on COMEX, we bottomed about $2.08, but came on strong toward the end of April, which is what we like to see. From a 2.14% number about mid-month, we ended up the month around 2.27% on COMEX. So that trend or bias, if you will, two weeks is super helpful, but early May around the – into the first week of May, we were back down to around $2.10 level, and we had $2.09, $2.07, $2.06, those kind of numbers. And then June starting out at $2.07, we were as high, I think somewhere around $2.17 or $2.18 in a month, but we were as low as $2.04, $2.05.

Again, in the month of May, there were probably seven or eight changes one day to the next. If it's $0.0001 or $0.01 or $0.02, it's – you can normally defend that or argue against to what have you. But we had swings of $0.05, $0.06 since from one day to the next. And again, you go up $0.05 or $0.06, and the industry prints a price sheet and post, and you start the process of notifying your customers and you wake up the next day and it goes down $0.05. You can throw that price increase away unfortunately.

And what happens, Greg, we actually have competitors and sales folks, I guess, that's what it would be called that will actually post the COMEX close on their website, which is ridiculous, but it's happened for years. It's 27 years for me and I've been seeing it for 27 years where the attention given to a particular COMEX close one day or the other, it gets a little goofy, it gets a little wacky. COMEX is just part of the equation, obviously, on the cost. Part of it, but it is a romantic piece to building wire. So there's some pressure when COMEX goes down. Particularly, when it's as volatile as it was in June and you nailed it, there was more volatility in June than the other two months.

Yeah. Got it. Got it. Going back to the last – prior caller's final question, the year-to-year growth in markets, I didn't get the last number. You said the sixth month year-over-year change for residential was flat and commercial was up. What was the number? 12%?

Yes. It was. Yes, 12%.

Okay. I heard that right. Okay. Moving on, can you comment or are you willing to comment on trends in prices and what's happened in the market both on cost price and the selling price since the end of the quarter? It's been just about a whole month now. What's July been like?

Well, I'd love to, Greg, but I really need to stick to just the second quarter on this call.

Understood. Understood. And then, again following up on a prior question about the utilization of the aluminum plant since you completed your expansion, you said you're running full bore, but it sounds like you're not at what we call full capacity, which, I guess, for any plant would be 85% maybe 90% of the theoretical capacity. Am I correct in the sense you're not at full capacity yet in terms of utilization?

That's correct. We have some built-in flexibility by design. One of the things that we take significant pride in is our fill rates. So to actually calculate what the capacity would be, we're running about 4.5 days to 5 days, depending on the complexion of an order. If there's something comes in that we may or may not have completed on the floor that moment we'll go ahead and run part of the weekend if necessary. But there's quite a bit of built-in flexibility from a production standpoint capacity-wise. But we are running basically 5 days, 5.5 days in that plant, which is really good.

On just one shift, though.

No, sir. We're running around the clock.

You're running around the clock?

Yes, sir.

Got it. Okay. I'll let someone else go. Thank you.

Thanks a lot, Greg. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Bill Baldwin from Baldwin Anthony Securities.

Yeah. Good morning, Daniel and Frank.

Hey, Bill. How are you, sir?

Hi, Bill.

I'm doing fine. Thank you. Daniel, have you seen a period in your many years with Encore Wire where the industry conditions have been such that volatility does not affect pricing discipline as much as it has here in recent times?

In the past, Bill, copper was much different. It was below $1. If it moved a $0.05 in a day, it closed the market down on COMEX. And then, after it ran up to about $4 a pound, that changed to $0.20 on the upside or to the downside, so $0.40 swing. Now that it's back down to $2.20, that hasn't been adjusted.

So the oddity that occurred in June was the – there were four days or five days that were a swing of a $0.05 in COMEX changed from the prior day. That gets too much attention, because everybody in the industry that I'm aware of from a manufacturing standpoint buys on the month-to-date average. So the attention given, I think, the part that I would give credit to that I think is temporary that was in June, there's just too much sensitivity to that $0.04 or $0.05 swing from one day to the next.

Building wire process should not swing like that. We've seen in the past, and as we saw a little bit in June, we've got a couple of competitors that will operate their sales desk similar to trading desk looking at possibly or potentially looking at speculation obviously, but looking at volume, as the volume moves one way or the other, it's not a panic, but it's an instant change back to an old price. And justification in their mind evidently would be COMEX closed for that day.

I've seen it in the past. The good thing about the June volatility was that only lasted a day or two, and then it would come back up and you start to process all over again. So from that perspective, yes, I've seen it, but the instantaneous idea of cutting prices back to a level below, where they left prior to an increase, it's a little immature. And from a business standpoint, which would prove it's not their money and they wouldn't be as anxious to cut prices.

But, again, right in the teeth of the cutting, the next day, when you'd get to close of $0.05 or $0.06 on the upside, it would force a little bit of discipline. So I have seen it often all over the years, just not that quick. The trading in the copper in June, again, repeating myself, the six or seven swings of a $0.05 or more, that was a little bit odd.

Well, it's just been – at this stage, I know we're not in great time generally in the construction cycle, but we have seen a recovery off the lows. It'd be nice to see some discipline start showing up amongst some of these folks. Hopefully, we'd be trying to maximize profits.

Yeah. It will happen. Hey, listen. Last week, we heard the politicians tell us they're going to fix it. And then, all of this week, we've head the same thing.

That's right. [ph] Don't think that's a debate, Dan. (27:31)

Whoever gets in, it's going to be fit [ph] what I heard (27:37).

On the aluminum side, I just wanted to get your feel. Percent of sales in aluminum side were a little bit lower here in the second quarter than in the first quarter. Is there any – and then the volatility or the spread was much more volatile to the downside the second quarter than the first quarter. Is there anything going on there that other than just temporary, I think, for the second quarter versus what we've seen previous? We just haven't seen that kind of volatility, I don't think in aluminum spreads that I can recall.

Right. You don't typically see – as you mentioned, the spread on the aluminum part is typically not as volatile. And concerning the volume, we're happy with the aluminum expansion and where we're at in that process, I think, more than anything, the jump of copper volume is what led to the overall percentage of aluminum, not being as great. But the actual aluminum piece standalone is going very well and we are happy.

We had a little challenge from a – not really a contender, but a pretender in that market in April, but that was a very short-lived attack. And that I think has run its course and hopefully they're sold out for a while, and it's what we think and it's back to business as usual in aluminum which for us has been very positive. May and June were very solid for aluminum.

So you're happy with your fill rates in aluminum and your ramp-up on the operating efficiencies and so forth in that plant?

Yes, sir. Sitting here today, we have not been in a better position ever as far as aluminum goes. It's...

Okay.

We're setting on go.

Now, don't you have fewer competitors in aluminum building wire business domestically than you do in the copper building wire?

That's correct, yeah. But there is – yes. Yeah. The answer would be yes.

Now, I don't think I've ever explored this, but on the aluminum building wire, are imports any kind of a factor in aluminum building wire business?

Yes, a little bit.

More so than in copper?

Correct. More so in April also than May and June.

Is that stuff that's been around for a long time, Daniel, or is that kind of relatively new over the last year or two?

It's been around off and on. That's a hot and cold, very unreliable source for aluminum. But it can be an irritant in one particular month of another as we saw in April. But for the most part, it's not a huge influence on the market one way or the other. A lot of unfulfilled promises there. Prices – it's price and delivery.

That's all in, they can compete on its price, they can't compete on service, I would think, at all.

Yes, that's where we're at. Yeah.

Okay. Well, thank you for your time. Take care.

You bet, Bill. Thank you. Appreciate the questions.

Thanks, Bill.

Thank you. And we have no further questions in the queue.

Well, Jason, we appreciate you handling the call and appreciate our folks to call in and listen and the questions that came up and support. We look forward to talking to you guys again in October.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.