Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Michael F. Conti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Brent Edward Thielman — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Bill Baldwin — Partner, Baldwin Anthony Securities, Inc.
Sam Ensslin — Analyst, wood Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sylvia, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note, that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones. Daniel, you may begin.

Thank you, Sylvia, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire. With me, this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

We're pleased to report that 2015 produced the second highest earnings per share in the history of the company. The fourth quarter was good from both the volume and margin perspective. Although, our unit sales volumes were down slightly for the year, it should be noted that through the first five months of this year, our sales were adversely affected by rough winter and spring weather as we noted in previously quarterly press releases.

It is also noteworthy that after the first five months of 2015, copper unit sales were down 9.4% and aluminum units were down 2.7%, compared to the first five months of 2014. However, in the last seven months of 2015, copper units were up 4.4% and aluminum units were up 1%, versus the last seven months of 2014 as we recaptured sales that were delayed earlier in the year.

The overall construction of building wire markets did not show any significant improvement over last year. Anecdotal information confirms our belief that there are still large commercial and industrial projects in the pipeline. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The copper wire spread increased 5.2% in 2015 versus 2014. The total year copper spread expanded 5.2% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 19.3% in 2015 versus 2014, while the average selling price of wire sold decreased 12.5%.

Aluminum spreads rose 4.0% in 2015 versus 2014. We're encouraged by the fact spreads widened during the year while copper and other commodity prices fell in 2015. Spreads did tighten on a sequential quarterly comparison, declining 7.2% and 2.7% for copper and aluminum wire respectively.

We continue to strive to lead and support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in field. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We have been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us. We believe our performance is impressive in the economy that we're in and we thank our employees and associates for the tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review the financial results for the quarter. After the review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have received a copy of Encore's press release covering our financial results. This release is available on the Internet or, if you prefer, you can call Karen Wagner, at 800-962-9473 and we'll be glad to get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.

I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com

Now the financials. Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased to $250.9 million compared to $285.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2014. Unit volume measured in copper pounds contained in the wire sold increased 5.1% and were offset by a 17.3% decrease in the average selling price per copper pound sold in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus the same period in 2014. Sales prices declined primarily due to lower copper prices, which declined 25.3% versus the fourth quarter of 2014.

Aluminum building wire sales continued their growth pattern, constituting 10.2% of net sales dollars for the fourth quarter of 2015 versus 9.2% in the fourth quarter of 2014. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $10.9 million versus $5.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.53 in the fourth quarter of 2015, versus $0.24 in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased to $1.018 billion from $1.167 billion during the same period in 2014. Copper unit volume decreased 1.5% in 2015 versus 2014. The volume decrease was amplified by a 12.5% decrease in the average selling price per copper pounds sold in 2015 versus 2014. Once again, sales price is declined primarily due to lower copper prices, which declined 19.3% in 2015 versus 2014.

Aluminum building wire sales continued to grow, constituting 9.9% of net sales dollar during 2015 versus 8.9% in 2014. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2015, was $47.6 million versus $37.1 million in 2014. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $2.29 for the year ended December 31, 2015 versus $1.78 in 2014.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015, were $250.9 million versus $262.8 million during the third quarter of 2015. Copper unit volume increased 3.4% on a sequential quarterly comparison, despite the fact that the fourth quarter is generally a slower quarter in the construction and building wire industries. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $10.9 million versus $14.5 million in the third quarter of 2015. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.53 in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus $0.70 in the third quarter of 2015.

Our balance sheet is very strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to the zero. In addition, we have $79.2 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We also repurchased 92,804 shares of our common stock on the open market for approximately $2.9 million during the year. We also declared another cash dividend during the quarter.

We want you to note that the conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please call 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference 9369796 and the pound sign.

I'll turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Daniel?

Yeah. Thank you, Frank. Encore performed well in the past quarter and we believe we're well positioned for the future. We'll now take questions from our listeners. Sylvia, Thank you.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Michael from Sidoti.

Hey. Good morning.

Hey. How you doing?

Good. Good. Dan, can you just talk a bit about the competitive landscape in terms of pricing? I mean, we've seen improvements in the spread on a year-over-year basis in the past couple of quarters here. What is driving some of that pricing discipline?

Well, the easy answer is the volatility, right? The metals are being jerked around on a pretty consistent basis, right? When we think we have a bias in one direction or the other, it turns. But the easy answer is the volatility in the metal. The other contributing factor is, business is pretty good. It's not great but it's pretty good. There's jobs that are pending. There's jobs that we're delivering too that start out at one size and end up expanding in one area or the other and also giving credit to some of the guys out there that we compete with. I think it's industry wide. There really is not a particular one rogue bad actor on a consistent basis. That seems to be like a tag team type effort. There's two or three that contribute in that fashion, but it's predictable in some fashion or another. But for the most part, business is good. We've got some copper volatility that forces a little bit of discipline. And as you know, in those times, we tend to do well.

Right, right. Okay, thanks. And then my next question, can you just talk a bit more about aluminum demand and I guess the potential shift in product mix, just given the way that copper prices have trended today over the past two years or so? Are more customers transitioning towards copper again? And if it's so, what does that mean for your margins?

Well, speaking specifically to the past year, there are certainly times when the value engineering topic comes up, specifically on the larger jobs. It's not a new phenomenon by any means. It didn't just occur in 2015. It's been going on for a while and what will happen is, after the job is awarded, somebody comes in and tries to swap out the aluminum for the copper to make it appear cheaper on the surface, on the material purchase part.

In the recent months, in most of last year, as copper declined in one fashion or another, it's not as important or as apparent on the sticker or the purchased price of the job. So I think conventional wisdom would tell you that it's probably not happening as often as you would think if the metal was or if copper, the red metal, is a little bit more expensive. But there certainly is some of that to predict which way that's going to go or not go. I think is probably not as easy as you would think.

I don't know specifically which way copper is going to go in 2016 for sure and we were pretty close in our guess on 2015 on copper prices, but we still missed it by a little bit. It's tough to predict which way the metal's going to go at this point. But having said that, we're equipped and running very well in the aluminum expansion and ready to take on whichever way the order decides to go. We, without question, 100% prefer to ship copper. I think there's other people that would argue that point. But that's clearly my stance. I prefer to ship the copper.

And is that a function because you received more gross margin dollars – gross profit dollars if you ship copper over aluminum?

It's not any one specific item, it's several. The fixed cost part of that equation becomes a little bit different. The variable cost piece of that is little bit different. The labor piece is a little bit different. But in the end, I still prefer to ship the copper.

Sure, okay. And then I guess, can you just maybe share with us your outlook for construction? I mean, what are some of your customers saying in terms of where we are in the cycle? And are any of them saying maybe seeing any reason of strengths or pockets of weakness?

Great question. A lot of the national guys that we deal with – there's areas of the U.S. that have been hit with weather recently, there's been areas that were hit obviously with $29 a barrel and we're not seeing it in other areas. Texas, you would think would be one of the hardest hit areas with the dependence on energy and what have you, but Texas is, specifically the Dallas market, is extremely hot at this point.

There are areas that are better than other geographically. It would depend on which product category if you break it down in that manner, residential versus industrial or commercial, but in general the feeling is somewhat positive. In almost every conversation, though, specifically in the last 60, 90 days as far as an outlook goes, there seems to be a lot of discussion and concern, probably rightfully so, surrounding what happens in November.

Depending on which news channel you watch and who you listen to, and what you consider to be important, the business implications for us come up typically in the conversation. It started out being somewhat kind of funny and maybe a side joke or whatever and it's starting to become serious. So in that sense, it's tough to predict, but overall the feeling is good, not great, but good. We have a lot of folks that are pretty heavily invested in construction sites and job sites and permit numbers, depending on how you look at the residential market, the commercial market to follow. The general feeling is good, not great, but good.

Sure. Okay. And then, last one for me, the pipeline that you mentioned, are those projects that are expected to come online and aren't currently built or are those projects up and running expect to ship products over the next year or so?

Well, it's actually both. It depends on which stage and which size. And actually, there's some activity that's even geographically based on either coast, the quote to delivery is typically faster. They want immediate delivery. It's a specific piece or a phase of a job and they break it down individually in that manner. You move toward the middle of the country and it's a little bit slower pace from the quote to delivery standpoint. I mean, it's not as fast paced but you get paid quicker, so it's a little bit of both.

The pipeline is moderately full, and the business that we're doing on the jobs in most areas where we're shipping into the larger jobsites. Before we're finished shipping the original order, there's a work order change and they're expanding a little bit. They're adding a different piece of a building. Data centers are still hot, universities are still expanding, hospitals are still expanding. There's a lot of areas in the new construction piece that tend to add before the job is finished. Hadn't seen that in quite a while, but it's welcome.

Great. Now, that's very helpful. Those are all my questions. Thanks.

You bet. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

And the next question comes from Brent Thielman from D. A. Davidson.

Hey. Good morning.

Hi, buddy.

Yeah. Daniel, maybe following up on some of those last questions. Are you seeing any pressure on kind of the harsh and hazardous industrial kind of oriented tables? Are those still holding up pretty good?

They're still holding up about the same. They don't get the attention as some of the other categories. And so I think they're not necessarily ignored. It takes quite a bit of work to get the product to market, but overall they seem to be holding about the same.

Okay. It's good to hear. And then any additional thoughts or color on the kind of the tightening spread from Q3 to Q4? Is that typical from a seasonal perspective?

We've seen that in the past. Historically, Q4 from a lot of different standpoints, we've had record Decembers and we've had pretty dismal Decembers. But overall, in general, from an inventory positioning standpoint for the New Year, budget numbers for distributor customers, budget numbers for contractors, whether on job sites, there's all kinds of factors that contribute to that, and it may be too long of an answer. The short answer is, yes.

Okay. Perfect. That's all I had. Thank you.

Yeah. Thank you, guys.

See you. Brent.

And the following question comes from Bill Baldwin from Baldwin Anthony.

Yeah. Good morning, Dan and Frank.

Hi, Bill.

Good morning.

A couple of items here. Frank, can you indicate what the trends are in terms of percent of your business now going into the residential market, kind of how that progressed through 2015 by quarter, early part of the year versus the end of the year?

It actually held pretty steady in the 20% to 21% range. And for the year in 2015, we were at just under 21%, 20.7% residential.

Okay.

And in 2014, we were at 21.6%. So not a big change there.

Okay. And do you have the unit volumes for aluminum for the fourth quarter year-over-year and full year 2015 year-over-year?

I do. Aluminum volume Q4-over-Q4 was up 5%. And for the year, it was down 0.5%, so basically flat as...

Okay. And my last question, in the fourth quarter of this year versus the fourth quarter year ago, it looks like your spreads on copper were pretty much – were pretty similar, if my numbers are right. Yes, the gross margin percentages this year were much higher than a year ago. What accounted for gross margin to be a lot higher this year than last year when spreads were fairly equal?

Well. You really had a confluence of factors, but spread and we're talking Q4 over Q4 right, Bill?

Correct.

Yeah. In Q4 of 2015 versus 2014, our copper spread was up 2.9% and the aluminum spread was up 7.1%. In addition, bear in mind, that copper volume was up 5.1% and aluminum volume was up 5%. So all the arrows were trending up and positive. In addition, I would tell you that we did a pretty good job on overhead costs and held them. And we got a little bit of push in the back, not much, but a little bit, for example, from like freight where you picked up about $700,000, primarily, I would attribute to us doing a better job of shipping full trucks. And number two, us benefiting from the fact that diesel came down in terms of cost. So you had, once again, all the arrows pointing in the same direction.

Okay. So, I guess, much better productivity in the plants with the higher volumes and then you benefited like you say on the freight side?

Those are part of the equation.

Yeah. Very good. Thank you.

Yes, sir. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Sam Ensslin from Midwood Capital.

Yes, hi guys. A quick question on spread. I just wanted to understand, you've done a very nice job obviously in a declining copper price environment of maintaining spread and sort of keeping your ASP declining slower than the copper price. And if my understanding is right, historically, you'd rather have a rising copper price. You've done a nice job in an adverse market.

I just want to understand when and if copper – I know, we're speculating, when and if copper prices eventually turn and start coming back up, will there be a period of time where the spread gets compressed there at the bottom before it widens again or just, can you help me understand how spread will transition when prices eventually turn?

That's a great question, Sam, and thank you for the kind words in the beginning of the question. We do, as you mentioned, prefer a trend for copper on the upside. The volatility is a little bit more difficult to manage. We haven't been able to see trends in quite a while. We see biases during the week or during the month and then overall for the year, obviously, we had a downward trend.

In that sense, if we're able to maintain prices for other reasons other than the metal decline – and again, there is volatility in that market to look at, there is volatility in our market to look at. We've had a lot of turnover with our competitors management teams. There's all kinds of things that figure into the equation of how you arrive at maintaining of spread or losing the spread.

Most of the time, it has to do specifically with just price. When you have the volatility in the metal that we've had, it forces some discipline on the processing side. If you try to react to a copper close of being down a nickel, it could be up $0.05 to $0.06 the next day.

So, I think in that piece of the equation, without sounding arrogant or anything of that nature, we're at the mercy of market most of the time, but we have a very good model and we have very good discipline and very solid price handling methods in our sales office. If you lead with price and try to sell only on price, there's times when that doesn't necessarily work out for you.

We try, as we've mentioned for over 25 years now, we're trying to sell other things other than low price. And I don't want to be too specific or more specific than that, but that's a long answer to your question and I normally like to keep it a little more brief, but that's really the answer. I mean, it's a processing discipline thing. It's not something where you're trying to chase volume by cutting the price. That does not fit our culture. That's just not what we do. We're not trying to get larger and poorer. That's not in me. So, it really has to do with basically a processing discipline.

Okay. Thank you.

And we have no further questions at this time.

Sylvia, thank you. You've done a great job of handling the call and we appreciate the participation and always welcome the questions and look forward to talking you guys next quarter.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.