Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Bret J. Eckert — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Treasurer & VP, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Zane Karimi — Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co.
Julio Romero — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Reports First Quarter Results Conference Call. My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference call is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Jones. Daniel, you may begin.

Thank you, Adrian. Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire. With me this morning is Bret Eckert, our Chief Financial Officer.

The COVID-19 pandemic and the economic uncertainty it has created requires us to pull together to win this fight. We appreciate your continued investment and support during these difficult times. The health and safety of our employees and their families remains our top priority and we're following CDC guidelines to maintain safe working conditions. We're very proud that some of the products we manufacture are being utilized to power temporary buildings and pop-up medical facilities in the fight against COVID-19.

Our distributors remain very thankful we continue to serve during this critical time. The strong earnings posted in the first quarter ended March 31, 2020 evidenced the strength of our balance sheet and the resiliency of our business model to weather tough times. I'm very pleased by our first quarter results despite the unprecedented times we're facing in this country.

There are some key items to note, copper unit volumes increased 1% in the first quarter of 2020 versus the first quarter of 2019 and increased 1.4% on a sequential quarter basis. Gross profit margins increased despite a drop in COMEX copper prices versus last year's first quarter as well as first quarter of 2019. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The copper spread increased 6% on a sequential quarter comparison, I'm particularly pleased with how we finished the quarter, despite a significant decrease in COMEX copper daily prices in March, we were able to maintain average selling prices in the month which lifted gross profit margins for the quarter. This represented a slight shift to a seller's market as some manufacturing and distribution constraints in the sector kept pricing strong. Finally, aluminum wire represented 8.6% of our net sales in the first quarter of 2020.

Looking ahead, the duration and severity of the COVID-19 outbreak and its long-term impact on our business are uncertain at this time. Some of our distributors as well as the end-users of our products are experiencing varying levels of disruption related to this crisis. Developments surrounding the COVID-19 global pandemic are changing daily and we have limited visibility into the extent to which market demand for our products as well as sector manufacturing and distribution capacity will be impacted. We believe Encore Wire is well-positioned to weather this storm, continuing to serve the markets during this critical time. As we navigate the near-term challenges, we remain focused on the long-term opportunities for our business. We also believe our superior order fill rates which have not faltered during this crisis continue to enhance our competitive position. As orders come in from electrical contractors and distributors and continue to count on our older fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

I'll now turn the call over to Bret to cover our financial results. Bret?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we will review Encore's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2020. After the financial review, we will take any questions you may have.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may be making certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors, are posted on our website.

Now the financial results, net sales for the first quarter ended March 31, 2020 were $302.8 million compared to $314.7 million for the first quarter of 2019. Copper unit volume, measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 1% in the first quarter of 2020 versus the first quarter of 2019. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold decreased 5.6% in the first quarter of 2020 versus the first quarter of 2019, while the average cost of copper per pound purchased decreased 8.2%.

Net income for the first quarter of 2020 increased 38.7% to $18.6 million versus $13.4 million in the first quarter of 2019. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $0.89 in the first quarter of 2020 versus $0.64 in the first quarter of 2019.

If we look at it on a sequential quarter comparison basis, net sales for the first quarter of 2020 were $302.8 million versus $302.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2019. Sales dollars increased due to a 1.4% unit volume increase of copper building wires sold, offset slightly by 0.7% decrease in the average selling price per copper pound by – per pound of copper wires sold on a sequential quarter basis. Copper wire sales prices decreased 0.7% while the price of copper purchased decreased 4.2%. Net income for the first quarter of 2020 was $18.6 million versus $10.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2019. Fully diluted net income for common share was $0.89 in the first quarter of 2020 versus $0.50 in the fourth quarter of 2019.

Our balance sheet remains very strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $206.8 million in cash on hand at the end of the quarter. During the quarter, we did repurchase 439,112 shares in the open market. We also declared $0.02 cash dividend during the quarter. Our recently announced two-phase expansion plans continue as we've started the initial grading and site development work on schedule this quarter. We reaffirm our previously announced capital expenditure ranges of $85 million to $95 million in 2020, $70 million to $90 million in 2021, and $60 million to $80 million in 2022. Our strong balance sheet and ability to consistently generate high levels of operating cash flow should provide ample allowance to fund planned capital expenditures.

A replay of this conference call will be accessible in the Investors Section of our website. I will now turn the floor over to Daniel for a few final remarks.

Thank you, Bret. As we highlighted, Encore performed well in the first quarter ended March 31, 2020. Our low cost structure and strong balance sheet have enabled us to withstand difficult periods in the past and they're continuing to prove valuable now. We believe we're well-positioned for future growth as this country overcomes this global pandemic. I'm very proud of each of our employees have rallied during this crisis and I want to thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Adrian, we'll now take questions from our listeners.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Zane Karimi from D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Congratulations on the quarter.

Hey, thank you.

So first off, I was kind of wondering what are you seeing with regards to demand of aluminum relative to copper? And historically, how does this split ratio change with the market slowdown?

It really hadn't changed that much, we dip in and out of both markets with existing distribution. And you know there is some of the larger jobs that start copper may be changed over to aluminum on specific occasions, but for the most part I really didn't see anything to change that too much in the first quarter.

Okay. And then can you [indiscernible] (00:09:17). Okay, thank you. Can you speak to the trends within the industry, particularly resi versus non-residential demand and what you kind of saw in the first quarter versus so far through April?

Again it's similar to the aluminum piece, there's existing jobs of significant volume that could move the percentage a point or two one way or the other, but we did see strength in the residential demand piece in the first quarter. You know a lot of times the residential development sites will be – were shipped from you know maybe one month to the next based on weather issues. They really didn't have significant delays in that market segment at all in the first quarter, so there's some strength in the resi. It's sort of consistence, not – it's not great but it really was solid and it's pretty good demand at this point.

Okay. Thank you. And regionally speaking, [ph] where and to what (00:10:26) degree has COVID-19 been the most impactful to your customers and fellow suppliers and distributors?

Yeah. Regionally or geographically, we obviously – the northeast was hit and there were some job delays and what have you and some distributors, customers whatever that were closed in the first quarter, but we were still shipping some of the, as we mentioned in the press release, we were still shipping some of the temporary hook-up cables and whatever for the temporary medical sites and what have you, but you know for the most part the east and then the Pacific Northwest, there was disruption and then a little bit in California.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from Julio Romero from Sidoti & Company. Your line is open.

Hey. Good afternoon. Hope you folks are doing well.

Hey, buddy.

So I was hoping you could elaborate on what part of the value chain is seeing those disruptions you mentioned. You know I don't know if you can talk through maybe competitive landscape, customers, suppliers or limitation on freight. I mean, if you could highlight maybe where you see the most notable constraints?

Yeah. There were disruptions in every category to different degrees. You know the trucking company that we use, did a fantastic job, the service was fantastic. Some of the drivers had mentioned you know lack of support on the road with you know maybe some of their normal spots along the route to be closed or what have you, but the service from the carriers that we use were fantastic. Distributors worked with us on deliveries to get the trucks unloaded and offloaded.

You know, I'll tell you where the disruptions were coming in. You also saw an equal or an exceeding effort on the service side. There was a seriousness to the deliveries, a lot of the drama you know it's normal went away, there was forced discipline if you will in the entire chain.

I mean so, from the perspective of disruptions, I think they were exceeded with the efforts and the contributions from the people that were involved that realized the seriousness of the situation. There are no – there were a lot less hassles if you will on getting those trucks delivered and unloaded. The rigid delivery appointments or you know whatever people just went to work and got the job done and quite frankly it was refreshing to have that type of business approach and discipline to operating. It saved everybody I believe you know in the delivery chain, everyone became more efficient and I think those types of things will last you know coming out the other side it was very good to see.

So, again some of the problems that we ran into really had to do with a property or a jobsite being closed. If they were open, people went to work. It was really – it was a good thing to see. I think everyone kind of pulled together and got the job done.

Got it. That's helpful. I'm just shocked in how well your pricing help up in this environment, much better than what I had modeled, but can you maybe discuss if you said your average selling price help up well in the quarter, but was there potentially some outperformance in the – relative to your expectations and maybe the first two months of the year that held that average up or was it more a function of prices holding up in the face of copper [indiscernible] (00:14:36) in the last month?

Yeah. Great question. It was a combination. We've always tried and made a really good effort to be super-disciplined when it comes to pricing. There's only two things that sell; building wire and its price and delivery. We'd like to focus on the delivery piece. I've said that repeatedly for about 30 years now and we're really good at it.

When you have the balance sheet that we have and the people that we have in the right place at the right time, it showed – it came through pretty well, started some in January. The guys and girls in the sales office did a fantastic job in February and then you know obviously there was a lot of uncertainty going into March and every department we have purchasing, sales, shipping, everybody pulled together and did the job. We were just reluctant to lead with low price when you don't know what it is that you're buying which again you know it's been something that I've harped on for years. Why cut the price, if you don't know what the order looks like, and why would you cut the price if you can't deliver. And I can see on the call that there's a few of our competitors on here, and so I probably should stop with that.

But listen it's a discipline, it means a lot to us to make sure that we can keep a promise. We don't want to let people down. And it takes money to do the things that we do around here from a service perspective. And so we felt that it was the right thing to do and continue to think it's the right thing to do. We're offering a value and we think it's worth it, and again it goes back to really the entire team here. Michelle's office was incredibly disciplined. Our sales reps in the field were fantastic, a lot of it, like I said the drama that goes in with you know the price shopping and all those things you could kind of set it aside almost for a little bit and actually run your business like a normal business and it was pretty fantastic to watch.

And so the credit goes to the folks here. I mean they're super disciplined and they just – they did a great job. And a lot of our folks by the way, I'm guessing we have well over you know probably 75%, 80% of our people are working from home, office personnel.

Great. And thank you for the color there. And I guess just on the capacity expansion plans, you reaffirmed your spending plans over the next three years. Can you just maybe just tell us that's progressing? And given that the OT project that's affecting your property, I don't know if that potentially gets delayed and that internally would potentially delay your expansion plans?

I don't see that you know in the last part of the question first, I don't see that having an effect and the first part of the question we're progressing very well and we were blessed with some timely rain and some sunshine and some warmth and what have you, but you know I passed the job site a couple of different times each day and you know unfortunately for them maybe I'd like to drive through it and take a look around and so it's fantastic, it's moving real well. We actually have the ability to post some drone photography on our website and we'll potentially be doing that to kind of give you know a glimpse into what's happening but it's moving along really well.

We've been very fortunate with the weather and timing and we're working with a really good construction group that we've had. I don't know 25, 26 expansions around here in my 31 years and we've used these guys several times, they're pros. They know what they're doing. They obviously have a very robust safety program going and they're doing a fantastic job. Can't wait to see concrete being poured.

I'll be on the lookout for those drone photos on your site. Thanks for taking the questions. Stay healthy and best of luck.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Julio.

Thanks for the support. [Operator Instructions]

And we're standing by for more questions. Julio is on line for the question. Please go ahead.

Yeah. I guess just one quick follow-up is, I don't know if I missed CapEx number in the quarter?

The CapEx.

What's the CapEx for the quarter?

Yes.

One second, Julio and I'll pull that. So CapEx in the first quarter was just over $12 million.

Great.

$12.2 million.

Got it.

We really – I mean really just started moving some dirt right now as Daniel said across the street. There are a lot of grading utility work.

Great. Thanks very much.

And we have no further questions.

Okay.

Thank you. We appreciate your time this morning. Appreciate your interest and your support and your investment in Encore, and enjoy the day.

Yes.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.