Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — Vice President-Finance, Treasurer, Secretary & Chief Financial Officer, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Brent Thielman — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Julio Romero — Analyst, Sidoti & Company, LLC
Thomas Preston Brashear — President, Preston Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jenny, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Daniel Jones, Chairman, President and CEO. You may begin.

Thank you, Jenny. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation quarterly conference call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Encore Wire. With me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

We are pleased with our results in the second quarter and six months ended on June 30. There are some key items to note. Unit volumes increased in the second quarter and year-to-date comparisons of 2019 to 2018. Copper unit volumes increased 5.6% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018, and increased 9.3% in the six month comparison. The unit volume increase was achieved despite severe weather and flooding in parts of the country that slowed construction projects.

Gross profit margins also held up despite a drop in copper prices versus last year's second quarter and first six months. One of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of copper wire sold and the cost of raw copper purchased in any given period. The copper spread decreased only 0.4% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018, while increasing 0.9% in the six month comparison. The copper spread did decrease 3.6% on a sequential quarter comparison.

The copper spread contracted 0.4% as the average price of copper purchased decreased 8.7% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018, while the average selling price of wire sold decreased 6.1%. Margins, which are highly dependent on competitive market conditions, improved slightly in the second quarter to second quarter comparison. In aluminum wire, which represented 8.0% of our net sales in the second quarter of 2019, we continue to enforce our rights under the U.S. trade remedy laws.

On May 30, 2019, the U.S. Commerce Department imposed a preliminary antidumping ruling on imports of aluminum wire from China at rates ranging from 58% to 63%. The final results of the U.S. government's ongoing antidumping and countervailing duty investigations are not expected until the end of the year.

U.S. economy appears strong, as is construction activity. Based on discussions with our distributor customers and their contractor customers, we believe there is a good outlook for construction projects for the next year. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position. As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast.

We believe our performance is impressive and we thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our stockholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we'll review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the review, we'll take any questions you might have. Each of you should have already received a copy of Encore's press release covering Encore's financial results. This release is available on the Internet, or you can call Denis McCarthy at 800-962-9473, and we'll be happy to get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today. I also refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties.

Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during the conference call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now, the financials. Net sales for the second quarter ended June 30, 2019 were $336.9 million compared to $336.8 million for the second quarter of 2018. Copper unit volume, measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 5.6% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018. The average selling price of wire per copper pound sold decreased 6.1% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018.

Net income for the second quarter of 2019 decreased 1.7% to $17.8 million versus $18.1 million in the second quarter of 2018. Fully diluted net earnings per common share was $0.85 in the second quarter of 2019 versus $0.86 in the second quarter of 2018. Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $651.6 million compared to $628.2 million during the same period in 2018.

Copper unit volume measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 9.3% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus the six months ended June 30, 2018. The average selling price of wire per copper pounds sold decreased 5.9% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus the six months ended June 30, 2018 partially offsetting the unit volume impact on sales dollars. Copper wire sales decreased primarily due to the lower price of copper purchase which decreased 9.1% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus the same period in 2018.

Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased 5.9% to $31.2 million versus $29.4 million in the same period in 2018. Fully diluted net earnings per common share were $1.49 in the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus $1.41 in the same period of 2018. On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the second quarter of 2019 were $336.9 million versus $314.7 million during the first quarter of 2019. Sales dollars increased primarily due to an 8.4% unit volume increase of copper building wire sold, offset slightly by a 1.5% decrease in the average selling price per pound of copper wire sold on a sequential quarterly comparison. Copper wire sales prices decreased 1.5%, while the price of copper purchase decreased 0.4% of 1%.

Net income for the second quarter of 2019 was $17.8 million versus $13.4 million in the first quarter of 2019. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.85 in the second quarter versus $0.64 in the first quarter of 2019.

Our balance sheet is very strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $184.8 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We have plans on the drawing board for significant capital expenditures, but these plans have been delayed by issues arising in connection with a proposed new highway project which may bisect our property. We also declared a cash dividend during the quarter.

I want to remind you this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please dial 888-843-7419 and enter the conference reference number 5053702#, or you can visit our website.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our Chairman, President and CEO. Daniel?

Thank you, Frank. As we highlighted, Encore performed well in the past quarter. We believe we're well-positioned for the future. And we will now take questions from our listeners. Jenny?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Brent Thielman from D.A. Davidson.

Thanks, good morning.

Hey, Buddy.

Hey, Buddy.

Hey, Daniel, I guess, any guess when these issues kind of related to the highway project could get resolved, I guess, in terms of a timeline that you can start to move some plans forward with that?

Yeah. I mean, there is ongoing discussions and whatever the local and state related, I think, they're nearing what they want to do and not do top deal, it's narrowed down to just a couple of options and time wise, Brent, we should know something, I would think probably by the end of this year which direction that they're going to go. But in the meantime, we're still doing the things we've got to do to get teed up. We're not ready to announce exactly what those specifics are yet, but it's moving the right direction.

Okay. Okay, great. And I know you guys – you obviously don't report a backlog, but as you're talking to customers, any insights on how far out they can see right now in terms of projects or things getting quoted well into 2020 at this point and I guess is that unusual?

I don't see anything that's unusual. There is an increase though in the way some of these projects are being quoted. I see that there's a volume increase in things that are out into the future. There's ways for us to handle that internally and what have you. But the jobs that are being planned and quoted and what have you, there seems to be more emphasis or focus on the phases being, one, two and three, going into five, six and seven. So we're carrying, as you mentioned the backlog, that has increased a little bit of 10%, 15%, maybe 20% in volume on those future looking projects, specifically to what occurred in Q2. There were some projects pushed out a little bit because of weather in the Midwest and what have you. But the feeling in the market as we travel around and as know the summer months are pretty heavy travel for us customer wise. They're really, really, really busy.

The contractors are booked as we've talked about a little. There's labor issues involved. Everybody just seems to be really busy right now. And I think we saw that in the second quarter reflective in. When you look at the copper prices going in Q1 on a gradual uptick from whatever it was $257 million or so up to about $290 million-ish in Q1. You look at Q2, the opposite occurred. We turned it down in copper from upper 290s, almost $3 down to the 260s [ph] and handle (00:13:49) stability toward the end there at the end of June. But all in all, everybody is really busy and they're business-like in their conversations.

There's not a lot of time for back and forth and whatever. They're real deliberate in what their needs are and what their expectations are and we were able to whether allowing – we were able to deliver quite well in Q2. And just everyone, we talked to and we're working towards something, it's not just general conversational type stuff, its specifics, its detailed. There's a little bit of tension involved, but it's typically on the service side, so all-in-all, I mean everybody's busy, Brent. I mean, it's super busy. Everybody has the same issue, finding qualified labor and what have you. But in all of that, folks are doing a good job. Our customers are doing well. Their customers are doing real well and we're getting paid on time, which is a great indication. So I think business overall is really good.

Okay. That's good to hear. I guess, last one, I'll turn it over. Frank, SG&A was up 11% on flat sales growth, is there if any kind of variables within that to be aware of, I shouldn't think about going forward?

Only the fact that our stock price has done so well that the stock appreciation rights we give to a lot of our management employees have appreciated and the accounting treatment with GAAP makes us mark that to market. We talked about that in the first quarter Q and that continued in the second quarter. So especially on a year-to-date basis, that's really the primary driver of that.

Yeah.

There are a couple of odds and ends associated with legal costs, with the Chinese aluminum situation, but most of it is the stock.

Yeah. Okay. [ph] I take it (00:16:01). Thank you. Appreciate it. I'll pass it on.

You're welcome.

And our next question comes from [ph] Havel Baldwin from Baldwin & Anthony (00:16:10).

Hi, Good morning, Daniel and Frank. [indiscernible]

(00:16:16)

Housekeeping here, what was the LIFO impact, if any in the second quarter, Frank?

For the second quarter, the LIFO impact was pretty small $3.3 million decrement to cost of sales. And on a six-month basis, that washed it almost to zero. It's $500,000 increase to cost of sales on a year-to-date comparison.

Okay. So the increase in the second quarter reduced cost of sales a little bit?

A little bit. Yes, sir.

Okay. And how much of your shipments were residential this quarter percentage wise in revenues versus a year ago?

This quarter, the residential piece was 22.3% versus 22.8% last year. So it's virtually identical.

Flat. And do you all give any color or disclosure on what your aluminum spreads are on a quarterly basis, what they were in the second quarter versus a year ago? [ph]

Bill (00:17:32), this is Daniel. They've improved. They're better, but they're still not where we want them to be. And as mentioned in the earlier comments, we're looking for some positive reaction by the end of this year, hopefully from the Commerce Department. That's moving along like it should. We had a little delay because the government shut down early, but it's back on track and there's a few thresholds to cross, but they've improved. They're not where they need to be. I'm not happy with it at all, but...

Right.

...they're getting there.

Daniel, can you offer any color on kind of how far they are "from normalized" or they were before all this dumping began.

Not really specifically, but it was super helpful when it first came out and then the cheaters or whatever you want to call them, if you will, started to scrambling to make other arrangements. Well, they know what they're doing. I mean, come on.

Oh, absolutely. They know what they're doing. Absolutely.

So they did things to try to skirt the issue and that still continues a little bit. It'll continue to get cleaned up by the end of the year and we'll be back to good business activity on that kind of thing and something else would pop up. But right now, it's improving and it's getting better. And I'm confident that it will be cleaned up near the end of the year, as what we're...

Okay.

...being told – as what we're being told. So [ph] that's all I can go by (00:19:24).

That's helpful. I mean, at least it's moving in the right direction which is obviously a plus, which means you keep going.

Yeah. It's moving in the right direction.

Can you offer me just a little bit of clarification to the previous person's question when you were talking about phases 5, 6 and 7 – are you saying that those phases are more visible now than they were in Q2, is that the way I should interpret what you are saying there, Daniel?

I can't say they are more visible now because I'm supposed to stick to just Q2 and so what I'm saying is as in Q2, there's phases on most of these projects, as Phase 1, 2 and 3 wrap up, it gives clarity, if you will, on the planning side and most the peculiarities of doing that particular job of delivery are in place and so when you get into the additional phases to one of the jobs or hospitals, data centers, universities and schools whatever it is, you can see more clearly as to what the demands are going to be.

I see, I see. Okay. Well, congratulations on a job well done in a difficult environment.

Yeah. Thank you [ph] Bill (00:20:45). I really believe that it was a fantastic quarter if you consider the pressure on the downward side from copper. In 30 years, you can look back and see, you get decreases in copper...

Right...

... [ph] quickly (00:21:05) you get hammered. I think our folks did a fantastic job in Q2 of hanging onto and producing outside of the pressures of copper. So that was pretty [indiscernible] (00:21:18)...

Absolutely, absolutely.

Yeah. Good job.

If you've got just a second here. Can you kind of talk in terms of not specifics, but generally what causes the change in your cost of copper to vary from what they had – the average Comex price change has been? Let's say average Comex price is down 11% and your average copper cost [indiscernible] (00:21:46) down 9% something in the quarter. Is that just a function of the numerator or are there aspects to your business that would cause your copper cost to vary from what's going on with the overall Comex price? [ph]

Bill (00:22:05), there are several factors that could affect that small difference that you alluded to. One would be the fact that as you know having our own Rod Mill allows us the luxury of buying scrap from...

Right.

...various sources and that scrap will not exactly track the same as the Comex price. The other thing that is always the case is timing. If we buy a little more at a certain price just by accident, then at another price at one point in the quarter versus another, those are the kind of factors that would get you slightly off your calculation.

Does it ever work out, Frank, where scrap costs would be higher than Comex?

If it is, we generally don't buy that.

You wouldn't buy that, obviously, right. But I just wonder if that happen just out as curiosity...

It can happen. [indiscernible]

(00:22:59)

Okay.

It can.

Thank you for your time...

And again – you're welcome. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Julio Romero from Sidoti & Company.

Hey, good morning, Dan. Good morning, Frank.

Hey, Julio.

Good morning.

Can you talk a little bit about on the volume side? Shipments are growing better than I expected. I think 9% in the first half, even with that weather headwind, so it would seem from our view that you may be growing above market. Can you talk about any share gains or incremental customer orders that may be driving that growth there?

Yeah. There's a few things that happened in Q2. There's build-up coming off of Q1. The projects that we were discussing earlier are – there's bigger projects, there's more of them, involvement that we get into. I won't give too many specifics. I'm looking at the [indiscernible] (00:24:13) on the call, but they can figure it all out. Here is what happens, right. We get pretty good feedback on the peculiarities of operating at one of these job sites. The requirements very obviously from job-to-job, but our service levels, our fill rates, a lot of the things that we're doing on the delivery side, there's only two things. So building [ph] large process and delivery, (00:24:45) we like to focus on the delivery side.

In Q2 that was significantly important not that it's less important at other times, but it can be. And so, if you have maybe jobs that you weren't able to secure at some point and some of the folks that maybe jumped out there and bit off a little more than they could chew were able to come back in and backfill with our folks and whatever. There was quite a bit of that in the second quarter. I'm not sure what was the motivation for some of those folks to take those jobs, and then not perform but we were able to. And there is a little bit of that. And then the other part of it is, again, you get the peculiarities of a job figured out, you get some routines established and the repeat business shows up and you don't have to go back in and you can do the things to really defend yourself on price if you're doing the delivery piece. So I don't want to get too deep into the pricing part of it. I'll just tell you that the market in Q2 was good. It was favorable for us and it fit with how we go to market. That's probably the best way I could put it. And we benefited from that.

Okay. And how should we maybe think about your volume outlook in the back half of this year, because just looking at second half of 2018, you had some weather headwinds as well, but you also grew volumes 13% year-over-year last half – in the second half of last year, so seems like a fairly tough year-over-year comparison. Just any help on how we should think about that aspect.

Yeah. I mean, things are good. Again, as I mentioned earlier, the indicators that we watch were all good. We're getting paid on time and folks are super busy and the general discussion as we're traveling around and the sales guys are on the road all the time and they're meeting the folks and talking about the business that's coming and going – that were going forward with and we're busy. Things are busy. I guess that's a best way I can answer. Everybody that we deal with, customer wise, they're busy. Their customers are busy. They're very deliberate and were specific in what they're wanting. As long as we continue to deliver and focus and do the things that we're good at and not get too distracted with some of the other things that are going on the market, I think it's going to be good.

Okay, fair enough. And then, just last one for me here is on the capital expenditure. Obviously, there's some issues there with the highway project. Can you maybe talk about how we should think about what's the potential payback on the project? Obviously, would be ways out, but how should we maybe think about potential earnings contribution there in the long-term?

Yeah. It's going to be great. That's how it would be.

Thanks. Okay. Okay, thanks very much. I appreciate it. I'll hop back in the queue.

Thanks, Julio. Appreciate it.

Our next question comes from [ph] Brian Gibson from Raymond James (00:28:39).

Hey, Frank and Dan.

Yeah.

Hi, [ph] Brain (00:28:42).

Hey. This building project or CapEx is – I just can't [Technical Difficulty] (00:28:52) my mind it. I guess I've never heard something like this before. Hey, we're going to do a cap – I read last time, we're going to do a CapEx, but a new highway might be coming through. And then, Frank, you said this morning a significant CapEx. I mean, you're going to put up – and I've been down there before, so are you going to be putting up a new building or I mean, what's – I mean can you...

That's what we're looking at. A little project, no different than what we've done in the past, more of the same. Four walls and a roof and some concrete around it and some [ph] dark (00:29:22) doors and we're going to bring in some equipment and do those kind of things. I mean, we're in the middle of figuring out exactly what all it is. But to our north, there's a road between us and 100 acres. And to our east...

This is 100 acres or 127 acres? You bought some land here in the last four or five years, I believe.

I don't remember the year, but it's 107 acres up to the north...

Okay.

...and there is 200 acres to the east. And we've got a couple of roads around our property here. And like I said earlier, the municipalities and government agencies and whatever that are looking at all the growth in this area that's unaffiliated with specifically Encore Wire, but there's some infrastructure projects that are going around in the area. Texas is growing and Collin County is growing and City of McKinney is growing and they're trying to accommodate all that growth. And so, we're a pretty decent size landowner in McKinney. And there's conversations and drawings and projects on them on the books and decisions have been made in all these meetings and what have you. And we're in the middle of all that. And so, while all that is going on, you've got to be a good neighbor and speak to those folks and make sure that our interests are considered when they're trying to accommodate the growth in the area of traffic and whatever it might be. So we're in the middle of all that. And it's not a huge delay, but again, there's some stuff going on around us here that's – we're involved in and it just kind of – waiting here and waiting there is not my style, so that's why we put it in the press release. We're moving forward though.

So when we are going to put up four walls and a roof.

Yeah.

That means you're going to be hiring more, more...

Well, correct. Yes, yes.

...more employees also?

Yes. Yes, sir. Yeah. We'll need some more folks. Yeah.

Yeah. And actually – well, this is kind of interesting and just – this is just a personal side note. My fourth daughter and her fiancé just visited Dallas here two weeks ago and she's got an internship with PricewaterhouseCoopers and if they give her a position in the Dallas area, she's going to accept the offer, so I know people are moving in. So...

That's great.

All right. Thanks.

I hope she brings some of that honey for us.

Hey, all my bees died last winter, but I've got a couple of new hives here, so hopefully...

Let's go, let's get busy. Let's get it.

Let's get going. Yeah. So hey, thanks a lot guys and congratulations on the quarter. And I do think it's significant that since I've been following the company I've discovered that when copper prices are dropping, people hold off on buying, so you still have positive earnings when prices are falling, so congratulations and we'll be talking to you again.

Yeah. Our folks did a great job. I appreciate the call. Thanks for asking.

And our next question comes from Tom Brashear from Preston Capital Management.

Good morning gentlemen.

Hello. Tom.

Hey. Tom.

Good morning gentlemen. Am I reading it properly – your higher unit volumes keep growing which is great and to me that implies that you're gaining market share, is that a proper read?

You know, you can say that. I don't know how certain you can be to specifics, nobody else – it is public in our space. But I don't know how to gauge it against the market specifically. But in general, the growth is with the same folks that we've been with. We're not chasing a lot of new anything. So you can say it to what degree it's hard to measure specifically, but it sounds good when you say it.

Have you noticed any disruption of any of your competitors and their production lines or other issues?

The best of our knowledge, everybody's running their plants. I think everybody's busy. I think the market itself is pretty busy. I don't know of any capacity that's significant changes either way up or down, honestly. I think everybody is running and doing well.

Appreciate your work [indiscernible] (00:34:34) shareholders.

You bet. Thanks, Tom.

We have no further questions at this time.

Okay. Jenny, well, thank you. We appreciate participation on the call and look forward to next quarter.

Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.