Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer, CAO & Vice President, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Robert J. Kelly — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Tom Brashear — Founder & President, Preston Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Encore Wire Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Starting the presentation will be Mr. Daniel Jones, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, John. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Encore Wire Corporation Quarterly Conference Call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Encore Wire. With me this morning is Frank Bilban our Chief Financial Officer. The fourth quarter of this year was another fairly steady volume quarter, considering the time of the year and the current economic and construction industry environment. We believe our expansion of product offerings over the last few years to our existing customer base has been critical to maintaining and boosting our market share.

As we have previously noted, one of the key metrics to our earnings is the spread between the price of wire sold and cost of raw copper purchased in any given period. The spread increased 6.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the third quarter of 2012. Our copper unit volume shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 decreased 9.4% versus the third quarter of 2012. The spread increase helped us to produce similar earnings in both of the last two quarters despite the volume decrease. Volumes in the fourth quarter are generally at their winter and holiday low point. Relatively small movements in the spread can affect our earnings per share and will have positive influence on a sequential quarterly comparison. Conversely, spreads were down 17% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011, and down 9.4% on an annual basis in 2012 versus 2011.

Our new aluminum building wire plant began to produce wire in the fourth quarter. The last of the equipment is being delivered and installed in the first quarter of 2013. We're expanding our distribution of aluminum wire to all of our sales reps and customers in the first quarter and expect to see sales of these products gradually increase over the course of 2013.

We continue to support industry price increases in an effort to maintain an increase margins and we believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories.

As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast. We've been able to accomplish this despite holding lean inventories ourselves. We believe our performance is impressive in this economy and we thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our shareholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we will review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the financial review, we will take any questions you may have. Each of you should have received a copy of Encore's press release covering Encore's financial results in advance. This release is available on the Internet or you can call Natalie Seelbach at 800-962-9473, and we'll get you a copy.

Before we review financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors, are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now, the financial results. Net sales for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2012 were $258 million compared to $248.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2011. Prices for copper building wire sold in the quarter declined 1.8% versus the fourth quarter of 2011. However, the average price of copper purchased during the quarter rose 4.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011.

Copper unit volume, measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire sold, increased 2.2% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011. Aluminum building wire sales constituted 5.1% of net sales dollars for the fourth quarter of 2012. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $5.2 million versus $16.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Fully-diluted net earnings per common share were $0.25 in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus $0.69 in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $1.072 billion compared to $1.180 billion during the same period in 2011. Lower building prices for building wire sold in the year ended December 31, 2012 accounted for most of the decrease in net sales dollars, decreasing 10.4% per copper pound versus the same period in 2011. Copper unit volume in the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased 1.3% versus the same period in 2011. The average price of copper purchased during the year fell 10.7% in 2012 versus 2011, albeit on a lower absolute value than building wire prices. Aluminum building wire sales constituted 3.6% of net sales dollars for the year.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $19.8 million versus $50.1 million in the same period in 2011. Fully-diluted net earnings per common share were $0.91 for the full year ended December 31, 2012 versus $2.14 in 2011.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the fourth quarter of 2012, were $258 million versus $269.2 million during the third quarter of 2012. Copper unit volume decreased 9.4% on a sequential quarter comparison. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $5.2 million versus $5.5 million in the third quarter of 2012. Fully-diluted net income per common share was $0.25 in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus $0.27 in the third quarter of 2012.

Our balance sheet continues to remain strong. We have no long-term debt and our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we had $33.9 million in cash at the end of the quarter. We also declared another quarterly cash dividend during the quarter.

I'd like to remind you that this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the taped replay, please call 877-764-8714 and enter the conference reference 336-661 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the call back over to Daniel Jones, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Daniel?

Thanks, Frank. All things considered, Encore performed well in the past quarter. We believe we're well positioned for the future. And John will now take questions from our listeners.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instruction] And we have a question from Anthony Kure from KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Good morning, John. And this [ph] Ben Karbowski (08:50) on for Tony Kure. How are you?

Okay. Good, [ph] Ben (08:54).

Good, [ph] Ben (08:54).

Good. So I'll just jump right into the questions, I guess. Could you give me your mix of commercial versus residential in the fourth quarter?

Certainly, in the fourth quarter, our residential pounds constituted 19.2% of our total volume.

Okay. And given that the residential mix continues to get a little bit higher, and that the residential numbers have been picking up recently, do you feel that the non-residential construction market is lagging the residential trends by any specific timeframe?

We don't see that in the marketplace. What we're seeing, [ph] Ben (09:33), is a very slow and gradual uptick in the residential side. But not so much the others lagging, it's actually more positive numbers.

Okay. That makes sense. And then, what do you think about the non-residential numbers coming out with the ABI being up consecutively the past couple months, do you think it'll start to recover to more normalized levels maybe in the second quarter or maybe pushed out towards the third or fourth?

The only caveat I would add before I answer is, what is normal, but a more specific answer would be is, yes. We're seeing some positive feedback in the market on maybe pent-up jobs that are coming out. Again with the volatility in copper, you'll get one started and it stops or what have you. But for the most part, the feeling is in the market that it is positive, yes.

All right. And then, one last question for you. Could you tell me what the LIFO adjustments are to the COGS line?

In the fourth quarter, the LIFO was almost nothing. It was just under $1 million of credit or decrement to cost of goods sold, and that meant for the year we took a hit or expense to cost of goods sold of $10.7 million.

All right. Thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate it.

You're welcome.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Bob Kelly from Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Hey, Bob. How are you doing?

Had a question on – doing well, thank you. Had a question on the orders. You had referenced over the past couple quarters walking away from some low margin bids, was that still the case in 4Q? Did that continue into 2013? Any comments on that?

Yes. We still continue to see some – I just have to be careful because it all has to do with price. But I guess the best answer I can give you, Bob, is yes. We still continue to see attempts from – for whatever reason, for folks to try to buy their way in on an order or what have you. It's better, the quarter was better than what we have seen. But it still does continue to some extent, yes.

Okay. As far as the conversations with your customers go for bids, and maybe the quarter just ended and what's going on today, I saw some bullish commentary out of some of the miners about demand for copper. What – are the price expectations moving up and to the right as far as your customers? Do they expect copper increases? I mean, what's the lay of the land as far as their expectations for 2013?

Well. We try to do as much as we can to separate the demand for building wire, the demand for copper, but obviously, copper gets all of the attention, I guess that's the romantic piece to our business. But the feel currently is on the jobs that they're going ahead, folks are active, they're in the market to buy. They're still a little bit cautious, but then if someone is right on the cusp of placing a purchase order for a significant job and copper drops $0.07 or $0.08, there's times when they hold back and there's times when they go ahead and move forward. It really is – it's almost – it's better, the feel is better, but there's still some of that apprehension because of the volatility in copper. And I don't want to get too deep into 2013, because the call is about Q4 and I apologize for that.

Right, good. Very positive development. Thanks for that. As far as the mix, Encore is 80-20 give or take, but your competitors are not necessarily weighted that much towards commercial. I mean is that a fair statement? And is there some sense with res getting better that more and more of your competitors are doing less of the price drops to win business and getting more disciplined?

Yeah. It's hard to say. I mean, we've got a decent feel for our competitors, how they – how the commercial residential piece breaks down, but with none of the guys that we compete with being public, it's hard to say with any certainty. But based on what we think internally and what we see in the marketplace, I think it's got to be close or at least similar to the breakdown in the market. But again, I don't know enough about their approach to the market other than I'm sure they have their reasons or what have you, I'd love to hear them sometime, but I don't understand why you would cut the price to get an order with all the cost. And as you mentioned earlier, the copper miners, as bullish as they are, and the volatility that's in the market, it's confusing, maybe a little, but more so than anything, it's frustrating.

Okay.

About the best answer I can give you on that.

Thanks. And just one final one, aluminum, 5% of sales in 4Q. Is that sort of mix a good metric for modeling 2013-2014 to assume aluminum's going to be 5% of your sales? I know you don't want to give forward guidance, but any help into how we think – how we should think about the contribution from aluminum over the next couple of years.

Yeah, I would say more specifically, Bob, that aluminum going forward will be a little bit bigger piece than 5%.

Okay. Thanks very much.

You bet. Thank you for the support.

[Operator Instruction] And we have a follow-up from Anthony Kure from KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Yeah, gentlemen. I just had two more questions for you. I guess, when looking at the residential market for the build out of your wire, when does that typically go into a home, is that going to be earlier, when – in the process or is that going to be a little bit later?

Once the concrete is poured, if it's a slab house, walls go up, roof goes on, wires pulled in. So depending on which part of the country in, that's affected by weather or what have you, it might be a little faster or a little slower. But typically, this time of the year, the walls are up, the roof is on and our product needs to be protected from weather, moisture, and what have you. So it's early in the timing of construction project residentially, but depending on if you're the builder or the seller, I guess, it would – you could change that timing. But basically, it's pretty early. To finish out on a house would take a little bit longer than getting the [ph] roof in (17:33).

Okay. And then could you provide a little bit of insight around the impact from the new JPMorgan copper ETF. I know you guys had kind of been out against that and just kind of tell what you think that impact might be on the copper market.

You know what, I'd love to talk to you about that but with some things we have going on in the market right now, with the attorneys and what have you, I probably should not comment. I'll just give you little piece.

Okay.

I'll just give you a little piece.

Okay.

As volatile as copper is today in the market, it's our opinion basically, that that will increase the volatility if it's even possible, but we feel it will increase the volatility.

So, basically the concept is, if I can ask this, that they're going to be holding large reserves of copper. So that will take even more of the supply out of what's available?

Correct.

Okay. I appreciate you making the comments that you can and thank you for answering all my questions.

You bet. Thank you.

Our next question comes from [ph] Garry Rigden (18:45) from [indiscernible] (18:46)

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hey, how you doing?

I'm doing well. Thanks. Quick question on the residential. Are you seeing any kind of trends in specific geographic regions, is it across the board or are there any pockets that are showing a little better metrics than others?

Let me answer it like this, the only area that comes to mind that is not at least participating in the residential piece is basically the Mid-Atlantic. We're just not seeing a whole lot of area yet. But again, it could be timing for one month or one quarter to the next. But specifically in Q4, we just didn't see much participation from that area.

Do you anticipate any increase in activity due to Hurricane Sandy, I say that going back to what happened in the Gulf Coast with Katrina and so forth, there seem to be a lag effect and eventually when that did kick in it – you could really kind of see increases based on that. Do you expect or is that something that you're seeing any hints of currently?

We did. Immediately, there's some emergency-type shipments that take place and temporary power and there's a lot of things that happen, but the business itself as far as measurable shipments and orders really is more spread out over time than it would be in any one quarter. But the answer is, yes. As the rebuilding piece picks up and the timing of that again is spread out a little longer term than in any one quarter, if it continues as it is and what we've seen in the past.

Great, thanks.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Tom Brashear from Preston Capital Management. Please go ahead.

Morning, Daniel.

Hey, how you are doing?

Doing, great. Share with us what indicators you're seeing on the commercial side, is building improving there or are you seeing it stable or slowing?

What we're seeing – what we saw in Q4, again, was a little bit of copper volatility. If we were in some type of bias one way or the other, it certainly had an effect on the jobs that we were discussing commercially. So if the bias was on the upside, we had a couple, three days, folks that were ready to go would pull the trigger and place a purchase order.

On the other side, when the bias would be down for two or three days on a copper price situation, if they had the luxury of time, they would hold off. But again, in the bigger picture, what we're seeing is that timing and that timeframe, at some point, the product needs to be shipped and there has to be a decision made, a business decision made.

So Q4 was really a little bit better in that sense, that was the feel. The discussions were less lengthy and purchase orders were placed and product was shipped and delivered and obviously installed. So, just to keep it in the Q4 context, the Q4 feeling was, again, it was related to volatility quite a bit, but overall the feel of business was pretty good. We had a few weather events that may have slowed some things down over time, but they'll come back out. And the overall feel was, it was pretty good.

Very good. Thank you.

You bet.

Our next question comes from Bob Kelly from Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi, just one follow-up. You referenced a couple times. It sounds like there's quite a bit of projects that are just about to move off the sidelines. Could you give us a sense of how big or how strong quoting, bidding activity is? How active is your market in the stages just before we get to the projects being released?

Well, in Q4, we were very active in the sales office, very active with some of the things that we're doing to get in front of the timing of the order itself. And there's a lot of things that we're doing again before the order happens. So there is a lot of work, Bob, that's going into the decision-making process on these orders. And it kind of fits into the earlier comments about, you put this – invest your time and effort into getting the job, "ready-to-go" and you might have a competitor swoop in with some ridiculously discounted price level without the knowledge of the investment that was put in prior to.

So – but again, in the fourth quarter that was improving. We were working harder and seeing orders come through, shipping them on time. Again, there was a couple of weather top events that no one can control that may have pushed off a job, because the job site itself just could not physically take the material. But overall, the feeling was really good in the fourth quarter about the investment of time and effort in getting an order or getting a quote really to become an order.

And that process definitely in the last few years has changed. But I think it's changed for the better. There's a lot more value discussion upfront in convincing folks to go ahead and pull the trigger on these jobs that are pent up. And Bob, there's a lot of activity out there. You travel around, the airports are full, movie theater parking lots are full of people, restaurants are pretty full. We're getting paid on time. There's a lot of really positive signs out there, and you can see it come across the desk as far as business goes, and there is a lot of activity out there. A lot of discussion about jobs. And it's not so much, what if, anymore. Again, it is more discussions about timing than anything.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You bet. Thank you.

[Operator instructions]

We could probably call [ph] David Ethan (26:46) back.

At the moment, I show no questions.

Okay. Well John, thank you very much for handling the call and the questions, and we appreciate the support on the call and the questions are always helpful. I look forward to seeing you guys next quarter. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.