Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Daniel L. Jones — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)
Frank J. Bilban — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer, CAO & Vice President, Encore Wire Corp. (Delaware)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Encore Wire Second Quarter Earnings Conference. As a reminder, all of your lines will be on a listen-only mode. However, we will have a Q&A session at the end of the call. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to introduce and turn the call over to Mr. Daniel Jones, President and CEO of Encore Wire. Go ahead, Mr. Jones.

Thank you, Angie and good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Encore Wire Corp. Quarterly Conference Call. I'm Daniel Jones, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Encore Wire. With me this morning is Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer.

We're pleased to announce strong quarterly earnings in the midst of the severe recession currently taken place in the construction industry. As we have repeatedly noted, the key metric to earnings is the spread between the cost of wire sold and cost of raw copper purchased in any given period.

The spread increased 22.2% in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010 while our unit volume shipped in the second quarter of 2011 increased 1.9% versus the second quarter of 2010. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, the spread increased 30.4% versus the six months ended June 30, 2010 driving our increased earnings.

Unit volume for the same time period for the six months 2010 versus six months 2011 increased 13.4%. We believe the exit of a former competitor in the first quarter of 2010 has contributed to the positive trend in industry pricing levels and margins in the past five quarters since their exit, we've earned a cumulative $1.62 and fully diluted net earnings per share, versus a cumulative $0.05 in fully diluted net earnings per share in the previous five quarters ended March 31, 2010.

Despite producing strong earnings in the second quarter of 2011, we're down slightly on a sequential quarter comparison with the volatility of copper prices during the quarter, industry attempts to introduce price increases were occasionally stymied by the volatility. We attempted to lead or follow price increases during the quarter, some of which were unsuccessful. We continue to support industry price increases in an effort to maintain and increase margins. We believe our superior order fill rates continue to enhance our competitive position, as our electrical distributor customers are holding lean inventories in the field.

As orders come in from electrical contractors, the distributors can count on our order fill rates to ensure quick deliveries from coast to coast, and we've been able to accomplish this despite holding what are historically lean inventories for us. We believe our performance is impressive in this economy, and thank our employees and associates for their tremendous efforts. We also thank our shareholders for their continued support.

Frank Bilban, our Chief Financial Officer, will now discuss our financial results. Frank?

Thank you, Daniel. In a minute, we will review Encore's financial results for the quarter. After the review, we will take any questions you may have. Each of you should have received a copy of Encore's press release following Encore's financial results. The release is available on the internet or you can call Tracy West at 800-962-9473, and we will get you a copy.

Before we review the financials, let me indicate that throughout this conference call, we may make certain statements that might be considered to be forward-looking. In order to comply with certain securities legislation and instead of attempting to identify each particular statement as forward-looking, we advise you that all such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. I refer each of you to the company's SEC reports and news releases for a more detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Also, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures discussed during this call to the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, including EBITDA, which we believe to be useful supplemental information for investors, are posted on www.encorewire.com.

Now, the financials. Net sales for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011 were $309.5 million, compared to $236.1 million during the second quarter of 2010. Higher prices for building wire sold in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 accounted for most of the increase in net sales dollars, increasing $28.06 per copper pound sold versus the same period in 2010. Sales prices rose primarily due to higher copper prices, which rose 30.7%. Unit volume in the second quarter of 2011 increased 1.9% versus the second quarter of 2010. Net income for the second quarter of 2011 increased 16.3% to $9.5 million versus $8.1 million in the second quarter of 2010. Fully diluted net earnings per common share increased 16% to $0.40 in the second quarter of 2011 versus $0.35 in the second quarter of 2010.

Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were $612.8 million compared to $411.3 million during the same period in 2010. Higher prices for building wire sold in the six months ended June 30, 2011 accounted for most of the increase in net sales dollars, increasing 31.5% per copper pound versus the same period in 2010. Unit volume in the six months ended June 30, 2011 also helped to increase the topline sales dollars, increasing 13.4% versus the same period in 2010. Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was $20.1 million versus $5.7 million in the same period in 2010. Fully diluted net income per common share increased 253% to $0.86 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 versus $0.24 per common share in the same period in 2010.

On a sequential quarter comparison, net sales for the second quarter of 2011 were $309.5 million versus $303.4 million during the first quarter of 2011. Unit volume increased 6% on a sequential quarter comparison. Net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $9.5 million versus $10.7 million in the first quarter of 2011. Fully diluted net income per common share was $0.40 in the second quarter of 2011 versus $0.46 in the first quarter of 2011.

Our balance sheet remains strong. We have no long term debt, our revolving line of credit is paid down to zero. In addition, we have $46.8 million in cash as of June 30, 2011. We also declared another quarterly cash dividend in the second quarter of 2011.

Everyone should know that this conference call will be available for replay after the conclusion of this session. If you wish to hear the replay, please call 866-551-4520 and enter the conference reference number 274645 and the pound sign.

I'll now turn the floor back over to Daniel Jones, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Daniel?

Thank you. As Frank highlighted, all things considered, Encore performed well in the past quarter and we believe we're well positioned for the future.

Angie, we'd now like to take questions from our listeners.

[Operator Instructions] . And our first question is from [ph] Robert Kelly (8:55). Go ahead, [ph] Robert (8:57).

Daniel, Frank, good morning.

Good morning.

Just a question on -- one of the lines in the prepared remarks, the copper volatility stymied, some of your efforts to increase prices. Would you just talk about the trend whether it be pricing or spreads in April, May and June how that kind of played out throughout the quarter, if you could?

Right. April ended up around the $4.30 mark on the COMEX average for the month. May ended about $4.05 and June I think was around $4.10, going from a higher copper average to lower copper average each month within the quarter. If you print a price increase and industry either follows or it doesn't but if you lose for example, $0.25 from April to May in COMEX average, you have little change of that price increase sticking. And the good thing was in June, it recovered about $0.05, and we were able to put some price increases through that helped.

Okay, great. And then as far as July, you've seen some strength in the copper market again. Has there been any change to discipline in the market? It seems over the past five or six quarters, you've seen the market get religion following the liquidation of AIW. Any change in the competitive dynamics with copper back on the rise?

I can't really speak to Q3, but there certainly is, in my opinion, there's an improvement and discipline in the market. We were 1% in additional price or, very close to having a blowout quarter, so I do believe that the discipline in the market has been good.

One thing in the industry that happens when you have an upward trend or an upward bias I guess today rather than a trend but if you have an upward bias in copper, you're able to substantiate those price increases with very little effort. If you have copper going against you on price increase, not only do you lose that opportunity of the increase, but we do have a few competitors that will may be run ahead of the game and discount a little deeper than the actual event or the actual daily trading of copper but overall, for the most part, the competitors, I believe, have been very disciplined.

Okay, good to hear. One final one, was there -- what was the working capital used in 2Q, Frank, if you would?

Cash flow from operations in Q2 was a negative $25.25 million and that's because accounts receivable went up by $12 million again and due to timing our accounts payable went down by $13 million and inventory went up by $7 million. So net-net, with a few other items including net income of almost $10 million, it netted out to a use of cash going into the working capital of about $25 million.

Thanks so much. Thank you, guys.

Thank you.

[Operator instruction]. Our next question is from [ph] Eric Marshal (12:59). Go ahead [ph] Eric (13:01).

Yes, guys. One quick question I have is just -- forgive me if you've already talked about this but could you go over what the LIFO reserve was in the quarter?

LIFO in the quarter was a $6.8 million credit or decrement to cost of sales and for the six months ended June, it almost washed itself out, it's down to $1.4 million hit. So as Daniel indicated, copper trended up in the first quarter, during which you normally take a bit of hit and as copper trended down a little in the second quarter, we gave it back, so net-net we're almost at zero for the six months.

Okay, thanks.

You're welcome.

And there are no other questions at this time.

Okay, give them just a second. I'm sure there will be one or two, Angie.

Okay. [Operator Instructions] And our next question is from [ph] Kerry Rigdon (14:26). Go ahead, [ph] Kerry (14:28).

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, how are you doing?

Doing great. Quick question, could you give a quick breakdown in terms of the residential versus commercial for the quarter?

For the second quarter, our residential wire in copper pounds constituted about 17.5% of the pound shift leaving about 82.5% to the commercial and industrial.

Terrific, thanks.

Okay.

Okay, no go ahead.

I was just going to say for the six months, if you wanted it, it's about the same. Residential was 16.4% for the six months.

Okay. Great, thank you.

You're welcome.

And our next question comes from [ph] Tom Brushara (15:22). Go ahead, [ph] Tom (15:24).

Hi, good morning, gentlemen, great quarter.

Thanks, Tom.

Are you seeing any new copper mining capacity come online any time soon the next two to four years that could amend or change the dynamic of copper supply and prices?

Nothing of any real significance, Tom. There's a few properties that have been operational the last couple of years or whatever that might be considered new but for the most part, nothing huge, nothing significant.

Very good. Thank you so much. Look forward to seeing you guys soon and really enjoyed the Analyst Day.

Thanks Tom.

[Operator Instructions] And we do not have any questions at this time.

Okay, Angie. Thank you very much for handling the call for us and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation and questions and we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This conference call has been concluded.