Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Mark Westby — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Andrew Bradford — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd. (Broker)
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Jeff Fetterly — Analyst, Peters & Co. Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, your meeting is about to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited First Quarter Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Donna. Good morning, and thank you for joining our first quarter conference call. With me on the call this morning are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; and Allan Mowbray, CFO. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our first quarter results, speak to the outlook, and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures, such as EBITDA. Please see our May 4, 2016 first quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties, a number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, please refer to our May 4, 2016 first quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thanks, Karen. Good morning. The first quarter was very difficult for the oilfield services sector and for Essential. Oil and gas activity was far below historical levels as E&P companies curtail capital spending to preserve cash flow and manage debt. Essential reported EBITDAS of negative $750,000 before severance costs of $1.7 million. Early in 2015, we reduced our cost structure in anticipation of slower activity and reduced revenue for the remainder of 2015. We rolled back salaries and reduced the head count by 40%. This reduced our fixed costs structure by approximately $10 million in fiscal 2015. We also rained in capital spending and announced two dividend reductions.

2015 concluded with revenue down 50% compared to the prior year. Then in Q1 2016, it became apparent we would need to take further steps to right size the business as the unthinkable was happening. First quarter activity was unusually slow in January and February. And then, March generated only nominal revenue well below our expectations. By the end of the quarter, we had experienced a 56% reduction in revenue compared to a weak same quarter of 2015.

We set a target to reduce our fixed costs structure by another 20%. And during the first quarter, we initiated further salary rollbacks and unfortunately more layoffs. We also reduced the hourly wage of our variable workforce and transitioned a large portion of that workforce to casual employment status.

Under this employment status, unless there is work available, these employees have no income or benefits. For 2016, we have a modest capital budget of $9 million and yesterday, we announced the decision to suspend our dividend. This has been an extraordinarily difficult time for management and staff. We had close to 1,000 employees at the beginning of 2015, but are now down to approximately 350 employees. Many good, hardworking people and long-term employees have lost their jobs. We don't believe there is much capacity to implement a future cost reduction strategy. Our problem and the solution is revenue. I truly hope our federal and provincial governments can develop the awareness and commitment to lead the way to pipeline approval for tidewater access.

I also believe they should approve the well abandonment and remediation program that has been promoted by Brad Wall, the Saskatchewan Premier and more recently by the Petroleum Services Association of Canada. Essential is a completion, production and abandonment company, cleaning up abandoned wells during a downturn would keep skilled oilfield workers employed until commodity prices improve, and also would need a primary objective of both governments by improving our environment.

I will now speak in detail about our service lines. Revenue from coil well service in the first quarter was a 51% decrease from Q1 2015 due to lower activity and price declines. Activity was particularly slower in this division in March due to early spring breakup. With industry well completions down 61% from Q1, 2015 masted coil tubing fared better than the industry decline and our operating hours were down only 52%.

Pumping hours declined only 42%, outperforming our coil tubing due to incremental standalone pump work. Coil well service revenue per hour declined in the range of 5% to 10% compared to Q1 2015. Service rig revenue was 71% lower than Q1 2015, again, due to both lower activity and price decreases. Revenue per hour declined approximately 15% compared to the same prior period.

Excessive competition led to this further significant revenue drop. Well servicing gross margin, which includes coil well service and service rigs, fell to 8% in the quarter, compared to 23% in Q1 2015. We were able to maintain fairly strong margins in this business in fiscal 2015. However, as revenue declined in the first quarter of 2016, fixed costs were a larger percentage of revenue significantly reducing our gross margin. The cost reductions implemented in 2015 were just not sufficient to offset the further decline in revenue. So, as discussed earlier, additional fixed cost reductions were implemented in Q1 2016, a second round of variable wage reductions re-implemented in an attempt to offset the pricing reductions.

Our downhole tools & rentals segment reported $11 million of revenue, which is 54% lower than Q1 2015. Canadian multi-stage fraction revenue increased sequentially from Q4 2015, that was a very good thing for us to see. Compared to Q1 2015, both MSFS and conventional tools revenue declined less than the 61% reduction in industry well completions. We experienced significant revenue declines in Canadian rentals and U.S. downhole tools.

Gross margin for this division was 11%, significantly lower than Q1 2015, but an improvement from Q4 2015. Similar to well servicing during periods of lower revenue, fixed costs comprise a greater proportion of revenue. Gross margin was further reduced by significant U.S. operating losses and a lower contribution from the higher margin rentals business. If we exclude the U.S. gross margin from the Canadian division, the margin would have been 16% in the quarter. As mentioned in our last conference call, cost cutting was initiated in the Canadian business in February 2016, and additional cost cutting occurred in U.S. operations, but not until Q2 2016.

Now, some comments about our debt. On March 31, we had $27 million of debt outstanding. While this was only a $1.5 million increase from December 2015, our debt-to-EBITDAS ratio increased from 1.1 times at year-end 2015 to 2.7 times at March 31, 2016. Our debt-to-EBITDAS bank covenant is at 3.0 times.

The deterioration is a result of the trailing 12-month calculation of EBITDAS, simply said, the stronger EBITDAS from Q1 2015 was replaced with the weaker EBITDAS from Q1 2016. It's important to note that Essential's total debt remains low in relation to our working capital of $50 million, which is comprised primarily of accounts receivable and inventory. Essential debt service costs for the first quarter were relatively small at approximately $300,000 given our relatively low debt – our relatively low interest rate of 3%.

This is a distinct advantage that we have during these difficult times and that we have lower absolute debt and low debt service costs. At March 31, 2016, Essential was in compliance with all bank covenants. To-date, we have not had to approach our lending syndicate for covenant relief or waivers. This again is a significant cost savings to our shareholders.

Given the uncertain outlook for the remainder of 2016, we have determined that it's prudent to approach our bank syndicate to discuss extending our credit facility and to proactively seek relaxation of some of the financial covenants. We have now initiated these discussions. Our current facility expires in May 2017. We look forward to updating you and our investors once these negotiations are complete.

Now, a few brief comments on capital. Our capital budget remains at $9 million, comprised of $6 million of growth capital and $3 million of maintenance capital. We spent approximately $3 million on our capital program in the first quarter of 2016. We are making progress with our Gen IV program including the sales strategy. One of the rigs worked in February in the Bakken and the work was then cut short due to early breakup conditions, but it's expected to continue with the same customer in May. We also have two other of the Gen IV rigs scheduled to work on high-pressure wells in the Duvernay formation for a large-cap customer in the month of May.

Now, wrapping up with some comments on the outlook. With industry drilling rig utilization at 6% in the month of April, oilfield service activity continues to be extremely slow, and we believe the remainder of the second quarter will be slower than Q2 2015. Beyond that, the outlook is unclear, as customers continue to assess their plans in this highly uncertain macroeconomic environment.

We have finished our second round of significant cost reductions and will continue to focus our attention on cost and debt management as we navigate our way through this prolonged and difficult cycle. Essential has been operating with a highly variable cost structure for many years now with the majority of our field employees working on a strictly variable compensation model.

We believe we found the right balance between cost reduction to generate appropriate margins and retain key employees to ensure that we have a viable business that can respond and grow when the industry begins to pull out of this prolonged downturn. Let's hope that happens sooner than later.

Donna, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We'll now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Mark Westby from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Well, just one question. Regarding your MSFS, pretty strong quarter there, could you provide a little more detail on that and your outlook for that segment going forward?

Yeah, I think the important part about that business as you know from past discussions, Mark, is that our primary product is the ball and seat multi-stage completion tool and I think the discussion, whenever those numbers trend differently from you folks as analysts have as an expectation, the comment always comes up about is the ball and seat system finished and as that sort of run its course in the marketplace.

We continue to believe that there are competing completion technologies that have displaced some of the market share for that product but that are – part of our problem is that different customers come and go with spending but there is still a good core group of customers relying on that product. So, that's probably the best I can say and it's extremely difficult for us to give any kind of forward direction or predictions because customers spending comes and goes, similar to what you see in our numbers.

Okay. Great. That's – I think you've already answered all my other questions. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. The next question is from Brian Purdy from PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Brian.

I was wondering if you'd give us a bit of color around the discussions with your lending group. You've indicated that you're looking at some covenant relief there. I mean, given the state of the industry and the number of companies that have gone through this process and the fact that you guys are just starting it now, does that make it easier through these discussions and is there any color you can give us on maybe where the line limit might go, or there'd be any change to your interest rate?

Karen has been closes to it, so she'll give us some detailed comments, but I think all the early cost cutting that we've done, all the steps that we've taken have been very much centered around making sure which we've done to-date, that [ph] we stay onside (15:50) with our covenants. We've heard from our bankers that they've been approached two and three times by some companies. But as I said in my comments, when it becomes a revenue problem, as we've seen in the first quarter and the second quarter's breakup, it's a very unknown situation and you can run scenarios in the back half of the year that can look continually grim. We don't expect that will happen, we think some of our customers will pick up their spending, but yeah, it was a good time to start this dialogue.

They've got a lot more experience under their belts now in this negotiation process than we do from other companies, but again, we're in a fortunate spot to not be in a panic.

So with that, I'll let Karen add a few extra comments.

Yeah. I think, Garnet answered most of your questions, but in terms of line limit, it's obvious right now that we're not using or coming close to that $100 million, and then we also become constrained by our covenants as to how much we can borrow, so it only makes sense both from our perspective and from the banks perspective to bring that down. In terms of what kind of covenant really we're looking at, we're really early stages in negotiations and just wouldn't be wise for me start speculating.

Okay. In terms of the – you guys, obviously, have strong working capital. I'm just wondering what you expect to see in terms of cash conversion there. There is a big inventory component, so I'm just wondering if you expect to see that coming to cash and you can reduce that permanently or is that something that you think needs to stay on the balance sheet with that kind of level?

Our working capital, that $50 million that I mentioned is close to – a little heavier weighted on the inventory side than the receivable side. But generally, it would be around the 50/50 mark. The first thing we've got as an issue on the receivable side is to try and, I'll say good luck with this but encourage our customers to pay their bills quickly than they have been and unfortunately at times like this, it used to go the opposite way. On the inventory side, it's comprised of our tool business and our coil business. And one of the bills that we've seen as we get these Gen IV units to work and get into some of these higher pressure, complicated long-reach horizontal wells, it requires sometimes specialty coil, in which case we end up actually increasing that inventory to make sure we've got the coil products that we need.

The tool side is very much there's an opportunity as you described to both monetize and literally step down that inventory by taking products that aren't moving and selling for a lower margin because, otherwise, we've got cash tied up there. But it is, especially on the conventional side, to meet the different needs of all the, I'm going to say, the older wells that are around the different products that customers expect. It's kind of a requirement to have a fairly diverse set of inventory and again, it gets spread around locations.

So, we're also have been working with the guys, we've got an automated inventory system and we've been bringing the inventory into, as much as possible, to a central location so we can make that assessment. But I would hope by the end of the third quarter, we can bring that tools inventory down a little bit by some cash sales.

Okay. Is there any prediction you can give us in terms of what the dollar valuation might be able to bring that down by?

Well, let's throw out, I'll go on record and say somewhere the $1 million to $2 million mark. How is that for a target?

Okay. Okay. And then I wanted to ask about the Gen IV program. I mean, obviously, difficult time to be bringing new equipment out, but it sounds like there is some application for it. Does that help offset some of the staff reductions and cutting you have to do, if you have to crew this new equipment? I'm just wondering how you manage through that process.

Donald have some better comments, but I – we talk on a general basis with the extensive reductions that we've done. Our number one objective is to hold on to those critical foundation people that know how to do the toughest, most complicated work. Fortunate thing for us, those best people are exactly the ones we need on the Gen IV equipment. So, I think the guys have done a great job at holding on to that strong core senior group. Then, when the industry picks up, those guys actually break off and have to retrain some less experienced people on the less intense equipment. So that's our basic philosophy, service rigs and coil, but Don anything else comes to mind with you on the question?

You're right, Garnet. People are the most important thing, so during these kind of times, what we've done is we've taken those top-end fellows and we've spread them out amongst our fleet, so that they do end up getting some cash, they're able to pay their bills, and then in anticipation of some of the higher end activity. And I think, we're starting to see a little bit more acceptance and some buy-end on these Gen IV. So, we've been working very hard over the last year even last year, trying to maintain and train those people, so I think we're in good shape in that regard.

Okay. Do you see much technical risk with the Gen IVs? I mean, have they done this kind of Duvernay work that you're looking at in May previously?

Actually, some of the work that we've been doing on the Duvernay, this particular operation that we're looking at is a little different than that. It's pretty much state-of-the-art and we're going to be trying some new stuff. Obviously, we have the support of our customer as well as some of the third-party people were all working together on this to prove a new process and to improve the efficiencies of working in this type of environment in the Duvernay.

Okay. And what is it they're trying to achieve by using your product? Is it a lower cost or is it something different all together?

I think the bottom line with any operation right now, especially on E&Ps is who can provide the best efficiency. The most important part from a Duvernay and the high-pressure operations is, who do you have the most confidence in, who has the most technical capability and who can do it safely. That is the most important part.

Okay. That's all I had. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. The next question is from Andrew Bradford from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

My questions are answered. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the next question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Hey guys.

Hi, Steve.

Just on the Gen IV, so two going to work here in the Duvernay in May. You sort of chatted about it, but is that going to be sort of one-off wells or do you have a few well pads that'll get a little bit of utilization for the medium to long-term on those?

What our expectation is? It's basically – it's a single pad with a large number of wells on it from a test perspective. We believe and we've worked towards the opportunity of making those particular types of completions more efficient. So, I guess the bottom line is, is if we're successful at this and I believe we will be, I think it will set us up for a number of different other operations in that field, in the Duvernay, as well as some new technology that they're looking at through the Montney formation as well.

Okay. Is this two separate customers or is it one customer using both rigs?

At this point in time, it's one customer using both rigs at the same time.

Okay. And then, just on your own pumpers I guess, does that – will you be using your own pumpers, will that help some utilization there as well?

Yeah. I believe in this particular case, yes, we're matching up two quintuplex pumpers, high-pressure pumpers to add support to the frac operation, as well as the coil tubing unit. And potentially our [ph] chem vans (24:23), we may see some chemical usage as well.

Okay. And then, just on the Gen III, is there any indications that they could see a little bit of work into the summer time, or is it too early to tell for that yet?

Our Gen IIIs actually are quite popular and in fact, we're mobilizing one of them out to that same customer that's taking the Gen IVs to do another project sold [ph] to Grande Prairie (24:51). So, there's still a lot of interest in the Gen IIIs. I think it just adds – with having the new advent of our Gen IV operations, Gen II, Gen III or Gen IV, just gives us the ability to provide almost every service that a client may want when it comes to coil tubing operations.

Okay. Great. That's all I have, guys. Thanks.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeff Fetterly from Peters & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Quick question on the margin side. I was surprised by the magnitude of degradation in well servicing margins from Q4 to Q1. Obviously, revenue was down materially both in coil tubing and workover, but that's pretty significant especially relative to any previous sequential change. Is there anything you could help us with there to understand that better?

Good morning, Jeff. Yeah, the – so the utilization in the coil well service group and the revenue, I think they did a heck of a job in sort of fighting their way through 2015; the margins stood up. We commented before about, I'll say a smaller number of key customers, but they kept going and kept spending.

What we saw in Q1, we came out, January, not bad, February. You're going, oh there's a little bit of work. And by no means, was it good? But then March, it was an interesting, because we had our March 2 year-end conference call, didn't know anything about how March was going to turn out. March was just an absolutely brutally inactive month for well servicing and what happens then is you get caught with all those costs, so we had a big negative margin hit for the month of March.

And for the first time, that coil well service business had to pause and take a look in the mirror and go, oh my gosh, and the cost reduction decisions that were made, that will help us going forward, were some good, long time employees and we really had to take some steps with that business that they haven't faced before.

The other part is the conventional service rig business, standard service rigs and we track, as you know, the CAODC industry data on utilization of our competitors, and our utilization is down. We are always quite probably in the top sort of 25%, or third on utilization. And we're down in the lower end of the pack and that's why we made that comment about turning away sub-economic work.

The pricing battles are getting very aggressive and what happens again, even with good cost cutting, your fixed costs as we highlighted a couple times, literally just come charging right up into the margin, and that's what happened with both service rigs and our well service. Our service rig division actually had a negative margin, small negative margin, in the first quarter. So, that gives you an indication of how bad things work.

Looking ahead though, we're going to keep sharpening our pencils, customers respect that we have to be able to make some money and competitors who do work at a, I'm going to say a negative or a subpar margin, they can do that for a while, just like we've heard for a long time on the fracking business, but it's not a good viable business model for a competitor to function that way. So, we're going to remain disciplined and we're optimistic about the future.

When you talk about turning down sub-economic work, is that unprofitable work or is that just below a certain margin threshold?

Well, we spent a lot of time on this and that's a profit, at what level is probably what you have to ask. So, we've got a real good understanding on our variable costs. We then determine our contribution margin, and that's where the judgment is, on how much work are we going to still get with this customer, how long is this work, how hard is it – for us to get there and how long do we stay on the job. And obviously, any positive contribution hopes to offset fixed costs. So, we look at both and make a judgment call and the service rig business is a big fixed costs business, because you're especially a [ph] multi-locational fit (29:26) like us. So, that's the dance we're constantly doing.

The underperformance relative to industry for the conventional workover business in Q1. How much of that do you think was a factor of turning down work? And how much of that was other components or factors playing in?

That's a tough one for me to answer. We do like anybody else – I mentioned in the coil well service business, everybody, including us, has our favorite customers. And in our discussions with the operations folks, there's a couple key customers that for various reasons didn't continue with their work programs in Q1 that we still consider good customers that we expect will resume work again in Q3 and Q4.

So, it's a combination of – I'm going to say, like we did in the opening remarks, we said lack of spending because of tight balance sheets. Are these customers going to have the capital to spend in the second half of the year? We think so. And then for new customers or our customers who are aggressive with their pricing, that's the second part that you asked about, which is the disciplined on pricing. So it's hard to – I couldn't give you a 50/50 or a 60/40.

Okay. For the well servicing segment as a whole, with the reductions you've implemented in March and April, how much do you think you've reduced the cost structure of that business or the breakeven point of that business?

Well, I don't have a metric for you for that business and I know you like the trend as an analyst to be helpful to run a go-forward run rate margin. I can tell you though that we made the comment that we had, for the overall business, $10 million in savings in our 2015 cost reductions realized in 2015. We actually have – we're not going to be able to go that big for the overall business, but it was another pretty big swathe at our operation and it goes across everything, corporate, well service and the tools business. So, I think that it's going to help us – we expect to maintain in that 15% to 20% margin range is what we consider acceptable given that we've got significant investments as well in our heavy equipment that we have to get returns on to make this, from an internal rate of return, a viable business.

And safe to say the cost reductions you have made are targeting to get you back to that level at, call it, the forecast that are fairly conservative activity levels?

That's our belief, Jeff, that is our hope. And the second part that we haven't talked about much except in my opening remarks was with pricing reductions – you know, this is the great debate when the customers keep saying we need lower pricing. The only way to that hits directly off the variable contribution margin, we have to go back to the guys and it's a double insult. They're getting fewer hours and we also had to say that we need to roll back the hourly wage as well. And that's what helps us to preserve that variable margin and the fixed costs, you deal with those in big chunks or steps. And we've done both, so that's why we feel we're on track for the back half of the year with reduced activity to get back to those margin targets.

Okay. Last question on the capital side, the three remaining Gen IV units, do you expect to commission them when they're delivered or will you idle them?

I think at this point, what can I say is this saga with Option Industries is going on for longer than we wish it did. I think our desire is to get those units to – when you say, commissioning for us, we will have them fully tested and make sure they're ready for work within the dates we've announced in our public materials. The only – if I can call it an optionality, the last thing we incur is to fully tool those units up with sort of the hand tools and variable equipment, which is another a few $100,000 dollars. You could see it wasn't going to work, that we might not do that.

I think Don nailed it with his comment that even within the Gen IV fleet, all of those rigs are not exactly the same. We're understanding what our customers want. There's slight design difference, features, and we want to make sure that we've got a wide variety of equipment that is suitable for customer demand. So, it's possible that we're going to have all of those fully ready to work, because they all serve slightly different purposes.

Sorry, let me clarify that? So, do you expect to have work for those rigs when they're deployed?

Not in the – what I'm going to say, for you to model out in the contracted guaranteed sense. Is the feedback from our sales force and our belief assuming customers have money that these rigs will be in demand? Yes.

Okay. Great. Thank you. I appreciate the color.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Donna, and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.