Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, Altacorp Capital, Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Lara Joan King — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
John Bereznicki — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Todd William Garman — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jeff Fetterly — Analyst, Peters & Co. Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Second Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Audrey. Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; and Allan Mowbray, CFO. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of the second quarter results, and then, open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please refer to our August 7, 2013 second quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our August 7, 2013 second quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. After reporting a record EBITDA in the first quarter, we reported a CAD 5.2 million EBITDA loss in the second quarter. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDA is now at CAD 28.3 million. Weather in the second quarter was unfavorable for oilfield services, with wet conditions through to the end of June. In addition to the revenue and EBITDA from EBITDA impact from slower activity, there were certain fixed costs like labor costs, repairs and maintenance expenses, and facility lease expenses that negatively impacted the margin during this period of lower revenue.

In addition, the winter drilling season extended to the end of March this year, which was a good thing at that time. While this was great for first quarter earnings, it pushed some of the repairs and maintenance expenses that would typically be incurred in the last few weeks of March, which is the normal start of breakup into the second quarter. Now, with the second quarter behind us, I'm pleased to report that activity in the third quarter has returned to normal and we expect our operations to be back on track for the remainder of the year.

Now, some comments about each of our three service lines. Coil Well Service, the business was particularly affected by wet conditions. In addition to the revenue impact from lower utilization on our comparative quarter-over-quarter basis, revenue and EBITDA were both lower due to project work for two customers that occurred in the comparative Q2 2012 period and was not repeated in Q2 2013. We continue to actively work for these customers.

Our Downhole Tools segment performed well, considering the decrease in industry drilling and completion activity. Our revenue was only down 8% quarter-over-quarter, even though industry drilling rig utilization decreased by 18% in the same period. Revenue from our higher margin conventional tubular rental business showed a more significant quarter-over-quarter decline impacting the 2Q margin. The margin was also impacted by the startup cost for our U.S. expansion of our Tool business.

Service rig utilization was 28% which was lower than Q2 2012, but from what has been reported to date by public companies, it does not appear to be out of line with our peers. We also added three rigs to our fleet in this period, which brings down our utilization in Q2 but leads us well-positioned for winter 2013-2014. Our three service rigs working on SAGD continue to generate revenue through the quarter.

Now, moving to capital, our CAD 45 million capital program remains on track. By the end of the year, we expect to take delivery of four state-of-the-art masted deep coil tubing rigs. These are our Generation III and Generation IV rigs. These rigs introduced increased real capacity for longer and larger diameter coil. They have higher mass and offer unique safety and operational features to our customers. One rig should be in service in the third quarter and three more in the fourth quarter. These rigs are all well-suited for work in the Montney, Horn River and Duvernay areas, all of which have been generating increased producer interest.

Now, moving forward to look at the outlook. First of all, our masted deep coil tubing rigs, as I mentioned, four new deep coil tubing rigs are expected to go into service by the end of the year. We have some key customers who are anxious to put this equipment to work. Current demand for our masted fleet and especially our deep coil tubing real trailer has been strong, which gives us confidence in the demand outlook for these Gen III and Gen IV rigs.

On the service rig side, SAGD completions and well maintenance work continue to make us optimistic. The SAGD market is projected to continue to grow. With our SAGD capable service rigs, we can participate in this growth. We have three rigs that have been working in this area often on a 24-hour-a-day basis. With the new rigs that we're adding in 2013, we expect to have, in total, six rigs that are SAGD-capable and available to work in this area by the end of the year. This is attractive as it is typically very steady project work.

Next, the Montney, Horn River and Duvernay development, there continues to be growing optimism on investment focused on these three areas to develop reserves that will provide gas to the proposed LNG export facilities. Such development would increase the demand for oilfield services to complete these wells. These wells generally will be deep, high-pressure wells that will require larger diameter coil tubing. Our new deep masted coil tubing rigs and our downhole tools will be very well-suited for completion of these wells. Essential is currently assessing our future build program to meet this anticipated demand. With our strong balance sheet and experienced crews, we believe we are well-positioned for growth opportunities.

Finally, our organic expansion of the Tool business into the U.S., we have established three field locations. We've hired local tool hands and we started to build inventory in the United States. We expect to start operations and generating revenue in the third quarter of 2013. For competitive reasons, however, we're still not ready to discuss the exact locations of our operations at this time. I hope to be able to do that during our third quarter conference call.

Our balance sheet remains strong, with debt at the end of June of CAD 15 million. As announced in our news release yesterday, this has increased to CAD 29 million at August 7, an increase that's typical for this time of year as activity increases and we begin to build receivables.

We were very pleased to announce a 20% increase in our dividend. The dividend for July to September will now be CAD 0.03 per share, which is based on this morning's share price, was a 4.6% yield, so based on yesterday's share price, I guess. Essential is fortunate to be well-positioned in a growing horizontal services environment, combined with our strong balance sheet, to be able to offer this dividend increase to our shareholders.

That concludes the formal portion of the call and we'll now be happy to answer any question you have.

Audrey, at the time, we'd like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We'll now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Jason.

Gar, just first question here, just on the deep coil utilization, obviously, it was hit pretty hard in Q2 at 18%. You noted in the press release that activity levels are back to normal in Q3. Just wanted to know what normal means. Is that back into that 92% – 100% utilization range or are we looking at normal, as in Q3 of last year, in that 75% to 85% range?

Yeah. I mean, given the way Q3 sort of has started out, first of all, I don't think it should be a surprise but I'll say the disruptions from the post flood time, which goes right into stampede and then more rain, I don't think we're going to hit those sort of 100% utilization levels. So, July is going to be a bit of a funny month. And then, moving forward, based on our – the good news about a really wet 2Q and a wet July is that our customers are getting very anxious to get going with us. So, that's what we make – will make the comment back on track. But I think the middle number you quoted would be a better number than 100%.

Right. Okay. And then, opportunities with regards to LNG related work for the deep coil, are you actually seeing work directly related to that right now or is it still too early, we're just seeing sort of indications?

Yeah. I mean, there's sort of two answers to that. We have, over the years, already been actively working in those regions. So in that respect, it's not sort of a brand new work or a brand new region for us, but in terms of what I would call direct connected response to some of the activity that's going on, the drillers and frackers are certainly – I read a new note everyday about a drilling rig being built for work up there. So, they're going to be the first ones in and we'll follow. So, that demand change hasn't shown up for us yet but it pretty much has to come based on where the drillers and frackers and the spending commitments of our customers are going.

Okay. And if you look at the opportunity with servicing some of those deep Duvernay wells, is that something you think the industry will turn more to coil or will they turn to snubbing or maybe there's a market for both of those types of services? What are your thoughts on them?

Well, when we've talked about the deep Duvernay wells internally, our COO, Don Webster, has lots of practical field experience and those wells are exceptionally challenging from a technical perspective. So, one of the comments I've made before is I think the industry is going to have to be a little bit sort of experimental and try some different things but we hope, I'll say for Essential, and we hope the industry moves quite slowly and carefully, given the pressures and the complexity of those very deep wells. And whether they're going to be completed with coil or snubbing or something else, I would say myself, I would not even consider snubbing in a situation of both levels with higher pressure but I don't think it's known yet, Jason. I do think there will be a place for deep coil.

Okay. Great. Then, just turning to the service rigs, last quarter obviously, you outperformed the group on utilization. This quarter, slightly below [ph] Ensign (12:47) and Western, I think they were at 30%. You guys were at 28%, so not way out of whack. Was service rig activity hit particularly hard in a certain area for you guys or was it kind of slow across most areas, other than SAGD?

Yeah. It's all a matter of – I agree with your comment and utilization at 28%, we just did some simple math, if we hold out the three rigs that we added, that would put us at 30%, which makes us average in a really bad period of being average at 30%.

Yeah.

But that being said, a lot of rain in areas like Drayton Valley and Slave Lake and wetness, and just lucky to have a few areas that we're going well enough to put up the results we have. But we see no sort of patterns or systematic issues in either our customer base or our regions that would be a problem going forward. So, we anticipate getting right back up to the usual place that we're in in terms of utilization relative to our public company peers.

Right. Okay. Then, just final question, just on the Downhole Tools segment, you've increased the size of the downhole tools, the MSFS, the conventional tools over the past year, but revenue was still down about 8% year-over-year with a much larger, I'm assuming a much larger fleet. Was that solely a result of just really weak industry conditions with the drilling rig utilization being down so much year-over-year?

Yeah. I think the – I mean, those guys, as opposed to a fleet, again, you've got a bunch of guys in pickup trucks that are moving around to a drilling rig location. So, what happens and we can benefit from this in some periods, where if there is drilling rig setup and the work's going on, our guys in Tryton are not restricted to road bans, like what affected our heavy equipment, so they can move around quite nimbly. At some point though, when the drilling business slows down that much and that's where we're putting that 18% reduction in drilling rig utilization, you can't fight that. There's just no place to go for work. So, we're actually quite impressed with what they were able to do considering how much drilling rig utilization dropped in the period.

Right. Okay. Thanks for your time.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of questions on your kind of your deep coil tubing fleet there. Just if you can remind us what amount of the fleet was working on 24s in the quarter, yeah, in Q2 there?

Don, you want to take a shot on that one?

Yeah. Good morning, Greg. I would say that the majority of our deep operations, masted and our deep conventional operations, are primarily 24 hours a day. You get a lot more confidence on the masted side because that is typically what they do, is 24 hours a day.

Okay. So, the majority of the deep fleet, whether masted or conventional, would be operating on 24, isn't it?

Correct.

A portion of some of our deep work working in Saskatchewan is probably the ones that are least inclined to work 24s, but I think they were still extremely slow in Q2.

Correct. Yeah. We just couldn't [ph] reroute (16:13), Greg.

Okay. And out of that deep fleet there, out of those 25 rising coil tubing units, are there any of them that are incapable either from a, I don't know, equipment standpoint, lighting standpoint or staffing standpoint of working 24s?

No, no. Actually, we'd actually like to have a whole fleet working 24 hours a day. The practicality of it is on that conventional deep stuff, we're not setup with lighting. We can, we bring out light towers and stuff but the masted equipment is typically what's run in 24 hours just because they have the capabilities, the lighting, and to avoid some of the safety issues.

I would say, regularly, sort of in a cycle, we would have, what's it, probably 19 of the 25...

Yeah.

...on 24s, with the others being probably rare.

It's great color. Thanks. Shifting gears a bit, also in the deep coil but just talking about further growth and maybe factoring the ways you alluded to the press release. Just wondering if you can give a bit more color there? I mean, it's nothing really new. We've been seeing delays for quite a while now. But what specifically is causing it? Do you have confidence in your ability to get the gear out, when you sort of suggest that it might happen? Is it a manpower problem on their side? Is it a financial problem? I'm just trying to get a bit color there.

Yeah. So, thanks for asking that question and we just felt – I was really hoping to be able to come out with some firm delivery dates for those last two rigs in this conference call and spent quite a bit of time to supplier, although not named in our materials, I think everyone is well aware of this, Surefire Industries, and they've been having a rough time, not with us but there's a lot of other major services companies that are dealing with them, as well, in town.

So, I was over there just before we put our quarter out. Our first rig is just going through final hydraulics and electronics testing. It look beautiful. It's ready to go and we hope to be literally driving that off there a lot next week and putting into work. So, that's very good news and gives us confidence that they can put on a good unit.

The bad news is that's almost two years from when we put in our deposits and initiated them to start. They've given us target dates on what they feel is reasonable and possible on rig 2 and rig 3. And the second rig, I've actually seen, we've got a trailer there with some components welded on it, with our paint on it. We've got a mast built but there's a lot of work to do yet.

And your other question that you asked about, is there manpower or financial channels challenges. It's probably not appropriate for me to speculate on what business challenges that they're suffering over at Surefire, but I heard recently that they may have made some more reductions to their workforce. So, we're going to play this one safe and continue to work with them and just want to make sure people understand that it sounds awful but to say, it's not us, it's them, and we'll do our best to get this equipment out because they do build good equipment if we can just help them to get it together in their delivery timing.

That's fair. That's fair comment there. If for some reason it isn't, what's the back-up plan?

We don't really need a back-up plan, I guess, per se, except you noticed that we actually quantified the amount of the deposits that are in there, and that's a significant amount of money that we feel we want to make sure we realize value on that. So, our belief is that Surefire has met with their most senior owner over there and assured us that this equipment will be built, and at the same time, that's the best thing we can do, is work with them until that time.

I don't think we have much luck in sort of trying to extract the deposits from them and given that, again, that we're actually one of the smaller players, there's a lot of very major service companies in there for us to go in and try and bully them or push it any other way. It probably wouldn't work. It would have to be done by one of the major players and that's a tricky thing for us, too, to make sure that Essential is being treated fairly and getting the proportion amount of attention relative to the bigger players.

One of the best parts about it, Greg, is that we're not limited to one manufacturer. We actually have a number of manufacturers for both Gen III and our Gen IV construction operation. So, this is just a hiccup, and like Gartner says, we're going to monitor it and make sure that we can do the best that we can to get those units. So...

Yeah. The builders I've talked about before, NOV, Hydra Rig, expected to put out a Generation III masted unit this year, and obviously, we're going to keep going with the best builder or fabricator going forward. So if they do a great job, get it out on time, we will lean more in that direction and option building the Gen IV seems to be relatively on track. And as we've said, we've had great success with the [ph] rail trader (21:25) that was put out in December and it's really a prototype for the first Gen IV unit.

So just to that point there, if this were to continue, that you do have second and third source manufacturers through your NOV an option that you could go to if you had to?

Absolutely. We're there already and that's why we made the comment about starting to look, but given the timeline for the build spots, we want to start looking at getting our deposits in and literally looking ahead to 2014 and 2015. And our belief is that we've done a lot of, I will say, R&D is maybe a bit of a stress but special customization work to make these rigs exactly as we want them, in terms of how they were designed, the specs, the parts, and now that that's been done once, pull all the fabricators' advice us that the subsequent rate should be able to be delivered much quicker.

All right. Sounds good. Just moving around a little bit over to Tryton tools, your downhole multistage frac cracking. As Jason was asking there, a little bit of a dip in the activity despite a larger asset base, et cetera, et cetera, but you are dependent obviously on whether there, too. I'm wondering if you could just add a little bit of color as to the type of working environment your guys are experiencing there. Is the demand for specific types of downhole tool is changing at all or are you moving towards certain types of completion technology you're away from others. And then, just wondering what your thoughts are on your market share activity in the quarter. Were you disproportionately hit or did you kind of actually outperform versus peers, despite the fact that was down substantially, sequentially?

Yeah. Thanks for that question. And unlike the service rig business, it's very hard for us to pure relativity market share comparisons because we are the only public company really to get a good clear look at what's going on in this particular service line. So, we don't have accurate peer data to talk about.

In terms of what we've experienced with customers, nothing felt, what I would call, out of the ordinary, other than the weather in the quarter. We're still sort of seeing that 16 to 18 stage average. Pricing environment has not been predatory or – it's competitive but it hasn't been driving down. And we continue to do what we've been doing so well, is work with our manufacturers and our customers to modify tools and adjust with them on where we're going.

So you can see from the split we've put in between conventional and multistage work, conventional is up in this quarter, which is sort of what we expect all the time, given what's going on in the industry. The multistage work gets a little slowdown in the second quarter. So, we really don't have anything that is sort of weighing on our minds.

Quite excited about the U.S. operation and getting that going and, in fact, has started bringing our United States-based U.S. residents, but those tools hands, we've been bringing them back to Canada and we'll continue to do that to train them in the ways of Tryton, in terms of quality control and how our tools are both assembled and installed on job locations.

Thanks for that. That's good color. And that's all I've got. Thank you.

Thanks, Greg.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. Our next question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh. Hi, guys. Just with the LNG activity we've seen to date and some of the other guys building deep coils, are you guys still of the view that there's a shortage of deep coil if we see activity ramp up on the LNG front?

Thanks, Steve. Good morning, and yes, I'm absolutely of that view. If I look at the – it's been interesting how the world has changed during 2013 and if I just turn and look at the pressure pumpers in Canada at the beginning of the year, how much cost there was about their extra capacity and excess capacity and how quickly that could possibly be used up in Northeast BC, when I look at some of the expectations on how much production we'll have to increase in the next couple of years.

We are the biggest single player in coil tubing well service and we know it's difficult to get this large diameter equipment out of the door from the manufacturers, and even if you're able to get the equipment built, you still need the guys that have that experience to be able to deal with this. And we look at the trends on horizontal wells and how they're increasing and we look at the number of service rigs that in excess of 1,100 in the industry and we're still at on the deep side. Our latest estimate is still around that 85 or 90 mark for the industry.

So, I think there could be a dramatic shortage and people then say, well, what happens then. My comment is always, customers get real gradient selfish really fast if everybody need the same equipment and there's not enough of it to go around. And hopefully for us, that translates into pricing opportunities, utilization increases and perhaps, contractual terms.

That would actually lead into my next question. I mean, we've seen – you mentioned earlier, the drillers, they're getting five-year contracts for LNG-related new builds. We've seen a couple of the pressure pumpers get locked up for some LNG activity. Have you guys been approached on your deep coil to lock, possibly lock some of that up under long-term contract or we're still looking at [ph] coiler (27:06) business for now?

We have not been approached on that at this time and not at all surprised by that. What is interesting, though, is some of the – or so to say, our large high quality customers that will do a job with one of our deeper units or know that these units are coming out and they're not necessarily always available when these customers want them. So, that fits right into the dynamic that I've been discussing. And we know that we're going to lag the drillers and frackers a little bit in terms of where we go and completely happy with that.

Our business has existed quite fine on an hourly basis. The exception is an area like the oil sands with our service rigs where we do have contractual terms and get paid standby. So, that's what we would need from a customer in order to dedicate a rig to them to make sure that it's there for them to opt to pay a standby for not allowing it to go to work for another customer.

Great. Thanks. That's all I had.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. Our next question is from Lara King from Stifel Nicolaus. Please go ahead.

Hi. Few of my questions have been answered, but on the U.S. side, maybe could you tell us if the tools hands that you're bringing up here, are they finding it excessively cold up here?

Well, yeah, considering it's mid-summer, the answer still yes.

Fair enough. [indiscernible]

(28:30) when you saw – I mean, it's a different type of work and more than just the temperature issues, we're learning, as I've said before, I think lots of us we experience, there's a lot of cultural differences between U.S. oilfield operations and Canadian operations. Everything with the way we deal with customers to the type of equipment that is popularly used by customers. So, that's all going well. And again, just trying to make sure that we instill the same culture in those U.S. tool hands and employees relative to the way we've successfully operated in Canada.

Excellent. Is there any way of quantifying, as we go into the third quarter, the additional cost that you would expect from these U.S. ops in advance of revenue?

We can try and do some work on that and see. But right now, I don't have anything that I can probably throw out there. We've got a bunch of modeling through the year but I don't know if we're in a position. I mean, part of the problem is throughout the cost without the revenue number. We expect – I can tell you this that for the year 2013, given that we've got three leases signed in field locations, we've got a very small office setup in Houston for sales and accounting and about 15 employees, so based on that, we expect to be cash flow negative in 2013 as we've incurred these costs relative to the revenue that we expect. So, that gives you some idea, and then, in 2014, we expect that to begin to turn around.

Perfect. That actually helps a lot. Thanks. That's all I've got.

Thanks, Lara.

Thank you. Our next question is form John Bereznicki from Paradigm Capital. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Hey, John.

Hey, I just want to circle back on pricing for a second. Reading through your commentary, it sounds like job mix was probably the biggest driver of your realized pricing through the second quarter. Just kind of wondering, heading into the back half, in terms of the pricing dynamic across your business lines, I think, safe to say, it's most constructive for deep coil. How does it shake out elsewhere in the business?

Thanks for the question. I think deep coil, just to start with that, I agree with you. The same time last year, I made the comment that I don't really anticipate any risks of pricing reductions in the deep coil business, given the increasing demand and the shortage of equipment. So, I expect we're going to be solid on pricing through to the spring. And in fact, we will be striving and negotiating with our customers for incremental pricing increases on the Gen III and the Gen IV units because they are substantially more expensive pieces of equipment. So, that should drive up our overall pricing.

On service rigs, we're just sort of going into the early discussions on the winter season. That's a business that, I believe, needs a pricing increase. When you look at payback and returns on service rigs, I think our pricing needs to go up. I'm always surprised when companies continue to – new entrants continue to come into that market, given the economics, but we're a price follower, unlike the deep coil business. When it comes to service rigs, we got to watch and see what the big dogs do, like Precision and [ph] Neighbors and Ensign (32:03) with the massive fleets. We couldn't clearly set pricing increases.

I don't really anticipate pricing reduction problems in service rigs either, and we'll see what happens. And I've already covered, I think, the tool business that it's competitive but it's more sort of technology and job application changes as opposed to anything specific to do with pricing pressure.

Great. Thanks. That's useful. All my other questions have been answered. Thanks again.

Thanks, John.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Todd Garman from Cormark. Please go ahead.

Good morning. On the two coil tubing projects that were referenced in the release as part of the reason for the lower deep coil utilization, was one of those the integrated project that you provided for your one of your major customers last summer?

That's correct, Todd, yes. And my comment today in the prepared remarks that we're still actively working with those customers. When we started looking at our – we literally started the industry data and then go back to where did we change. Those two customers, as we pointed out in our MD&A, those specific projects just made a difference in last year's two. And we're still working with those customers, but they just happen to do stuff in Q2 last year that created a spike in the results.

And so, the second project wasn't – it was just not there for the taking or was there a decision made to not do it on your part or was it lost for competitive reasons or...

No. As far as we know, there was no such equivalent project in both cases, either assumed by another competitor or done by our customer.

Okay.

But it is, really, both of them were related to, what I would call the, again, the evolution of how to both do. The largest one was, I talked about last year, was an experimental, I think, it was an 11-well production workover situation where they were trying acid, chemicals, foams, just different ways to successfully do workovers on the horizontal, and the other was just playing around with some different completion techniques.

So, I'd like to always say we're working on an hourly basis. The industry is in really early stages with a lot of this work and if they want to play around and do some stuff, we're there to help them.

And so, how do you see that type of work evolving over the next couple of years?

I think there should be more opportunities for that type of work. I don't know sort of when it will come but when I look at this topic, which you've addressed very effectively in some of your reports about horizontal workovers, it really is just beginning and I would say that we haven't seen any one customer or any industry pattern of routine for how people are going to deal with horizontal workovers. So, it's early stages and we'll be ready if these things show up in the future.

Okay. And there's a lack of project work this quarter. Does that also explain the change in work mix in the coil tubing business line that you referenced?

In terms of the pricing impact?

No. In terms of the utilization impact.

Yeah. So, it would impact the utilizations. So, our utilization is down based on weather and the project work. And then we did get some – there's even a pricing component in there last year where we were doing some real specialty R&D work, so we had a lot more of our, I'll say, our team, our technical team and our engineering staff involved, so that brings us in a higher revenue per hour.

Right. I apologize, I should be more clear. So, there wasn't necessarily a change absent the project work, there wasn't necessarily a change in pumping or [ph] acidizing (36:06) revenues relative to coil tubing revenues? It was just, the work mix was relatively the same absent the two large projects?

I don't know if I can give you that. When we actually do our internal analysis, so that division of Coil Well Service is comprised of our deep coil, our fluid pumpers and our nitrogen pumpers. And then, on our coil, on the deep side, actually, any of the coil, you've got a base rate, which we've talked about, and then, you've got incremental rates for some of the stuff you do, including depending on the diameter of the coil, depending on the nature of the job and how hard it is on the coil. We charge different coil run rates. So, it can even vary based on what the pumpers are doing, how long a pumper is on location, what's coil doing and how hard they are in the coil.

Do you want to add to that, Don?

Okay.

Yeah, and Todd, just – I mean, we actually have our own brand names for acids to solvents and stuff. So, that could also explain some of the variation that you see.

Right. Okay. And then, on the tool side, is it correct to assume that the expenses incurred with the U.S. expansion efforts are being expensed in the P&L versus capitalized? Is that the way we should think about that?

Yeah. Todd, I'd like you to come in and have a discussion with our CFO because I tried that one, too, but all the accounting, apparently, when I was doing accounting way, way back, that was allowed but under IFRS, which is the new rule, but I don't always fully comprehend and it all have to go through your P&L.

Okay, okay. That's all I've got. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, Todd.

Thank you. Our next question is from Scott Treadwell from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. Just sort of one, maybe, qualitative question. As you look at the U.S. tool market, is there anything substantially different about the business model or the sales cycle or the model for engaging clients, head office versus field, that may take some feeling out time. I'm assuming the guys you hired are relatively experienced but – or is it really just a bit of a cut and paste with a bit of a change of accent more than anything else?

Great question. I think the difference, it's similar in terms of the combination of both, I'll say, field sales and field relationship. And then, as I mentioned, we've got a sales office setup in Houston for dealing with the oil company head office locations. Our belief is that a lot of the, I'll call it the large U.S. companies that have been dominant in the tool business in the U.S. have a certain style of operating which is probably a little less customer friendly in our opinion than the way we typically would like to work. And in the previous comment, I made the statement about developing trust with our customers, our guys in Canada have really – that's how this business has excelled and grown, is delivery of reliable services, adapting on the [ph] fly (39:17), being able to do exactly what the customer wants.

I don't know if that's so much a norm in the U.S. oilfield services tool environment, so that's something that we really hope to bring to the table, partly why I make the comment about bringing the guys back here to train them up and see where they're going. So, they are using exactly the same way.

On the technical front, the couple of biggest differences that we are encountering is a lot of the well bores are larger diameters, so we have had a bit of a stall trying to manufacture some different tools, with larger diameter tools to be able to meet that need. And the sort of plug and perf technique is a little more common there in some of these locations. So, we're learning what our customers need. We've got the full suite of tools under development, and from there, we'll see where we're going.

And once again, Don, anything you want to add to that?

Yeah. I think the biggest one, Scott, is innovation. We say that quite often but it's actually how we work with our customers in Canada and we want to take that same kind of model and hopefully, apply it to some of the areas where we're focusing.

Okay. And maybe a little follow-up on that is obviously, you've worked with lots of pressure pumpers here. Now, they won't call the tool work but does that resume, could that payoff? I mean, without sort of again trying to nail you down on where exactly you're going, will that resume help out at some point in the early days in the States?

Good question, again. I certainly think it should help out. And we've worked successfully with the major pressure pumpers here and have good relationships with them in terms of our tool business. And as you know, the U.S. pressure pumping market is extremely competitive right now, but at the same time, there's U.S. pumpers. We've seen that happen. We've been in the U.S. where some of them don't seem to be operating at the same level of efficiency as Canada. And in some cases, there's Canadian pressure pumpers there that we worked with before. So, I think it can be a good advantage.

I can tell you that when we've gone into the United States to hire tool hands and had discussions with the customers, because we have so much cross-border work both with U.S. E&Ps that operate in Canada and Canadian E&Ps operating in the U.S., that the high quality reputation of Tryton has proceeded our entry into the country. So, that has helped us.

Okay. Great. That's all I've got. I appreciate the color, guys.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeff Fetterly from Peters & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, all. Apologies if you've touched on this right at the beginning of the call, but from a margin standpoint, I'm trying to get a feel, if you isolate the coil tubing business on a year-over-year basis, I know the Well Servicing segment was down about 15 percentage points, but can you help us reconcile the margin from last year to the margin this year in terms of incremental costs and the utilization revenue side? [ph]

It's a try (42:29). I'll just sort of like probably have to do it on a segment-by-segment basis, and starting with our Well Servicing segment, and you can see the – certainly, having a significant negative gross margin and it's the first time we've seen that really in our history. So, that's a margin hit. And I would suggest that that's pretty much all driven by utilization in that case.

Then, you go over to the Tools side, and again, a significant margin drop from 34% to 25% and we reconciled that internally as being the two components of U.S. startup costs, which is a direct cost without associated revenue, and then, our – we refer to our higher margin to be the Rentals business. And what we mean by that is this is the brand we operate on [indiscernible] (43:26) rentals out of [indiscernible] (43:27), and that business, typically, has 16%-plus margin but when it disappears and the costs are still there, and it disappeared just because of the low drilling rig utilization in that period, not that abnormal but it can show up on a margin perspective. And then, when you go to the last components of G&A costs, you can see that in our MD&A, that absolute G&A costs for the two months' equivalent periods, not a significant change. So, there's not really anything there to worry about.

So, I don't know if any of the – Allan, if you want to throw anything else out but I think that's probably the answer, Jeff.

Sorry, Gar. I'm referring specifically to the Well Servicing segment. So, the 15 percentage points year-over-year decline in margin that you had in that segment, I know you've had a 50% drop in coil tubing revenue on a year-over-year basis. I imagine you were carrying some incremental costs within that business. Can you give us a feel for what the components of that 15% drop would have been in that segment specifically?

So, if I take a look, first of all, at, and I'm going to quote off of page 5 of the MD&A, so I don't know if you've got that in front of you but you could look at it after, our operating expenses for Q2 changed from CAD 36 million to CAD 28 million, and that's 2012 to 2013. So, that's an CAD 8 million – sorry, it's CAD 12 million change in the actual operating cost which is driven by activity-based expenses that we didn't incur.

And activity is the significant portion, which is the utilization comment, a significant portion of the margin drop is definitely the dominant portion and although our actual operating costs dropped significantly, they still show up like a giant iceberg popping through our margin, given how low the revenue is. And the comment we made about repairs and maintenance expenses, we have guarantees with some of our guys, we've got in mechanics and accountants and all that sort of thing. They don't go away in our opinion, old school when you have a slow period like this, maybe you quickly reduce your cost, but that is not the right strategic response when we're in a – on the quest of growth environment. So, we held on all those costs that leads into our margin and that's pretty much the end of the story.

Okay. Second question, from a demand standpoint on the coil tubing side, I know you talked earlier about having some pent up demand. Is the work that didn't get done in Q2, do you think it'll be done in the second half of the year? And if it gets done in the second half of the year, is there a risk that some of your competitors could pick up that work that you had previously have been allocated just because of the pent up?

I mean, that's clearly – in the oilfield services business, the risk of a competitor taking project work at any point is always something we all face. And I think anybody in oilfield services would agree that we see bids and quotes now and then where we question the economics of each other on how somebody can take work away. But again, as I commented previously, these two projects we're not aware of anything that has been done like that that is being done by the competitors.

That being said, there's always going to be project work out there that our competitors are doing but it wasn't substantial enough in a normal quarter. It probably wouldn't even give at this amount of air time, it's just when the revenue is so very small in 2Q, it's amazing what shows up as a creating a blip.

Thanks.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered from the phone lines. I would like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you for joining us and have a good day.

Thank you. The conference call has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.

Thanks, Audrey.

Thank you. Have a good day.