Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Secretary, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Allan G. Mowbray — Vice President-Finance & Chief Financial Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Reid Southwick — Reporter, Calgary Herald Group, Inc.
Jeff Fetterly — Analyst, Peters & Co. Ltd.
Andrew Bradford — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I'll now turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, John. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development; and Allan Mowbray, CFO. This morning, we will touch on recent patents litigation decision, give you an overview of our third quarter results, speak to the outlook, and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our November 8, 2017, third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our November 8, 2017, third quarter news release. In today's call, we will refer to the Essential Coil Well Service operating division as ECWS.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, everyone. First, I'll say a few words about the patent litigation decision. We were thrilled with last week's court decision that indicated that patent claims were not valid and that Essential did not infringe the patent. This confirms our view of the last four years that the case was without merit. This ruling was very positive and significant for our business, investors and employees.

The details of the court order are confidential for 30 days, allowing the plaintiffs and defendants time to request redactions to protect confidentiality. As a result, we can't share specifics behind the decisions today.

A few other things to note with regard to the possibility of appeal and recovery of costs. Packers Plus has up to 30 days from the date of the court decision to appeal the ruling, to be successful against Essential, both decisions invalidity of – the invalidity and not infringed would need to be overturned and the court awarded Essential recovery of costs for both cases. Essential incurred significant defense costs on litigation, but it is too early to estimate the amount and timing of the recovery.

Now, a few comments about the overview of Q3 results. Yesterday, we reported strong results that were a significant financial and operational improvement compared to Q3 2016 revenue of CAD 49 million was 87% higher than the prior year quarter. EBITDAS of CAD 8.5 million was much improved from CAD 1.4 million in Q3 2016.

ECWS and Tryton both performed well and benefited from a broader customer base and stronger industry activity, as customer demand for well completions continued to improve. In addition, weather cooperated during this quarter. There was very little weather related downtime. Essential's debt at the end of September 2017 was CAD 21 million. Essential's debt at the end of September 2017 was CAD 21 million and banked debt to bank EBITDA was 0.8 times. Debt increased from Q2 2017, which is natural as activity increases and working capital increased due to higher accounts receivable. Working capital of CAD 57 million remains well in excess of debt.

Allan Mowbray will now speak to our Q3 operating and financial results in more detail.

Thank you, Garnet. Good morning. ECWS revenue was CAD 28.6 million, a 106% increase from Q3, 2016. The increase was due to stronger activity and higher revenue per hour. Our Gen III coil tubing rigs and higher pressure fluid pumpers continue to experience strong demand as customers completed long-reach horizontal wells particularly in the Montney region. We did not experience any sequential service pricing gains Q3, 2017, compared to Q2, 2017, but revenue per hour increased due to the mix of work.

Compared to Q3, 2016, revenue per hour was higher due to price increases implemented in Q1, 2017. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 23%, a significant improvement from 12% in Q3, 2016. This was driven by greater activity and the benefit of more – of our more efficient cost structure. Year-to-date results for ECWS reflect the resurgence in industry well completion activity since the beginning of 2017. ECWS revenue was almost two times higher than the first nine months of 2016. Gross margin was 19% compared to 6% for the nine months ended September 2016.

Now over to Tryton. Tryton generated CAD 20.1 million of revenue in Q3, 2017, a 64% increase from the prior year quarter. Each Tryton service line reported higher revenue than the same period in 2016, but most notably, MSFS tools revenue experienced the greatest increase, and conventional tools revenue increased due to higher demand for maintenance work on producing wells.

Tryton gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 27% in Q3 2017, compared to 18% in Q3 2016. On a year-to-date basis in 2017, gross margin was 25%, a substantial increase from 12% in the prior year period. The improvement was due to increased revenue in Tryton's variable cost structure, as fixed costs comprised a smaller proportion of revenue. Essential's capital spending plans for 2017 of $23 million remain unchanged and on track.

I'll now pass it back to Garnet. Over to you.

Thanks. Higher commodity prices in 2017 have supported E&P spending and resulted in greater demand for oil services – oilfield services in the WCSB, especially for completion related services. Essential has benefited from that.

We expect fourth quarter activity to remain steady with a possible slowdown later in the quarter as customers complete their 2017 capital programs, and strive to maintain spending within cash flow. We have seen some weather-related slowdown in early November as our ability to move heavy equipment on non-frozen roads is impeded, but that is expected to be short lived.

The outlook for Q1 2018 is positive. Indicators suggest that first quarter industry well completion activity will continue to be strong, assuming commodity prices remain near current levels. Visibility for Q1 will become clear as customers announce their 2018 capital budgets. Essential does not expect meaningful price increases for its products and services in the near-term. With the exception of incremental pricing to partially offset rising labor costs in ECWS. Recently, we made the decision to increase ECWS hourly wages to preserve our competition – our competitive position in a battle to retain and attract skilled workers.

We still need to see stronger activity for customers to support increased pricing for our services. ECWS continues to recruit employees to reactivate more coil tubing and pumper packages for the first quarter 2018. Approximately half of Essential's 31 coiled tubing rigs are considered active and ready for work. As activity increases and the employee base grows; Essential will activate more of its existing fleet.

In closing, with the largest coil tubing fleet in Canada, associated pumping services and an established downhole tools and rental operation, Essential is well-positioned to succeed as the industry recovery continues.

We have a well completion focus, a highly experienced and dedicated workforce, idle equipment that can be reactivated as activity increases, long-term customer relationships, a top-tier safety record and a strong balance sheet with low debt. With the overhang of the patent litigation gone, we are excited to direct our focus on a positive future, one of growth and improved profitability.

John, at this time we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There will be a brief pause allowing you to register. First question is from Reid Southwick from Calgary Herald. Please go ahead. Just a moment.

Taking my question. I'm just wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on sort of the outlook, looking at if you have any more numbers around how the key indicator of -sorry, I am just referring to the news release here where you're looking at well completions, if you have any numbers around that, how an increase to 76% across the basin and a little bit more color around what's been happening there?

Yeah. Good morning, Reid.

Good morning.

We get a lot of our – for industry well completion information, well, we certainly look to industry groups like CAPP, CAODC and PSAC, which basically recently updated as you would have seen their fourth quarter information. And then other than that, we're now sort of in dialogue with our customers where in the area of well completions, equipment and availability of equipment has been a little tighter. So, they have started engaging in those conversations with us.

So, it is really, I'll call it a bit of a leverage off. We look back to Q1 last year; see how we were doing last year being Q1 2017 and then Q4 and then customer dialogue. So, Allan, I don't think if there's anything published yet from an official industry perspective on completion of data expectations for Q1 2018?

There isn't. No, no.

So, that's really how we are -we're forming our view and unlike I'll say the good old days when customers might have been sort of contracting equipment or trying to get firm positions. Right now, it's a bit of a mutual feeling out process where they're assessing their own cash flow needs and their own production target needs and trying to I'll say have inquiring conversations about our equipment availability. So, it's a bit of a dance at this point, but I think that's where our view of steady with hopeful maybe even some uptick that's where we sit today.

Okay. And do you have any numbers around what the hard numbers are with respect to those percentage increases like the 76% and 134%? And as well do you have any – can you offer any kind of – do you feel like this strength is going to continue once we, I guess, obviously we don't know what the producer budgets are on for – to a large degree are going to be, but do you think that kind of strength is going to continue?

Well, I'll answer the second part of the question first on the full-year and an outlook. So, we have used very much the language of steady and I'll say my own personal view, we're still not done our 2018 budget. I would say that we can see reasons that from a macro drilling industry point of view, I would be surprised to see 2018 being worse than 2017, but although we talk in the language of continued recovery. There's lots of -there's some industry analysts that cover us and write about the sector that would suggest that 2018 could be slightly below 2017.

We don't see it that way and then further in the service lines that we're in and in the completion space combined with the types of equipment that we have to offer. We're actually hopeful that we can continue to make gains with our customers and see our own business expanding as we go into 2018 even if we had similar market conditions at an industry level.

Your reference is to 76% was when you put in 76% of well completions increasing, that was, I think, we get that from JuneWarren Nickle's Energy Group. So that's where the data, which is historic referring to the nine months ended September 2017 compared to September 2016.

Okay. All right. Fair enough. And just last question. Can you comment a little bit further about any challenges you might be having in hiring, you saw a labor crunch, is that continuing [ph] that sort of thing (14:42)?

Yeah. Thanks. Great question to be asked. On the labor front, and I chose in the script to use the word a battle for retaining and attracting people. We actually got some correspondence before when I talked along these lines because we know that Alberta and the Calgary area still has a significant unemployment rate. So, it is troublesome for people to hear this. What we've been short on is actually people with the prior experience in the industry.

We know that lots of our former employees left both Alberta, Western Canada, went on to the East. They don't want to come back to the industry because of the volatility. So, we lost a portion of our labor pool. The folks that we're trying to bring in now, critical aspect for us is to make sure they've got Class 1 driver's licenses. So, we are seeing some indications we can pick-up Class 1 drivers but they don't have any oilfield experience and then oilfield workers without Class 1 licenses. So, basically the puts us in a bit of a self-training mode 30 to 60 days. Another unique factor is you've seen some of the frackers in the industry, Trican, Calfrac, they are also – they've been having very successful quarters and they're looking for exactly the same employee base as we are. So, we're all competing for a, I will say a smaller pool of skilled labor and I think there's still some caution to where we're trying to keep our, in our case our costs under control and not see cost inflation because our customers are not in a position to accept service pricing. So, yeah, all-in-all it's quite a delicate dance.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Jeff Fetterly from Peters & CO. Please go ahead.

Good morning, all.

Hey, Jeff.

On the coil tubing side, I know you mentioned that about 50% of the 31 units are running. Can you give us a breakdown of what is active or marketed today, in terms of types of units?

Sure. So, we've got on the Gen IV side, we've got – I'll start with that. We've got a number of units but we've been working, one of them and I'll say sporadically in the last quarter. On the Gen III side, we've got a total available of 8 units and we've got 6 units available to work that we've been working and 2 of the units that we acquired from Precision at the end of last year, are still haven't been activated for no reason other than shortage of crews and literally just haven't made that time and attention focus. They will be activated in the in the fourth quarter here. So, we'll then have eight Gen IIIs available.

In our Gen II fleet, we've got a total of 14 and we've had eight of those active and working. And then we've the Gen, which are conventional trailer type units from a little smaller scale again. We've now adopted the language of Gen I because that's sort of where they fit in our history. And we've got five of those with two of them available for working. So, the math would add up there to 17 working rigs of which we've – of total fleet of 31 so that's where about half is where the comment came from.

The two Gen IIIs being reactivated in Q4. What's the light of sight for work on those?

I think it's pretty good. It's – we've commented before in our public materials the Gen III equipment has been the – probably the – highest in demand because of its ability to deal with a lot of the Montney and Duvernay light-type wells. And again, we think we should be able to put all eight of them to work in this marketplace given where people are working. It was more of a – I'll call it just logistics and crew sizing if I can say that having enough guys available that we didn't put our focus on getting of those last two commissioned earlier.

But you do expect that they will be deployed in Q4?

That is certainly our hope. Yes.

Okay. The labor rate increase you mentioned earlier, do you expect that, that will be offset from a pricing standpoint or that could be [ph] flow (19:33) through fully?

Probably the best way I could answer that question would be to say, I'm hopeful that we'll have success with that dialogue. It is a very interesting marketplace out there, the right sequence of events is not to increase labor first and then go and try and ask for a price increase, but it appeared that, some of our competitors got – we started having experiences and seeing lots of evidence where we were behind on labor rates, so we had to make that adjustment.

That being said, we also know that it's from a pricing discussion point of view customers can be highly reasonable in terms of understanding, if it's offsetting a cost to keep the good people around, but at the same time, as I mentioned in the earlier call, those discussions customers are also under a bit of a squeeze with their own margin issues. Perhaps with this recent little bump in oil price, it'll make them in a better mood to accept price increases but we'll see.

Your comment earlier about I guess it was both coil tubing and trading that benefited from a broader customer base in Q3?

Yeah, I think, my quote was in there, they both benefited from that, but I think related to the higher completions activity was the context, but I would agree with that. I think, yeah, broader customer base and greater completions.

Okay. And is that something that's been a focus for you guys, especially on the coil tubing side or was that just sort of the nature of how customer activity has played out this year or specifically in Q3?

I think it can be a bit of both. We've got a – like any oil field service company, we've got a core group of, I'll call it favorite customers and the favorite word could probably apply both ways. They like us, we like them and when you get a number of pieces of equipment on a regular basis out for a customer when they've got a big ongoing budget we tend to favor them in terms of making sure we can meet their needs. And at the same time as an industry activity has picked up, there's been a broader list of names that have been needing coil and in some cases we may need coil and pumping, they've been a little more desperate and unable to get what they needed and we're really anxious to broaden our customer base given the available inactive equipment that we have. So, we're making every effort to respond to that.

Now the barrier has always been for us since the downturn, we let an awful lot of people go as we were trying to control costs through 2015 and 2016 and now we're trying to build up our workforce so we can broaden that customer base while still preserving critical things like safety and so far we've been successful. So, it has been a conscious choice and I think we're heading down the right path, because as we know it's always hard to predict which E&P is really going to take off and become tomorrow's success story.

Last question on the Tryton side. Can you share how meaningful the U.S. contribution was in Q3 and how the year-over-year looked for the U.S. side of the business?

Yeah, we haven't thrown any specific quantification and as we noted it's been cash flow positive for the few quarters. This is the best quarter that they've seen since probably three years. But it still – still in the – more in the hundreds of thousands of dollars more than the multimillion. So, that's why we haven't sort of thrown a number to it. I think what we're seeing there in the U.S. is, the demand is certainly there they're still suffering a little bit as well from I'll say, heavy competition factors. But what we've been doing now it's been three years that we've been, working away in the U.S.

We've really broadened our customer base there in the U.S., you really don't do a lot of work without signing MSAs. So, our team has been very busy signing up MSAs with lot of customers. We've now got quite a broad roster actually of customers of some pretty well-known names. So, I think, as the U.S. industry stabilizes as we get our rhythm back on we hope to see that profitability continuing to grow.

On a relative basis the Tryton business was up 64% year-over-year for revenue. Would the U.S. have grown faster than or recovered at a faster pace than that?

I don't have that right in front. The guys will look that up and see. My guess on top of my head is probably not. I would guess that the Canadian revenue growth probably exceeded the U.S., but we'll see here if that pops up.

Okay.

Go ahead, Karen. You got that data point in front of you?

It did, but you're dealing like 100 percentage basis?

Of course.

It could go up a fair bit more but on a dollar basis, it's a different story, right.

Yeah.

Because you're starting with delivery basis.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you for the clarity. Thanks.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. The following question is from [indiscernible] (25:16) from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hey, it's Andrew actually.

Hello, Andrew.

Hi. I wonder if you could just sort of describe the pricing dynamic I know you touched on the labor rate flow through, but it – on the surface of it some might say your, the dynamic should be fairly similar to what we see in other completions businesses where you have still more equipment than what you have in the field. So, your utilization is not at a 100% but you're constrained by labor and in other completions segments that has caused a rising price environment. In your own words, why do you not see or why have you not seen the same sort of pricing leverage in coil tubing?

Thanks. Great question. In the deep coil space, which we're referring to our – throughout our – primary competitors until capacity is absorbed would be the frackers being Calfrac, Canyon and STEP in sort of the public marketplace. And it's hard to get as much clarity on what they are doing with their pricing but we can often be the, on location with them, the swing factor in terms of supply. And we've also got a, there's some private players maybe half-a-dozen out there that can compete in this deep coil market.

So, I think as we look at the numbers and start to see the existing capacity used up. We have to get to that point to where the frackers obviously are today when people are either nervous or unable to get the equipment that they need. And we're not at that spot yet. We haven't been in the coil market where although it's been tight at some points, people are still able to, if we can't supply a job, they can go somewhere else.

With the amount of capacity that we've got and now that we've released our quarter with our margins, which aren't as strong as we'd like to see but they're certainly improved dramatically over the last year. We're not interested in, I'll say, annoying customers further to the earlier question, we would rather broaden our customer base and our market share. And continue to focus on getting out there in the marketplace first and getting well established and then focus on price increases. But we can only rely on, I guess, the dialogue between our customers and our salespeople and then watch our experiences to make that judgment call. But we're well aware that getting higher prices is better for us and better for our shareholders.

Okay. Thank you. And the other question I had was just related around the Gen IV equipment. What is the – what do you think is the barrier between where we are today with one in the field working and getting higher utilization of those higher spec pieces of equipment?

Thanks. Yeah. We're actually working a way on that right now. I think, as we've answered before, right now this Gen III marketplace and the acquisition that we did at the end of 2016 was I will say, well-timed and a very popular equipment, combined with our – I'll say our barrier to growth, which was people. So right now, we've been working a way as well advertised on hiring new people and trying to grow our labor force. So, we actually didn't have, when it comes to sort of commissioning, training and getting more Gen IVs ready. We didn't have extra people capacity for that focus.

The second thing is, mobility and – of the Gen IVs and [ph] wait (29:22). And if you recall, they were originally all [ph] mastered (29:26) units and in July of 2016, we actually pulled the [ph] mask off a (29:30) couple of them, which lightened the weight and gave us greater flexibility on working with customers that have the taller, wellhead assemblies and [ph] where a mask (29:43), maybe still wasn't the right fit. We are now working our way on again trying to – as we look at bringing more of these units into place. We're actually working our way on some other strategies to further lighten the units take off some more weight and make some changes to things like our ability to more quickly do real swaps and to more easily crossover into what I'm going to call a almost a hybrid into the high-end of the Gen III market and give us a little bit more of the correct design I would say, for the high-end conventional market.

So, that's something that we expect to be introducing probably by mid-2018 and we'll have more information on that in our 2018 capital budget.

Okay. Thank you. And just to clarify where is the one Gen IV for working right now?

It's has been pretty much all Grand Prairie Montney type work and a little bit of Duvernay.

Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

Thanks.

Thank you. There are no further questions. I'll turn the meeting back over to MS. Perasalo. Please go ahead.

Thank you, John and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. This concluded today's conference call. Please disconnect your line at this time. We thank you for your participation.