Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Secretary, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Allan G. Mowbray — Vice President-Finance & Chief Financial Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Ltd. Third Quarter Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP-Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, John. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Jeff Newman, Senior VP-Business Development; and Allan Mowbray, CFO. This morning, we will give you an overview of our third quarter results, speak to the outlook, and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDAS. Please see our November 7, 2018 third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors, and assumptions, please refer to our November 7, 2018 third quarter news release. In this call today, we will refer to Essential Coil Well Service as ECWS.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet Amundson.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning. Yesterday, we were pleased to report third quarter revenue of CAD 51 million and EBITDAS of CAD 7 million. Activity was strong in July and August but slowed in mid-September due to wet weather.

On a year-to-date basis, revenue was CAD 149 million, and EBITDAS was CAD 18 million, both an improvement from the first nine months of 2017. Essential finished the quarter with debt net of cash at CAD 23 million. Debt remains at a very reasonable level, with debt to EBITDAS at 1.2 times.

Our working capital at the end of Q3 was CAD 64 million, comprised primarily of accounts receivable and inventory. Customer payment timing on accounts receivable continues to be slower than we would like, which leads to some accumulation of debt. Yesterday, debt net of cash was CAD 19 million.

Our Tryton downhole tool operation has continued to put up good results, with revenue exceeding the strong third quarter of 2017. The secret sauce of this business is a dedicated team of long-serving employees, a broad tool offering, and deep customer relationships. Compared to third quarter 2017, we saw a growth in conventional tools in both Canada and the U.S.

For ECWS, management's focus continues to be on evolving our fleet in response to a constantly changing industry to ensure our equipment is relevant for customer needs, maintaining a sharp focus on costs during rapid and significant activity fluctuations, retaining and training key personnel, and thoroughly assessing competitive price submissions in a market that sees competition willing to low bid themselves into non-existence.

We understand there's three private coil tubing companies that have recently ceased operations, and their equipment was moved out of Canada. This is an indication of weak service pricing and challenging economics, and might create future tightness in the Canadian deep coil tubing supply.

I am excited to tell you about our first ECWS generation for coil tubing retrofit, which completed its first job for a large E&P company in the Duvernay in October. It is currently working for a different customer doing mill-outs also in the Duvernay. We commenced planning for this change one year ago by involving our entire team of coil tubing rig experts and working closely with NOV Hydra Rig here in Calgary. Our focus was on simplicity in weight to allow a maximum amount of coil to be carried on the unit, while continuing to leverage the technical advantages of our Gen IV design.

So here's the features that excite me. It's very light compared to our Gen IV, the way we had it designed before, pulling off the mast and a bunch of other items that we felt could be taken off. We reduced the weight by 22 tons, which allowed the ease of movement on customer locations and between worksites during the times of stringent Canadian transportation rules. It's got industry-leading reach with 2 3/8", where it can do 7,200 meters transported on the rig, or 9,400 meters if transported separately on a truck. As a point of interest, we think this should be able to deal with most of the deeper completions that are out there.

Safety and efficiency, this rig is quick and efficient [ph] to ready to (00:05:33) move up and has a quick-change reel system to allow for on-location reel swaps in two hours or less, and finally, an industry-leading injector capability with either a 130,000-pound injector or a 160,000-pound injector. Higher injector capacity ensures no slippage or inefficiencies when working on very deep horizontal wells.

ECWS has four additional potential Gen IV retrofits and a Gen IV reel trailer retrofit, which can work with a Gen II rig to supplement its depth. We have committed to retrofit the reel trailer and a second Gen IV rig, and expect to have both completed by the end of Q1 2019. The remaining three retrofits will be scheduled as we assess market conditions in the next few years.

In our experience, it appears the cost of building new coil tubing rigs and pumper units is rising due to steel tariffs, Canadian currency weakness, and strong demand for this type of equipment in the U.S. The Gen IV retrofit program provides Essential with the opportunity to enhance our deep coil fleet at a relatively low cost and in a short period of time as market demand dictates. The cost of a Gen IV retrofit is less than one-third of the cost of a newbuild.

Allan will now speak to our third quarter results for each business.

Thank you, Garnet. Tryton reported revenue of CAD 23 million, CAD 3 million higher than the prior-year quarter. On a quarter-over-quarter basis, the conventional tool business generated higher revenue, as customers increased their focus on well maintenance and abandonment work.

Tryton's Multi-Stage Fracturing revenue was consistent with Q3 2017. On a year-to-date basis, revenue was CAD 68 million, CAD 7 million higher than the prior-year period. Gross margin of 23% was similar to the prior-year period.

ECWS experienced relatively strong coil tubing and pumper demand in the third quarter. Consistent with previous quarters, demand was the strongest for Gen III coil tubing rigs and quintuplex pumpers working for customers in the Montney and Duvernay regions.

Revenue for the quarter was CAD 28 million, and gross margin was 19%. Revenue per hour was consistent with Q3 2017 and the first half of 2018. As we continue to experience competitive pressure, service price increases are not likely in the near term. This puts a squeeze on our margins as we face higher repairs and maintenance costs and increased fuel prices.

Higher repairs and maintenance costs in the quarter were due to an increase in fluid-end replacements on the fluid pumpers. Higher pressure wells that require greater volume of fluid over a longer duration can be hard on the equipment and can result in increased [ph] fluid-end plate (00:08:33) failures.

On a year-to-date basis, revenue was CAD 81 million, CAD 9 million higher than the prior-year period. Gross margin at 17% was consistent with the prior year. Higher revenue without an increase in gross margin was due to higher repairs and maintenance, fuel and labor costs without a corresponding price increase for customers.

I'll just touch on capital. Our 2018 capital forecast is CAD 16 million, CAD 7 million for growth, and CAD 9 million for maintenance. CAD 11 million was spent to the end of Q3, and CAD 5 million of spending is expected in the fourth quarter. This includes payments for a set of high pressure blow out preventers to support ECWS's coil tubing fleet and long lead time components for Gen IV retrofits and maintenance capital.

Now I'll just touch on the outlook. Management expects fourth quarter activity to slow as the quarter progresses and customers complete their 2018 capital programs. Tryton is expected to continue to benefit in the quarter from customers working on well maintenance and abandonment activities. ECWS is focused on balancing crew retention and cost management as we look through the fourth quarter and into what we expect will be another busy first quarter next year.

Looking to 2019, industry analysts are generally forecasting activity be similar to 2018. Some are forecasting a slight increase, and others a slight decrease. On November 1, the Petroleum Services Association of Canada announced its forecast for 6,600 wells drilled in 2019, a 5% decrease from their 2018 forecast. Visibility into 2019 for Essential will become clearer toward the end of 2018 and early 2019 as customers announce their 2019 capital budgets.

While I believe we reported [ph] on-market (00:10:30) Q3 results, it is unfortunate for all shareholders that Essential's share price recently reached a 52-week in historic low. Sadly, our share price continues to trade near the low. Essential is not unique, as a number of other Canadian oilfield service companies have also set new 52-week lows in the last few weeks. This is indicative of our challenged Canadian macro and political environment. The Canadian oil and gas sector finds itself with egress issues, regulatory uncertainty, and a lack of political will to effectively support the Canadian oil and natural gas industry.

At the current share price, Essential's measure of price to book value is extremely low at 0.37 times. I would like to point out that there is very little book value in the Tryton business, as it does not require heavy equipment to operate, so technically, this often used measure gives very little value consideration in our strong Tryton business. Like many Canadian oilfield service companies, we appear to be poorly valued.

From an operational perspective, our fleet tools and crew composition are designed and trained for today's challenging deep well completions and have capacity for growth as the market dictates. We are keenly focused on cost management in the fourth quarter. From a financial perspective, our debt is low, and Essential is closely monitoring working capital and capital spending requirements.

I'll now pass it back to Karen.

John, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And Ms. Perasalo, there are no questions registered. Please go ahead.

Okay. Thank you, John, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference call has now ended. Please disconnect your line at this time. We thank you for your participation.