Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jeffrey B. Newman — Senior Vice President-Business Development, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Mark Westby — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
John Mark Bereznicki — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Second Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Wayne.

Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter conference call. With me on the call today are, Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our second quarter results, speaks the outlook, and open the line for question.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as the EBITDA. Please see our August 5, 2015 second quarter new release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our August 5, 2015 second quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning. Yesterday, we reported a $2.8 million EBITDA loss, down from a breakeven quarter in Q2 2014. While this is a decrease from 2014, considering the significant deterioration in activity and pricing of our services, Q2 2015 is in line with our expectations.

Industry activity in all areas including drilling, completions and production work, were down significantly compared to the same quarter last year.

Essential's highly variable cost structure allowed us to achieve a positive operating gross margin in this low activity quarter. We proactively reduced fixed cost and adjusted hourly wage rates in oil servicing prior to entering the second quarter. We believe our cost cutting initiatives were instrumental in mitigating the second quarter loss. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDAS was CAD 8 million below CAD 22.9 million in the first half of 2014.

Now, on cost reduction, a few more comments. I have discussed in our last two investor conference calls, we moved early in 2015 to implement cost reductions. We had our plans in place and most changes implemented by the end of the first quarter.

We expect to realize annualized fixed cost savings of approximately CAD 10 million and are on track to achieving that. Fixed and variable cost initiatives included compensation reductions, wages and salary reductions range from 5% to 20% and also elimination of certain benefits and incentives, discretionary spending reductions and deferrals including non-critical repairs and maintenance expenses, supplies, tools and travel. And finally, workforce reductions. Since year-end 2014, we have released approximately 400 employees which is 40% of our employee base, including 25% of our salaried employees.

Cost management has become ingrained in all aspects of our operations.

Now, moving into some discussions on our service lines. Revenue from coil well service was CAD 10 million, a 43% decrease from Q2 2014 due to lower activity and price. With industry well completions down 63% from Q2 2014, masted coil tubing and pumping fared better than industry metrics with operating hours down 29% and 35% respectively. These services were driven by a core group of customers primarily those with activity in the Bakken, Montney, and Duvernay plays. Masted coil tubing and pumping revenue per hour declined 10% to 15% compared to Q2 2014.

Coil well service currently has the strongest outlook of our three service lines. There is less high quality competition in a long reach diameter masted coil tubing market. The effective integration of our fluid and nitrogen pumping services with masted coil has created operational efficiencies. Although our coil well service division is still subject to the industry pressures of a weak completions market, including associated pressure on pricing. We expect that our reputation, superior people and equipment will help this division in the back half of 2015. To date in July, activity for coil well service has been better than we saw through all of Q2 2015.

Service rig revenue was down 58% compared to the same quarter in 2014 due to our reduction in activity and lower prices. Operating hours were down 45% from Q2 2014. And service rig revenue per hour was approximately 15% lower than Q2 2014. Service rig activity in the Grand Prairie region was our sole regional bright spot during the quarter.

Competition in service rigs is extensive as the industry fleet size remains too large. Year-to-date industry utilization is at 30%, with pricing suffering. Given the poor pricing and industry utilization outlook, we expect to see industry service rig fleet start to shrink. At the beginning of the third quarter, Essential retired six more of its service rigs, which will now reduce our active fleet to 48 rigs.

On a three-month basis, well servicing revenue, which includes both coil well service and service rigs, was down 51% from Q2 2014. Despite this significant decline, well servicing gross margin was higher in the quarter compared to Q2 2014. In anticipation of service pricing reductions, Essential implemented a reduction to the hourly wage rates of our well servicing employees in an effort to preserve margin. This, combined with other fixed and variable cost reduction initiatives that we discussed previously, resulted in an improved margin for well servicing in Q2 2015.

Year-to-date, results reflect prices and activity below the first half of 2014. However, as you may recall, our masted coil tubing rigs had a relatively strong first quarter. On a year-to-date basis, operating hours were down only 8% from masted coil tubing, and 20% for pumpers. Service rig operating hours, however, experienced the 46% decrease from the first half of 2014.

Year-to-date well servicing gross margin has a percentage of revenue remained at 18% in 2015 which is the same as the first half of 2014. Proactive cost reduction is responsible for this significant achievement. Finally, our downhaul tools and rental segment. For that segment, we reported revenues 62% lower than the Q2 2014.

As the tools and rentals business was impacted by the decrease in industry drilling, well completions, and production works. In this shrinking industry market, competition continues to be aggressive with price reduction of 15% to 20% compared to Q2 2014.

For the three-month period, gross margin as a percentage of revenue was negative 7% compared to 34% in Q2 2014. While we initiated some cost reductions in the first quarter, the revenue impact of the industry downturn on this business was greater than anticipated. Further measures were put in place in the second quarter, as the industry conditions continue to deteriorate.

Due to timing, the Q2 2015 margin does not fully reflect all cost saving initiatives. We anticipate a return to the positive margins for the remainder of the year but expect forward margins to be lower than experienced in the back half of 2014. On a year-to-date basis, slower activity and price pressure resulted in revenue, 38% lower than half 1 2014.

Competition and customer efforts to reduce cost, may continue to put downward pressure on pricing, our long history, skilled personnel, and strong customer relationships, will support us through difficult industry conditions.

Now, I'm going to have Don Webster read through the capital section.

Our capital budget remains as previously announced at CAD 21 million, including CAD 13 million for growth capital and CAD 8 million for wealth maintenance capital. We continue our focus on the Generation III and Generation IV masted coil tubing unit build programs. Our Generation III build program continues to see success. We expect to put the latest NOV hydra rig Generation III rig into service early in Q4 of 2015. This will bring our Gen III fleet to four rigs.

Regarding our Generation IV build program with Option Industries, we continue to experience delays. But we are becoming increasingly confident with the benefits that this new technology will bring to the industry.

We had spent extensive time with our crews and option to implement the latest in safety and efficiency features into these rigs. To date, we have not earned any generation for revenue in 2015. Fortunately, given the weaker industry conditions, the financial impact of these delays on our results has been mitigated.

The first two Gen IV rigs will be reintroduced to our customers in Q3 2015. The third is expected in the fourth quarter. The final three rigs including associated support equipment, are all well progressed.

In 2016, we anticipate significant incremental revenue from the Gen IV masted rigs in our coil tubing fleet. Our strong balance sheet allows us to continue with the build program during the period of weakness in the industry activity.

Now, moving on to our balance sheet and dividend, at the end of June, we reported debt net of cash of CAD 26 million essentially at a 12-month trailing debt to EBITDAS ratio of 0.5 times. We started 2015 with a strong balance sheet and we're determined to maintain that advantage. In addition to cost management initiatives, the other items within our control are the cap ital program and the dividend.

Our 2015 capital budget of CAD 21 million is approximately 50% lower than 2014 capital spending. We announced earlier in the year the deferral of two Gen IV masted coil tubing rigs. Yesterday, we announced a 50% dividend reduction. Although Q2 2015 results are in line with our expectations, our outlook for the back half of 2015 has deteriorated.

In setting the dividend, the board considers many factors including historical results, industry outlook, capital requirements, and debt targets. Industry fundamentals are showing no signs of improvement in the near-term. Further, recent global and oil price related news has caused many experts to speculate that the extent and duration of this downturn is highly uncertain. With these factors in mind, the board determined that a 50% dividend reduction was appropriate. This reduces the annualized cash outflow by CAD 7.6 million. The board will continue to evaluate the dividend on a quarterly basis.

And finally, with regard to the outlook, the duration and extent of the industry downturn is a question that remains unanswered by industry experts worldwide. For the remainder of 2015, activity in WCSB is expected to increase from the seasonal lows experienced in the second quarter, but is expected to remain below prior year levels. Our proactive cost reductions, history and experience navigating to an industry downturn have served us well.

Looking forward, our service line positioning, variable cost structure and the growth capital program leave us very well positioned to withstand a prolonged downturn or to respond to the opportunity of an industry turnaround when it occurs.

Wayne, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, everyone. Just a couple of quick questions for you, if possible if we could start with the cost reductions. I was wondering, Garnet, you mentioned that you are well along the goal of hitting $10 million in cost reductions. Can you give us a little bit more granular view as to how far along there.

Are you halfway along? Is it pretty much wrapped up now? Just trying to get a feel for how much of these are already being reflective of your of financial results and how much could still come? And when I say today, I'm sort of thinking end of Q2 obviously which is the last financial information we have.

Yeah. I think we're pretty careful to use the word – by the way, sorry, Greg, good morning and thanks for calling. It's fairly spurs interesting days, so it's good to see the question come in. From our cost reduction point of view, we've been careful with our wording on annualized CAD 10 million. And as we emphasize, we put the fixed cost reductions in place, I would say the majority of them are in placed by, call it, April 1.

So we really got one month – one quarter under our belt of having those cost reductions in place. So, assuming because they're fixed cost they're relatively linear, you could probably assume we've got CAD 2.5 million of that, sort of underway now and it will be CAD 7.5 million in 2015 and CAD 10 million by the time we get to the end of Q1 2016, that would be a reasonable proxy, and obviously cost don't move quite that perfectly but that's what you'll get.

Got it, so you're pretty much finished on that cost reductions, meaning that the full CAD 10 million net annualized is there, you've already taken those cuts and then we saw the impact in the Q2?

Yeah, we're actually quite pleased. We have our sort of, we [did brief with the staff each time after we released our quarterly results. And I think from a management perspective, as you could tell from that formal commentary, I think we got what we expected so far up to the end of second quarter. So, in terms of further lay-offs or further cost reductions, we're not anticipating needing to do anything. We're actually quite pleased with how things are reflecting through, seeing a little bit of activity pickup as you would expect going into July and August here, and, yeah, we feel we're right on track. It's good for our staff in the sense that we started talking about this in December, and I think we're seeing news now that some of the E&Ps are moving into layoffs and staff reductions that we started dealing with more than six months ago.

Thanks for the further color on that. I actually might make this next question a little bit redundant, but I'm going to try anyway. Some of your – a couple energy services, not necessarily competitors, but other parts of the completions and servicing business have used the downturn as sort of an opportunity, I suppose, is a positive spin on it, but an opportunity to move some of the costs which were previously fixed into more of a variable-type category, specifically on some of the associated labor.

Have you taken any of these steps? Just wondering if there's any areas of your business which is typically a little bit more fixed and doesn't really align as much with the undulations in demand, or is basically everything that's variable – as variable as you'd want to see it?

That's a great question, actually, not at all redundant with what we just discussed. Depending on what you folks do or investors do when comparing us to peers, our grouping seems to be with well servicing companies that have service rig, or, in some cases, we get grouped and compared against the frackers.

And I think the reference that you're giving to is one of the Canadian frackers recently came out and said they were going to try and shift their notoriously fixed cost structure for their – the term we use is guarantees for a lot of the workers to get out from under the, I think, the frackers. I've seen a bit of a pattern of large negative Q2 results.

We've made that shift actually in our coil well service business years ago, and we saw this as a problem when we started seeing larger Q2 losses and we wanted and we wanted to expect. So one of the emphasis items I had in the conference call script is our variable cost structure. So our salaried corporate employees, some of our leaders are on salaries, but generally our folks have I would say nominal salaries and highly incentive and activity based compensation.

So we are already setup and have been for years the way that one of the, I would say more progress Canadian frackers so that they were going to start heading now. So I think we're actually far ahead of the game.

That process what do you do to switch over from more of a fixed cost type compensation to the variable cost. Can you give us a little bit of a snapshot as to how it went over with the I suppose labor pools with the employees. Was it the sort of thing where there was a lot of push back? Did you have a lot of turnover at that time or was it relatively seamless? And if it was seamless, how did you do it?

Well, I'm not – sure, I'd be delighted to share, but I don't want to setup those folks in the fracking side, they might be going through this. I don't want to set them up for trouble. But it was extremely difficult and sort of probably more so in our own imaginations. Because when you approach employees with a change like this, the initial reaction of change of that magnitude is a bunch of people say – no way, I'm not doing it, I'm out of here.

And that's just people don't like change. What it did for us, is that we found out who which employees were sort of taking the time to really understand our business model. We spent a lot of time demonstrating their opportunity for income through the full cycle. And interestingly, I was just at a leadership session in our Red Deer shop talking with the guys. And they said, yeah, they still remember those changes and hated it at that time. But now realized we have an opportunity to do even better financially themselves in the right circumstances.

So we're fully – our culture has embraced it and the change is done, but it's not easy.

That's good to know. Well, not good, but thanks for the color on that. Just moving a little bit over to the asset side regarding the six retired service rigs, could you just let us know, did they have any activity within any of the operating days of either Q2 or Q1 related to those six specific rigs? I'm not even sure if that's something which you would have on hand.

I think Don and I are both shaking our heads. No, when you're down to the lower levels of industry activity on service rigs that we saw and that we experienced personally and we were at 37% utilization in Q1 and 19% in Q2, we literally have – it's like having a closet full of too many suits. You may wear one suit once, but you're always going to wear your favorites a lot more. And to pull these out of circulation, we're not going to skip a beat.

And are there any more that would be likely to your retired service or would these once which were part of the very old legacy fleet in the last couple that were gone?

Well, one of the transitions that I don't have a specific answer to that, but there's a reason I made that comment that the industry has too many service rigs. If you can see, right now the industry is just about 1,100 service rigs still which is the same that we were in 2007 and 2008. And you see 30% industry utilization so our mandate right now is basically would just wear out the service rigs and take the useful parts and we'll continue to shrink the fleet. And I hope all of our competitors do that because that's the only way we're going to get pricing up. And we reduced our labor base of supervisors, mechanics, leadership, to run a smaller crew base so we've got far more equipment than our core crew base until we see this industry picking up. The single shallower rigs, lighter rigs, those have fewer axles, are far less attractive in this market because of road bans and limitations. The freestanding lighter multi-axle heavy doubles are in style. So that's the evolution that we're moving towards.

Interesting. So there's none today that would necessarily be on the chopping block in addition to those six to be retired. Obviously, you would have told if there were. But over time, depending on the duration of the downturn, we could see more rigs come out just as it sort of hit the end their use of life and instead of refurbishing them, you cannibalize equipment?

I think that's very well summarized, Greg.

Okay. Are those rigs being held for sale of whatever type or have they been disposed of already? And if they're gone, what did you get for them?

In terms of – it's a two-step process, the language we use in our public disclosure is retiring, meaning you can park rigs and plan to just bring them on and retire. We don't have any plans to fix them up. The next process that goes on with our group is basically an assessment of useful both support equipment and parts and you start taking these things apart or we've had, frankly, pretty good track record of success you can see in our proceeds on disposal line in the financial materials, and we have people from places like Mexico and the United States buying mature use service rigs. And it's ironic because a lot of the equipment that we won't work in Canada because we considered old, tired and not suitable is very attractive to the United States oil and gas business. And I think it's another indication of pride that Canada is often at the forefront of this business, ahead of perhaps our southern competitors.

Great. And thanks for that. Just shifting again to a few other things and that's it for me. I know it's a little volatile on the Tryton tools, the downhole tools division there. But could you discuss kind of those results in Q2 relative to how you're seeing demand for their services so far in Q3, I know it's pretty soon. Even though it's down substantially year-over-year, it sounded to me like it was basically down in line with a reduction in completions. I'm wondering if that's an accurate read or do you think it was better when you gained market share or worse, or you lost market share, and then again, how that seems to be turning into Q3?

Sure. And yeah, I chuckled that you note this morning Greg on the volatile tool division and it's very hard on those of you who are trying to predict the tool division that we don't have very good metrics that we can point out from an industry perspective like we would with service rig fracking or drilling. So there's two parts, as you know to our tool division – well, three parts, the two biggest are conventional tools and multistage. And in this quarter, given the dramatic decrease in drilling and frac, there is very little multistage fraction work that went on. And that's been a big part of our business so that – time will tell but I don't expect that to be as much of an issue in Q3 and Q4.

On the conventional side, we have talked quite openly, that we've had a very large portion of the Canadian market share, and what's happened with the multistage fracturing getting more competitive and coming down, some private competitors even some publics have gone back and turn their seats on that conventional business. And they've been trying to tap back into the market by dramatic pricing reductions.

So that's a tough thing that we've seen hits on both sides. What we did as we commented on, is we had to take moves that that business has been in place, first as a private company since 1997. And then since 2005, they'd been part of our team and never had to do cost reductions and employee layoffs like they did through the second quarter. And those guys are hungry, keen, competitive and ready to deal with this new market and reposition themselves accordingly, and will be working with our manufacturers to reduce product cost, all the necessary factors. So I think it's hard for me to give you numbers, but I think we're going to get back on track in Q3 and Q4, but there will be some margin compression from what we've historically seen.

Are you already seeing that take into effect? I'm looking they were a little ways into Q3 already.

Yeah, they've – I mean, we've had as well not – I would say not as much as the experience we've seen so far in July and early August with the coil division, but certainly, better activities than we experienced in Q2.

Thanks. And then just lastly, this is it for me, the dividend reduction, could you give us a little bit of color as how you arrived at the decision to decrease by 50%? I understand your views that the back half of the year, your outlook deteriorated materially from potentially where it was earlier in the year, but why 50%, to reduce it by that CAD 7.5 million in cash cost, why not 75% cut or 25% cut? Can you give us any idea as to how you and the board were discussing that particular level to reduce it?

Sure. I mean, every number that you just quoted, we run sensitivities to just sort of take a look at that and in addition to the factors that I went through that the board looks from a business perspective, their responsibility and their assessment also consider the best interest of our shareholders. And we contemplate both our institutional and retail shareholders in making a decision like that. Our desire is to not borrow to finance the dividend.

And we've got a CAD 21 million capital program in 2015 if things stay the same or only slightly better in 2016. Our capital program will be even last in 2016. Maintenance capital should be, it will be further reduced and our growth capital program will continue to be solved as we finish up on these Gen III, in these initial six Gen IV rigs.

So our total capital will be down. So we really looked at sort of what reasonable, I'll say, down side expectations of a 2016 EBITDA might be, what our capital program might be like and making sure we could fully cover the dividend without increasing our debt. So those were the factors in a highly uncertain, unknown environment, 50% seemed to be a reasonable solution that met all those varied objectives.

So without necessarily put you to a quarter where you're actually providing guidance because that's not what I'm trying to do here but to rephrase, if we were to look at a reasonable capital program for 2016 meaning a little bit lower than the maintenance and growth capital just to finish the rigs, plus we add on your new dividend level, that would sort to be roughly equal to maybe a stress down side scenario for what you think could come out of your operating cash flow?

It's a good try, Greg, but you know I'm not going to answer that one. I will answer it by saying that currently on 2016, we've got a wide variation right now in our analyst, you guys are the experts to predict the future for 2016. And I think the harshest analyst has come out and basically mirrored 2015 for another year into 2016, that was a recent update within the last week or so.

And I think all of you will be – were covered currently by nine analysts we expect all of you to rethink your 2016 estimates. But I think we've got some that are still up in the high 50s and even low 60s. So that's a really big spread and I'm going to say all of you have probably an equal chance of being right or wrong. So, good luck with that.

Nice dodging on the question. I appreciate the efforts on both sides. Anyway, I've monopolized the call so I'll just back off now and say thanks a lot for all the color.

Okay. Thanks for the questions, Greg. See you.

Thank you. The following question is from Scott Treadwell from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Morning, guys. I wanted to pick up on the tool side of things. The inventories you referenced in the release tend to stay relatively static but with revenues down substantially as they are, you would expect that that to trend lower. I'm just wondering if in the inventory today, there's some stuff that might be sort of stale until maybe next winter if things pick up. If there's any risk that that inventory is going to continue to age or maybe it's just to your point that it's slower to move. We should expect that inventory number to maybe trend a bit lower here in the next couple of quarters.

Yeah. Good morning, Scott, and thank you for that question, very good and logical question. Our inventory is actually – the total inventory number is comprised of two components. There's the coil tubing in there for coil well service, and then the tools. And on the coil side, the inventory likely as we get these Gen IVs in, and we've already done some of that, we'll continue to grow. And that's why we want to make sure people are aware of that so the inventory number will stay up.

The tool inventory, I agree with your observation, with the quick decline in how the sector turn down, we have to plan ahead and so some lead time planning on building up inventory levels. And it is – our inventory is higher than we would like it to be right now, given the current outlook in the industry activity. We've got inventory throughout Western Canada and then some in the U.S. with our new operation there.

I am not aware today that we certainly had those discussions that we have what I would call obsolete or slow moving inventory. That being said, we've also talked about our new tools that we're developing and the changing industry dynamics with all of the different techniques that people are trying.

And it's always a risk that you can have a certain style of tool or a certain diameter of tool that you get a bunch in inventory. And then all of a sudden that product isn't moving. So we'll keep an eye on it, but probably the most troublesome thing from my perspective is that we still have when the inventory is high like that, and we pushed our manufacturing cost down. And our pricing is coming down, we still got a mismatch between the higher cost inventory and the low customer pricing.

As we get our manufacturers to reduce their pricing which is just a requirement, that will help support the margin as we move forward once that inventory starts to turn.

Okay. You almost answered my sort of follow on to that, I was going to ask if there was a material miss match between the value of your tool inventory specifically and the pricing you're seeing in manufacturing and suppliers today. It sounds like that there is I don't know if it's material, but there's definitely a difference.

Yeah. I think short term has to be, we ordered a lot of the inventory that we're holding in stock today, was literally ordered late 2014, early 2015 environment. That pricing structure, it took some time to have those discussions with their manufacturers. So yeah, you're going to get a margin compression factor on high cost inventory with low cost pricing or low pricing as customers demand back.

Okay. And last one for me on the tool side, obviously, the activity level was down, the pricing was down. One thing that obviously changes is – and you used as reference is job size or job mix, have you seen anything obviously Q2 with such a small sample size might be a bit premature to speculate, have you seen shifts in to your point preference for different diameters or different mechanisms in the completion side?

Well, it's – actually, it's funny. Just before the call started, we were just talking about that again with the – unfortunately Q2 doesn't give us much of a sample. Activity was on a multi-stage side because of the fracking and drilling being so slow doesn't give much of a sample or indication.

As we've said in previous call, we're designing everything from our MaxFrac, which is a plug and perf style tool to our Viking tool, which is a coil-activated shifting sleeve tool, and then the ball and seat. And I joked before that people have called for the demise or death of the ball and seat multi-stage fracturing for some time since several quarters back when we missed the analysts' numbers in that business.

And the best thing to say is I think still there are many customers that prefer that technique, at the same time, that short of shifting sleeve style of tool is becoming quite popular. And then there's been some interesting experiments with slight variations of everything in the middle.

So we continue to hone and develop our new tools. Our guys our excited about some ideas they've got coming into the back half of 2015, but I don't have much choice except to say I hope the numbers will speak for themselves when we get to Q3.

Okay. Good. And just on the coil side, I just wanted to ask on the Gen IV with sort of a new technology and different sort of applications, can you give us a sense? I mean it obviously sounds like you're fine-tuning the design and deployment of these units. But on the customer side, how many of the customers have sort of been knocking on your door waiting for these units and then have lots of ideas about how they want to use?

And how many of the customers – maybe it's a bit of a show me story, or they're just being a bit more cautious and they want to see how these things operate and what their capabilities actually are. Where are you on that sort of continuum for customers?

Scott, it's Don here. I'll respond to that question. It's a good question, actually. We have been in discussion with probably a majority or large and super majors with respect to the new technology. We've been in discussions with them for well over three years and continue to hone and try to get the best bang for the buck for the customers that we can.

So, we've had many discussions, continue to have discussions. I believe they are coming to us. The problem with us is we've been very cautious as to how we deploy this equipment, and we need to take baby steps as far as we put the stuff into service. And I see the excitement. I know I'm extremely excited to get this stuff going. So another quarter under our belt and maybe I'll be able to answer the question just a little bit clearer for you.

Okay. And then for me the last one on people. Obviously, a lot of guys have been let go. I'm just wondering how successful have you been in keeping that core level of expertise maybe having to get – take guys down a notch in terms of their position in the company, but your ability to double your activity base with the core guys you have and just kind of hiring on people when things get better, or has not been – what's that battle been like in terms of keeping those guys?

Actually, we have a pretty strong core of leaders, I would call them. Like obviously the lower end guys are not as critical to us albeit they are critical because we need to people to do the operations. But I think we've been very successful at retaining our staff.

We've been doing a lot of job sharing obviously with the advent of the new Gen IV stuff. We've been able to obviously keep additional people on a training perspective and we're running additional people on those particular rigs, just so that we can deploy further rigs as they come out and are ready for service.

But on the coil side, even on the pumping side, I would suggest, yeah, we're always looking for good people, but in this environment I'm actually quite proud of the fact that we've been able to maintain our staff.

Scott, one other thing I'll add in there, we made specific reference in the conference call script to, I will say, very proactively reducing our hourly wages on the service rig guys in the coil well service. That's the right thing to do but a highly risky move. And we had to rely on the leadership of our guys to communicate it, our culture to hold that, too, because we moved a lot quicker than our competitors and we move further than the industry association. And I just think it was the prudent thing to do because if pricing is down, that's the only way we can preserve margin.

So, we had a bit of – it was a bit of hold the breadth moment. And I'll say again our leadership and culture, we did not lost key people. We were very surprised that some of our competitors didn't move quickly and matched those reductions because it needs to happen if we're going to keep this industry working.

Okay. Great. I agree with that. That's all I've got, guys. I appreciate the color. Thanks.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you. The following question is from Mark Westby from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Mark.

So, I still have a couple of questions left, surprisingly. So to start, we're just looking at your Gen IV units, how do you expect that pricing is going to compare it to, say, the Gen III units or the masted coil pricing generally in the current operating environment, when those are ruled out?

Yeah. I had – thanks for that, that's a tough question in the sense that we talked quite openly about pricing for the – we've got the Generation II units which are our biggest part of our fleet, Generation IIIs which are now working and active and the Generation IVs which our absolute new technology for the market.

And with the activity and utilization coming down and competition going up, our ability to, I'll say, drive pricing and expect customers to pay it has been diminished. There's no doubt about that. We do believe though in discussions with our customers that if our Generation IV can deliver on the efficiencies that it should be able to with its capabilities and just sheer power for doing things like drilling out plugs and seats and accessing long-reach wellbores with a single standalone piece of equipment, I think customers will pay for it. My guess though is in this difficult market, we're probably going to have to reduce our pricing expectations to get that equipment to work.

Fair enough. Thank you for that. So, my next question I guess, as you know, there's Gen IV units, obviously having significantly a longer-debt capabilities. Do you expect those will be used to mostly actually to high grades from other units either or your own competitors, or they actually going to end up targeting some deeper plays that are not accessible like oil.

That's another good question. We debated this quite a bit as the management team when we did our own internal forecast and the language that we would use is – are the Gen IIIs or Gen IVs going to cannibalize or steal market share from our own Gen IIs. And our conclusion is we don't think that's the case. We think there is an un-serviced market where right now those long reach wells are being accessed if you're going to complete a long drilled well. We all know from the industry that the building and use of these heavy duty triples has been in the market for a long time and there hasn't been a corresponding response from those of us on the well servicing side.

We have now built that response, so those wells have been completed previously with some other technology. I think in some cases perhaps service rigs, perhaps the use of drilling rigs and if you had to keep a drilling rig on location longer to do the completion work at the cost of those big heavy triples compared to bringing in our Gen IV rig, we will provide a very good economic efficiency alternative and I think it could be a new market. So, time will tell, but again, I can't be overly cocky about that until we actually deliver and get those pieces of equipment to work.

Great. Thanks a lot. That's all my questions. Thank you.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Good morning, Steve.

Just on the Gen IV, so presumably the pricing you expected earlier in the year has come off. But with the labor cost coming down, do you expect the same dollar margin for these units?

Yeah. I think that's reasonable to say that will it be the same, the real magic that we get in those units as we know is utilization. So when we run our economics on pricing versus utilization, utilization wins every time in terms of having a bigger impact and a positive benefit for us on EBITDA. So our first objective is to get that equipment out, get it working and gain industry acceptance. And if we have to discount the pricing in a short term, utilization will make up for that.

And yes, the fact that we've reduced our hourly wages and some of our other cost, I don't know if there will be an equal margin offset. But if we can get utilization even on reduced prices given our lower cost structure, yeah, hopefully we got a shot at still putting up a good margin.

Okay. And if you do get the increase utilization sort of at the expense of the pricing, do you expect the same payback period as you had previously? I would say right now from my modeling, knowing where industry stats are. I think when we last went through with yourself and others on our last sort of road show. We've talked about modeling, fairly modest 80%, 90% type of utilization.

And that's not over the top for this type of equipment when it operates on a 24-hour a day basis. So the real question is one, industry acceptance. But two, where is the Canadian completion market going to go in 2015 and will there be enough work out there. As Don said, if we're targeting the large players with deep pocket, some of those guys are going to continue even in this market. They're proving they've got economic wells. So we get in with the right customers. We should be able to nail those utilizations and then we'll match the paybacks that we've talked about previously. Lower utilization, we won't.

Okay. Great. Maybe just moving back to the conventional side here, 1,100 rigs in the industry and that really hasn't changed over the last several years. I mean, we've seen some public companies retiring conventionals, so presumably it's mom-and-pops adding some new rigs. Do you think that the mom-and-pops are making money at these levels or is it just a matter of time before their equipment sort of wears out, or do we need to see some consolidation in the space to get pricing back up?

Yeah. To – so with regard to service rigs, that data in front of me are the sort of eight – counting Tervita of the eight public companies, all the way back to Q1 2012, public companies at 740 of 1,100 rigs. And today, the fleet is at about 620 of 1,100 rigs, which means approximately 120 rigs have been parked and pushed out by the public companies or the large players and that's been fully replaced by private operators. And the private operators are very much driving down price and they're also often called – service rigs are often called on a local regional basis.

And one of the other things that has to change, if we're all expected to bring down prices and if the oil companies want topnotch safety with the best pricing possible and the best operators possible, they can't be sort of having us operate on that two-tier basis whether we'll give two and three rig jobs out on a regional basis for people perhaps who are able to operate on a different level.

So that's a change in the industry that has to happen. And yeah, I think it's the private operators who are stepping in and replacing. And the only way they can have better economics and still be making money at lower prices is frankly to short-cut process because we've all got the same fuel, labor, repairs and maintenance structure so it's an extraordinarily competitive and transparent business.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's all I had, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. The following question is from John Bereznicki from Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Hi, John.

Hey. I just want to circle back on the tool business for a moment. As you scale that business back for the current environment, has it caused you to maybe rethink your strategy to expand into the U.S. and maybe give us an update on how that's coming along?

Sure. So the scaling back of the business, first of all, what's interesting on that side, we've described before sort of our total employee base of sort of how many people we had with the group. And what we do in a slower environment is a lot of our shop hands, the lower end folks, they ended up leaving the organization.

And our tool hand, they get back to old school as in they assemble and test their own tools. They sell. They go out in the field because there's just less work to go around so they do whatever needs to be done. It's basically literally old school. So it gives us the capacity with having all those key players and tool hands around. When the industry picks up again, we can – not that long ago, we had three 24-hour shifts of shop hands assembling tools sort of all the way around the clock and it's just not like that anymore.

So, that keeps sort of our future intact. The U.S. is a newer experience. It's two parts. We did the organic growth. We went in and set up some shops. And then I think, Jeff, it was like towards the October 2014? When was the Sam's?

April.

April, sorry. 2014 was the Sam's Packer acquisition. And we've now gone in and some of our cost efficiencies were also in the U.S. The U.S. market from our perspective still has a lot of potential. We were basically sort of tapping on the doors of a lot of different customers working way with the same core customer base we started with.

But one of the things that Tryont are brand for tools, has always been extremely successful at is meeting customer needs, great service and operating on a competitive basis. And what we have seen is the U.S. pricing on tools has not collapsed to the same degree as we've seen in Canada, but the desire for price efficiencies and cost efficiencies from the customers is as great as Canada. So that's a window of opportunity for us.

So we're now in talking to customers that maybe we haven't seen before. We still have some maturing to do on our process and cost efficiencies in the U.S. operation. And so, yeah, we're still sort of operating business as usual, but there were cost cuts there than were in Canada.

Got it. All my other questions have been answered, so thank you very much.

Thanks, John.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would like to return the meeting to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Wayne, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today.