Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities
Jamie Murray — Analyst, Desjardins Capital Markets
Roy H. Ma — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Jon Raleigh — Analyst, Clean Value Partners

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Director of Investor Relations of Essential Energy Services Limited. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Melanie. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. This is Essential's first quarterly conference call. We've initiated this call to discuss the quarter and to allow investors and analysts the opportunity to ask questions. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; and Jeff Newman, CFO. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of the third quarter results, and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures, such as EBITDA. Please see our November 7, 2012, third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors, and assumptions, refer to our November 7, 2012, the third quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first conference call. The third quarter started out slower than anticipated, and generally speaking, never ramped up to the level typically expected for a third quarter. At the beginning of July, the oilfield services sector was impacted by wet weather, and our customers were facing the challenges of low oil prices, limited pipeline capacity, and limited access to capital, causing them to rethink their spending programs for the remainder of the year.

Through the quarter, while the oil price improved, it continued to be volatile. The equity markets became more favorable providing access to capital, but there remained a lack of urgency in the field, as shown by drilling and completion counts, which were both down around 25% on an industry basis compared to Q3 2011. This also impacted customer spending on production-related work.

For the third quarter, Essential reported CAD 85 million of revenue and CAD 19 million of EBITDA. On a year-to-date basis, revenue was CAD 257 million and our EBITDA was CAD 51 million. As you have seen, our EBITDA dropped from Q3 2011 to Q3 2012 by CAD 8 million. The quarter-over-quarter reduction in EBITDA was primarily due to utilization reductions in our well servicing segment, which includes both coil well service and service rigs. Revenue in coil well service and service rigs was down quarter-over-quarter, even though our deep coil well service equipment count increased quarter-over-quarter. Demand for masted coil tubing remained strong, but this was offset by a decrease in the conventional deep and other coil tubing work.

Also reducing EBITDA was an incremental increase quarter-over-quarter in labor costs, as we had invested in our future by hiring extra people in coil well service to increase crews for both our fluid pumping fleet, and in anticipation of the delivery of new coil tubing rigs. We chose to expand our workforce early to allow time to train by adding an extra man on the coil tubing and pumping crews. With lower utilization in the third quarter and delays in new equipment delivery, we suffered a margin reduction. Just to reiterate, we chose to increase our hiring, and we're then surprised by the lower utilization and sporadic fluctuations in utilization during the quarter. The cost impact was more severe because of the equipment delays. Although the short-term result is not pleasing from a strategic perspective, considering our role as the leading coil well service provider, we still believe this was the right direction.

The conventional deep coil tubing rig should be ready in the fourth quarter. And two of our deep masted rigs should be ready in Q1 2013. So, with the delivery of that new equipment, it will begin to improve the situation on a margin basis. I would also like to point out that while the lower utilization in the quarter impacted our financial results, it was also very hard on our field employees. Their personal income is directly and adversely impacted by the low and volatile utilization.

Looking at each of our core services, first of all, coil well service. Deep coil tubing utilization was 79%, down from 104% a year earlier, directly related to lower drilling and completion activity. Demand for masted coil tubing remained strong, but this was offset by a decrease in the conventional deep and other coil tubing work. Pricing strengthened quarter-over-quarter. In addition to the incremental labor cost that I discussed, there were incremental coil tubing and supply costs, including a write-off of exhausted coil. Some of the projects we're working on through the summer resulted in a number of coil strings fatiguing at a faster rate than usual.

With regard to service rigs, our utilization at 45% was lower than 54% in the third quarter of 2011, again, directly due to lower drilling and completion activity. There was strong demand for our service rigs working in the Slave Lake region and those on SAGD wells, but generally lower activity in other regions in our well servicing. We have not experienced pricing reductions and our cost structure was generally unchanged through the period.

With regard to our downhole tools and rentals division, we're very happy with the performance. We completed 89 multi-stage fracturing jobs, which was more than in Q3 of 2011. While the number of jobs increased, the average number of stages per fracturing job decreased as many of our customers continued to focus on minimizing their horizontal well completion costs. This decreased the average revenue per job.

With regard to the conventional tool revenue, it remained relatively consistent quarter-over-quarter, which we were pleased with, given the 25% reduction in industry drilling and completion activity. The margin in this segment increased as a result of tool procurement efficiencies and the sale of our wireline division earlier in the year.

Work in the WCSB continues to focus on oil and horizontal drilling, which is great for all of Essential's services. Oil wells require more frequent maintenance work than natural gas wells due to the higher number of moving parts required to produce oil. Horizontal wells are becoming deeper and more complex, increasing the demand for and duration of servicing with our tools, coil tubing, and service rigs. So far, the fourth quarter, we've seen some improvement in activity and we expect to see continued improvement as we head into this winter drilling season. That being said, oil prices continue to be volatile and there is still a feeling of uncertainty.

Compared to this time in 2011, our customers are behind in planning and committing to their winter projects. Natural gas prices have been improving, but they haven't reached a level that impacts drilling and completion of natural gas wells. We expect greater clarity soon as the E&P companies begin to set their 2013 capital budgets, which typically occurs in the latter part of the fourth quarter.

On a year-to-date basis, we spend CAD 34 million in capital and still plan to spend a total of CAD 51 million by the end of December. We expect CAD 12 million of carryover capital into 2013 to complete seven rigs currently under construction. Our balance sheet remains strong, with debt at the end of September of CAD 50 million. This puts us in a great position with debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA at a very reasonable 0.6 times.

To conclude, although EBITDA is down quarter-over-quarter, we continue to make great strides in our business, including safety and development of our primary business lines and making Essential a better business.

That concludes this portion of the call, and we'd be happy to take any questions.

Melanie, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Certainly. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Good morning.

The first question is from Greg Colman of National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, everyone. Just a couple of quick questions here on your inaugural conference call. On your coil tubing day rates, looks like we had some nice increase in hourly rates on a year-over-year basis. Just wondering if you could add some color there. I know you mentioned it a bit in your prepared remarks, but are we in fact seeing apples-to-apples increase in pricing? Is that still occurring in Q4? Or is that more of a job mix or type of rig mix impact that's causing that apparent increase in hourly rates?

Hi, Greg. Thanks for the question. Yeah, I think the second part of your answer is correct. From a pricing perspective, obviously, with the current uncertainty in industry activity, this is not the time for putting in pricing increases, and we haven't done that. So, what you see for the realized pricing increase is the mix, the type of work we're doing, and what we're getting paid for on the job. We often would go out with our deep coil units, our pumpers, and then we have various supplementary equipment and services offered. So, it's really the mix of work that has driven that price increase.

Okay. And keeping all in that theme, what is the type of work that is kind of more – higher revenue per hour or [indiscernible] (11:37) revenue per hour than the lower revenue per hour work?

It can vary, and I will say it's – as you know, with our coil fleet, depending on the size and diameter of the coil, depending on the nature of the well, and I will say the complexity of the completion process, it can vary in terms of even how fast you're wearing out the coil, how long our pumper is on location, and even supplementary chemicals that we're adding. So, it just – there's a lot of variable factors that would probably be too hard to get into, but it is a mix effect.

No problem. And with broad brush strokes, I mean, with those three things, nature of the coil, nature of the well, and complexity, wells that are more complex, deeper with [indiscernible] (12:24) coil would likely be more expensive on a revenue per hour than stuff which is less complex, shallower, and less complicated coil.

I would agree with that.

Great. Staying on CT, just manufacturing time, a little bit of a delay [ph] in about (12:40) CAD 6 million of CapEx stretched out, wondering what kind of tightness you're seeing in the coil tubing manufacturing market, say, today. If you were to try to pick up a deep coil rig, what kind of timing would it take to get it out there? And do you have a feel for the sort of manufacturing capacity in aggregate for, I guess I'd say, the basin?

That's a big question. I will try and give a clear answer on that one. First of all, with respect to our own capital budget, I think what's happened in our case, we're using three different service providers to build our coil units. And we would have – I would say we're experiencing modest delays with two of them in the neighborhood of sort of one, two, or three months, and the other one, more probably up to around anywhere six- to nine-month delays.

And as we noted in our MD&A, I think some of that impact is sort of the Western Canadian labor issues. And I think some of it is just perhaps the big demand on equipment builds backing up the calendar. About 18 months ago, these guys, perhaps in some cases, have almost overcommitted to what they can deliver, which is creating backlogs.

In terms of how that looks for the future as we're contemplating our 2013 capital, it's a very interesting question because although the industry is full of utilization volatility and changes, in our case, as a leading provider of coil, we want to maintain that position. So, we're having to look far, far ahead, and get into build spots that I think now, for confidence, we're looking beyond 12 months, and probably more like 14 to 18 months for delivery of a new unit. So, very difficult to match our current environment from a labor and volatility point of view with those kinds of lags in delivery of new equipment.

That's good color. I appreciate it. Switching gears over to your downhole tools, the Tryton division. I see that your multi-stage frac jobs was effectively unchanged year-over-year. The whole space in aggregate was down about 28% in the industry-wide year-over-year. Just wondering if you could give some thoughts on that. I mean, I know it's relatively small versus the overall basin, so it will tend to be an outlier at times. But was there any particular reason why you were effectively – there was no real change in your Tryton business year-over-year?

Just [ph] an internal rounding (15:10) point, I probably have to give credit to our Tryton sales team, but they'll laugh at that comment. But I really do think, when the industry has changed as it has, and one of the other activities that has happened during the last six months, there's a lot of M&A activity with different customers of ours getting acquired and changes in the business, and the great thing about what our guys offer with the downhole tool business is there's – they've only got so much capacity, but they've got great expertise, a great product to offer.

And when something changes, or one area slows down, or one particular customer slows down for whatever reason, if they reduced their capital budget, our operations guys and our sales team have regrouped and continued to offer their strong product and services to new customers. So, that's probably the best I can give you that I think it's taken a lot of work to swim against the tide through this difficult period when drilling and completions were down.

That is good color, I do appreciate it. And just staying on that sub-division there, you mentioned a number of stages. The average revenue per job has decreased because the number of stages per job has decreased. Could you quantify that at all, what sort of – in any way, either order of magnitude or specific number of stages, just trying to dig down as to what was sort of the average number you might have been doing a year ago, stages per job, and what does that look like now?

Sure. I'll give you a general answer. And then, as much as I like talking to you, Greg, we'll probably have to make this your last question. I'll get in trouble with the others. But from a downhole tool perspective, from a generic rule of thumb, a good reference point is when we had our Investor Analyst Day in the spring, we talked about we were having pressure there from customers, and the suggestion was to take us up to 27 stages, which is where we got to with increasing stages. And that was – I'll call it even earlier in the year in 1Q – a popular trend. Now, we're seeing the number of stages drop under 20, [ph] and often (17:22) the case is down to 15-stage jobs again.

So, you could argue that, that's a 40% to 50% drop. And again, it's the – I think it's the experience as some of the data is coming in on the horizontals, making sure that the economics justify the additional cost in a 27-stage job versus a 15-stage job. Our tools themselves aren't necessarily the highest costs, but there's significant cost with the pressure pumpers and sand and fluid. And I think that's what our customers are looking at [ph] to try (17:56) – in these difficult times of lower and volatile oil prices and reduced differentials, they've got to find ways to keep the production up, while keeping their cost structure down.

Thanks very much. And I'll just step back in the queue and let some other people have the mic.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. The following question is from Steve Kammermayer of Clarus. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Morning, Steve.

Just on the cost impact of the quarter, is there any way to give us a sense of how much was due to the labor increase or how much was due to the higher R&M or the coil write-off?

Yeah, I'd say the majority of our margin reduction, we would attribute to the labor issue. And to sort of break that down a little bit, we've got – just to give you context of how many people this can involve, we've got five new deep units coming here in the next few quarters. And we generally would run a three-man crew. And when you're working – as that equipment often does – on 24-hour operations, you need three-man crews, one of them is [ph] off (19:11) for rotation. So, you take the three-man crew times three for rotation, and five rigs, [ph] you're all of a sudden at (19:17) 45 people.

Then, we've got our pumping division. As you know, we're increasing to 18 pumpers in the reasonably near future and we've been having trouble since we originally built that pumping fleet out, with keeping it fully crewed. So, again, we went after a fairly concerted effort to fill that up. And you extend the numbers out on the same basis, and that's another sort of 35 people. And then, when you're building up your labor force like that, it comes with associated safety support personnel and technical support.

So, what happens then in aggregate, when you've got that mass of people, and I made the comment in the opening comments about we also – once you're going to train these people, we know we've got great people. When you're in times of fluctuating or volatile utilization, we actually had periods in the quarter where it was uncanny that almost all areas would stop at the same time and you need to keep these folks active and busy. So, then, when you redeploy them on things like repairs and maintenance, and different activities that are still productive, but they're non-billable time. So – and that's necessary, if you believe as I do, that even though whatever is going to happen here in the fourth quarter that at some point in time, I suspect in 2013, we're going to need all these folks again to get back to work.

Okay. So, I mean, with maybe just one new deep coil coming in Q4 here then – and a little activity pickup, we could see a little better margins in Q4, but probably not too much of a bump then, I would imagine?

Yeah, the amazing thing when we run our internal sensitivities on margins, utilization fixes everything. Utilization fundamentally changes how these margin situations look. And the utilization across the board for well servicing, but especially in our conventional coil area, both deep and shallow and intermediate and in well servicing utilization, was I think below what was expected, below what I would call normal. And I think where some of the – I think the analyst expectations, looking at the CAODC data that's put out there for well servicing, it doesn't make sense. It is overstated. So, I think if we see a return to sort of more normal utilization levels, a lot of these margin situations will fix up quickly.

Maybe just one more, just on the new delivery schedule here for the ones coming in Q1, do you expect to get them a little earlier in the quarter to get utilization out of them? Or do you expect them sort of at later or mid-quarter?

The way I would look at it, Steve, is I'd probably model the mid-quarter. We're going to come in the quarter. I think we unfortunately learned and felt the experience that we don't have a lot of control over sort of exact timing of these guys delivering the units to us. And there's also, with some of the units that we're putting out there, they're newer, they're deeper, and there's a little bit of commissioning or practice time required to [ph] knock the kings out (22:43) before we put them to work.

So, what we will not do from a safety and a customer service point of view is rush equipment into the field. And what we like about that is because we've got such a critical mass already, we don't have to be rushing new equipment into the field like some of our competitors [ph] might (23:03) that are trying to get into this business, we're going to take our time and do it right. So, model it mid-quarter, and we'll try and beat that.

Okay. Great. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Thank you. The following question is from Brian Purdy of Global Hunter Securities. Please go ahead.

Congratulations on the quarter, guys.

Thanks, Brian.

I'm just wondering what – now that we're well into Q4 here, what kind of trend you're seeing if things are taking up a little bit from Q3 levels in terms of activity or are they pretty much flat with what you've seen in the latter parts of Q3?

Well, I'll start with well servicing, and I would say that so far, the service rig guys have had more optimism and have been quite happy. That being said, just sort of preparing for the call this morning, ran into a couple of them and those of you not in Calgary, it's snowing like crazy again after a streak of about 4 days or 5 days of above zero weather.

And once again, that's probably the worst combination for the well servicing business. When you get non-frozen ground and lots of precipitation, it can cause – lose another week of work with moisture. So, it's hard to predict. But I'll just say the demand and the urgency from customers on service rigs has picked up. On the conventional coil tubing side on the deep side, I think things have been encouraging as well in the fourth quarter with some more work picking up. And then, the massive guys look like they're going status quo, we hope, right through till breakup.

On the tool guys, I also don't expect any surprises. These are our big money quarters here in Q4 and Q1, so we'll see. The wild card for me always in the fourth quarter, with comments as we made in the opening remarks about capital budget, is that sometimes in years like this when commodity prices are lower, people have been having a little bit of trouble with their own results, they can truncate the fourth quarter by shutting things down early in December. And that can just [ph] mess up (25:12) a strong quarter. So, that's what I don't know, but that's what I've seen so far.

Okay. Great. And then, in terms of what happened in Q3, do you – with the increase in oil development in Canada, we think that the sort of conventional service rigs would have seen better demand, but it didn't seem to happen that way for you guys for anybody else that's really reported much here. Do you see that as a temporary factor or do you think there is something more permanent at work there?

Well, my personal view is that it has to be a temporary factor. And I have often drawn a parallel between the – maintaining an oil well can't be that different from maintaining any mechanical piece of equipment in the sense that you can, if you want, drive your car past one or two or three oil changes, and skip getting your tires rotated, but eventually you'll pay for that. Eventually, that car will not perform as well as it should, and something will break.

And I think when there's a – the tight differentials and the lower price environment, perhaps people are deferring installing some of their well maintenance work. I think there's also – as you know, from the statistics, there's been just a significant amount of new oil well drilling in the last couple of years, and perhaps there's a bit of a backlog where some of those are coming up for their first servicing. But I firmly believe that the demand will show up. And I think – I feel like this is a deferral more than a – I'll call it a sector change that we're going to be stuck with for a while.

Okay. And then, finally, just – it's probably not something you want to dig too much into, but just given the trends that you're seeing here, and then I guess some of the delays in the 2012 capital program when you start thinking about your 2013 capital, what are the areas that look more attractive for you at the moment and maybe some that you are less inclined to put new capital into?

Well, I'll say – so, in our comments, we talked about the deferred capital from 2012 rolling into 2013. And then, [ph] you chew (27:27) on what I would call a normal maintenance capital budget number, which that even has some level of discretion, but our carryover number plus the maintenance capital, you're already at a CAD 25 million number, anyway, to start. And then, similar to my response to Greg Colman's question that I think with the backlog in the fabrication shops and their difficulty in delivering, we will continue to look ahead.

We have the balance sheet to do this, to write things out. We're at a critical size now with our focused fleet. I think we can think bigger picture and map things out a few years and commit to some build spots and hopefully get better service and delivery from the fabricators as a result. So, the hot areas for me continue to be a good steady pace on the deep coil side. Again, with our critical mass, we're able to train internally, which is a great advantage over our competitors.

I think we're quite excited about the success our service rigs have seen in areas like the Slave Lake region, which is a classic oily spot. And then, we've had some very good inroads into the SAGD oil sands work. And I think as we've talked about in our capital announcements, that would be an area that we will continue to invest in. They're more expensive service rigs there. Some of the support equipment is customized, but there's opportunities there for rigs and rentals, and some good steady 24-hour-a-day service rig work.

Okay, great. That's all I had. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. The following question is from Jamie Murray of Desjardins. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Nice quarter. Just a question on [ph] the carrying (29:16) of your pumper fleet, can you tell me how many were working in the quarter or how many were fully crewed?

Sure. We got up to – in this quarter, we got up to 11. And our total number that we're getting up to is – [ph] well, we've got them all delivered (29:35), is 18. And again, on the – just sort of looking at the timing of that pumper fleet build-out, what was unique there, it goes back to prior to our acquisition of Technicoil in 2011. What happened is – and it always looks great and dramatic, but Technicoil committed to building out this significant fleet and organically, and not always looks better than an acquisition until you go to crew and fill that up with people. Although you can find bodies to put on there, there are also – we've learned, it comes with some level of turnover.

And the reason for the turnover is we wanted to make sure that we maintained our safety standard and our operational standards, and not everybody that you bring in with a [ph] rapid hire (30:25) like that is going to fit. Now that we've got that base of sort of 11 or 12 steady operating units, that's what we're – we're doing the same thing as our deep coil. We're adding an extra man per crew. We've had some leadership transitions, brought in some people, and changed our focus, and we think that should be fully staffed, I think fully crewed up by the end of 1Q.

Okay. That's – perfect on that. Then just second question on the Tryton multi-stage frac, last year in Q4, you guys – I think everybody had a little bit of a negative surprises on the job level. Do you have any guidance for that? I mean, I know there's still over a month-and-a-half left, but do you think Q4 looks similar to Q3?

Yeah. I don't have those data right in front of me, but I think I remember what you're referring to, Jamie. Q3 2011, from my memory, was an anomaly in the sense that it was a fantastic delivery by the Tryton gang in terms of our multi-stage and downhole tools. That was a bit of a blip. And I think a few people thought, you draw a trend line on that, it should just continue rocketing right into Q4 2011. And then, it dropped below where Q3 was.

So, I think when you looked at it, we often publish that page on page 4 of our MD&A, when we're meeting with investors. And it's got the trend of the multi-stage jobs on there. And I think you can see in Q3 2011, it was a spike relative to the numbers around it. And now, we've sort of caught up to that number again and passed it. So, for the sake – despite my confidence in the Tryton team and their success, I think just – we're going to be shooting for continued steady growth in that business, looking at new products, introducing new ideas. But I don't think, I'd ever plan for just a rocket. Things happen. Sometimes there's unique timing factors with customer activity. But that's just a good steady business that we're growing despite the downturn in drilling completion activity at the industry level.

Okay. Thanks. That's all I got. I'll turn it back.

Thanks, Jamie.

Thanks.

Thank you. The following question is from Roy Ma of PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Most of my questions have already been answered. I just want to go to Colombia for a second. Did you guys operate at – what kind of profitability level did you operate at for the quarter?

Good morning, Roy. From a profitability point of view, we were cash flow negative on Colombia again for the third quarter. And from a detailed perspective on what's happening with Colombia, we've been – as you know, we've got two service rigs, two coil, two nitrogen, and two rod rigs there. And one of our rod rigs is on a great contract situation with a customer that is basically on a take-or-pay arrangement. And that's been good steady work. Recently, our coil and nitrogen have been working on a reasonably steady basis.

And where we started with success was with our service rigs. And they're currently both sitting idle, and I'll say amazingly, in an oil market in Colombia that desperately needs quality service rigs. And you can sort of say, well, why is that? I actually just got back from a trip to our Barrancabermeja operation, and we've got great crews in place, ready to go. We seem to be having trouble with our customers in terms of their execution and preparing for well programs and delivery and getting us committed [ph] and out (34:24) to work.

And that's why we refer to sporadic – I think the comment in the Colombia section of the MD&A, we wanted to stabilize utilization. It's difficult to make money in that operation with irregular utilization because we do have a significant amount of base cost with some of the expats that are still in there and just our operational setup. And if utilization cannot get up for that small amount of equipment up to a certain level, then we end up cash flow negative, which is far from ideal. So, we've had some, I'll call it, pressing meetings with our customers, and we really have to see that turnaround to turn the story.

In terms of that negative in order of magnitude, like if I add up your divisional gross profit and it comes off like about [ph] CAD 1 million in change (35:19) short of your aggregate posted number in your financial, would that be the order of magnitude that we're talking about in terms of quarterly negative trend that it was?

It's going to be a smaller number, Roy. More like – from a rule of thumb point of view, I think – you know what, losing more in the magnitude of CAD 200,000 to CAD 250,000 in a quarter. It's not a crazy big number, which is why we're continuing to persist because similar to my earlier comment on utilization fixes everything, the economics of this project with a little bit of improvement in terms of utilization can suddenly turn that around quite easily.

Okay. On downhole tools and rentals, revenue down year-over-year. Your margin percentage picked up, kind of made up some grounds to give you a fairly decent quarter to last year's comparison period. Going forward, in terms of the current quarter [ph] we're in (36:27), in Q1, is that a trend that you see continuing? I know there's different numbers that's in here in terms of what makes up that number. So, can you give us some color?

I just want to clarify your question, which of the trends did you ask what I see continuing [ph] the (36:45)...

While your margin expanded, your revenue decreased.

Yeah. The – for the revenue decrease, again, can be driven by a number of factors. But if you – I'm just going to break down that segment again. That's – right now, in the historic data, there's the three components. There's the tools and rentals, the Tryton business which has the multi-stage and the conventional, and then you've got our rentals which is primarily the tubular rentals and I will call it more of a conventional rental business. And then in the comparative data, there was the wireline side. So, keeping that in mind and backing it up, our rental division, which we operate under the Decarson Rentals brand, we haven't talked a lot about that business. It's become small relative to the size of the Tryton operations. But it hasn't been expanding, and it's a higher-margin business as a conventional rental business would be, and contributes to the success of the overall margin of that division.

The conventional tool business, as we've said, has been steady. It's a great, great operation on both revenue and steady EBITDA. And then, the multi-stage business is the one that, for me, can bounce around a little bit depending on completion activity, types of completions, and even number of stages and how they want to approach that. I think the margin that you see there for this quarter, to me that's a decent one to model going forward. And again, we've got a little more critical mass now in our tool division, which gives us some procurement efficiencies in terms of the amounts of product that we're ordering and the different places that we're able to go to, to get our tools. That's helped. But on the revenue side, it is going to bounce around a little bit. We can't predict any – especially on that multi-stage fracturing side, predict any kind of linear lines.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

Thanks, Roy.

And the following question is from Jon Raleigh of Clean Value Partners. Please go ahead.

Hey, Garnet.

Good morning, Jon.

Just following up on a previous question related to the CapEx, and you mentioned CAD 51 million this year plus CAD 12 million rollover into 2012, and then excited about some of the incremental opportunities to deploy capital. Should we be thinking, in general, that it's going to be relatively similar in 2013 and going forward? Or is it going to be a fraction of that number?

Well, from – and I don't know the answer yet. As you know, the – in the opening comments, we said we're going to really be keeping an eye on our key customers and their capital budget announcements before we put the pin in that type of a decision. This year, when we set our capital to add the amount of deep coil that we have added, I've mentioned to a few people that it's been so interesting in the last six months or the last nine months, we get feedback from, why are you being so conservative [ph] with your (40:07) great balance sheet and not having more coil, to, what are you doing adding the amount of coil you are in this uncertain environment.

I think as a management team and board, our view is typically to be prudent. I think investors expect steady growth from us. But if we're looking at a 2013 that is a duplicate of 2012, if that's sort of where the dust settles, we're going to probably rein it in a little bit on our capital spending and we'd like to see better execution as well from the fabricators. It's not fun for us to endure extra costs when we're counting on equipment being delivered. And it's not fun for our investors to see margin deterioration. So, that's where I would lean, Jon, is reining in it a bit. If we see a big turnaround and a jump in the price of oil and a boom in 2013, we'll probably respond accordingly.

So, you had a boom in 2013, would the capital be roughly equivalent to what you laid out in 2012?

Yeah. I can't see us going past that. That was our biggest spending in the history of the company in 2012. And we started the year, saying, we're going to spend CAD 60 million. And it looks like we're going to be coming in at spending CAD 51 million. And we've got a pretty small, tight, lean management team, and it's busy to execute a capital program of that size. So, we wouldn't be going by that.

Last year, you implemented the dividend. And I think it's helped in [ph] putting a bottom to the stock, you've bottomed at (41:41) around [ph] CAD 1.82 (41:45) versus the previous year, [ph] close to a CAD 1.20 (41:49). Do you think, you and your board have an appreciation for the impact of dividend and any dividend growth has on the share price?

Whether we have full appreciation for that, I don't know. But I can tell you, we certainly are watching and contemplating that. I noticed a few of our, I'll say, peers in the oilfield services sector have come out in this month with dividend increases. And we're well aware of that as a strategy for – even in a year, where our EBITDA and the activity reductions have been less than we'd hoped for at the beginning of the year, we can see from our numbers, we're still expecting to have a very strong free cash flow generation year, relative to our dividend commitment and our capital commitments.

So, the possibility is there. You look back on the history of when we put our dividend in place and how the industry has unfolded since that time, and here we are back at a – I haven't looked sort of immediately where we're trading, but [ph] we went into (43:01) this morning, less than [ph] CAD 2.10 (43:03), in terms of trading price. And I agree that, hopefully, the dividend has kept a floor on the stock. But depending on what we see in the next several months here, that discussion certainly needs to be had with the board. But I have no insights on whether we would like at increasing the dividend, but we were constantly looking at appropriate ways to allocate our free cash flow.

And can you just remind us when that meeting would take place, is it December or January?

We typically will have a board strategy meeting in around the mid-December mark, and often would try to put out a capital announcement before the end of the calendar year. And then, we wait and get our work going in the first quarter to see how the flavor looks, and then put a spike in our operating budget at that time.

And last year, when you initiated the dividend, was that in December or January?

I believe we had the discussion about the dividend at this same time last year, and then we put it in, in March. But as a board, we had the contemplation, our big strategy, call it, sky gazing time, is usually around mid-December. And then – but we've, again, wanted to watch some stuff. And the interesting thing in [ph] years back (44:22), we'd set our budget in December similar to our customers and found that we just need a little more information. And you get a great feel for what's going to happen for the year in those first two or three weeks in January seeing how hard people come out trying to get their work done. And that pretty much can set the tone for the year. So, we've learned to sit back and watch and wait a little bit.

The last question on the dividend. Let's say you weren't going to have a booming year, you're going to have a similar year to 2012, do you think the flexibility resides at the board and management level to do something with the dividend? Do you guys have that financial flexibility in your vehicles, even if the year was going to be similar?

Well I can – I think I've gone through this [ph] with you (45:12) but yeah, when you take a look, let's just say that I don't know where analyst consensus will go after today, but I think we're sitting in somewhere around the low-80s before our quarter announcement. But if you look at a CAD 50 million in total capital spending, an annual obligation of CAD 12 million for our dividend, and takeout some cash taxes out of there at sort of an CAD 80 million year, we're sort of breakeven on that capital program. The difference is, if we have the same year next year, and if all these numbers come true and we pull back on our capital program, that leaves us some extra capacity. The strategic decision for the board to contemplate is you pay down debt, you pay that back to shareholders, but the numbers [ph] work (46:00). If that's the right strategic move, the numbers hold up.

That's great. Thank you.

Thanks, Jon, and best of luck to you and everybody in New York with [indiscernible] (46:11). Hope things are going well.

Getting better. Thanks a lot. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Melanie, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today, and we hope you have a good day.

The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.