Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Don Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, GHS Securities Canada Ltd.
Jamie Murray — Analyst, Desjardins Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Fourth Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Donna. Good morning and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end results conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; and Jeff Newman, CFO. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of fourth quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our March 6, 2013 fourth quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For further information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our March 6, 2013 fourth quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thanks, Karen. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for listening in. I'm pleased to report a strong finish to Essential's 2012 year-end. Our results for the 12 months of 2012 were revenue of CAD 348 million, EBITDA from continuing operations of CAD 74.3 million and net income from continuing operations of CAD 30.8 million. Our fourth quarter operating period and press release included a number of highlights for Essential. Strong operating performance from each of our divisions of Coil Well Service, Service Rigs, and Downhole Tools. Growth in our equipment fleet since last year, including the addition of six new nitrogen and fluid pumpers, two deep coil tubing rigs, one high capacity and innovative coil tubing reel trailer and three double service rigs.

On the other side of the spectrum, we reduced our non-core assets by selling our drilling division in November of 2012, including collection of the final CAD 2 million of sales proceeds in February of this year. We announced our strategic decision to exit Colombia, which I will discuss later in this call, and we reduced our shallow-focused equipment fleet, including single-service rigs and other coil.

Our long-term debt at December 31, 2012 was CAD 35.6 million, which is down considerably from CAD 63.5 million just one year earlier. And yesterday, we announced approval of our first quarter dividend, which pays our shareholders a yield currently of 4.9%.

We entered the fourth quarter hoping it would be better than the third and, fortunately, it turned out that way. Essential's consecutive quarter-over-quarter improvement was primarily driven by better Canadian well servicing activity and another strong quarter of performance by our Downhole Tools business.

For the three months period of 4Q 2012, Essential reported CAD 96 million of revenue and CAD 22.4 million of EBITDA, excluding Colombia.

Activity in the fourth quarter was very solid, relative to industry activity, but still not quite at the level we experienced in 4Q 2011. Industry well completion activity was down 20% quarter-over-quarter in this period. As a stark contrast, when we look at Essential's quarter-over-quarter in the same period, Coil Well Service revenue was down only 6% and Service Rig revenue was down only 8%. Downhole Tools & Rentals business actually equaled last year's quarterly revenue, which is remarkable considering the significant decline in industry activity in this period.

All-in-all, we were quite pleased with our 4Q operational performance. We attribute this success to good people and our safety-focused culture, our emphasis on both completion and production work, and our market positioning in today's horizontal-driven market with the right services in the right locations.

Essential's reported EBITDA dropped from Q4 2011 to Q4 2012 by CAD 9 million. The quarter-over-quarter reduction in EBITDA was primarily due to three components. The first, business disposals. Disposal of our drilling and wireline businesses in 2012 eliminated EBITDA that contributed to our 2011 results. Our wireline business was sold midway through 1Q 2012 and drilling was sold midway through 4Q 2012.

The second component is cost increases. Cost increases in 4Q 2012 reduced margin percentage relative to the same period last year. The primary cost components were coil well service labor and corporate G&A, most of this was due to increased personnel account in the same areas. We continue to incur the cost of extra personnel in coil well service as we await delivery of the new masted coil tubing rigs. Although moderated by higher utilization in the quarter and the timely delivery of new pumpers, we still suffered margin loss from incremental quarter-over-quarter labor costs. The third component is moderate utilization reductions. As mentioned earlier, we experienced some utilization reductions in the ell servicing segment during the quarter.

Now, looking in more detail at each of our core services; first, the Coil Well Service. Demand from masted coil tubing remained similar quarter-over-quarter, but this was offset by a decrease in conventional coil tubing and pumper utilization.

Deep coil utilization was 95%, down from a 111% for the same quarter a year earlier. This was a big improvement from 3Q utilization of 79%. We've added pumper utilization into our data now, and this indicates that pumper utilization was 57%, down from 71% in the same quarter a year ago but up 7% from 3Q. This decrease, compared to last year, is primarily the result of fleet additions in 4Q 2012 that we have not yet been able to fully crew and put to work. Pricing and revenue per hour in this segment generally remains stable quarter-over-quarter.

On the Service Rig front, utilization at 54% for the quarter with a 9% improvement from Q3, although lower than 59% in Q4 2011. This improvement from Q3 was better than we expected especially considering general industry drilling and completion activity in this quarter. Revenue per hour remained strong as we did not experienced pricing reductions in Q4. We attribute Essential's strong Q4 utilization largely to demand for our service rigs working in the Slave Lake region and those working on SAGD wells.

Some of our service rig locations suffered lower utilization due to reduced area activity and high competition in those areas, including Drayton Valley in Brooks. Our Fort St. John operating area is primarily in a natural gas-driven region, which can also be difficult with today's natural gas pricing.

And lastly, our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment. We are very pleased with the performance of this group. As you can see from the quarterly data, we excelled in both the Tryton MSFS or multi-stage fracturing line and our conventional tools. We increased the number of jobs by leveraging the benefits of a new MSFS product suitable to shallow, low pressure multi-stage completions. This saves cost for our customers who are striving to improve their economics in this high-differential oil environment.

During the quarter, the average number of stages per job decreased as many customers focused on minimizing their horizontal well completion costs. This decreased the average revenue per job. Conventional tool revenue remains consistent quarter-over-quarter, which we were also pleased with given again the 20% reduction in industry completion activity. The margin in this segment increased largely as a result of tool procurement efficiencies and the aforementioned sale of wireline earlier in the year.

Now, moving on to Colombia. After almost two years of operating in Colombia, we decided it was time to initiate a process to dispose of our Colombian operations. Our decision was dictated by economics that's caused by core utilization. This decision was difficult for us and it comes with sadness for the dedicated expatriate staff and 50 Colombian staff that we employ. Over the almost two-year period of operating in Colombia, we executed very well on safety and customer service and effectiveness. Unfortunately, we could not count on the customers in our operating area for steady utilization. The result was four consecutive quarters of negative cash flow from operations. Despite our best efforts at open dialogue with customers, in our current operating area of Barrancabermeja, we concluded that the basic cost structure required to operate profitably required a minimum level of utilization that we could not obtain. We also concluded that it would be too costly and disruptive to relocate our operation within Colombia.

Our CAD 7.6 million fourth quarter loss for the Colombian operation is made up of three primary components; an operating loss of CAD 1.7 million, which includes both the CAD 400,000 bad debt expense and disposal costs of CAD 300,000. Second, a write-down loss on Colombian assets of CAD 4.1 million, and the third is the deferred income tax expense of CAD 1.7 million.

Looking ahead, after this announcement into the first quarter and beyond in 2013, we estimate that we will incur a further CAD 700,000 to complete the disposal of the business in Colombia. Our sales process will involve speaking to companies who are already operating in Colombia with the hope of selling the entire company or individual assets. We hope to have this completed by the end of the third quarter of 2013.

Finally, on capital, on a full-year basis for the company, in 2012, we spent CAD 51.8 million. Our 2013 capital budget and the equipment delivery dates remain relatively unchanged from what we announced in our December 2012 press release at CAD 45 million. Our primary emphasis continues to be on building deep masted coil tubing rigs and double service rigs, capable of SAGD operations and [deep coil (12:26) period operations.

Our four deep masted coil tubing rigs are currently being fabricated by three different companies, and we are doing everything we can to closely manage their progress. In addition, we still have deposits on two other masted coil rigs for which we still do not feel confident enough about the delivery timing to commit to a delivery date.

And lastly, our outlook. Looking into 1Q 2013, we plan to use 2013 to focus on increasing our fleet, establishing and training our crews, and preparing for future industry growth opportunities. Work in the Western Canadian Basin continues to focus on horizontal drilling, which is ideal for Essential's services. Horizontal wells are becoming deeper and more complex, increasing the demand for and duration of servicing with our downhole tools, coil tubing and service rigs.

Despite the current challenges with Western Canadian differential pricing, oil continues to be the dominant commodity focus of our customers. As a well servicing company, we are well very positioned to benefit as oil wells require more frequent maintenance work than natural gas wells due to the higher number of moving parts necessary to produce oil.

The first quarter of 2013 has started off strong for us in January and February with industry drilling activity nearing the high levels of activity of last year. Now, we're just watching for the early signs of breakup to evaluate how much we can continue to work in the month of March, which can awfully make a big difference in the first quarter results.

Our balance sheet remained strong with debt at the end of December of CAD 35.6 million and, as of today, it's CAD 36.6 million. Debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA on these numbers is a very reasonable 0.5 times.

So, to conclude, we continue to make great strives at Essential in our focus, our safety and the developments of our primary business lines. These factors and our unique culture are all contributing to make Essential a better business and a great investment.

That concludes my portion of the call. And we'd be happy to answer any questions.

Donna, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital, please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Jason.

So, just a couple of questions. First, with respect to the service rigs, I was just wondering, how many rigs do you guys now have working in Northern Alberta on the heavy oil in the SAGD wells, And just secondly, are you seeing any reduced activity on any of those rigs just given where the oil differential is?

On a broad basis, I don't have an exact count for you on what I'd call Northern Alberta and heavy oil. That's broader than just SAGD . SAGD, specifically, we currently got three rigs working. And, at this point in time, they've got contractual arrangements and we haven't had any hints of what I would call wobbling or wavering from our customers.

Okay. And then any – and then, how many you're having in the heavy oil as well?

On the heavy oil, Don, would you comment on that?

We operate – we have a pretty large footprint. So, as far as heavy oil goes, your question is a little bit broad. But because Slave Lake does constitute a lot of heavy oil, spend a bunch of time working for [ph] B Teck (16:28) in their coal production right now, and we have worked in that Lloydminster and Bonnyville area on occasion as well.

Okay. Okay. So, just moving to the deep coil, obviously, we saw a nice increase here in utilization, 79% to 95%. Garnet, just wondering if you can maybe give a little more detail on that, that jump. Is that mainly due to, you know, heading into the busy winter drilling season or who are the specific customers you are working for or doing more work for, or what was the main reason for that jump?

Yeah. And I presume the jump you're talking about the Q3 to Q4 jump?

Yeah. Yeah, you bet.

For us, that's a bit what I would call seasonally normal. And if you take a look back again at that, that business includes two components; the masted and the conventional deep side, and the masted portion of our business is the vast majority of it is completion work. And as you move into 4Q and 1Q, they really pick up steam and we've still seen a great demand on completions. And in fact, there's still I think not a heavy amount of choices for our customers in terms of that type of equipment with the expertise that our folks have.

The conventional side of the business also was quite strong, and, together, we got a bit of extra revenue from the pumping side and we've thrown out the hours there for folks to see. So, all-in-all, just I think was normal, seasonal pickup and I wouldn't throw any specific customer name in there. I think we just generally saw that trend all across the board.

Okay. Yeah. And I only mentioned that just as – I mean, you know, the market has been concerned with the deep coil. It's sort of fallen off over the last number of quarters and it's nice to see it pick up again here heading into the winter, and even with new well completions down, that's still a pretty decent utilization number.

Yeah. I think, when you take a look at it compared to the – we're fans of course of the general Service Rig business, but you take a look at the utilization and the strength of the deep coil business compared to the even industry average on service rigs, and you realize again this whole idea was increasing horizontal wells combined with the industry equipment profile, how much equipment is out there. It's just a great service line to be in, if you got the right style of coil for large diameter deep coil to deal with these horizontals.

Yeah. Exactly. And then just finally, any more detail on this new Tryton tool? You mentioned in the press release, shallow focused. Any more detail on that?

No. It's – I mean, we needed to explain that to – we obviously get a lot of questions and people, I'll say, marvel at how well that business line does for us. And the color on it is, this is a bunch of very experienced professionals that are really listening to their customers. And we saw the trend starting to shift for what I would call a less expensive lighter weight tool that basically it does a lot of what our normal multi-stage system would do, it's just smaller in physical size, easier to use and cheaper for the customer. For us, if we can get out and do a few more jobs, even if each job is a little less revenue, we keep our business active and continue to grow our business whereas we're a very small portion of the total cost of a frac or a job. So, I think customers are pleased that we can come up with solutions even though it's a small percentage of the job. But we're doing our part to help reduce costs, and that's in contrast to the what I would call the large-scale pressure pumping site, which we've seen as an industry those guys have really slowed down because they're the biggest portion of the costs on some of these big fracs.

Right. Right. Okay. That's great. Thanks a lot.

Thanks, Jason.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. Just keeping right on that last train of questioning, is the new multi-stage frac tool, is it still the ball and seat uncased hole or are we diverting from that at all, or just like a smaller cheaper version of that or is it different entirely?

Well, the next time – I got to make this open to everybody. I was going to say, Greg, the next time you come to town, we'll show you, I'm looking at it right across the boardroom in front me here on the wall, but I have to open that up of course to all the analysts that are listening to come and see the packer. But it's basically a – it's a short packer that's about 2.5 feet or 3-feet long compared to the larger packers that I'd put closer to 6-feet long, and it's a single element packer, which the element is the portion that creates the seal against the – typically against the rock in an open hole application and it's only got a single element instead of two. So, it's just a smaller, shorter packer and it's primarily being deployed right now as a ball and seat activated tool, but it can also be deployed with coil and set that way.

And what's the types of formations that it's being used for?

I'll let – since Don is here, I'll let him answer that.

Because it is a smaller tool, it only has one element on it typically, Greg. Typically, what we focused our efforts on was the shallower, the Viking and the Cardium operations. They just have lower frac gradient. As time goes by, we are hoping and going to be successful in getting to a deeper, more aggressive style of tool, but that's primarily where we're using it.

No, that's great. I appreciate the color. Switching gears entirely just to some of your earlier comments. I was wondering if you could quantify at all the impact, on a absolute dollar basis or percentage basis, of the higher labor costs in the quarter. Like if you didn't have that, what would it have looked like given that you've staffed up in advance of your [ph] new gear (22:48) coming?

I probably don't have anything at my fingertips that would sort of give that to you directly. But you can see – it's the, I'll call it – you guys could determine the math I guess of the business disposals that I've talked about and [audio gap] (23:07). You can see it from our disclosure analysis what the G&A cost component is. That shows up in our – for those of you brave enough to go into the bowels of the notes to the financial statements and that sort of thing, you can see analysis there. So, the majority – and you can also determine the utilization.

So, the big chunk in the middle is costs and the largest nature of that is coil tubing well service costs and the largest component of that is people. And we estimate, looking at year-over-year change, that we've added another 70 people in that business just to give some perspective. So, it's a big change. And there's a, as we've talked about before with the shortage of personnel in the industry, to bring 70 people into the organization in one year, you can't do that sort of quickly. So, we've done it over time. They're in various states of training and we will be very well set-up to redeploy some of our personnel who are trained, ready and anxious to have those new rigs when they come out.

Similarly with the pumpers, some of those folks have been working. But, with the addition of pumpers as we've done in the last couple of years to keep things safe and effective for the customers, it takes some time to deploy all those folks.

Great. And as far as that deployment schedule, it would be – would it be – sorry – would it be reasonable to assume that it matches your expected in-service date for your four deep units, four masted units, two pumpers and one intermediate, that would be the rollout of that sort of overstaff will become equal weight staff at that same rate?

I think, that's a logical conclusion. We would certainly hope it'll turn out that way. If not, then I guess it's a bit of [ph] wuss (24:58) but, yes. The advantage, too, Greg, with, in our industry now, there's more and more, I'll call it monitoring for logs and restrictions on hours of service. And having a few extra people around when folks get tired, especially when you're working 24s, it never hurts us to make sure that we can give people a rest when they need it, so we can always stay safe.

Great. And then, I suspect, it's going to be a challenging question, but any thoughts on your timeline for Colombia or where you're on the process there? Is there a firm that's been engaged in order to sell that equipment, like what – any expectations there at all?

I'm happy to try and have a little color on that. So, we've had one of the difficulties and we've had some success in history in announcing business dispositions. And obviously, our preferred strategy is to sell first and then announce it and then there's none of these questions. It's obviously difficult when you're in another country and you've got ongoing operations, and Colombia is a pretty small business community.

So, in this case, no, we haven't engaged any one. We will be – we have a number of targets. We've got a whole list of names of people that we believe will be interested in the business or the assets, and we haven't specifically pursued anything yet because we felt it was fair to our folks.

As of last night, when the press release came out, that would be news to a lot of our people, both in Calgary and Colombia. So, we've got to let that settle out, and now we can actually engage in dialogue with some of the potential buyers. Now, as I said in the conference call comments, we expect to be completely out of Colombia by the end of the third quarter, which would mean we expect, within the next several months, we hope to be able to come to an arrangement, but nothing specific in the works right now.

Great. Now, that is a good color. And then, just finally last question for me, did I hear correctly earlier on the call that in addition to your stated expected in-service dates, you've got an additional two build slots but you're just not confident when they're coming in?

Yes. If you take a look at the [ph] fall out to (27:12) December 2012 press release and we put a little footnote on the bottom that not included in our equipment count is two additional masted coil units. And I won't name the fabricator, but if they're listening today, I'm sure, from their perspective, they think this is a sure thing and they've got their own beliefs that it's going to – that they will be delivered in 2012. But we generally pride ourselves as a management team on doing what we say and we have been quite disappointed in one instance with extensive delays in delivery commitments by the fabricator.

And so, that caution, in terms of putting an expected in-service date for those two additional coil tubing units, that suggested we probably still are in an environment here where it's very difficult to get the deep coil in the field, and that hasn't changed over the last, I'm going to guess, 6 months to 12 months.

Yes. I put a slightly different spin on it, but that's not bad. My spin on this would be that we still believe that these are valid and good units to add. We believe that they're going to be necessary for the industry going forward, similar to what you said that the industry does need more deep coil. At the same time, we are suffering and I will say primarily with one fabricator extensive delays, but I know several of our competitors also use the same fabricators.

So, from our perspective, if he can get that equipment ready and out, we'll gladly take it. We think it will be easily used in the industry; and, if not, it's not currently in our budget or I presume your models. So, nobody is going to get hurt and that's just between us and the fabricator to get that stuff out the door.

I guess what I'm driving at is the delay for the – or not delay, but rather not putting in those additional two CT units in your forecast. Is it unique to the fabricator you've chosen but rather systemic of not being able to get deep coil quickly built and deployed?

I would agree with that, yes.

Great. That's all I have. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Greg.

The next question is from [ph] John Tasdemir (29:23) from Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning. Next quarter and like everyone else was marveling at your Downhole business. Garnet, remind me, maybe you said it, but when did you introduced this new system that you're talking about?

So the – you're referring to the... [indiscernible]

(29:44)

... element packer. It's been – maybe to a light extent in the second quarter, but really it showed up in the third quarter as the first time it started to make a difference in our numbers of 2012.

Okay. So, there's growth potential there as you've introduced it to clients?

Absolutely, there's growth potential. And, you know what, what we find great about this business, two parts. One, the fixed cost structure of that business is low. Two, it's about [ph] balances. That's (30:22) 85 personnel right now just to give you a feel for size and scope, and we're close to 1,200 employees and that business contributes a third of our EBITDA, so that's a big jump from a small group of people. And, most importantly, they're very adoptable, and this is another good example between the conventional and the multi-stage business and then the ability to change and introduce products. It's a great operation.

Okay. Good. And then switching to the coil tubing business, I think people kind of asked all kinds of questions around it, but I'm still very positively surprised at how well utilized your deep equipment is. Do you know how that compares to, say, like equipment in the industry? And is that – are those utilization levels something you think you can maintain during the busy times of 2013?

First, on your question about how we compare on a relative basis, when I'm talking with analysts and investors about Essential's utilization I often start with the Service Rig business where we've got lots of competition out there. I refer to it as a very mature and transparent business where we can see how our competitors are doing in the utilization and, in some cases, pricing, and that data is readily available.

On the coil side, interestingly enough, we cannot find any peer data. There are no comps to look at and we're really blazing a trail here in terms of putting our information out. And we know there's other service companies with this equipment, but it's small enough that they either choose not to the disclose it or it's immaterial or, in some cases, those are private companies where it doesn't show up. So, difficult to get that information, and our current estimates are that Essential represents about a third still of the Canadian industry fleet in deep coil tubing. So, we're the big dog out there, the biggest in Canada. And right now we haven't seen anybody else that has enough critical mass that can give us a viable comparative data.

Yeah and I'd agree with that, and because it's easy for people to talk about coil tubing and just kind of lump everything into that and talk about that market when – you hear guys complaining about some weakness in that market in the U.S. But I think it's a different business that you guys are really into particularly in Canada.

One way to think about the strength of that market is, and maybe you mentioned this, I just didn't – I didn't pay attention enough, but how do you – what's your sense on pricing per hour as we look at the first quarter and back half of the year? Maybe that's too sensitive to talk about, but what's the trend there?

Well, I'm always willing to give an effort in answering every question if I – I don't know if I can get specific enough to make you happy. But we were comparing notes before the call, and going in the September timeframe, as we approach our winter drilling season, we were quite firm in the – given what was going on in I'll call it the drilling and pressure pumping space, quite firm that our belief was that pricing would hold through from the start of the winter season through into breakup in spring 2013. And we're still maintaining that belief that we will be able to maintain pricing all the way through this period.

Then we go into breakup, and then there's a bit of a pause and a regroup by our customers as they assess the results of their wells and look at their economics. And of course, we're all going to be closely watching oil differentials and the evolution of these transportation issues.

So, I don't know if I can say that my crystal ball extends beyond breakup and into the fall, but very happy to be able to tell our investors that we feel confident pricing will hold till we hit breakup 2013.

That's really all I can ask you here. But I mean do you think about that compared to first quarter for [indiscernible] (34:42) pricing or even rigs? I mean, it's – to have – be able to maintain pricing pretty positive statement in my mind for the first quarter. Anyway that's all I had, guys. Thank you very much.

Thanks, John.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks. Just on the fluid pumpers added in the quarter, so you're up to 18 in the quarter. How many of those were actually staffed through Q4? And then I think you said you wanted to have them fully staffed by the end of Q1 2013. Is that still the plan?

Yeah. Steve, it's Don Webster here. Yeah. Basically, the additions, as we went through the year up to the 18 mark, currently, we can crew, on a 24-hour basis, approximately 13. We're hoping to be in that 14 mark before breakup hits us. You got to remember that those – most of those units run 24-hour a day, so that means two crews per rig. We probably will not look at crewing all of the rigs because we need to have some standby or some backup in case something happens. We always want to have a couple against defense, but I'm hoping that we'd potentially see a number of additional rotational crews come in.

Okay. Okay. And I think you mentioned yours – well, I know you're staffing for the rigs you're expecting, what about for the four coil tubing rigs you're expecting delivered in the back half of the year, have you started hiring for that yet or do you sort of wait a couple more months before you get on board with them?

Well, our staffing situation, the great thing about having critical mass in the coil and pumping business is that the hardest part is actually training and developing the, what I would call, the senior people. And what we end up with right now is we're, I would say, we're in the process, during 2013, of preparing for those folks who will be the leaders for that equipment that comes out in later 2013, and its easiest to hire the junior people. So, what we get to do is we've got enough years of experience and depths in our crews that you end up with almost an overqualified crew. And as the new equipment comes out, the experienced guys pick up their rig and then we hire more junior guys underneath.

So, the exact math again, as I said, if we've got all the right mix or not, that will continue to evolve right up till the end because, as in any business, some of those people will succeed and develop, some of them won't and we will just keep adapting as we move forward.

It's also important and an awareness for us that, as the leading coil well service provider, when there are other people building and adding equipment and trying to get into this business because it is a great business, we know, in some cases, that they'll be taking runs at our folks and we – I'd rather have a few experts than not. And we think our culture and our strength of our organization is going to keep our people intact, but, in a competitive environment, you never know what competitors will try and do to lure our folks away.

Okay. The rest of my questions have been answered. Thanks.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. The next question is from Brian Purdy from Global Hunter Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Thanks, Brian.

I just wanted to ask if maybe you can give us some color – I mean, between the deep coil and your downhole tool business, you seemed to at least be flatter or you've been improving from Q3 to Q4 last year. But we saw a lot of the pressure pumpers, some of them were either more flat to down into the fourth quarter. I'm just wondering if you guys saw maybe some more maintenance-oriented work or maybe picked up some market share. I mean, what's your assessment of that?

It's hard to know for sure and we obviously pay attention to and note the pressure pumpers in how they're doing. And I think they've got some unique challenges in their business model that they have to find their way through. In the pressure pumping world, as we know, from the last couple of years, just had a tremendous period of growth in everything from pricing to equipment additions. And then I think as the economics on some of our customers horizontal wells came through, they are a big part of the ticket on where their costs come from.

And so, I can't really answer any further than that except to say that, when I look at the well counts and the drilling and completion stats, and I know that people on the well completion side they can use service rigs as an example, there is 1,000 service rigs out there to choose from, but where they can and where they can afford it, coil is a superior completion tool for the vast majority of horizontal wells. So, I just would suggest, again, it's a supply-and-demand game and we're very pleased that our evolutions happened the way it has.

Okay. That's kind of a good segue into another question I wanted to ask. Obviously, you're looking to add some more deep coil this year and maybe even into next year for some of those slots you've already got booked. Do you worry about oversupply in the market a bit or do you think that – and maybe you just alluded to the point though that maybe some customers would prefer to use a deep coil unit and will just go away from using a service rig for that type of completion work?

It is a crazy business and I would – it'd be impossible for me not to say that I do worry about oversupply in any service line. And, as an industry, that's a natural cycle that we seem to go through and I've talked about that. You get over a certain margin level or over a certain utilization level and competition will come. It's what we do as Canadian business people in the oil patch. They look at that and say I'm going to build equipment, too.

When we've already got a leading position in the marketplace, a great balance sheet, we've got the best people in the industry in this particular service line, and we know of plans of both private and public companies to add equipment, unfortunately, it's our obligation and I think our place in the industry to continue to grow and add for our shareholders. And we're not overstretching ourselves either on the balance sheet or in the pace of growth, but we're just making sure we keep our share of the pie and continue to grow steadily. But, at some point in time, yeah, as customers go after their current opportunities in coil, obviously, we will hit a point of capacity.

But do you think the deep coil market can continue to expand by taking share of completions away from service rigs?

Well, I think the – we'd like to show that one graph that's in our MD&A, and we often show it in our inventor presentation that shows horizontal oil wells going sharply up to the right from 2009 forward. I don't know when that line is going to stop going up like that. And we're spending more and more time, as an industry, on the wells as they get longer and more complex, and things happen when you're dealing with those wells.

So, I can't predict, Brian, where the size of the pie will continue to go, but I like what I see so far. And, of course, this whole natural gas area, something we haven't even talked about yet on the conference, get some good stuff starts to happen with the LNG exports out of BC and we bring an element of natural gas development on a more urgent pace back into the industry, that pie is going to keep growing, which we want a piece of that action.

Okay. And moving on, I wanted to ask about the service rigs as well. I think you mentioned in your commentary that the SAGD work that you're doing is being done by double service rigs. Is there a markedly higher demand for the doubles as opposed to the single service rigs?

I'll set Don up and then he'll answer the question. But you'll see, as I said in my comments, yeah, we're reducing our singles and we're adding doubles, and we believe that will be what you see from us for the foreseeable future. And setting Don up, again, his comment, I think with the new doubles today with lightweight materials and the way they're designed, that we really could use the new doubles on almost any occasion of a well.

Yeah. Brian, Don here. Basically, I would say that Essential will not be building any more singles again. With the new tri-drive steer and tri-steer, we can operate on all periods. So, that means if we can do the same thing with a double that you can with a single, the capacity is all the same. Why would you build another single?

So, I think it just adds to our mix and the new equipment, all being the same, it makes it a lot easier from a training and maintenance perspective as well.

Okay. Do you think you can keep your singles busy though? I mean, is there a type of well where the singles are still applicable and you're still seeing demand?

Yea, Brian, like we're not going to dispose of our singles, it is part of our fleet and they are good equipment. They are just, for our purposes, they typically would do work over operations on shallower wells is all and they are fairly efficient in the southern areas of our business. And we see no need to liquidate or change that philosophy. I think that there's always going to be that variance in size and type of wellbore.

Okay. Great. And then finally, I wanted to ask, obviously, the Colombia situation is a bit unfortunate, but you guys have done a – or had a busy year I guess kind of divesting of some of the non-core product lines, I'll call them. Do you see, beyond Colombia here, do you see anything else that you might want to divest of? I mean, is it single service rigs or the shallower coil areas that you want to get out of or do you think you've got the – ex-Colombia, got the business that you want to have going forward?

Yes. Thanks for that question, Brian. I think although, yes, it's been an extremely busy, not even just the last year. If you look at our history in Essential, we've been at this for quite some time. But with Colombia behind us, I think we've got the business that we want and we don't anticipate any more disposals. There will always be, in today's competitive environment, there'll always be wind-down and parking and selling of especially shallower equipment. There isn't really a market, for example, for what we refer to as other coil. There is so much of that equipment out there since the natural gas pricing situation deteriorated so fast.

So, there's some of our equipment that is lower utilized, but it's fully paid for. It's not hurting anybody. And if the gas market came back, it's there for the use and availability for us. In some cases, we can modify that equipment and use it elsewhere. But, for the most part, there isn't really a market for it. The only other small business line that we talked about a little bit in places is our rod rig division and in this [ph] oily (46:21) market, special mention as how good, what a great job our rod rig group is doing. And they're basically small service rigs and we'll just rule that up into our service rig segments, and I think that's what you'll see. We're very pleased with what we've got in place now.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . And the next question is from Jamie Murray from Desjardin Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Nice quarter.

Thank you.

Just wanted to ask quickly just on spring break-up, have you guys started to see any slowdown in activity so far or any indications from your customers on when that might be starting up?

Well, I think our customers are probably doing the same thing that we are doing. We look at the forward weather forecast and stare at the ground, watching to see signs of it softening and worry that it's all going to happen too soon. So, I don't know if anybody has a number. Some of the regions that we operate in, the local counties have designated dates where they'd show in road bans where all of a sudden we have to reduce our weights and our loads on the road. So, those are known dates.

But as far as a date and so far it was looking like it was warming up, then we got a lot of this nice touch of cold weather and snow. The snow will be good in a sense that it stays cold, but if we get another batch of warmth with all that fresh moisture around, that can accelerate breakup. Typically, with our operations, what we see were spread all across Western Canada. The south will come first and the breakup will come early compared to the north. In terms of our own planning, we always just sort of assume, if we can get till mid-March, we're going to do pretty well and anything after that is [ph] grainy, (48:16) but so far so good. Here we are at March 7th and still working well.

Okay. Thanks for that. And then in your outlook, you just talked about BC LNG opportunities, just wondering if you've had any indications from your customers on programs starting up or if you've already been working on anything so far. Just any color on that that you can provide.

No, I don't have anything specific news, Jamie, that I would – that's up for – different customers I think are probably going to do their own public commitments if I can say on where they want to position themselves. But I would like to highlight that we have a base and an operation in Fort St. John BC already. We've got great customer relationships in that area and know the countryside. Further, our deep coil business or coil and pumpers routinely work all the way up to Fort Nelson, and we've got some great relationships with the larger players with experience in that whole area of everything from Northeast BC to Northern Alberta, Montney, Dawson Creek.

So, we know we've got the relationships, we've got the equipment there and we'll continue to adjust our business. And that is one of our focuses in 2013 to make sure we're ready if and when the dollar start getting spent in that area.

Okay. Thanks a lot guys. That's all I got.

Thank you, Jamie.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you for joining us today and have a good day.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.