Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Zhang — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Fourth Quarter and Year-End Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP-Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Valerie. Good morning and thank you for joining our fourth quarter conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development. Allan Mowbray, our CFO, is ill today and not able to join us.

This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our fourth quarter results, speak to the outlook and then we will open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDAS. Please see our March 8, 2017 fourth quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impact. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our March 8, 2017 fourth quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning. Just for a little variety, I thought I would start today on a positive note with discussion about 2017 before reflecting on 2016, which was the year that Essential and the oil and gas industry would like to forget.

Q1 2017 activity has improved for all of our operations. Incremental revenue from increased activity is expected to generate a larger revenue base, which will more than offset our fixed costs. This will result in margin improvement, higher revenue, the flattening of Essential's organization structure, and simplification of our business will generate greater positive EBITDAS in 2017.

The first two months of 2017 have shown improved activity. Operational activity in the month of March is still unknown, but the cold weather we are still experiencing is very helpful to operations.

During Q1, in Coil Well Service, we experienced days where demand from our customers has exceeded our crude equipment, resulting in customer requests being delayed or declined. On our recent peak day in this quarter, we had customer commitments for up to 13 coil rigs and 13 associated fluid pumpers. This is just over 40% of our coil fleet of 31 deep coil tubing rigs and over 57% of our 21 fluid pumpers.

Essential's Gen III coil tubing rigs continue to experience high customer demand in Q1 2017. We are actively adding crews and seeking to attract candidates using radio ads, referral bonuses and other techniques.

Crude equipment availability is a limitation that will take time to fix. It is a slow process to recruit and train qualified employees. We added 48% or 84 people to our Coil Well Service labor pool since the end of Q3 2016.

We hope to increase our crew count by another 40%, which is 100 people through the remainder of 2017, assuming demand for our services continues. With this plan, we hope to be able to steadily crew 16 to 18 coil tubing rigs and 16 to 20 fluid pumpers by year-end. We will not compromise on safety. Competition for skilled and experienced field personnel is intense.

Pricing increased discussions with customers have been occurring, with most customers demonstrating an awareness that prices need to rise. Increased activity and constrained crude equipment have naturally led to the implementation of pricing increases of up to 10% in Q1 2017. Further pricing increase discussions will likely need to wait for Q3 2017 work to commence. Higher pricing is required to achieve reasonable margins and offset increases in variable input costs, including costs to retain, attract and train employees.

Now some comments about our downhole tool operations in Q1. Tryton, which is our Downhole Tools & Rentals brand, is also experiencing increased activity in the first quarter, primarily with our multi-stage fracturing system in Canada. January 2017 revenue was the best month for Tryton in two years.

Our active customer base for multi-stage work has expanded since year-end as more customers go back to work on horizontal well completions. We participate in this growing multi-stage market in three ways with ball and seat style completions, pump-down work using our multi-stage packer systems and shifting sleeve work using our Viking tool.

Our Viking tool, the Tryton coil-activated cemented in-liner shifting sleeve tool is also experiencing success. This tool has been very effective for companies like Surge Energy, where we have completed successful wells in Southern Saskatchewan. Other customers are now showing interest in this shifting sleeve Tryton product.

Labor shortages have been less of an issue for the Tryton team. Tryton has successfully expanded its labor pool, increasing its staff count by 30% since Q3 2016, which is 21 employees. A number of these were former employees who were able to hit the ground running. Given the level of activity, the guys have been very busy in Q1 2017. Pricing competitiveness in downhole tools remains, but we have made some headway implementing price increases with customers.

Now, a few comments about our equipment, the PD asset acquisition, which we completed in December 2016. Our acquisition of incremental coil tubing and pumping assets in December was well timed. We added four Generation III coil tubing rigs capable of up to 6,500 meters using a 2 3/8-inch coil and three fluid pumpers to our fleet. Our mechanical assessment is complete and we are pleased to report that the equipment is in good working order.

One coil tubing rig and one fluid pumper started working in Q1. The remaining coil rigs and pumpers are expected to be in service at the start of Q3 if f we can hire enough crews.

Regarding our pumpers, of interest, during Q4 2016 and Q1 2017, we have found ourselves at times short of twin and quintuplex fluid pumpers to support our coil tubing fleet. On occasion and too frequently for my liking, we have had to engage third-party pumpers and give away that margin. The shortage is a combination of manpower issues and the need for a higher horsepower pumping capacity.

Now, some comments about 2016 reflections. 2016 for Essential was a tough year. Similar to the public Canadian frackers who have already reported, we had negative EBITDAS in 2016. Our proactive cost reduction efforts in 2015 and early 2016 helped us keep this to adjusted EBITDAS of negative CAD 2.1 million.

Our focus in 2016 was on the following three areas. One, cost management. In the midst of a very slow Q1 2016, we completed a second round of cost cuts with additional employee and wage reductions. These cuts were incremental to reductions taken in early 2015.

The second item, business simplification. In December, we sold our service rig business in exchange for Coil Well Service assets and cash proceeds of CAD 12.2 million. We now have two main businesses that fit well synergistically and we believe have a greater chance of returning to profitability with coil assets than service rigs.

The third is debt reduction. We reduced our debt from CAD 33 million at September 30, 2016 to CAD 11 million at year-end. This was primarily achieved through a CAD 10 million equity offering and the sale of the service rigs. As a result of these initiatives, Essential is well positioned for increased activity and improved results in 2017.

Q4 2016, the reporting was a bit noisy as analysts like to say. In addition to the service rig operation being pulled out of our financial information and reclassified as a discontinued operation, we also had a CAD 4.8 million non-cash onerous lease contract expense. This was related to vacant office space in our Calgary office, which we are not using and cannot be subleased in this weak Calgary market.

We had CAD 0.5 million in severance costs and CAD 5.4 million in impairment costs related to the Generation IV coil tubing build program and our ongoing legal dispute with Option Industries.

Now speaking specifically to the fourth quarter, while the MD&A comparative is normally against the prior year same period or Q4 2015, we feel it is more helpful in this commentary to compare our Q4 2016 results to Q3 2016 to understand the sequential trend. So revenue in Q4 2016 was CAD 33 million, which actually was 27% higher than the prior quarter of Q3 2016. Despite higher revenue, adjusted EBITDAS from continuing operations was CAD 1.1 million, slightly below Q3 2016.

Coil Well Service and Tryton both had relatively strong quarters, reporting their highest quarterly revenue for fiscal 2016. Coil Well Service revenue was CAD 17.6 million, a CAD 3.7 million increase from Q3 2016. Wet weather in October and into November resulted in lower operating hours for both coil tubing and pumping. However, activity increased in late November and December with some work even continuing through the Christmas break.

Revenue per hour was approximately 5% lower in Q4 2016 than Q3 2016, but this was due to the mix of work. Through the eyes of our Coil Well Service sales team, prices were largely unchanged in the last quarter of 2016.

As mentioned, Essential was experiencing positive pricing momentum in Q1 2017. Pricing in Q4 2016 was down 20% to 25% compared to year-end 2014, which we view as the start of the downturn. We are not expecting to get all of that back in 2017, but we are working to obtain better pricing.

We had strong demand for our Gen III coil rigs in the quarter with 93% utilization, working primarily for customers completing long-reach horizontal wells in the Montney and Bakken. Q4 2016 Coil Well Service gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 8%. This was a combination of lower service pricing and an activity level that barely covered our fixed costs. As noted, we need to see higher pricing to earn a sustainable margin and a return on the significant investment we have in our equipment.

Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased due to higher wages, which was primarily increased costs for crew retention, training and equipment preparation, and higher repairs and maintenance expenses to ready the equipment for higher activity.

Now, some fourth quarter comments about our Tryton Downhole Tools & Rentals division. This division had a great quarter, with revenue and gross margin of CAD 15.7 million and CAD 2.9 million, respectively. The revenue was 28% higher than Q3 2016. All of our Tryton service lines have their highest quarterly revenue for the year in Q4.

Tryton MSFS activity was notably strong due to work for many customers in the Montney, but steady, conventional packer work and rental revenue also contributed. Gross margin was 19% in Q4 2016, slightly higher than it was in Q3 2016.

And now a brief comment about our ongoing litigation with Packers Plus. The trial with Packers Plus started on February 6, with final arguments being heard this week in a court in Toronto. The judge is expected to render his decision within six months after the trial. So, hopefully, we'll hear something by the end of September 2017.

Factoring in a possible appeal process and quantification of damages, if necessary, the implications for Essential may not be known for six months to two years. It's important to note the Essential was pleased with our defense and how the trial progressed, and we continue to believe that the case is without merit.

And finally, some closing remarks. Due to significant layoffs and cost reductions in the past two years, oilfield service companies are facing a shortage of qualified field staff. This quick change in industry sentiment has altered the dynamic between oilfield service companies and E&P companies.

As E&P companies seek to secure 2017 oilfield services for their completion programs, the undersupply of safe, modern and efficient crude equipment has initiated new discussions about work scheduling, service pricing, safety and efficiency.

With the largest coil tubing fleet in Canada, associated pumping services and an established Downhole Tools & Rentals operation, Essential is well positioned to benefit from this increasing demand. We're working closely with our long-standing customers to fairly allocate equipment, establish pricing and set mutual expectations.

Clarity in work plans and prices will help us properly crew our operation and ensure industry-leading equipment and services are available to them. Essential is in a good financial position to meet the anticipated incremental cash flow demands for operating and capital spending. Working capital and debt is expected to grow in the short term as we incur cost to hire and train new personnel and carry our customer receivables from the services we've provided.

Essential has a unique advantage with its low debt deposition, which on March 8, 2017 was CAD 14.6 million.

Valerie, at this time, we would like to open it up for discussion.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] . Our first question is from Ryan Purdy (sic) [Brian Purdy] (17:34) with PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Congratulations on the quarter.

Hey, Brian. Thank you.

I just wanted to ask maybe about the Coil Well Service. I was a bit surprised to see the lower revenue there and slightly lower margins. Was there something unusual in Q3 that made that quarter look better or is it most of the business mix as you refer to?

Yeah. I just got to go back. I think you said lower revenue, did you mean lower pricing?

Well, I was just looking at the – yeah, it could have been pricing impact here as well.

Yeah. So our revenue – the way we see things, our revenue was actually up and we're pretty happy with how things unfolded in Q4 from an activity point of view. When it was lapped in October and November, there was certainly was an opportunity to work more. We just couldn't.

From a pricing point of view, though, although there was certainly sentiment starting to build in Q4, we didn't have much traction with, I'll say, pricing increase discussions. The simple math, when you take our revenue, divided by our hours actually shows a per hour decline, I believe, but we refer to that as a mix of services issue. Meaning, we have different rates and different working circumstances.

So, depending on what we were doing compared to the prior quarter, it could make it look like the rate per hour dropped. But really, we – as I said from our sales guys' point of view, we just stayed relatively flat Q3 to Q4.

Okay. And then you mentioned that your Downhole Tools segment here was having – had a January revenue-wise that was better than Q1 2015. Do you think – has that trend continued as you've progressed through Q1?

Yeah. I'm just trying to put your question in context. So, we did have – so the Q4 performance of Tryton was very strong. January, for the month of January in 2017 is the best sort of month we've seen. So that's what we're trying to see in two years. So, not – we don't want to put a full quarter of the prediction out at this point, that's not what we do. But I would say activity going into Q1, the trend for Tryton has been even stronger than it was in Q4.

Okay. Great. And in terms of some of these start-up costs, I mean obviously you're quite busy trying to get some equipment back in the field. Is any of that capitalized or do you expense that as you go?

Well, most of the – like a standard recertification is just getting the equipment ready to go. If you're doing a recertification, that gives the equipment another several years of life or sort of recharging the equipment, that can be capitalized. For example the recert work that we're doing on the former Precision assets. That's why we mentioned that in our growth capital because getting that equipment ready to go for several more years.

A lot of the equipment that's just been temporarily parked during the downturn, we've just delayed incurring the maintenance cost to preserve cash flow. So some of that is, I'm going to say, repairs and maintenance cost that would have been incurred normally as soon as the equipment came in for the spring, but knowing the downturn, we just didn't incur those costs. So that's the difference.

The labor cost, typically that would go through P&L. And there's the actual sort of repairs and maintenance for the pieces of metal and filters and tires and all that kind of stuff, but there's also the crew time for these guys to do the work and bring the equipment down, which is all non-billable time. So that's why you see, when I comment on increased cost from both labor and for repairs and maintenance, we get hit on both sides.

Okay. And you commented a few times on I guess the difficulty of hiring in the Coil segment, but relatively easier, it seemed like, in Downhole Tool area. I'm just wondering why is that. Is that a geographical difference or is this a skill difference that's easier to hire for in the Tools space? I'm just wondering if you could give us some color there.

Sure. Thanks. So, just part of it is just sheer size. So, we're up to now about 400 employees, about 250 are in our Coil Well Service division, about 90 in the Downhole Tools Group and 50 corporate. So the Coil division just as a whole bunch have more people, period.

They also work on a 24-hour basis. So each time we're planning our crewing, we need a day crew, a night crew and a rest crew. So that adds a lot of bodies as we're trying to grow to put equipment to work on a 24-hour basis.

I think the fact that it's been pretty well publicized, the frackers are also short on people and we would probably be competing for a lot of the same types of skill set guys who are familiar on lease location, had some exposure to oilfield practices and safety training and pressures. So, the people who do have experience were all going for the same group.

And there's a bunch of people that left the industry that are highly disillusioned that are saying, unless I'm going give up my steady-although-lower-paying job, I got to know that there's a steady work available or I'm not coming back. So, I think we're quickly swapping up that available work pool and now we're going to have to literally re-train guys either from another sector or who aren't familiar with the items I described.

The Tool business by – with 90 people is just completely a smaller group, and the comment I made that some of those guys, I think although it was hard for them to be laid off, they were still out, they still have positive relationships and I will say after a couple of years of downturn, seemed to be quite happy and thrilled to come back. And I think they had a very good success rate of bringing some of those folks back on to the team.

So, the Tool business also from, I'll say, a less skilled labor point of view, there's less opportunity there. Where we use it in the Tool side, it's in the shops for assembling tools and testing tools. So we have shop hands, but the critical mass and how many of those we would need is a lot smaller than a business like the Coil Well Service.

Okay. Great. I think that's it from me. I'll leave it there. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Our next question is from Jason Ning (sic) [Jason Zhang] (24:37) with Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of quick ones from me. So, on the 93% utilization for your Gen III units throughout the quarter, can you give a little bit of color on where those units would have been working and for what type of customers?

Sure. Good morning, Jason. The Generation III units are working for everything in Saskatchewan, which I typically try to avoid naming customers, but Crescent Point is obviously a big player in the Saskatchewan area. They work with our Generation II and III units.

And then I think the other Generation III work is sort of up in that Northeast B.C., Northern Alberta country. We've named the Montney as the popular play that people have been working on. And I think we – ultimately, our customers will be proud to know we work with the likes of [ph] ThermaLine seventh gen arc (25:35). So, I think we've got a pretty fine roster of folks that we're working with.

Got it. And how the traction on Gen IV is coming along?

Well, so we can comment on that a little bit. It's – not much utilization going on on the Gen IVs right now and there's a couple factors for that. I think the equipment, if you can get the job done with a Gen III unit and we've been able to – the 6,500 meters with 2 3/8-inch coil can accomplish a lot of what is being done today on the completion side. The Gen IV units, where they really come into their own work that we've had success so far are on these multi-well pad locations where they don't have to move around as much.

They're not as well-designed when you're into either road ban issues or smaller lease locations. And from a labor point of view, we typically have another sort of man or two and I'm going to say our – sort of a heavier weighting of senior guys when we send out those Gen IVs. They're designed for – they're a little more complex and a little higher pressure. So when we're short on labor and now that we've got this Precision equipment in our – increased our Gen III fleet to eight units, we're going to send those out where we can get the job done in that way because it swaps up less crew members and gets the job done.

We still believe that there's a demand for Gen IV. What we also lost during the downturn was a premium pricing advantage on the Gen IVs. And from our point of view, just even operating cost-wise, it's better returns for us to work the Gen IIIs if we can.

Right. Okay. And then moving on – or I guess still in the coil tubing side of the business, were there any sort of negative impacts from weather on the margin side throughout the quarter?

I think it's harder to quantify that. Where it hits us on the margin side is if you've got crews in hotels on location. We're obviously – if there's a weather delay, we're trying to make sure that the customer bears that cost and inconvenience as much as we do. But we're not like a drilling rig outfit; we can get caught between jobs and how guys committed out there, so end up paying labor and fuel. And frankly, we can have a guy in crews go all the way out to location. And then the weather goes bad and we have to sort of bring them back to base.

Right.

So, yeah, we can end up with a lot of cost like that.

Okay. So, it's fair to say that hard to quantify, but certainly a bit of a negative effect. And if [ph] ones (28:30) get a massive melt-off here in March, even at flat activity, margins should be higher Q1 over Q4.

Yeah. That's our belief, Jason. And the last one that comes to mind as you're talking about that with weather, it can even – whether it's spring breakup or some of the stuff you see in October and November, if you get into mud with the size and weight in situations with where our equipment works and that bringing Cats and pulling equipment and you can bend and break things, and it's just slow and inefficient all the way around.

Right.

So this has been – this current streak of cold weather, as it looked like, things were starting to melt at the end of February. This has just been a really good bonus for us and I was looking forward into the next weeks. So, we're – although people don't like it from an everyday point of view from a work perspective, we're very happy with this weather.

Right. Right Okay. And then on the 10% increase in pricing, how much of that goes to your bottom line, if any? Is it fair to say that pretty much all of that is going towards covering the increased input costs on your end?

I think some of our incremental labor costs in terms of increasing rates, we felt that our competitors had actually started moving sooner than we might have in Q4. So we felt the need to move quickly and match labor costs and increased labor in Q4 when we didn't feel that the revenue or pricing was there yet. So that was really a hard one to swallow, but you got to do what the market dictates.

So I'm hoping we haven't had to do a lot of local incremental pricing increases in Q1. And now, we can start getting that customer price increase happening and get our margin back on track because we weren't happy with the gross margin return on that business. None of us were in Q4.

Right. Understood. Okay. And then, finally, sort of a quick modeling question on working capital, I realized that things are quite busy here throughout Q1. And if we look back at, say, a very active, call it, Q1 2014, it looks like you had about a CAD 15 million investment in that quarter. I'm assuming that's certainly in the high end, but do you guys care to throw out a number on what you think working capital might be?

So, if I can just rephrase your question to make sure I understand, we typically would get certainly a build in receivables that would drive up working capital and drive up our debt, is that where you're going?

Yeah.

And I would say one of the things that we're happy about our receivables still I think our days outstanding has been averaging around the 70-day mark last data I saw. So nothing's gotten worse, but not appreciably better.

That being said, we've worked away with the customers explaining that we don't want to build up our debt. So we'll do the best we can, but frankly, we've had a good track record on collecting receivables and we'll still take the work first through our credit checks and see what happens.

But you can see right now even having our debt at CAD 14.5 million to me is not that bad at this point in the quarter compared to some things we've experienced before. We're also very happy with having this amount of low debt, I guess, from an absolute perspective, which we've spoken about before publicly. This is a problem in oilfield services. You got to be able to carry that additional receivable working capital as things pick up.

Got it. Okay, great. That's it from me. Thank you very much.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at that time. I would like to turn the meeting back over to you, Ms. Perasalo.

Great. Thank you, Valerie, and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your line at this time and we thank you for your participation.