Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Second Quarter Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Wayne. Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP Corporate. This morning, Garnet and Don will give you an overview of the second quarter results, and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our August 6, 2014 second quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our August 6, 2014 second quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Good morning. Yesterday, we were pleased to report positive EBITDAS of CAD 440,000, up CAD 5.6 million from Q2 2013. Increased customer demand and a less severe spring breakup drove an increase across both segments.

These results were led by impressive revenue increases, from Coil Well Service, conventional tools and rentals. Service rigs provided another solid quarter of performance. As for Tryton MSFS, although it does not show in 2Q revenue, we saw meaningful headway in the development and initial sales of our new multi-stage products. Don will tell you more about that later in the call.

Now looking at each of our service lines, Coil Well Service had a great quarter. Revenue increased 84% compared to Q2 2013. This was driven by demand for our masted deep coil rigs with utilization at 42% and improved revenue from our fluid and nitrogen pumpers. Of particular note, our two new Generation III rigs achieved 72% utilization in the second quarter. Integration of our fluid and nitrogen pumpers with our masted deep coil tubing rigs and the introduction of the higher-priced Gen III equipment has resulted in comparable revenue for half one 2014 compared to half one 2013, despite a drop in our deep coil tubing utilization. Revenue per hour has remained constant year-over-year.

Masted coil tubing pricing has been stable in recent quarters, and we expect this trend to continue for our existing equipment fleet. However, as we see demand increases for masted deep coil tubing, we will certainly watch for price increase opportunities. Given the technical advances and service capabilities of our new Gen III and Gen IV equipment, we expect this equipment will attract higher prices.

In this quarter's MD&A, we expanded the business discussion to explain the link between Essential's coil well service and the growing fracturing market. Essential's masted deep coil rigs, fluid and nitrogen pumpers are all expected to benefit from a strengthening Canadian fracture stimulation market. We want to highlight the important role of Essential's coil well service business in the growing Canadian fracturing market as we participate in a variety of fracturing techniques, including annual fracturing, fracs through coil, the use of coil to convey and actuate sliding sleeve tool assemblies, and plug and perforating operations, whether they are wire-line or coil tubing conveyed.

Moving on to service rigs, I don't have a lot of comments on that business, but it was another, as I said, a solid performance with revenue up 12% on utilization of 34% compared to 28% utilization in Q2 2013. Pricing remained unchanged from the comparative quarter.

On well servicing together, which includes both coil and service rigs, we saw an improvement in Q2 2014 compared to 2013, as higher activity provided revenue to offset more of our fixed costs. Relative to our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment, well servicing has high fixed cost for facilities and equipment support personnel.

Q2 is also a higher cost quarter as we conduct seasonal repairs and maintenance on our equipment. On a year-to-date basis, well servicing revenue caught up to the first half of 2013 despite a slower Q1 2014, but gross margin was still lower in 2014 due mostly to higher labor costs in Coil Well Service. We are carrying additional labor costs in masted coil and pumping as we train employees to ensure we have adequate personnel for both future equipment and industry growth. We anticipate an increase in activity and margin as the Canadian fracturing market strengthens in the back half of 2014 and into 2015.

Now to discuss our Downhole Tools & Rentals segments. Don and I today are going to make more detailed comments than usual about this segment, given the attention it received in the Q1 conference call. While Q1 2014 Downhole Tools & Rentals revenue and gross margin were well below Q1 2013, Q2 2014 showed great improvement on both line items. On a year-to-date basis, 2014 revenue, gross margin and gross margin percentage have recovered now to almost match 2013.

Looking at this in a little more detail. First, conventional tools and rentals. Conventional tools and rentals had a very strong performance in the second quarter with revenue increasing 71% from Q2 2013. Our Canadian conventional tools and rentals results were impressive and we saw an important contribution from the U.S. conventional tool operation. In the back half of 2014, we anticipate half-over-half improvement in conventional tools revenue.

I want to highlight that the conventional tools service delivery is conducted by the same key personnel as our high profile MSFS service that Don will discuss next. By growing conventional tools business to us, is an indication that our roots and personnel in the trading tool business remain healthy. Conventional tools' involvement provides essential risks, insights into customer well completion preferences and requirements, experience in a wide variety of oil field service spectrums, including drilling, completions, production and fracture stimulation work, an opportunity to demonstrate our expertise and build customer confidence. This can also provide a springboard of opportunity to new products and complex multi-stage fracturing work. And finally, it gives us a steady forum of work for our unique team of downhole tool specialist which helps with retention and keeping them busy.

My last comment on this before I turn it over to Don is regarding our rentals group. This higher-margin service line has the closest connection for our services to industry drilling activity. Our rentals team has successfully altered its strategy to increase exposure to horizontal drilling opportunities. This business has transitioned to the rental of specialty drilled pipe used for long reach horizontal wells. Second quarter sales continue to demonstrate the benefits of evolving sales and product strategy. Relative to the second half of 2013, we anticipate further growth in this service line in the second half 2014.

Don is now is going to talk to us about the Tryton multi-stage products.

Thanks, Garnet, good morning. The Tryton MSFS continues to be a key part of our story. Given the significant amount of E&P capital to be spent in the Canadian fracturing market in the second half of 2014 and into 2015, we plan to be active in this space with our Tryton MSFS products.

In line with past customer demand, our MSFS products have historically been ball and seat technology, and we expect the ball and seat to continue to form the core of our MSFS product offering. However, as customers' demand is evolving for alternate techniques to complete a multi-stage fracture, so is our product offering. We are conducting jobs with customers today with our new and still evolving Tryton MSFS products, including the new Viking sliding sleeve, cemented-in liner and our MaxFrac tool.

Q2 MSFS revenue does not reflect the future of Tryton's MSFS products. Q2 is always slow during breakup, so I encourage investors not to look at Q2 results for trending the future success of this business. In the back half of 2014, we expect to see growth in MSFS compared to the first half of 2014 from a combination of current ball and seat system, new MSFS products and the MSFS tools in the U.S. Customers who prefer the ball and seat style of MSFS continue to use and support this product.

As for our new products, the Viking sliding sleeve is a coil-actuated sliding-sleeve cemented-in liner tool that provides a consistently large inner diameter sleeve with unlimited stages. It does not use balls or seats. With recent increase in demand for sliding-sleeve technology, we expect the Viking tool will aggressively compete for market share.

Secondly, the MaxFrac tool uses dissolvable balls and has a large inner diameter that eliminates the mill-out phase of plug and perf completions. We had initial success in the second quarter with the MaxFrac tool in the U.S.

Customer preference determines the tool of choice and can be based on their economics, wellbore conditions and confidence in the technology. Our role is to successfully deliver and install the solution demanded by our customers. In keeping with history, oilfield services industry is ever evolving and service companies, including our own, are continually looking for new and better ways to service our customer needs and provide our customers with alternative solutions.

Essential strength comes from our long history of tool success and expertise and diligence that our experienced tool has. As we mentioned in Q1 2014, there was no turnover of key personnel and we are confident that the team will return to growth through our MSFS products.

I'll now discuss our capital program. In May, we took delivery of our first generation for masted coil tubing rig. Many of you saw that rig at the Analyst Day we had in Red Deer. Through commissioning, we discovered a few modifications that were required and have worked through these with our fabricator.

The Gen IV rigs are one-of-a-kind, state-of-the-art technology. We have learned that patience is required to perfect the design. The rig is currently being prepared for its first job. We reached the record depth for 6,311 meters of 2-inch and 3-inch coil tubing with one of our Gen III rigs in May. The same diameter coil tubing the Gen IV rig is capable of reaching 7,900 meters. The injector capacity for the Gen IV, has a capacity of 160,000 pounds, increasing our competitive advantage as we are able to push longer lengths of larger diameter coil into the wellbore. The Gen IV rigs are also one of the first diesel electric coil tubing rigs. Our capital budget is unchanged at CAD 53 million.

In addition to the rig just discussed, we expect delivery of a Gen III rig and a Gen IV rig in the fourth quarter of 2014. One Gen III rig and three Gen IV rigs are expected in 2015. The learnings from our first Gen IV rig are being applied to the following rig builds which are well-progressed, increasing the efficiency of future commission.

In the Equipment Expenditure section of our MD&A, we include reference to significant dollars committed to Essential's Gen III and IV capital program. It is significant to the future of Essential. We expect to spend CAD 63 million through 2016 to build a total of four Generation III and eight Generation IV masted coil tubing rigs. To-date, approximately CAD 27 million has been spent. Revenue and EBITDA generation from these investments have barely begun. Our financial results in Q2 begin to show the early positive impact of Essential's coil tubing service fleet and strengthening of the fracturing market.

I'll now wrap up with some comments on the outlook. And as you can tell, we are very optimistic about the remainder of 2014, as the E&P companies bolstered by a favorable oil price and improved assets to capital markets continue to execute their 2014 drilling and completion programs. Strong drilling activity, a backlog of well completion work and an increase in the number and depth of horizontal wells all support an improved back half for oilfield service companies, including Essential.

Our masted deep coil tubing fleet, which we'll remind you achieved 109% utilization in the first quarter of 2014, is expected to continue to be in demand as customers execute their drilling, fracturing and completion programs. Our new coil rigs are uniquely capable of working on deep long-reach horizontal wells. Given the 72% second quarter utilization from our Gen III rigs, we are optimistic that the demand for these Gen III rigs and the newer Gen IV rigs that Don was just discussing will provide meaningful contributions to Essential's second half results. We have customers who are eager to put the Gen IV equipment to work, and we are confident that these rigs will work actively.

We expect improvement from our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment as year-to-date growth in conventional tools and rentals is expected to continue in the back half of the year. We also expect the MSFS combination of Canadian ball and seat products, new tools and U.S. MSFS contributions will bring back half of the year MSFS revenue up to a state of improvement.

That concludes this portion of the call, and we are happy to answer your questions.

Wayne, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning, Jason.

So, Garnet, we'll start with the coil, just on the utilization front there, obviously, the map the deep coil was up significantly year-over-year at 42%. Just wondering what utilization was on the conventional 2-inch units and how did that compare year-over-year. And I know that the conventional side isn't the focus or where the CapEx is going, but just want to know where that's trending?

Thanks for the question, Jason. I think it was probably notable that the conventional got very little attention, conventional deep in our write-up. And it had frankly a weak performance in the second quarter, which followed exactly the same type of trend that we were seeing in Q1. So, we thought rather than continuing to beat that drum, we feel that it's pretty clear that there is not a – I think the market has changed a lot before we see a dramatic improvement, it was well underneath the utilization from the same period in the last quarter.

Okay, perfect. And then just on the – with respect to pricing with the introduction of the two Gen III units that you now have operating. So you've been able to push any price increases through on those units specifically?

Yeah. In our comments that was just made in the conference call around pricing. We've set pricing for the Gen III pricing for the Gen III and Gen IV equipment and we've talked openly with the market about our sort of our belief on payback calculations on those Gen III and Gen IV rigs. And we've had a meaningful increase that we've realized on the Gen III rigs, but obviously, we've had no actual revenue yet on Gen IV, but those prices have been set and discussed with customers.

Okay.

It's a further increase for the Gen IVs over the Gen IIIs obviously.

Right, right. Okay. And then you said on the Gen IV on the new unit that you just received, so it's being prepped to go to work, should you expect that to go to work imminently here in Q3?

Correct. Yeah. We're just doing the final touches, hopefully be loading coil and off to our first job.

Okay, good. And then just on delivery of those other, I guess, two new units in Q3 and Q4, do you expect that those will be on time and we have seen some delays as these units are new and the technology may be takes a little bit of time to work out some of the kinks, but do you expect those next two units should be on time or could we see delays?

Like I said in the conference call, we believe that the time and effort that we put into the first Gen IV rig will benefit us moving forward on the second, third and fourth and hopefully consistently improve our delivery timing.

Okay. Okay. And then just on the downhole tool side, thanks for the color, that's a good color. So obviously you addressed the declining revenue on the core MSFS buoyancy product you've introduced these other products, the MaxFrac and the Viking tools, so just looking at demand in Q3 from what you are seeing sort of initially here and I know you don't give guidance, but just looking at demand and for the MSFS products in Q3, it is trending higher than what you saw in all the MSFS products in Q3, it is trending higher than what you saw in Q1?

So, yeah, I mean, we are probably best of, so we don't get two granular. We are not in the habit of giving guidance. But the main message that we're trying to convey is these new tools that we introduced that will show, we're now talking about extensively in the MD&A and the conference call. They are real, we believe they've already been used by customers. What we don't have is enough data to give sort of any kind of tangible numbers except we know that in combination with those tools, the ball & seat, our U.S. revenue, we've given our guidance in the comments as much as we can. But we expect it's going to be dramatically different from the numbers you've seen in the first half and that's probably where we should leave it and we hope to have some nice, cheery news for everybody when we report our Q3.

Okay. And then, just final question, are you testing the MaxFrac tool, you were down in the U.S. in Q2 with that or you're testing it in Canada now or not yet?

Yeah. I don't know if I'd say testing is the right word, but it's certainly from our sales perspective, it's being discussed with customers who do work in Canada. It's already successfully been deployed and used in the U.S. So it's really back to this theme, we keep harping on that. We know our AMP customers are trying lots of different things and this MaxFrac plug really gets an advantage on the – I'll call it the far reach, Netherlands of a really long horizontal way and it makes sense for our customers to use it and as with anything as we get more experience and the customer confidence more people both Canada and U.S. we expect will probably use the product.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's it from me, guys.

Thank you. The following question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please, go ahead.

Just a couple of ones here. I'll start with the – on the coil side, you mentioned obviously the Gen IV going to work pretty soon. What is it going to work doing and where in the basin is it going?

We have a project that has to do on a long reach obviously horizontal well in the North and actually we have several opportunities to put that rig to work, one of our biggest ones is to test the capabilities with the reasonable large operator on a complex well. So from a timing perspective, it's imminent. And we see the line-up of customers continuing to grow.

Great. And is that demand that is growing there, on the completion side, is it on the reentry work, is it on, I guess, fracking work? Where in the well construction cycle is it occurring, is the interest coming?

Actually the interest, Greg, is coming from all of those aspects. This particular rig is going to be working on a completion operation to begin with and then subsequently probably clean out mill-out operations as well.

All right. Great. Just your, Garnet, earlier comments on coil and appreciate the disclosure in the MD&A and the discussion there as to involvement on fracking. What percentage of your fleet and I don't know if you're willing to break it down from the – for the conventional would be working on mainly focused on and I know it can change your time, but mainly focused on the fracking side?

Yeah, I don't – I'm not going to even try and show any data on that, Greg, because we just don't track it on that level of detail or size of our company, we don't track all those specifics or it will only be a notional comment and don't have anything I can probably give you at this time to respond to that.

Okay. How about a different way of attacking it, is it – the kind of work that you tend to seek more than – say, rotational type of coil tubing work due to profitability or return on capital or is it sort of in line with what we see elsewhere?

Again, I don't know, if I can – how I would answer that question, Greg, but maybe the best way is to try and give a description on sort of how we get involved in a job. We broke out on our page 3 of our MD&A, if you haven't looked at that, where we talk about our involvement in pre-fracturing, fracture stimulation and post-fracturing. And what we liked like to highlight there, we've obviously noticed these dramatic momentum shift in terms of investor interest in the Canadian fracturing side.

Our service products, when we show up with our coil on location, they'll show up for pre-fracturing work, they want us on standby. So we're ready if something happens during the frac, with new fracking techniques, like fracking through coil and annual annular fracking, there's a another whole reason to have us there. And then once the job is done for cleanouts, workovers, now we also have demand. So it's not really possible to answer your question directly, except to say, we got a lot of different ways, we can play in the drilling Canadian fracturing space.

Okay. It was, it was worth a shot. On the – I guess switching gears a little bit over the downhole tools, I don't want to -but just a few questions on the Viking and the MaxFrac that are coming on there. Garnet, I think, in the beginning, in your prepared remarks, you mentioned, growth in MSSF, in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year, is what management's kind of anticipating. And I'm wondering, is that driven – if we sort of look at the three buckets, your ball and seat that you're doing, you've been doing quite a while the Viking, the MaxFrac, is there any particular part of that that has your confidence high in that growth or is it just a blend of all there, is it mainly the new tools coming out or is it getting more on the ball and seat side?

Yeah, I think I addressed it, but I'll see if I can clarify that a bit for you. So you want to response specifically to just the MSFS side as opposed to the whole downhole tools segment?

That's right.

So we really look at this now as we've got our Canadian market with the ball and seat and the reason we use language in the MD&A and the conference call that it continues to remain the core, it's a big deal for customers to turnover their – the confidence in a tool company to work on their horizontal well bore to put in and execute a multi-stage job. The ball and seat system has been around now for us since 2009 performed very well, but we know the industry is changing, we talked both that ultimately last quarter. We don't see that product going away and we get first of encouraging times when there could be some great growth in that product, but it's impossible to call.

What we have done now is we've now introduced and had successful revenue jobs, revenue generated with a couple of new products and new tools that match anything else that's out there in the industry and I keep emphasizing that by having our tool hands with the customer relationships, customer trust and the experience, to me it's just the natural that that stuff is going to go.

I would bet that the mix of what customers are doing in Q1 compared to Q2 and if we go all ahead to Q1 2015, it's going to keep changing. It's a competitive cost driven business for our customers out there and until they understand reservoirs and costs, they'll keep trying new things and we're happy to be there to play around with them.

Okay. That's good color. I guess to further dig into it, the success of the MSFS tools to this point in ball & seat system the customer relationships. It could suggest that the deployment of your new systems, the Viking or the MaxFrac, the customer adoption curve, it could be quicker because you already have the existing trust and relationships with those customers. Is it opposed to be a more drawn out scaled, I'll try it a little bit and then kind of get back in six months sort of system?

I think that's a very fair observation, Greg, and you've covered us for a long time and you remember you look back and the one thing that I can't do for this business that I know the analysts would love is give nice progressive sort of future statements on where those numbers are going to go. It does get a bit bulgy and surgy because that's exactly what happens, and unfortunately it's tied to the macro factors of commodity prices, capital raising and general industry activity. What we see right now is all of those factors are arrows up and looking good. So with what you just said and the industry being in a strong position, we are very bullish both at tool business coming and improving compared to what we just saw in the first half.

That's great. And this is the last one from me, which is just regarding the utilization on the masted. I think, you post 109% in the quarter, if that's correct, just want to get a feel for how things are tracking in Q3. I know it's a bit of a weird measure, right because it's over 100% utilization. Was that effect of the peak utilization in the quarter or is there room for a team of higher, I would expect that coming out of a breakup there, there would be higher demand. I'm just wondering if you have higher capacity there at that 109% or if it could shift up.

So I'll start first with the – I'll call it the math on 109% utilization. That's an important thing to highlight. So that was Q1 2014 and that's the time when you'd go, can these guys get any busier. We had rigs, it's quite possible because of how things work. The deep coil masted units work quite primarily on a 24-hour-a-day basis. So really when you get to a 109% utilization, they're working basically a day shift and a night shift. So we had individual rigs on location, 140% utilization, which allows you to have – you got a day crew, a night crew and a resting crew and you will take that through, but we changed locations and there's downtime as we change clock sizes as we go back to the shaft and go to a new location, which is why you can't be a 200% on a full-time basis.

So we think even though 109% sounds kind of mind blowing, there's still lots of room for basic utilization increase. Q1 is normally the full on quarter to measure against. If you go back to Q1 2013 and see where we're at. We're at 148% utilization for the mastered group. So 109% to 148%, that's a big difference. What we're also adding now is this Gen III and Gen IV equipment and we only add two rigs of the Gen III working in Q2, but 72% utilization during the breakup quarter is really quite outstanding. So I don't know where the numbers will settle out, but I would expect that we've got lots of room to play still.

Great. I guess that's it from me. Thanks very much.

Great.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Scott Treadwell from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. I wanted to think about the tool business a little bit differently. I mean, obviously, part of it is the old Dickerson rentals franchise and I'm just wondering obviously a good strong uptick in revenue for that segment. I'm just wondering where utilization is relative to a sort of practical maximum, if there is still some growth that can come out of just being a little bit busier without having to add more assets, obviously, you would think that that would be the case out of Q2. But I'm just wondering where on that scale you are, I know it's low to give definitive guidance, but if there is still a bunch of room for that business to get better?

Good morning, Scott. Thanks for the question and for your note this morning, that was timely. I appreciate that. A good question on the rentals, at this point in time and we're actually – we've been through a lot of change with that business and you're right it was the former Dickerson rentals business. If you travel you'll notice that we rebranded it now under Tryton rentals . And we did that because we wanted to really get the connection both with brands and I will say sales emphasis, the connection on the momentum with the whole success of the Tryton tools division and our senior business leader that runs the tool division is also in charge of the rental division.

So, we have seen this growth, the growth that you just saw. So, we have seen this growth, the growth you just saw isn't actually that much capital, you can see that from our capital announcements. But it's some capital shift, we will be adding further capital, but we don't have the – I will say the internal data to give. I know some of the rental companies gave sort of pieces of rental equipment almost in equivalent of utilization. We are working our way on a new rental inventory system that I think it supposed to be in place by the end of the year.

And grafts will able be to come up with some of that data. But in the mean time as far as the back half of the year goes, I think we're hoping that we're going to see a bit of both increased sales because of the team that we got in place in our new strategy and as we have success in the business. As you know, as a service company, if you see money being made, we have to throw more capital at it and try to make more money. I think to answer your question, we should see improvement in both aspects. And we'll try and – if our business keeps growing, we're going to have to give little clear market guidance or data, so you guys can see what's happening.

That would be nice problem to have. So, moving on to coil, you've got pumpers reported and there is varying degrees of clarity there, but the general sense is their book of work is essentially full through the rest of this year and even into and through Q1 of 2015. As a sort of by and large of coil load service on the fracking side, I'm not sure if you guys get that same level of clarity. But is the book of work at least if you looked at in relative terms where we were relative to the last year is it that much better on the coil side as it is with the frackers?

I think what you'll see is us probably trending where the frackers go, I mean obviously Garnet mentioned in the conference call about annular fracking, coil fracking and a combination of the two. So as the frackers continue to increase activity levels, my belief is that we'll follow suit with them. But on the pumping side, we actually also not only do we me mesh the pumping in and then units with our coil equipment, but they also do standalone work as well. So we actually are able to see benefit when a coil rig is under maintenance or in transition from a different location at that pump can actually go to work on its own or concurrently with the N2 unit on its own.

The disadvantage we have compared to the frackers, Scott, is we don't want to end up with that – you know that, I will see that clarity of a book of work as a well servicing company often refers to us we're sort of like plumbers and electricians and that we're on call, we move around a little bit more, but our belief is that – is the fracturing industry in Canada moves as it appears, it is and we've got great relationships with some major customers with very big programs and if they want to access to the coil equipment that we have and it's been already scooped by one of their E&P competitors. They don't like that and then maybe we'll be able to get little more firmness in longer term book of sales commitment to be able to speak to in future call.

Okay. Great. Last one from me, you obviously got a pretty material capital program here, but again to reference the other well servicing and completion guys, the build out time for equipment is getting longer seemingly by the day. Any thought at this point to hedging the bad and putting some more equipment into the build program. I'm not sure if you've got an ability to use more than one supplier in terms of who owns the drawings and then what commitments you might have, also your own – your hunger to put more capital to work. But I was wondering how high above is that on sort of the radar. Is that something that sort of every day you're thinking about or you look at the build program you've got and you're relatively comfortable that that's going to meet the needs in the next 18 months.

Well, a great question. And we added in some disclosure in the equipment expenditure section of the MD&A that is news where we showed how much we've spent on this capital program and it's a big commitment on the Gen III and the Gen IV units for a company of our size. With emphasis again, we've just seen the really the initial drops of revenue in EBITDAS from that program where our guys, our crews are excited, our customers are excited. But at the same time, one of the questions today, one is that equipment going to work.

So, I think this next quarter is going to be very definitive in changing force when we get that equipment to work, investors will feel better, you guys will feel better and then we'll have to really be thinking about that with the board in the next three months before our next call to say where we're going with our long-term capital program. But right now, we've given some pretty clear guidance right out into 2015. I think the last one on the schedule was sort of right at the end of 2015 for 16 in service testing.

So, got the long way is out there again for a company of our size, but you bet we always have to look ahead and lock things up. On the Gen IV side, we think once with our fabricator, once we get these things knocked out doesn't make the second unit that focus we showed in the spring has pretty much caught up to where that first unit was.

So we're going to be able to really move along once we take the time and do the right things, get our commissioning done. On the Gen III side, we've got also some good relationships and feel we can move quite quickly if that's where we want to go. So key for us right now make sure we're training the people, so we don't have idle equipment once it's built and really continue to understand what our customers are looking for. So we're building the right equipment.

Okay. Great. I appreciate the color, guys. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you. The following question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh, hi, guys. Most of my questions have been answered, but just to get back to the downhole tools, specifically the multi-stage. Just looking on a year-over-year basis, do you guys expect that the new tools you've developed here, is that going to replace the older tools such that you'll have a similar number of jobs here in the second of the half of the year versus the second half of 2013?

Yeah, I don't know the answer. The best one, again, we really try to stay out of specific guidance, Steve. So we're just laying out for people saying first half MSFS we're going to be better than that. And whether we can close the gap on all the way to when we look at the second half of 2013 compared to second half of 2014, that would be a great target if we can deliver on that again. But whether we can catch up on the whole year, that will be a big stress.

Okay. Okay, great.

But we're going to work at it and based on what I've seen with sort of analyst credit and sort of how investors are feeling, I think they take that as a, I would say, a much bigger positive and seems to be we're getting credit for right now in our story. So Story. So that's the best we can do is incrementally move things ahead and I hope we surprise the heck out of you guys to the upside, but that's just me.

Well, that'd be great.

Yeah.

Okay. Maybe just on the new tools as well, are you guys able to charge more than call it your conventional multi-stage tool that you had? Do they charge a little bit more for these just because that's the way the trend is going or your customers' demand is going?

When I talked with the coil market and supply and demand, that one we're very confidence if there is a supply shortage and it will typically we'll see an increase in demand for that unique coil, which is hard to build, it's hard to crew and you got to be able to operate it. The tool market is still competitive and I talked about when you're doing 25 stages, it's that much more expensive than 15 stages and there is a lot of finesse by our customers in trying to see if dollars everywhere they can because those repetitive stages just drive up their development cost.

So to us, it's really as opposed to a pricing increase opportunity, we just want to play, we want to get in there work on the jobs, and it really it's a volume game. The more you can do, the better, but I would not describe it as any form of pricing opportunity.

Okay, okay. And then maybe just back to your conventional deep coil, maybe even your shallow and intermediate. I mean, where do you see that side of the business going here? Is there an opportunity maybe to move some of them down and start up in some of your U.S. bases to get some utilization on that? Or are you looking to possibly may even sell that shallow intermediate coil going forward?

I guess, Steven, it's Don here. We've made an awful lot of changes to our conventional business in the last probably a year, I guess, is when we started looking a lot closer at the business. We're going to see some additional changes going forward in the back half as we kind of rationalize our fleet, I think there maybe some opportunity for us to park a few of those units that don't get utilized, whether we sell or move to the states. We've done some sponsorship work with couple of companies in the states where we've taken our equipment across. At this point in time I don't believe we're looking at actually setting up a base or doing anything from that regard, whether it'd be the cost one, two or our deep body job or trailer rigs from a conventional point of view.

I also don't believe the business has gone, I think it's just evolving and we needed a event similar like say $5 gas price to see some of that stuff coming back and we're not getting out of the business, we're just using it as again like we've mentioned in the past, the training grounds for new guys and again after rationalization, maybe there will be an event where we can go back to work again, so.

Steve, I would see the conventional coil business to me, it's got a lot of the same problems and economics as the service rig business, you take a look at our sales in the public companies and we're running a great business that's essential with utilization and the best pricing we can get, but the economics are still quite challenged and virtually all the public companies have been reducing their fleet size, yet the industry number for total service rigs continues to grow as private guys and private equity are adding rigs which we don't understand the economics.

The same thing happened on the conventional coil side, it's a little lower barrier to entry It's a little over barrier to entry, people who try to get in. And there is equipment for sale all over the place, if you wanted to sell it. They're just really, I don't think any market for us. It wouldn't make sense to try and sell it and we've seen a few transactions out there that we wanted to highlight our conventional equipment as good as anything out there. But it's operating at low utilization because with where the industry is going, they need monster equipment like our masted coil and the convectional businesses, is on onset temporarily sitting on the sidelines but will manage our costs, keep it ready to go.

If we need to decommission some of the older equipment, it's just going to be a longer-term situation, then we'll do that. But with our balance sheet, we're not under pressure to either sell anything or do anything desperate. We're in great shape and the industry just evolved in this direction.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's all I had.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. There are no following questions registered at this time. I would like to return the meeting to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Wayne. And thank you for joining us today. Have a good day.

Thank you. That concludes today's conference call. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.