Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
John Bereznicki — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jonathan Raleigh — Analyst, Brookline Group
Sean David Wetmore — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Wayne. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Corporate. This morning, Garnet and Don will give you an overview of our third quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our November 5, 2014 third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our November 5, 2014 third quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Yesterday we were pleased to report CAD 22.7 million of EBITDAS for the third quarter. This was a 32% increase from Q3 2013. The increase is from higher revenue for coil well service and downhole tools and rentals. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDAS was CAD 46 million, consistent with the prior year.

Now looking at each of our service lines. Revenue from coil well service was CAD 39 million, a 19% increase from Q3 2013. Compared to Q3 2013, we saw the benefits of incremental revenue from our Gen III rigs. These rigs went into service late in the third quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014. Our fluid and nitrogen pumpers contributed higher revenue due to better integration with the masted coil tubing fleet. Masted coil tubing utilization was a 105% for the quarter.

Service rig utilization in the quarter was 48%. This is only slightly down from 50% in Q3 2013, but slightly ahead of industry utilization. Well servicing gross margin, which includes coil well service and service rigs, was up CAD 1.5 million, which is 10% higher than Q3 2013.

Our downhole tools & rentals segment performed very well in the quarter with revenue increasing 25% from Q3 2013. Results in the second and third quarters reflected good recovery after a challenging first quarter. On a year-to-date basis, revenue and gross margin now exceed results in the same period of 2013. For the third quarter, all elements of this segment contributed to the increase compared to Q3 2013.

First of all, demand for multi-stage fracturing tools improved for both the ball and seat system and the new tools. In the second quarter conference call, we spoke at length we spoke at a length about the drivers for specific completion tools, including customer preference, wellbore conditions, economics and customer confidence in a particular technology. While the ball & seat is the core of our MSFS tools, we are working to provide our customers with choices that best suit their needs.

Next, demand for conventional tools in the United States improved the prior quarter. The U.S operations were in startup mode in the Q3 2013 and have startup costs with little revenue. And then rentals, our rentals revenue increased largely from our investment in the specialty drill pipe rentals targeted towards long reach horizontal wells and revenue from pressure control equipment.

We reported a noticeable improvement in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in this segment increasing from 31% in Q3 2013 up to 37% in Q3 2014. In addition to revenue increases discussed, this margin improvement was driven by a greater proportion of revenue from the higher margin rentals business and our U.S. operations, which were cash positive in the quarter. Don?

Thanks, Garnet. Good morning, everyone. I'm happy to report that we are making progress with our masted coil tubing build program. In mid-October, a third Gen III rig went to work in the Bakken and our first Gen IV rig went to work in Northwestern Alberta. We expect a second and third Gen IV rig to be working in December and February respectively. To the end of Q3 2014, we have spent CAD 35 million of the CAD 63 million Gen III and Gen IV masted coil build program. We expect significant revenue and EBITDAS from this new equipment.

While this first prototype Gen IV rig is designed as a masted rig, due to design issue with the mast, we removed it and are operating the rig for the winter like a conventional rig with a crane. Our fabricator engaged a third-party engineering firm to assess the mast design. We have now received favorable engineering report and confirm that subsequent Gen IV rigs, including the second one we expect to have working by year-end, will be completed with the mast intact.

The first rig will be retrofitted for mast in the coming months after it spends some time in the field. This temporary modification does not impact the depth capacity that the Gen IV can run, nor distract from other technological advantages. As noted previously, the Gen IV rigs are one of a kind state-of-the-art technology. We have learned the patience is required to implement the design. We are pleased that our patience is now paying off. Garnet?

I'll just wrap up with a few comments on our outlook. And like others, the recent decline in commodity prices has created longer-term uncertainty in the Canadian oil and gas industry. Now to-date, drilling rig utilization in the fourth quarter of 2014 is tracking ahead of the same period in 2030. As our customers set their budgets for 2015, we believe there should be greater clarity for oil field service activity.

Acknowledging this uncertainty, our masted coil tubing, pumping and downhole tools & rentals continue to focus on long reach horizontal wells. Typically, these wells have robust economics with faster customer paybacks. We believe demand for these services will carry on to the extent customers continue to execute their drilling, fracturing and completion programs on these types of horizontal wells. At this point, our 2014 capital spending plan is expected to come in at CAD 47 million, slightly below the previously announced CAD 53 million. Of the decrease, CAD 3 million was related to growth capital primarily deferral of some of our masted coil tubing build program costs into 2015 and CAD 3 million is attributed to lower maintenance capital. As always, we will monitor industry conditions and customer activity and will react accordingly. Our balance sheet remains strong with debt in November 5 of CAD 60 million.

That concludes this portion of the call, and we would be happy to answer your questions.

Wayne, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Jason.

Good morning, Jason.

Garnet, so first question on the tool business, obviously great to see you had a nice recovery in the MSFS revenue in the quarter. Just wondering if you can provide a little more color on that recovery. Was this the sales guys just pushing a lot harder, and just wanted to know what you're seeing in terms of demand for MSFS , did the strong demand carry over into Q4?

Yeah. Good morning, Jason. Thanks for the question. The tool business, as I commented on, I think, in both Q1 and Q2 at our conference call, has remained intact and unchanged in terms of key players, business opportunities and the demand for the product. What changed is our ability to service sort of all customers, and given the size of our operation, the internal term we've used as the business can sometimes be a bit lumpy in between quarters. And we got caught with some surprises as we commented on previously with some specific customers that stopped spending, and our sales team got back to work and either re-established relationships as those customers started spending or found new customers.

So I think it's just for us a good validation that the product is still in demand, evidence to our investors that the team is still intact and the business is strong. So nothing really different or specific, Jason, just again I think a validation of what we've been saying in the last couple of quarters.

Okay. Great. So just turning to the coil tubing side, just I wanted to clarify just around the delivery time of that first Gen IV unit, was there any delay for when that unit was delivered and when it went to work in October recognizing that there were issues with the mast, just trying to get a sense of the impact on the quarter from that unit not going to work right away.

I'll give a real generic answer, then Don can add some color. But clearly, we know we have that Investor Day in May of 2014 where people saw the equipment. And yeah, we would've expected and hoped to have that equipment contributing in the third quarter and it didn't. But at the same time, we've said all along we're not going to rush out that first one until we understand. And the decision to remove the mast was really, okay, now we know what we're up against and our desire to get some revenue coming from that unit, it's a relatively easy modification. But Don, I don't know if there's specifics on the delay you might have?

No. I think, Jason, for us, like we are such a safety focused company having over 1,100 people. I think it would not be to our benefit to actually rush through that procedure. We spent a significant amount of time commissioning that rig. And again, we mentioned that state-of-the-art technology, there's a lot of improvements relative to a conventional oil rig. So for us, we felt it necessary to, number one, test the other sides of the business without the mast and get that thing in the field and generating some revenues.

So it's been a long process, but like I said in the conference call script there, we believe we've solved the issues and we're just now waiting for a period in time where we can actually get that mast installed. But to us there's no reason to pull it out of the field at this point in time to actually do that. We'll do that in the future.

Okay. And is that – and you did note that it is going to be retrofitted again with the mast. So would that – is that going to happen in the next two months or so, is that going to happen fairly quickly?

I would suggest based on timing and the amount of activity level that we have for that particular rig, it seems to be working quite well for us now, and I would be reluctant to pull it out of service to have the mast installed. So Jason, it could be up till this spring before we get that mast installed the other rigs that are going to be delivered have taken the learnings of that rig 46 or our first Gen IV and applied it to the new ones coming. So we're pretty excited about getting those ones delivered.

Okay. And because its working as a conventional unit, is it getting a lower rate than if it were the masted unit?

Basically, because it does not have a mast, we have done some arrangements with a crane company. And yes it will absorb the crane cost's offer revenue stream.

Okay. That's good. And then just on the pricing side for the coil, just wondering if – Garnet, have you've seen any reductions in rates for either the masted or the conventional coil. I know the conventional 2-inch market is very competitive. I'm just wondering where you see pricing going in Q4 and into 2015?

Yeah. Our official acquisition on pricing for the coil business is similar to our outlook. It's business as usual through Q4 here and we're certainly hoping that to continues into in Q1. So we've modeled in internally no surprises on the masted side. That being said, with the outlook that I think most of us as service companies are seeing that we know historically that that's something we have to keep an eye on if there is any kind of slowdown, but that's not our near-term outlook.

The conventional business, as you just described, is competitive and it's very dependent for us. We don't even have a good rule of thumb on hourly rate on that, because it's – the utilization is low and it really depends on the type of work we're doing. So we see also it's a different rates depends on the type of coil we're using. So simply said, there's not enough consistency in high utilization of work to even have what I'd call a standard view on rig. But to say its competitive is a fair comment.

Okay. Great. And then just last question on the service rig side, you noted in the press release that there's two rigs that are currently working in the SAGD plays. If I recall, I thought there were three working in the SAGD plays previously and I think you had said six rigs were earmarked for SAGD, just wondering what the current update is in terms of service rigs going into the SAGD plays.

I think you've just summarized the current update very well. That's exactly what we're seeing right now is two rigs working.

Okay.

And we have not had the sales penetration success that we hoped we were at three.

Okay.

And from our point of view, there's been a lot of, I will say, failure to commit even – it's not that we can even identify that we're losing on bids to other people, it's just some of these opportunities nobody seems to have committed. And unless we've got some fairly firm terms, we're not referring to it as a dedicated SAGD rig. For emphasis again on the six rigs, we built heavy doubles that are suitable for SAGD. We're prepared to go to work if we can get that contractual connection with the customer. But those rigs are absolutely prized rigs working as standard doubles and fully mobile in today's market.

Okay. And if demand increases in the SAGD, obviously you could – you could put those into those plays pretty quickly?

That's correct. And the benefit of SAGD for us is just its steady utilization, 24-hour work and we often get complementary rentals associated with it. So the economics are good and the steadiness is very good for our crews and predictability is a lot easier to manage that type of business for us.

Okay. Great. That's it for me. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jason.

Thank you. The following question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh, good morning, guys. Just I think the consensus out there is that activity stays strong pretty much to break up at current oil prices, but that there is concern in the back half of 2015. I'm just wondering on the Gen III and Gen IV, if there is a pullback in activity in the back half of next year. Do those new rigs – does that displays some of equipment in the field right now? Do you expect to see strong demand for those even if we do see a pullback in the back half of next year?

Good morning, Steve. No, I'll open my comment by saying on the back half of 2015, I'll have to say we have no firm idea, clearly. This is quite unprecedented change in macro industry circumstance. Our theory, though, for modeling and our belief, when we introduced the concept of the Gen III and the Gen IV rigs, we talked a lot with our sales team and our personnel about what one might consider a cannibalization or replacement. And our belief is that there's a different market dynamic and demand for this incremental new ultra deep equipment than there is for the Gen IIs.

And we were pleased in the quarter to note that Gen II utilization proceeds along steadily and we introduced this new equipment. The question is if we see some sort of a slowdown with our customers, with the producers in the back half, and I spoke about this in the formal script comments, that these these long rich horizontals are often portrayed to have very good economics. And producers need cash flow, they'll keep going on something. So we actually are hopeful that that work on – and for those new exploration will continue even in a downturn. But as we've seen before, when things get really bad all sorts of stuff can stop, but we don't necessarily see the Gen IIs and Gen IIIs sort of one succeeding at the other's expense.

Okay. Okay. And then assuming they do the Gen III, Gen IV, do you continue to work even if there is a bit of a downturn in next year? Does the increased efficiency of them really justify the higher price, or would you expect to see some pricing pressure on those if there is a significant downturn?

I don't know if the – really, I don't know if I could use the word the efficiency justifies the price. There are some features, certainly speed is one of them. But as you know with the cost and the dollars, they go into a frac or different drilling techniques, it's the result of the well production and success both in terms of everything from safety to well production to time that can make a customer very happy. And we think that all of those factors justify going to the new technology that we're introducing.

We often like to say that we're a very small part of the total cost of along each horizontal well compared to drilling and fracking. So I think the only time that I'll call it the rate pressure could show up from my opinion is if things get very tight for our industry as a whole in terms of economics and cash flow, and I'm speaking for our customers, it's often a I'll say almost like a – you got to throw your hat in the ring and give back to us because we're hurting. And I don't think there's a direct connection there between economics, it's more of a sympathy or a connection with our customers saying, if they're hurting them, we need to share some of the hurt. That's a possibility.

Okay. Okay. Just moving on to the downhole tools here. You talked about improved demand in the ball & seat and some of the newly developed tools. I was just wondering if you could give us the split between new tools versus the ball & seat tools?

Yeah. We actually – we anticipated that – thanks for asking the question, but no, we're not going to give that detail. And the reason is we've – we're often – we try to be as transparent as we can and we've already commented specifically between multistage, conventional and the rentals business. And as we said, there's a great relationship between the tool offerings for how our customer chooses to do multistage completions, but we don't see any particular upside to us in starting to stratify our data that one level deeper. We'll speak to it as we experience different things happening in the market, but we don't plan to go to that level of detail.

Okay. Okay. Maybe just with – certainly the recovery in the multistage, does that get you excited to maybe start selling that tool in the U.S.? Is there plans to expand into the multistage side down there now?

Yeah. Good question. The interesting thing, the ball & seat system was stable, it's done very well. And that is something that we will probably one day take into the U.S. It's not there now but our tool that we've talked about before the MaxFrac tool, which is the large bore sort of single ball tool that we've talked about in the past actually has had success in the United States. And we went in there introducing that business in the United States as a conventional business, but that will probably be our first major foray into the multi stage in the U.S. is through this max frac tool.

Okay. Now can you expand with the base you have there now or do you need to make an acquisition to get some, call it, boots on the ground?

No. We believe that the way we setup that business and with the personnel, locations and where we operate geographically, it's suitable to continue just development of that business.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Scott Treadwell from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Morning, guys. Maybe wanted to jump on to the tool questions as well. You talked about some improvement from the U.S. operation. Can you give us any sense of how that business can grow in the next couple of years, is that – you talked about having the right footprint and people now so it's more maybe blocking and tackling. Does that imply sort of maybe market or slightly above market growth rate, or do you think you're in a position that you can capture sort of meaningful market share in some of those markets that you're in and deliver – meet growth well above what rig count or well count might indicate?

Hi, Scott. I think the – from our point of view, I think we've been pegged before as being fairly conservative in our public commitments on growth and outlook. I'd much rather tell you guys where we're at and say we're going to work on a better future than to make a bold forecast on growth. The fact that we now have taken that business from significant cost as we set up shops and personnel and establish relationships to a quarter of positive cash flows to get rid of that cost structure bodes very well for the future, because now that we've got our fixed costs covered in a base level of revenue, any incremental growth will start to show up. So we don't plan to sort of make any sort of bold commitments, but with the business being established, it certainly should start to see some nice steady incremental growth going forward, assuming the U.S. market continues to be active as it has been. So for modeling purposes, I'd encourage just a nice steady growth forward, and I hope we can beat that and make your number looks light, but that's as much as we can give you.

Okay. Maybe if I asked it a slightly different way. If I looked at Q3, would the contribution from the U.S. in Q3 be indicative of the run rate? Or to your point about costs and startup, was there a bit of a walking and running split in Q3?

Yeah. In Q3, to me again doesn't have, as an example – Q3 of 2014 doesn't have any real contributions on the multi-stage side yet. And I just answered with Steve's question that that's an upside that could be coming. And we really – we did that acquisition of Sam's Packer in April and it takes a while, as you know, to get everything adjusted through there and those guys are getting setup and operating as one team with our guys. So I think there's probably upside left from – for sure, even in today's market, from what you saw in Q3 2014.

Okay. Perfect. That's what I was looking for. I wanted to also ask about the mast. And since it was a design issue, I'm not sure if people look at it as a responsibility, but as you talked about maybe refitting the mast in the spring sometime, what would the incremental cost be for that or is there a potential for Essential to recover any cost and it'd be sort of a zero sum gain for you?

Scott, it's Don. There won't be any costs. It was actually a manufacturer's issue, so there won't cost to us albeit other than some lost revenue while we waited for those decisions to be made.

Okay. And you talked about absorbing crane cost, is there any significant change in the demand that customers that may want to use that unit because it's coming as a multi piece instead of a masted unit?

We haven't seen any resistance at this point in time, and I think it's specifically just because of its depth capacity and where we've been operating the rig. So at this point in time, no real impact.

The only thing I'll add on that, Scott, is I think if there was a crowded marketplace and there is a whole bunch of alcohol existing masted Gen IV type equipment out there, I can see that being an issue. We firmly believe that with our equipment building with our mast design and our masted fleet that it's a competitive advantage. But at this time, the Gen IV offers so much more in terms of unique features. Yeah, I agree with Don, there hasn't been any delays but we still firmly believe that the efficiency and the benefits of going with the mast is where we'll take this unit in the reasonably near term.

Absolutely.

Okay. My last one is kind of on the outlook, maybe a bit further out. Obviously, the second half next year is cloudy at best, but if you looked across your businesses, a lot of it seems to be relatively short-term in terms of forecast and demand. Would it be fair to say that the sort of masted coil tubing would be the place where you'd have the best visibility in terms of longer term customer intentions, or is there another segment that gives you that insight?

That's a tough question. And I think that it's always interesting for us, we really have to really understand the drilling and fracking side of the business because we sort of benefit from the demand activity on both with the frackers and with the drillers, and then we've got the production angle as well. So we still are – the nature of our service line as a production and completion company, the only time we get those long-term, whatever we want to call them, but customer commitments or informal contracts or even formal contracts, is when their plans are known clearly and they're either fearful or want to guarantee that they can get the right equipment over the service period. And in a time of unclear outlook like we're seeing in the back half of 2015, customers as we see with press releases in some cases that made big commitments to drilling rigs for multi-year contracts, we just don't see them in the mood for making those commitments to our type of service line in this market. And I hope that changes, but right now that's not the case.

Okay. Yeah, I sort of expected as much. Okay. That's great. Sorry for the tough questions, I'll turn it back.

It's all right. Thanks. [indiscernible]

(31:08)

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Brian Purdy from PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Hey, Brian.

I just wanted to – maybe I'm beating a dead horse here. But when I look back a few years and you guy started the MSFS business in Canada, I mean, you basically just add that on to a conventional tool business that was already there. And then over three or four years, we're able to grow that into, you know, almost an equivalent revenue to the original business. I'm just wondering, do you see the potential to do that, acquiring conventional tool business in the U.S. and then adding that on? Is that the kind of potential you're looking at or do you think the market is already a little more saturated at this point in terms of those types of tools, the MSFS I'm speaking of?

Thanks. Good question. Here's how I'll outline the difference between the Canadian business and U.S. business. Our Tryton tool business had been started by some very experienced tool hands in 1997, became part of our store in 2005, and then we introduced multistage in 2009. And those guys were very deep in the business, very experienced in Canadian completion techniques. And really, are our biggest challenge in that case was the manufacturing of fabrication system to get the product and then getting a customer to allow us to step into playing around and getting experience on their expense of horizontal wellbore.

We go to the U.S. and it's probably similar expect we're starting a little more from the ground floor. We don't have that long history that I just described with some of those tool hands. The business of putting in Packers and understanding wellbore dynamics doing conventional and multistage is very similar. There's just more at stake on the horizontal both in pressures and wellbore cost. So we're just not going to rush it. But I think the potential to sort of replicate what we did in Canada at some level, yeah, it makes logical sense. But we've got to get that trust and bond and even the training and education between our customers and ourselves, and then our new U.S. toolhand teammates, but we've got to understand that they're comfortable before we drive ahead.

So once again, we know where we are going, we're optimistic about it or we wouldn't have gone down this path, but it's hard for me to say that it's going to follow that same great trajectory that we saw in Canada. And there's more – if I can take you back to 2009 when we started multi-stage it was – there was one large competitor who was getting a lot of profile, really dominating the marketplace, and we have heard at the time that they were offering really high pricing that our customers didn't like. So they wanted competition. Today's marketplace in Canada and the U.S., there is more competition already in place for the multistage, so it's not as easy to step into the marketplace and make that kind of difference.

Okay. Thanks for that. Thanks for that color.

Okay.

You mentioned taking the MaxFrac tool down there, is there any significant commitment there to inventory, or is it a pretty small financial outlay so far?

Yeah, the inventory – one of the things that we took a look at is our inventory has built up compared to our – even our December number and part of that is building tool inventory in the U.S. to prepare for growth certainly. So that's already happened actually, and you can see that when you look at our inventory numbers in the financial statements.

Okay. So, it's already there. Okay. Most of my other questions were answered. I just want to ask about your conventional service rigs. When I looked at sort of just a calculation of pricing per hour, it looks like it went down a bit in the quarter. I'm just wondering if there is anything going on in that market that might've predicated that or do you just see that as a temporary factor.

Yeah, the – my answer on the – sorry, this is unconventional service rigs, right?

Yes.

Yeah. And one of the factors – and nobody's asked for any clarifications, but just as a refresher we had our rod rig division in there that we sold but that was a subsequent event, but I'm just trying to – Karen, sorry, flipped me a note here. I'm going to just regroup my answer for them. So on pure service rigs, let me just refresh here, sorry I was distracted. Pure service rigs you're asking why our rate is down quarter-over-quarter?

Yeah. I mean, I was just looking at the revenue you delivered in that segment divided by the number of hours and it just looked like it went down versus what I saw in prior rigs.

Yeah. And I've got in front of me now. So our biggest – our regular rates on, on service rigs were relatively unchanged quarter-over-quarter. The biggest difference is probably on our SAGD related rigs and it can fluctuate if we end up with standby rates in there. And that was probably, we had more standby time in Q3 2013 from our SAGD rigs than we had in Q3 2014. So our how standby gets built for us, it's pure dollar injection without an hour of the utilization component which dock at the rig.

So that concludes the average. Okay.

Yeah. Sorry about the confusion.

Thanks very much.

Yeah.

Thank you. The following question is from John Bereznicki from Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, John.

Good morning.

I joined you a bit late, so apologize going over some covered ground potentially here, but on the downhole tool business, were the U.S. margins close to where you want them to be or do you still see room to push those up as you gain momentum going forward?

Yeah. It's a tough one. My simple answer on the U.S. operations was that we've just sort of moved from same quarter last year to a fairly significant cash loss position to a cash positive quarter. So it's really hard for you or anybody to see sort of margins or for us to give a view. We think we're getting pricing in the U.S. that is suitable and reasonable for the work we're doing, and now that we are at an operating level and a revenue generation level to have our fixed cost covered, if we can continue to grow that business as we expect, it should be contributing some good incremental margin and hopefully we can start to report a little more color on that as we go forward.

Terrific. Thanks. And then just to clarify, your Gen IV rig, when did it get to the field in Q4?

I think it was post September, so I'm going to get ...

It was October, actually.

Yeah. I think was in somewhere like October 8 or something like that.

And...

Okay.

And basically right now, as of today's date, we've done three jobs with it and actually we're on mobilizing to our fourth job right now.

Got it. And that delivery, how did that compare to what you were targeting originally?

John, we're late.

Okay.

A lot of it – I mean, I'm not going to deny it, we're late. We spent a significant amount of time commissioning and testing, and it was actually at our request, essential, and it's primarily due to the new design, the prototype issues that the fact that it is a diesel electric coil tubing rig. We just did not want to rush our way into the field and have an issue whether it be safety or an operational issue for a client, specifically because of the cost of some of the wells that we're working on with that particular unit.

Right. Fair enough. And just if I understand you correctly, the decision to run without a mast is essentially one of a design issue with your fabricators, is that kind of a correct assessment?

Well, John, we actually as a group at Essential, we made the decision to actually pull the mast off and go. We need to test the other components, we need to get a revenue stream going with this rig. So it was a conscious decision by Essential, not our fabricator.

The rig...

Terrific – sorry.

No, I was just going to say the benefits that we have for making this decision, the mast is already built, the injector can be used on the rig as a conventional rig, so the actual reinstallation of the mast once this engineering report is in now and the tweaks that they need to do it, it's a relatively inconsequential change for that one rig that's operating without a mast.

We're looking at probably one to two days to make the change over again.

Got it. Okay, that's great. I appreciate the color guys. That's it for me.

Thank you, John.

Thank you. The following question is from Jonathan Raleigh from Brookline Group. Please go ahead.

Hey, gentlemen.

Hey.

Just first question, have you guys done any recent work on just taking a look at what your tangible book value or replacement value is in this market?

Good morning. Yes, I mean it's something that we actually track along. And if you pull up our investor presentation, we actually regularly put that on there as a replacement cost number in our – and we reconcile that to our ensured value per share. So right now, we believe that somewhere around the CAD 3 mark is – just slightly over CAD 3 is what we put out publicly. And what we like to highlight with that number as well is that does not include really much of anything for our tool division. And the reason is our tool division doesn't have a lot in terms of assets or book value, and this is the high level rule of thumb but typically it contributes about a third of our operating EBITDA. So it's a big part of our business, but it doesn't have a lot of the heavy tangible book value of equipment cost that the well serving side does.

That's very helpful. Have you guys seen anything, whether it be in the private company realm or private equity in terms of well servicing or coil tubing transactions that you'll validate some of the numbers?

That's a tricky question to say that – I could probably give a generic answer to say that I think we know private equity is out there, and then as financed companies in our service lines or service activity, certainly we've had discussions over the years with private equity companies that know about us. But there's – implied in your question is that the valuation we're trading at today relative to our cash generation and our balance sheet. Some people have said, wow, we're not fairly valued and just something that would be attractive to private equity, and the answer is, I suppose so, but that's the sort of beyond my scope. Our job is to run a good company and put up good numbers, which we're doing.

Right. Right. And you guys have a – the debt's up a little bit around CAD 65 million at the end of the quarter, but you also have a working capital surplus. But where do you think you guys will end the year at on the debt basis?

Hard to say, but yeah your point is valid. We're at about – I think at the time of our release yesterday, our debt was actually at CAD 60 million, and we put a note in our MD&A between June 30 where we were at breakup up to September 30, and the majority of the build was actually a working capital accumulation mostly from receivables. So all the good work that we did in the quarter built up our debt level up to CAD 60 million. What we should see, if work continuous as we expect to be slightly busier which is usually what happens in Q4 compared to Q3, as we proceed ahead, and then we've got some bills to pay on this new Gen IV equipment and the Gen III equipment, we don't expect a dramatic difference. Debt will be about the same or perhaps slightly lower by the time we get to year end compared to that CAD 60 million number.

I mean, realizing you guys are [ph] DivCo (44:24), and pay a healthy dividend, if the stock stays in this CAD 2, sub CAD 2 range, would you guys consider a meaningful buyback, I mean, also realizing you have a capital plan for the next couple of years?

Yeah, there's a – again, I'll refer to we've got a nice little slide that we've put in our investor presentation and I'm going to use – I think our consensus, it will need to be updated, but I'm going to throw in a round number like CAD 70 million for 2014, which would have been based on sort of previous consensus. And the way we look at it, we've firmly updated our capital for 2014 to CAD 47 million. So you do the CAD 70 million minus CAD 47 million, CAD 23 million left. Our annual dividend payment is a cash flow commitment of $15 million, so that leaves us with an CAD 8 million surplus, if my math is right.

And, we've got a buyback in place. And for various reasons we haven't used it extensively to-date. The one thing that I know for sure, if we are in a time of uncertainty as we appear to be coming into 2015, our best defense and the thing that's kept us as such a high quality company over the years is preservation of that balance sheet. And at the same time, our low debt gives us the opportunity we could – there have been investors who suggested, why don't we go hard and lever up as many U.S. companies have and use a whole bunch of that debt capacity and buy back our own shares in volume. And that is a strategy and it has been used by many companies, but that's a board decision that gets contemplated regularly.

Right. I mean, you could – I mean, rough math, when you tie in the working capital surplus with the debt balance and assuming that payments come in by yearend, you theoretically accounting for your capital spend could be closer to CAD 30 million or CAD 35 million, then you could make the consideration whether or not you want to run at 1 times debt to capital with using that extra capacity for shares if they stay this low.

Yes. And the best thing I can say here is that is, I think, a well understood possible choice in terms of how we manage our capitalization or capital structure, but one that is understood by the board. And I'll just say that they contemplate these things regularly, especially when our share price is trading under CAD 2.

You mentioned the uncertainty, Garnet, and we haven't seen a ton of E&P budgets out yet, but we've seen some for 2015 and it seems like there's – there is one element [ph] inconsistency with guys (47:18) that are focused on Montney deep basin, you guys targeting the well rigs, even some of the Duvernay guys, they're such early stage with those liquids rich plays, a lot of them are gassy but just prolific in general, but their budgets seem to be going up, how much exposure do you have to those areas relative to everything else and in terms of your exposure on the coil tubing side?

We actually think that our exposure – so on our coil tubing side, the business that strived is the masted business with our associated fluid and nitrogen pumpers, and those businesses would benefit from the scenario you just described of a strong liquids rich and the long reach horizontals, also our tool business in the multi stage fracturing side. If the price of oil stays down and subject to – obviously, there's some offset from the Canadian dollar, but our sort of exposed to a little more of the conventional oil price business is our conventional downhole tools and our service rig business.

So those are the sort of the ways we look at business, and our rentals can benefit. We shift our rental inventory, we can benefit from the multi-stage long reach horizontal side as well. So we've got a nice split of exposure. Our uncertainty and our outlook is just based on – as you're describing things and you say there's been some good capital budgets released, you have to wonder why the services stocks have been hammered so hard. So we have to ask ourselves, is there something else going on that we're not seeing. Or given the producers' plan to drive on and sort of work their way through this, why would some of these service stocks be pounded. Isn't the market always wise? And maybe this is just a huge miscalculation by the market, but our responsibility is to make sure we keep our eyes and ears open and be prepared for whatever the future brings.

Right. Last question, just going into the busy season, we're in busy season, are you seeing any pricing power on the deep masted side?

No, pricing power would be the wrong word in this market. I made a comment earlier about if our customers feel pressure in terms of either their cash flows or their economics, it's very much like the sort of the charity scenario, they don't hesitate to pick up the phone and say, I'm in pain and I want you to contribute and help.

Right.

And if you're a good service company, you will. So we're quite pleased. We've been saying this for a long time that we're quite pleased to have not suffered pricing reductions. We built in, we're getting reasonable economics. It's been a long time, for example, on service rigs that we have seen a price increase other than moderate recovery of some labor costs, but no, pricing power would not be the right description in this market.

Okay. Great. Well, I appreciate all the thorough answers. Thank you.

You're welcome. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Sean Wetmore from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys.

Good morning.

Hey, Sean.

Apologies if you already touched on this. I was just thinking with some of the success of your U.S. downhole tools business, would you think about shifting some underutilized either conventional coil or service rigs to some of the places you're operating in the U.S.

Well, it's a – I mean, it's an attractive concept especially if you look at some of our – the services, public company peers, and they've had some good U.S. operational success. At this time, we've mentioned before we do the occasional cross-border job where our customers brings us into the U.S., so we're fine with that. To establish operations in the U.S., unlike the tool business would require a significant fixed cost investment or/and a significant acquisition, which is always a possibility in the future, but it's not in our strategy in the near term. And what we get with the tool business in the U.S. is we're developing customer relationships, we're learning about market dynamics, and I'll even say cultural differences in operating in the U.S., and one day maybe that's a smart thing to do, but it's not in our near-term strategy.

Okay. And then, I guess just taking it one step further. So like with the success of your sort of next generation coil units, would that be in the cards potentially for longer term strategy to have some sort of Gen III and Gen IV coil exposure in the U.S. or is that would be a ways off?

Well, my answer would be similar with one exception that the U.S. often in the areas where we would like to operate isn't going to have as many restrictions on road bans and bridge problems and freezing and thawing, and we know that the equipment we have designed for the Canadian market can meet all those road regulation and movement in weight restriction criteria that are high in Canada so they would be very suitable for the U.S. environment and very attractive in the U.S. operating environment. I don't think there's a lot of equipment like that in the U.S. just like there isn't in Canada. So you bet once we get this worked out, I think we've got something real special to offer for the community and/or U.S. market. But not in our near-term strategy. I want to get this iron working, that's what our plan is.

Yeah. I think our belief is probably to continue on with how we have operated in the last year or two, and that is being sponsored by operators in Canada taking us across for certain specific operations or periods of time. So I agree, I don't think that we're intending to get into any bigger type of play, again unless we're sponsored into that type of – into that particular environment.

Sure. Makes sense. Okay. Great color. Thanks a lot, guys. That's it for me.

Thanks, Sean.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time, I would like to return the meeting to Ms. Perasalo.

Thanks, Wayne, and thank you for joining us today. Have a good day.

Thank you. That concludes today's conference call. Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.