Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Jason Zhang — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please stand by. Your conference is ready to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Fourth Quarter and Year End Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations.

Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Alana. Good morning and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our annual and fourth quarter results, speak to the outlook, and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures, such as EBITDA. Please see our March 2, 2016, fourth quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially. And there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors, and assumptions, refer to our March 02, 2016, news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning.

2015 was a very challenging for oilfield services. Although we did not finish the year with a strong fourth quarter, Essential's timely cost reductions in early 2015 and controlled spending during the year ensured success.

During 2015 we reduced our long-term debt by $30 million to $25.5 million at the end of last year. Our low debt is a distinguishing feature, which we achieved through working capital harvest and spending within cash flow. Our debt-to-EBITDAs as covenanted at December 31, 2015, was 1.1 times, well within bank covenant requirements. We hope to maintain this advantage in 2016 through similar tactics as the downturn prolongs.

Our focus in 2015 was on maintaining our strong balance sheet through three steps. First was cost reductions. These were able to maintain early in the year, and resulted in $10 million of fixed cost savings. They included salary roll backs led by executive management with 20% roll backs and zero bonus, significant layoffs, and reduced discretionary spending. Our employee head count was reduced by more than 40%. Our G&A was reduced by 29%.

Second step was disciplined capital spending. $16.7 million was spent in 2015 and was focused on progressed payments for our masted coil tubing build program. Maintenance capital was significantly lower than the prior year due to the lower utilization of our equipment. And the third step was dividend management. The annualized dividend commitment was cut from $15 million to $1.5 million. This saved us $2 million of cash in 2015.

Now a recap on the year of 2015. Our EBITDAS was $21.5 million, well below $68 million reported in 2014. In 2015, revenue was reduced by almost 50% compared to 2014 as customers pulled back on their spending. This reduced our activity. Revenue was then further hit by severe price reductions, excuse me.

Through effective and timely cost reductions, we're able to preserve annual margins at 22% in our well servicing division. The pace of similar pressures in our downhole tools and rentals division could not be immediately offset by cost reductions, resulting in annual margins dropping almost in half to 18%; still respectable, but well below margin percentages in the low-30%s that we had become accustomed to from that division.

Coil well service proved to have the greatest resilience, with 2015 operating hours declining only 20% compared to a 52% decline in industry well completions. A smaller number of customers were active, but they spent enough on their programs to allow us to experience relatively high utilization with our masted coil tubing and pumping fleets.

Service rigs were hit hard by the 2015 industry downturn, facing very strong competition for work. Annual service rig revenue dropped by 60% during 2015. All of our businesses experienced competitive price pressures throughout the year. Compared to 2014, prices were down 15% to 20%.

Now looking specifically at the fourth quarter. Yesterday, we reported $5 million of EBITDAS for the fourth quarter, well below $22 million in Q4 2014. Revenue from coil well service was $24 million, a 42% decrease from Q4 2014 due to lower activity and price declines. With industry well completions down 65% from Q4 2014, our masted coil tubing and pumping operations were relatively strong, reporting a decrease in operating hours of only 29%. This is due to key customers remaining active in the quarter. Coil well service revenue per hour declined 15% to 20% compared to Q4 2014.

Service rigs continue to be hard hit by the downturn with revenue 66% less than Q4 2014 due to activity and price decreases. Revenue per hour in that division declined approximately 20% compared to the prior period. On a gross margin basis, well servicing, which includes both coil well service and service rigs, the gross margin was 25% in the quarter compared to 28% in Q4 2014. We're particularly proud of that and the resilience of that margin. Price reductions were offset by fixed cost reductions, lower labor cost and moderated discretionary spending, thus limiting margin erosion.

Our downhole tools and rentals segment reported $11 million of revenue, which is 69% lower than Q4 2014. Tryton MSFS and rentals experienced more significant revenue declines than the conventional tools. Our customers performed fewer multi-stage completions, and the rentals business was directly affected by the decrease in industry-drilling rig utilization.

This division was also severely affected by aggressive competition and pricing. We experienced price reductions of approximately 35% compared to Q4 2014. Gross margin for this division was 8%, significantly lower than Q4 2014 due to: reduced revenue from tools and rentals, lower contribution from higher margin rentals business, and increased losses from our U.S. tools division.

These decreases more than offset fixed cost savings from head count reductions and reduced discretionary spending that were implemented earlier in the year. Additional layoffs have already occurred in Q1 2016 in the tool division in order to reset the cost structure.

Now moving on to capital, Essential's capital budget is $9 million, comprised of $6 million of growth capital and $3 million of maintenance capital. Relative to our initial 2016 budget, announced in November, total spending is unchanged, but the growth capital was increased by $2 million for carry-in capital from 2015.

All growth capital is focused on completing the masted coal tubing rig program. We received another Gen IV rig in January and expect the fourth rig by the end of March. It is unfortunate that we will be receiving these new rigs during the time of severe industry downturn. But it leads Essential well positioned for future growth with a fleet of virtually new leading-edge rigs, awaiting our customers' future long-reach horizontal well completion and development programs.

Maintenance capital was reduced by further $2 million. This is purely a function of anticipated lower activity. Despite the reduced maintenance capital, it is important to note that we are continuing to spend at a reasonable pace for repairs and maintenance expense so active equipment does not deteriorate in quality.

And finally, some comments about the outlook. Industry activity in Q1 2016 has been much slower than we anticipated, and our expectations were not set at very high. Fewer E&P companies are engaging in oilfield service work as they strive to preserve cash flow in this difficult market with oil and natural gas pricing at historic lows. Even the last of our largest and most reliable customers have started to defer their spending decisions until the second half of 2016. Unseasonably warm weather has been a detriment to activity in all of our service areas. It is early March, but it appears clear that we are facing both a seasonal breakup and an economic driven cessation of activity that does not leave us with much optimism for the remainder of Q1 2016.

As we see Q1 2016 unfold with significantly reduced activity, we unfortunately need to again reduce our fixed-cost structure to right size the business relative to industry conditions and our revenue base. Further layoffs have already occurred in our downhole tools operation, and additional layoffs and compensation reductions will be necessary across the company.

The executive team is taking further salary rollbacks of up to 10% in 2016. We must make these difficult decisions in an effort to support cash flow and preserve our low debt position. This continues to be a difficult time for our employees and our shareholders who have all suffered as a result of reductions to compensation, dividends, and share price. It is also a very difficult time for our customers. We are in this together. And Essential is again taking timely and necessary steps to remain well positioned through this difficult and prolonged downturn.

Alana, at this time we would like to open it up for questions.

Certainly, thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] . The first question is from Greg Colman with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. Tough times, but good to see some cost management on that side. I just have a couple of quick questions here, Garnet. I'd like to start with the balance sheet and a few things on working capital. Obviously, with the deteriorating environment for E&P spending, very likely that we continue to see pressure on the top line. In Q4, there was obviously a decent working capital harvest, which is helping out on the balance sheet. I'm wondering with your working capital levels now, would we continue to see that with revenues declining or are you starting to get to a level where there's kind of a structural minimum amount of working capital that you end up having there and we wouldn't expect to see a sort of the $8 million maybe $12 million in harvest coming off of that?

Good morning, Greg. Thanks for the question. I think the two biggest components of our working capital are inventory and accounts receivable. And although the activity, as we've been clear on, has been down from what we historically expect in Q1, I still think – I mean the revenue is almost certainly going to be higher than it will be in Q2. So with that being said, our receivables are way down from where they usually are at this time of year. But if we still go into a normal breakup period in the Q2, there may be some receivables collection that would naturally flow in during the time of Q2.

The other thing that we really have to focus on and we've talked openly internally, if you take a look at the size of our revenue – our inventory number right now, relative to activity, our inventory is comprised of two key components. One is our coil tubing products for our coil division and the other is basically conventional and multi-stage tool products. We need to bring the inventory levels down and manage that. And obviously as we use that inventory and bring the volume down, that is another form of harvest of working capital. Anything we can do to reduce those two items just goes right against debt, because our whole spending structure now is set up to spend within cash flow.

That's good clarity. I appreciate it. And this ties into sort of my next my one, which is, your disclosure about your financial position I believe on March 1 or at the end of February was I believe, and I'm going off memory here, so correct me if I'm wrong, but a net debt slightly higher or long-term debt slightly higher than it was at the end of quarter. And again that's just funding the increased working capital requirements going through January and February. Would that be the correct assumption?

Yeah, your memory is accurate. We were $25.5 million of debt outstanding at year-end. You'll see $1 million in cash as well. So you could net that, say, $24.5 million. And then at the time of release yesterday, we had about $28.5 million with, I don't know, if there is a lot of cash, I can't recall. I think it's a smaller number. So basically we've built up the debt by, call it, $4 million; and it's a combination of progress payments on this remaining work with Option Industries and our Gen IV.

And then we've actually had a little bit of build-up there in receivables and a little bit of a build-up in inventory spending, which may seem illogical. But one of the things that happens during a changing market like this is some of the product we've got, if those customers are inactive, it's not obsolete products, but it just isn't in action compared to what another customer wants; and then we have to buy a new product.

Would you be willing to quantify an inventory level, which you think is more appropriate either on a total dollar amount or maybe a percent of cost of sales?

Would I like to or would I be willing? Those are – I would throw a rule of thumb myself. I would like to see that come down by, I'm going to say, $3 million to $5 million would be nice. I don't know if that's possible. And the problem is, again, I was just down walking around with the guys talking about inventory a few weeks ago. And as we look at what we have there, it's not sort of unused or old inventory. It's again matching what we have for product, which we know is still suitable product in our inventory for Western Canada. But are those customers spending any money?

This whole problem with managing inventory is related to an industry on the customer side that has just about stopped any level of spending. They can't do that forever, but unfortunately that's what we've got. I think one of the things that we can offer people is some of that inventory that hasn't turned over in a while now. Maybe we have to reduce our expectations on margin with some of that. But anything that we move out of inventory again goes against debt, and I think that's well understood by the group.

Got it. And then just tying into my last question here, talking about – so stepping away from the [indiscernible] (17:55) and talking about a little bit of the forward stuff. Your Gen IV rigs that you've got and as you mentioned kind of unfortunate timing when they come into the market, but can you give us a little bit more insight as to where and what you think these things are going to be doing when activity does start to recover? And then maybe an indication – or sorry, not to recover, but when they go to work? And then maybe an indication of what your view is as to the part of this cycle that they could get back. Is this a sort of thing where we could see activity before breakup or right after breakup, or do we need to see a little bit more of a sustained recovery before you think you see some traction on those Gen IVs?

Yeah. I'll give my own sort of generic overview, and Don will probably choose to add some color. The Gen IV is again – a lot of you listening on the call have actually seen the equipment in our yard or seen it in the Option Industries. It's on a bigger platform, it's more complicated to move from a permitting and time point of view and requires a larger stable location on lease [indiscernible] (19:00). And a lot of the benefit again was on these, I'll call it, the multi-well completion situations where you move this big piece of equipment there and then you do a multiple wells on location.

It's not as quick and easy to move as our Gen III equipment. We've talked before that our Gen III equipment has exceeded our expectations in depth and range. And it's able to deal a little better with some of these smaller onsite lease locations and easier to move down the road. So those are some of the things that when customers are absolutely on a bare bones spending situation, they're only completing sort of one well at a time, they're going to take whatever shortcuts they can, including they're not wanting to spend as much as money on their leases on oil site locations, and we can have these things tipping over or getting damaged, trying to drag them through the mud.

So I think it's all, I'll call it, a customer frugality issue. The economics of the wells that they work on the benefits of the equipment is still clear to us and our customers. We just have to hope that they get a little better financial circumstance so they can bring in the equipment that we think they want to. So, Don, maybe you can give some specifics?

From a specific point of view, I can't add a whole bunch of more color than Garnet already mentioned it. It specifically has to do with the fact that the operators these days are not drilling the 6 well pads, 10 well pads, 12 well pads. They're drilling one or two which potentially just holds the land for them. And then, in times of recovery, they come back and finish off that project. So I'm hoping it's more of a just a deferral waiting for commodity prices to change. We still believe in the product, and we're getting some good traction as far as marketing it and getting customers aware of what its capabilities are.

Thanks, Don. That's great. Probably not – wasn't exactly a completely direct answer to the question, but I think you gave us all the information we have so we can draw our own conclusions. That's it for me. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Brian Purdy with PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Brian.

Good morning.

I was wondering, you commented there about having to go through another around of cost reductions. Can you give us any guidance in terms of where you think your G&A is going to go to here in 2016? Obviously, you had some reductions in 2015, but I'm sure there's still some impact of full – the full year of those cost reductions coming through?

Yeah, my guidance will be lower. That's unfortunately where we have to go. If you take a look at Q4 2015 disclosure of our G&A, it's at $2.9 million. And as we mentioned, we've – we're going to move on now, and our staff reductions – this is going to news to our staff, we'll be talking to them later today, but our staff reductions will be proceeding on that through the month of March here with the idea just like we did last year of getting our cost reductions done by the end of the first quarter so that our quarters have a lower cost structure for the remaining nine months of the year.

When you take a look at – if you looked in our MD&A, there's also a 12-month G&A cost line. And you take a look at, and it showed, it's $14.1 million. Remember again same thing in 2015, that included, what I'll call, higher, a much higher cost structure before this $10 million of savings, which just is in G&A, it's also pulled out of operations, but that number is still includes the 1Q from last year.

So what I would do, to give you guidance, you take the 4Q G&A level, and then take that times four, you are going to see its considerably less than the $14 million number. And I can't throw out a number. We've – I got the view right now. I think people have the picture and are clear that we are serious about our cost reduction. We got to take, I'll just say, many millions of dollars of additional fixed cost out of our structure. And we know that. But I'm not – at this point, we have a chance to catch up with our staff, and go through that, I'm not really thinking there is a big advantage, just showing numbers out there to you guys. So just know that we're going to do the right thing. And the decisions that we're going to have to make now and where we're going, these are ever increasingly difficult, personal, and our biggest component of our cost structure is people. So you can read between the lines from there.

Okay, thanks for that. Yeah, I can't imagine this is an easy process for you. And I have a kind of related question on the – obviously, the margin compression you saw in downhole, tools, and rentals was pretty sharp between Q3 and Q4. Even with some of the cost reductions you measured, do you think, you can get towards where are the margins were before at a lower revenue level or do you think things settle out at a lower margin than where you've been in the past or at least in 2015?

Yeah, thanks, good question. So the margin that we reported for Q4 2015 of 8% is obviously lower than we consider acceptable, lower than that business group considers acceptable. There's sort of three components that I'd comment on. We've historically have contribution and success from, we refer to it as the higher margin rentals business. And that business is connected. Its two primary revenue-generating activities are drill pipe rentals and work on BOPs, both of which have virtually stopped.

So that's a big chunk out. And that won't be a permanent factor. It will come back. But right now, there's no contribution at all from that. We've talked in the past that business can often be 50% to 60% contribution on a gross margin basis, which is obviously tremendous for bringing that overall level up.

The next two parts of the business, conventional tools and multi-stage; and a number of you have identified in your analysis that the big change, I think, wasn't so much a surprise on the activity in the conventional side. The pricing beat down of 35% in the quarter was significant. That is just another way to say that this isn't an essential thing, it's an industry thing. Competition is just undercutting all the time on pricing and we have to keep looking in the mirror and saying, can we do the work for this.

And the only way you can do the work and bringing your prices down like that is to continue to readjust your cost even on a variable basis. And I've talked a lot about this business. The great thing is other than the inventory, we don't have a big significant advanced capital cost to make. The business structure is very responsive on a cost-structure basis, so that we can continue to make a margin. And we just got caught a little bit on timing with how severely both the multi-stage revenue dropped and also the pricing drops.

Going forward, the conventional business, the team, the guys, we've had to pull some bodies out of there. And these are good, good people. Some of the people we've let go in the last couple of weeks; these are long time tool hands. That business started in 1997. I met some of those guys when we bought the business in 2005 and known them for a long time. So it's a very sad day.

But we still held on to the bulk of the core of the business. Those guys will make it, operate successfully again. And even the multi-stage business, we don't think that business in anyway has sort of lost interest with key customers. We think it's purely activity driven right now that customers are not spending on this work. And they're just holding, holding back, holding their breath. And our guys have to do the same, waiting for this downturn; and then we'll be back in hopefully the back half of 2016.

Okay. I think my other questions were answered. So, yeah, thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Jason Zhang with Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning. Brian basically asked my question, but maybe to just expand on it a little bit or even ask in a different way. Do you guys think that you can, I guess, reset your cost structure as quickly as pricing looks like it's continuing to decline?

Good morning, Jason. Yes. So are you speaking specifically about the tools business again?

Yeah. I guess tools and as it applies to the well servicing division.

Yeah. So I'll talk about tools first. And there is one other component I should've mentioned in response to Brian, but I'll just build on it now. Another comment we made in the script that you can see in our numbers is also our U.S. tools division. And it's interesting. We went in there in the third quarter 2014 into the U.S. and we did a small acquisition in April 2015 and made lots of sense; same platform as Canada. The acquisition was a great little company. And then I think the oil price started to fall in June of 2015, and we all know the story.

That business has had a rough time. And they've been basically negative EBITDA for us for a couple of years now and that also you take – you shrink the numbers and show them some negative EBITDA, that has to be corrected. And we're clear on that. And that also will bring that margin back.

So my simple answer to your question, again, is, I believe, yes. We are well-focused and clear and have the information to understand what our costs are. We know how to make money in that business. The guys are keen and hungry. It's just everything is changing so fast. We just got a few more decisions to make, but I think that business can get back on track and generate a proper margin again.

Our threshold that we often talk about during times of change this like, we sort of aim for that 15% to 20% gross margin as our minimum threshold. And I feel we'll be able to get back there. The tool business, as I commented on, has typically outperformed that. And they're able to do. They don't suffer some of the same fixed cost; incremental cost on shops, leases, and mechanics; and that sort of thing. So I would believe that business should be able to get back in the above 20% range.

Great. And then on the well servicing, would kind of a similar anecdote be applicable?

Yeah. Well servicing, if you take a look in – again, the two components are the coil well service and then the service rigs. And we, in our gross margin comments, we only show – we show the operating expenses together. So we show the revenues separately in the MD&A and then one gross margin. I just can't say enough about – with pricing drops and all the cost changes we've had to do in competition, how resilient we've been able to hold those margins up, and it hasn't been the lot of without a lot of pain and effort.

The service rig business is a completely different animal. There is too much equivalent. I've got the CAODC data in front of me. And looking back all the way to Q4 2012, there's 1,100 service rigs, and today registered, there's 1,025. So there's just isn't – and that's with the public company's keep parking equipment. So there's just too much private equity equipment being added. Industry utilization for this quarter on the CAODC, say, is at 31%. And we came through at 30%. So that business is doing well to maintain its margins.

The coil business, the exposure we have there is probably more around customer concentration in the sense that fewer customers are still financed sufficiently to be able to do the coil completion work. And we're – we don't like that feeling where there's fewer customers contributing our revenue. But as we watch the marketplace and we see all these equity offerings being done to bolster the balance sheet on some of these key customers, I think that's a very positive thing. Hopefully, they'll be able to keep their programs up at some minimum level again moving into the second quarter. So, on the well service side, we're actually quite pleased with how we've been able to preserve those margins, but we cannot get complacent.

Great, thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Alana, and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines, at this time. And we thank you for your participation.