Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Don Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Director-Institutional Research, Oilfield Services, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Jeff Fetterly — Analyst, Peters & Co. Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Q4 and Year-End Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo

Thank you, Elana. Good morning, and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Corporate. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of the fourth quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our March 5, 2014 fourth quarter and year-end news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our March 5, 2014 fourth quarter and year-end news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Good morning. Yesterday, we reported fourth quarter EBITDA of CAD 20.7 million, down marginally from CAD 22.4 million last year. Generally speaking, activity in Q4, 2013 was similar to Q4, 2012 with the exception of some very cold weather in early December that shut down operations in many areas.

Our quarter-over-quarter decrease in EBITDA was largely attributed to lower utilization in coil well service, labor and travel costs while equipment was shut down during the extreme cold weather in December, additional labor costs as we prepare for delivery of the new masted deep coil tubing rigs. And finally, start-up costs related to our expansion of Downhole Tools into the United States.

For the year, EBITDA was CAD 66.1 million, down from CAD 74.3 million last year. In addition to the quarter items, the full-year decreased from a prolonged spring breakup and wet weather in Q2 2013, and 2012 included earnings from the drilling rig business which operated through most of 2012. Looking at our three service lines for the quarter, first, coil well service. Revenue from coil well service was below Q4 2012. Our total deep coil tubing utilization decreased to 74% from 95% last year. The majority of this decrease was related to our deep conventional coil.

The conventional business had low utilization at 32%, compared to 67% in Q4 2012. This reflects increased competition in the less technical 2-inch diameter conventional coil market and the effects of extreme cold weather. Utilization of our masted deep coil tubing fleet was at 107%, just slightly below 113% in the prior quarter. Masted coil was also impacted by extreme cold weather in early December. Pricing for our deep coil tubing fleet was relatively unchanged period-over-period.

On the service rig side, our utilization at 53% was on par with Q4 2012, and revenue was relatively unchanged. Based on industry activity and peer results reported to-date, we are pleased with our utilization. Demand continued to be strong for our three service rigs working on SAGD operations. Pricing for our service rig fleet was consistent with last year.

And thirdly, our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment performed very well in the quarter with revenue increasing 13% from Q4 2012. Revenue improved for both the Tryton Multi-Stage Fracturing System and our conventional tool service line.

Moving on to capital. In 2013, capital spending was CAD 47 million. This was CAD 3 million below our expectations due to the masted coil tubing delivery delays. We were expecting three additional masted rigs in Q4 2013 including one Generation III and two Generation IV rigs. We took delivery of the NOV Gen III rig in February and still expect the first Option Industries Gen IV rig before the end of March.

The second Option Gen IV rig is well under way and is expected to be delivered in the second quarter. The Gen IV rigs have new and complex technology that is unique to the industry and Essential. There have been a few design and fabrication issues to work through the delayed delivery of the first two Gen IV rigs. Those learnings will be applied to other Gen IV rigs, and we fully expect to get back on track for timing delivery of the remaining 2014 rigs. We have customers that are anxious to put this equipment to work once it is ready, and we are confident that these rigs will work actively in the Western Canadian basin.

A brief comment about the statement of claim involving our tool business. A simple comment that we have no news or developments with respect to the statement of claim that was filed against us by Packers Plus. The court process will continue over the next few years and a court date is not expected until sometime in 2016.

Now moving ahead to the outlook. Activity in 2014 for Essential started off slower than 2013. In our experience, the pace of completion activity has been slower so far this year, compared to 2012 – sorry, 2013. The strength of the first quarter is also dependent on the timing of spring breakup, which impacts the duration of the winter drilling season. Last year you may recall spring breakup didn't come until early April. Delivery delays of our new masted deep coil tubing rigs combined with associated incremental costs for commissioning crews and training are expected to adversely impact earnings in the first quarter of 2014. Generally speaking, 2014 customer capital budgets are consistent with 2013. Essential believes there are reasons for optimism in the second half of the year including a weaker Canadian dollar which would increase customer cash flows, improved access to equity capital markets for customer companies, and the rising pricing of natural gas.

With regard to Essential and our growth opportunities, we see opportunities coming in the following areas: first, an industry trend of deeper and more complex horizontal well completions; second, completion of wells for LNG development; and third, workover and maintenance requirements for the growing number of horizontal oil wells.

With regard to deeper and more complex horizontal well completions, industries trends in 2014 support Essential's strategy of introducing deeper, larger diameter masted coil tubing rigs. Our CAD 50 million capital program for 2014 will add significant growth to Essential's masted deep coil tubing fleet. In addition to the four masted deep coil tubing rigs that were part of the 2013 capital plan, Essential plans to build one Gen III and three Gen IV rigs in 2014 with delivery of one of them sliding into 2015.

With regard to LNG development, while the longer-term outlook still remains positive for the development of proposed LNG projects in BC, anticipated development has been delayed beyond 2014 expected time frames. Developments of the Montney, Horn River, and Duvernay Basins for LNG export is expected to increase the demand for oilfield services, including the demand for Essential's deep coil tubing and Downhole Tools & Rentals.

And finally on workover maintenance. With the growing number of horizontal oil wells in recent years, the industry has been expecting an increase in demand for service rigs to perform workover services on these wells. This demand has not yet materialized possibly due to new technologies, prolonging primary production and capital allocation decisions made by [ph] EMGP (10:43) companies to focus on new drilling rather than maintaining existing production.

Essential believes in time these wells will require workover services, increasing the demand for service rigs and coil tubing. Essential is in great shape to take advantage of these future opportunities. As a final point of emphasis, it's important to note that our strong balance sheet will facilitate this growth. Debt, as reported yesterday on March 5, was CAD 45 million, leaving us with a debt to EBITDA at a healthy 0.7 times.

That concludes this portion of the call, and we would now be happy to answer any questions.

Elana, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jason Sawatzky with AltaCorp. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Jason.

Good morning.

Garnet, first question, just looking at the deep coil tubing fleet here, obviously the masted units continue to be highly utilized, 107% in the quarter. Conventional deep units, quite a bit lower, they're at 32%. So recognizing that the two inch coil market is a lot more competitive, do you see utilization for the conventional deep units improving at all here going forward, or is it going to continue to be a drag on utilization and we just have to wait for you to high grade the fleet with the six new Gen IIIs and Gen IVs to come online?

Jason, it's Don here. As far as the conventional deep goes, the less complex 2-inch stuff, unless they were to be, I think, we're looking at a pretty much a flat scenario for that period of time. As well, there would have to be some type of an event like increase in gas prices, actual confirmation of LNG export, that kind of thing is probably the only way we're going to see a big uptick in our conventional.

We've talked, Jason, about the ability to modify or add or obviously as you go to 2-inch and 3-inch or 2-inch and 5-inch coil and the capital that we would have to deploy, we'd still have a limited depth range compared to where we're spending our money on these big masted units.

Right. So if we looked at the utilization rate of 32%, was that – I mean, I would assume that's not sort of a run rate for the conventional [ph] deal (13:45) just because you had some weather issues in December as well. Would we expect that to be a little bit higher going forward?

Yeah. I mean, our expectation is for better performance of that particular service group in the back half of the year, but it's going to take some of the macro changes that I talked about in the commentary for that to occur.

All right. Okay. So just looking at the – well, we've been talking to a few producers and we've heard a lot of people talk about increased use of coil for fracking operations, specifically I've heard this tool called the Mongoose tool mentioned, I don't know if – curious to see if you guys have seen an uptick in these types of operations specifically with this type of tool, and maybe you can provide some color on that?

As far as the Mongoose tool, it has been around for quite a while, and yes, our fracking operations both annular and down tubing incorporate not just our MSFS, but the Mongoose tool. There is new sliding sleeve technologies, so I would anticipate that that market will continue.

Okay. As far as the impact in Essential with the Mongoose tool, as Don has mentioned, with it being around a long time, it's an alternative for – and can compete against some of our tool products, but our basic comment that we like is we're using a lot a of these tools, whatever it is, our deep coil business is critical to get this stuff in and out of the hole. So, we've got access to a broad market and it's just one more completion technique.

It comes down to operator preference more than anything. I guess from our perspective the biggest one is that it has to be conveyed. And if you want to convey something, then you probably are best to use coil.

Okay. Okay. And then just finally, Garnet, we've talked about this before, but with the development of dissolvable balls and seats, just wondering if you've seen a noticeable decline in fracking operations specifically, relating to drilling of the bridge plugs, recognizing that you also have the dissolvable balls and seats on the Tryton side, but just wondering if the decline in coil activity has outweighed the revenue from the Tryton products?

That's a very tough one to answer. In terms of the mix, if I can call it, is so much customer preference. We've often discussed here that the choice of even things like a dissolvable ball, dissolvable seats or whether you're going to use the Mongoose tool or a ball and seat system is dependent on the customers' engineering strategy, the formation, the depth, the temperature, [ph] sour (16:32) or not. And I think that's a – it would be sort of an impossible direct correlation to provide. That being said, I think it is probably an accurate statement to say that in the original data, a lot of work was more exclusive on drilling out seats. And as new technologies that are coming along, there's probably both less time and less total activity spent on that. [ph]

Right (17:00).

It comes down to learnings over the years, Jason. What used to take 10 days now may take five or seven days, and same with the technology, whether it's big bore MSFS or using dissolvable seats, again like Garnet mentioned, it comes down to reservoir, it comes down to pressure, and then more importantly it comes down to operator preference.

Right. Right. Okay. That's great. Thanks.

Thanks, Jason.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Kammermayer with Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh, hi, guys. Just on the Downhole Tools, so revenue up 13% here, with the majority of that driven the start-up in the U.S. and Canada was flat, or did you see some gains in Canada as well?

Yeah. Good morning, Steve. Our Canadian operations, I mean, the best place to go for your answer is on the – as we put in our MD&A on the quarter, where sort of an increase of our Multi-Stage as a split of our revenue at 55%, that's largely driven by Canadian Multi-Stage activity. The U.S. division is performing sort of as we expected, but it's not making a huge impact on our numbers yet.

Okay. And then maybe just back to the U.S. So as expected, so it was slightly cash flow negative in the quarter. When you see that turning, is that more back half of the year still or will we see that sooner do you think?

Yeah. My guess is again to be cash flow positive as we've stated for the year, 2Q would probably be I'm hoping somewhere near the breakeven small positive, small negative, and then the back half of the year we should start seeing some momentum.

Okay. And maybe just over to the conventional service rigs now and I guess coil as well. So you said it's very weaker here in the quarter, is there any pressure on pricing to-date or is that still sort of stable through Q1 here?

Well, we've been quite proud as you know for a long time to talk about the fact we're having that price reductions. In this market, there's no opportunity for pricing increases. Our position as a company at Essential continues to be that there isn't a benefit for any pricing reductions. We've heard stories, have been asked questions about competitors dropping prices, but I think they're trying to get into the market. The one that's interesting that we've talked a lot about internally is the conventional coil business on the deep side with that level of utilization. And from our point of view, we actually don't believe that given how the market is evolving and [indiscernible] (19:59) the conduct of competitors, we don't believe there would be any strategic advantage to reducing pricing at this time. But what competitors do out there is beyond our control.

Okay. Thanks. That's all I had, guys. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. The next question is from Scott Treadwell with TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. Maybe just to talk about the Tool business a little more. Looking in the notes to the financials, it looks like inventory in that segment's up round numbers 50% from a year ago and revenue is trending up but obviously not to that same extent. I'm just wondering, how much do you read into that as an expectation of future revenue kind of being linear and how much of that is just the fact that you're expanding your operation and you just need that more inventory and you're never going to get the same kind of turns out of it in the short term that you would've when it was just the Canadian operation?

Yeah. Good morning, Scott. Thanks for the question. And just smiling at our CFO, Allan, over there because it's been a long, long time since we've heard anybody's actually read the financial statement and asked the question. So, thanks for that [indiscernible] (21:18).

The inventory number is up, and to me the Tryton business inventory probably isn't as [indiscernible] (21:29) linear, as you might see in sort of a more retail type operation. There is a certain amount of bulk buying and sort of movements on that front. Certainly, the U.S. operation, we've been building up inventory for that that would be partially in the numbers. I also think the new products that we've talked about little bit, we're developing some new products and building up some inventory there as well.

So I would just say that we've got a longer-term strategic view of some strength in that business, but there is not a direct read on sort of inventory buildup that we're going to blow that out the door for sure in the next three months. It's more – we know we want to do in the next year and we get some bulges in our inventory numbers.

Okay. And then so there is some sort of product mix that's driving that as well as organic growth in the business?

Yeah. Don made a comment about that in the previous question that was asked about dissolvable balls and seats as we get into new technology and custom products. And one of the things that our tool management and sales team is extremely proud of is our ability to respond quickly and give quick turnarounds for customer requests and we wish they'd plan ahead long-term more than they do. But as introduce more products, we have to carry more inventory just to make sure we can respond quickly with customer needs.

Okay. Good. And my second question on the staffing side, you've got these new rigs that are coming into the fleet, obviously you probably got a pretty good complement of experience guys. I'm just wondering either at the entry level or staffing up rig managers and supes and superintendents for these new units, how the battle is going. And do you anticipate any issues or is continued growth not going to be constrained by labor in a moderate scale?

From our perspective Scott, we've got – because of the sheer size of our organization and the length of time that people have been with the organization going back even to Technicoil. We've got some real strong fellows that need to be promoted or need to be moved up the ranks. So from an experience perspective, I think we're well-suited for the capital program we have going forward the next couple of years, and it also gives us the ability to promote within our organization and show that there is some real good career opportunities in this new technology that we're doing.

So from a labor perspective, no, we're going end up having some new guys from [indiscernible] (24:17) stuff, but those are people that are very much welcome in our organization. From a leadership perspective, I think we're just fine.

Okay. Perfect. My last one is on pricing. And forgive me if you talked about this, I thought it was on the Tool side, but certainly in the completion pressure pumping side, there's been a lot of, I don't know if I'd say fully irrational but certainly somewhere south of logical pricing strategy specifically on the part of some of the U.S. players and some Canadian players too. I'm just wondering, has that spilled over into the coil tubing? Has it – it doesn't seem like it's gotten up as far as the masted stuff, but is it more of a supply/demand driven pricing dynamic or is there something maybe a little, as I said, south of logical going on with some of those competitors?

Well, I'll start with the masted side. And on the supply and demand assessment, we continue to believe that given where the industry is going with long reach horizontal, there is not enough supply of this large diameter long reach masted coil tubing, which is why we're adding the equipment. So that pricing we feel should remain sound. We've still seen, as I commented earlier, and experienced some what we would call irrational pricing decisions by our competitors. We think all that's doing is giving away margin, because supply and demand dynamics don't warrant price reductions. When we go to the conventional business, it's much more laced with – there's everything from private operators, smaller operators, again, the supply/demand balance there is more – the market is probably closer to saturated on the conventional side. But given the market dynamics and the nature of the competitors, we don't think we'll get more work by reducing pricing as the largest deep coil tubing player and the largest coil player in the industry in Canada. We think we've got a responsibility. We can actually read by example in pricing. So we don't have any intention to reduce our pricing, but I could see that happening over time on the conventional side if this utilization doesn't improve because I suspect our competitors are similarly suffering lower utilization.

Service rigs are – we're performing at the top of the heat in utilization at 53% for the quarter. That's not very attractive from an industry perspective. I still don't see a pressure there on pricing reductions, but if this turnaround team doesn't come and if private companies and competitors keep adding to the overall industry fleet, at some point you can be sure competitors will start reducing pricing. But we are not a price setter in service rigs, we're a taker, the large drilling companies with large service rig fleets really have to dictate that. And I think I've answered on the Tool side. It's for sure a competitive business but pricing isn't what drives activity there. It's purely sales and efficient operational delivery.

Okay. Appreciate the color, guys, and I promise I'll stop reading financial statements for the rest of the year.

Don't do that, Scott. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Greg Colman with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Oh, hey, guys. A lot of my questions are already answered. But just very quickly on the masted deep coil side there, I think if my count's here right, you're adding about five units over the course of the year and into early 2015. Just wondering what your read is on additional capacity coming in in the large diameter, deep masted, not for you but for any of your competitors.

Okay. Thanks, Greg. And first of all, I've – you know that Karen I sitting across me, always keeps me straight on the numbers, but she has given me the timelines, we're actually adding six units, supposed to – oh, 7 units is the latest. So I'll get you to talk to Karen after and double check your data on that.

So on the competitor front, I was going to tangent a little bit on that. That is a – it's a difficult one for us to get a handle on. And the industry group that puts out the coil tubing counts is a group called ICODA that many of you have heard me talk about before. And unfortunately, they don't differentiate between shallow huffs and puffs and conventional, masted, or anything else. And CAODC to-date doesn't recognize the coil business. So we're trying to work a way with that and the industry in general to try and get better data for you and the industry.

Our belief again is that there was quite a bit of equipment added in 2013, but a lot of it was conventional and a lot of it was again in this crowded sort of 2-inch market. In the masted side, there were some equipment added last year, but our understanding, the best we can tell is there's probably less equipment other than what Essential has coming online from an industry perspective that will be added in 2014 compared to 2013. We don't know that for sure, but there's only so many places to go and get these equipments built.

And as people know, we use NOV Hydra Rig. So we've got a good rapport there and can talk to them about newbuilds, and then we've got the build spot all locked up for this Gen IV equipments out of our Option Industries in Drayton Valley. And to our knowledge, there's another supplier in the U.S. that some of our competitors are using, and we don't have an active relationship there so I can't comment. But that's my overview, and, Don, you got time [ph] so I turn to you (30:15).

That's just right. Yeah.

Okay. Thanks very much and also for setting me right on the number of new rigs coming. And, Karen, I'll check the numbers or make sure they're good. Just moving a little bit over onto the Tryton growth side, a lot of questions earlier, good ones there. Just wondering, focusing it on your Canadian growth on the Tryton, is it primarily coming from an increase in customer list or an increase in market share from your existing customers?

Yeah. Thanks. That's a tough one to answer, but it's probably been a combination. We've seen and we've made comments before about customer change. And as we're reading E&P results and see the faith of some of our customers change. We've in a few cases seen customer transition where we've expanded with certain customers, others have stopped spending as actively, and in different times we benefit from and get caught by those customer transitions. The equity raises that went on at the end of the 2013 in some cases can work out workout favorably for us. In other cases, some of our favorite customers are on that list of people actively raising money. So it's been both great and that's the nature of the beast with that business.

Okay. So, I mean, just chilling down a little bit more. 13% sequential left is, did you get kind of each customer on average increasing by 13 times or were you adding a couple more – couple few names there to the list that you're working for?

I would say that the increase that we saw in Q4 was a bit more lumpy as opposed to broad based.

Fair enough. On the lumpy side, do you have a region that's kind of the highest concentration for your Tryton activity, a region or two?

I mean, we've always been proud going back to the sort of history on that business, that whole on the conventional side, we feel very proud and confident that we have a good solid ownership of that Lloydminster heavy oil areas where that business started. We got very sound operations in the Grand Prairie, Whitecourt, Fox Creek area which is obviously with the Montney development and all that's going on there, a very popular area. As you look at our map, that's probably the best way to go, but I don't have any reports of areas that are sort of shut out. We obviously used to have operations in Brooks and Medicine Hat that were strong, and that's an area that would be less strong for our Tool business these days.

Greg, it all depends kind of where the plays are, and they will change just as the customers change as well. So it's kind of a dynamic business in that regard.

Okay. Great. That's it from me. Thanks a lot, everybody.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeff Fetterly with Peters & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, all. On the rental side, can you split up performance or commentary specific to the rental business versus the Downhole business in Q4 both sequentially and year-over-year?

Sure, we could but we don't. And intentionally, I'm not trying to just be a smart out, but we've blended in with our conventional tool business as you know, conventional and rentals. And part of the reason is there's even a rental component to the freight and conventional business. And then some time ago, we actually moved that rental business underneath the Tryton leadership group. So they're very much thinking and move together.

Some additional commentary on the rental business side I can throughout is it used to be very much – those of you who've participated in our – been out to our field operations very much a specialty pipe handling, and tubulars business, and we have been transitioning that business over the last year and a half or so into some of the BOP and pressure equipment on the Well Servicing side, and that's been a – transitionally it takes some time, but it's changing the dynamic of the business, and it continues to meet expectations, but it's – to me, that business has growth potential. It's a higher-margin business, but we haven't seen that business break out yet, and that's still to come as we go through this transition. So I hope that helps, Jeff.

Let me ask it in a different way. We've heard commentary from a number of the other companies that have reported Q4 in terms of weakness around their rental businesses in Canada. Is that something you guys have also seen in the context of, I guess, the core [indiscernible] (35:09) business?

No. I don't think we've – I would describe it more as flatness than weakness. And we're – as you can tell from my initial comments, we're expecting – we would like to see some growth in that business, and we expect it as we get this whole BOP operation going, but nothing notable for us in terms of weakness sort of in Q4.

Okay. Your comment earlier on the pricing side, just to clarify, so you have seen on the deep masted, in the deep masted business, you have seen some selective pricing, pricing pressure or competitive response?

Yeah. I wouldn't probably use either of those terms because pricing pressure would be implying a customer would be standing in front of a [indiscernible] (36:04) that is bid from ex-company and we want you to match it and drop it. If you believe, as I do, the supply and demand dynamics, I often use the term that our customers as they should be are inherently selfish and they want the best equipment and the best operators of that equipment and they want it when they want it. And if we can provide that, which we will as with our experienced crews and the iron we are adding, we will continue to work with those companies. But on the other hand, competitors as they're entering this marketplace or trying to establish market share, that's one way to do it is to offer pricing.

We have a disadvantage as well as the largest and the public company that we are, we've got information out there that allows our competitors to take a look very clearly at what we're doing and see how we're pricing where we're going, and it makes it just easier for them to slightly underprice us to get work. We don't think that's smart from a business perspective, and we don't expect that will alter our strategy in the foreseeable future.

Some of the aggressive pricing you are seeing, is that very project or customer specific or is there another driver that you potentially see there?

I don't know if I have anything else I can add to that. I mean, I think I've been asked the question and I haven't seen evidence of this in terms of other results, but if you folks of your peers have been in conversations with other companies or picked up information elsewhere and have asked our views on pricing pressure in the deep coil market and I've given my answer on that and I stand by that view.

Okay. And just to clarify your comment in terms of capacity additions, you guys expect broadly that there will be fewer masted CT units added in 2014 when compared to 2013?

Based again with my caveat of there is no good data out there based on our understanding unless there's some massive import program coming in from the U.S. that I don't see coming, and there's also we know from our own experience, there's a limit on how many of these can be put together and crude in sequence. So I could be surprised your professional analysts you probably have better information on competitor data than I do.

Okay. Two last things. SAGD-wise, you've commented on the strength of the workover business for SAGD. Are you guys expecting or targeting to add any more of the conventional over work rigs into the SAGD market in 2014?

We had a smart capital program, actually had an additional three units delivered in 2013. So we have the capability to expand the business, and I guess what I can say to you on that is that we will continue to expand and continue to market those rigs as SAGD rigs. And I can't really tell you how it's going to turn out, but I believe we're fairly confident in our abilities in providing a great service and more importantly doing it safely within the customers that we have in that group right now.

The three SAGD units you commented on in the release and MD&A, are those newbuilds that went into that market or is that some of the legacy rigs that transitioned to that market?

One was a legacy rig. The other two are new fit for purpose.

Okay. Last thing, just a modeling question, I apologize if I missed it in the MD&A, but do you have coil tubing hours for the conventional fleet? I know you've disclosed for the deep and masted fleet?

Yeah. And we do have that information, but you see we're gradually changing our disclosure. We felt some need to – we kept all of our deep fleet together and we've gradually put out a bit of information on the deep conventional versus deep masted. I'm going to go back to this competitive comment, and in our view, that's as much information as we're going to throw out there in the public because I don't think it's not helping our investors to get any information, and it appears we've got enough information come our way that a lot of our data on the coil side certainly is being probably studied overly by our competitors. So we're very cautious about that.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Elana, and thank you for joining us today. Have a good day.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.