Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Secretary, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Results Conference Call and webcast. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Mary. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development; and Allan Mowbray, CFO.

This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our third quarter results, speak to the outlook and then we will open the line for questions. In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our November 9, 2016, third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impact. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions please refer to our November 9, 2016, third quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning. I'll apologize in advance if you hear coughing at some point on the call; it's me and just recovering from a bug. Yesterday we reported revenue of $30 million and EBITDAS of $1.3 million for the third quarter 2016. Results are obviously below the same quarter of 2015 but a nice improvement from Q2 2016. It is notable that revenue for Q3 2016 was similar to Q1 at about $30 million. But thanks to the second round of cost reductions implemented earlier in the year we improved to a positive EBITDAS in Q3 compared to the loss in Q1.

It is also encouraging that we did not experience much further service price degradation from what saw up unit Q2 2016. This is a good indication that perspectives are improving or stabilizing with customers and competitors. I'm not ready to begin talking about the potential for service price increase as yet. But I am hopeful that we are beginning to see pricing stabilized and activity build. $1.3 million in EBITDAS exceeded Essential's minimum EBITDAS bank covenant of $1 million for the three-month period ended September 30. This allows us to apply the proceeds from our recent equity financing as an equity cure in the calculation of EBITDAS for our financial covenants in the next four quarters, starting with Q4 2016.

This is a significant advantage to Essential, should the downturn continue through 2017. Essential is onside with respect to all bank covenants. Essential's $10.4 million equity issue closed on October 12. I would like to personally welcome all of our new shareholders and offer my appreciation to existing shareholders who participated in the offering. Proceeds from the offering were used to reduce bank debt. Debt is now $22 million which is one of the lowest absolute debt levels amongst publicly traded oilfield service companies.

We also have additional unused borrowing capacity to ensure we are prepared for growth as the sector strengthens. I'll now speak in detail about our service lines. Coil well service revenue was $14 million, a 43% decrease from Q3 2015. Most of this reduction was driven by lower industry activity as well completions slowed. In the quarter, we had higher operating hours and utilization from our Generation III and Generation IV coil rigs, working primarily for customers in the Bakken, Montney and Duvernay regions on long-reach horizontal wells.

Two additional rigs working in the current quarter contributed to the increased operating hours. Service rig revenue of $4 million was also 43% lower than Q3 2015. This service line suffered a 20% pricing reduction compared to Q3 2015. Limited industry activity, excess industry equipment and aggressive competition drove this pricing pressure. Well servicing gross margin which includes both coil and service rigs was 10% in the quarter. While lower than Q3 2015, cost reductions implemented earlier in 2016 partially offset the impact of lower revenue.

Our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment reported $12 million of revenue, 23% lower than Q3 2015. We were pleased with the performance and resiliency of this business. Q3 2016 revenue from our multi-stage fracturing system was the strongest we have seen in the last three quarters due to drilling and completion activity of a few key customers. The conventional tools business showed improvements in an extremely competitive environment in which work is still going to bid for even the smallest of jobs. Gross margin for this division was 18% in Q3 2016 lower than Q3 2015 but a very reasonable margin in this tough environment. Margins dropped in the current quarter as service pricing declines more than offset cost reductions implemented earlier in the year.

Now some comments about capital. Near the end of the third quarter, we were advised by Option Industries, the fabricator of the remaining two Generation IV coil tubing rigs, that they would not be able to complete the rigs within the planned delivery time nor within the contractual price. Given Option's history of cost overruns, delivery delays and Essential's recent concerns with their ability to complete the project, we concluded that we could not provide further funds to Option to have them complete the rigs.

Essential's exposure of equipment in progress under the Option contract included the two remaining Generation IV rigs and deposits paid on two additional rigs that we had previously deferred. Essential estimates that the cumulative value of assets and equipment in Option's possession was approximately $13 million. As our investors know this build program was already significantly delayed from our original expectations.

As a result, Essential made the decision to discontinue our business relationship with Option and negotiate settlement of the contract. A settlement agreement was executed on November 6, 2016. Under the terms of the settlement, Essential has taken possession of the rigs and related equipment in exchange for a payment of approximately $400,000 to settle and terminate the contract.

Essential is currently conducting a complete evaluation of all equipment, parts and components received. The evaluation will include inventory verification, assessment of percentage of completion, remaining costs and a timeline to bring the two rigs into service. We have identified an alternate coil tubing fabricator to assist in the evaluation and completion of these Generation IV units. The first of the rigs, rig 2050 has been delivered to the new fabricator in Calgary for assessment and completion. The second rig has been taken to a [ph] rig graveyard (08:48) and will be later assessed for costs to complete and for potential assessment of timing. We've also considered industry conditions and market demand for our existing fleet as we determine the appropriate timeline for completion of this second rig.

Our capital spending budget for 2016 has accordingly been increased to $12 million from $11 million. The increase reflects the estimated deposits that we anticipate will be paid to the new fabricator to complete rig 2050 and it includes the acquisition of incremental rental drill pipe for our Downhole Tools & Rentals division. Full incremental cost to complete both rig 2050 and the second rig will be available once our assessment is complete. These costs will be incorporated into our 2017 capital budget when that is announced.

Finally, a few comments on the outlook, in the fourth quarter we are seeing signs of industry improvement driven by stronger commodity prices and higher drilling rig utilization. Beyond Q4 2016, visibility is limited until more E&P companies announce their 2017 capital budget. Recent weakening of oil prices has again created concerns. For Essential, activity has improved in Q4 2016. Customer interest and enquiries have increased. If this continues due to staffing reductions earlier in the year, we could become constrained in our ability to supply equipment in the short-term. Since the end of Q1 2016, we have increased our employee count by 30% from about 343 to about 440 at the end of October. And we are continuing to hire in Q4 2016 in anticipation of a busier winter season.

For perspective, keep in mind that we were close to 1,000 employees when we entered this downturn a couple years ago. Unfortunately service pricing continues to be an issue. While it appears that prices may have bottomed in Q3 2016 and at this point are remaining stable, with the excess amount of equipment in the industry, activity increases need to be more consistent before pricing increases can be proposed to and accepted by our customers.

As mentioned at the beginning of the call, Essential's recent equity offering addressed near-term bank covenant concerns. This is an advantage to Essential and allows time for oil and natural gas supply and demand dynamics to equalize. Hopefully service pricing opportunities will develop in early 2017 to a level where Essential can once again achieve fair and reasonable margins.

Mary, at this time we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Scott Treadwell from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks, morning everyone. Garnet, I wanted to pick up on your sort of final comments there on pricing. When you look at coil versus jointed pipe rig or well servicing, do you see a meaningful disconnect in the pricing? Maybe not relative to where it was but in terms of how far away the industry is from providing, at least acceptable returns, if not attractive.

Good morning, Scott. Thanks for the question. I think we've been pretty clear for a while the most what I would call severe and intense pricing reductions have occurred in the service rig business. And I think there is probably the greatest surplus of equipment in that service line. And you also have the complexity that we've often said service rigs will typically work within 200 kilometers or 300 kilometers at their home base, so you end up with geographical isolation as well. So I think the pricing is going to be very slow to come back on service rigs.

Our coil as we know, with us having a dominant position in Canada in terms of equipment count and specialty equipment and the sort of pure volume of equipment in competition with us, isn't as significant as service rigs. We should move along a pattern a lot more similar to I'll say the excitement that's happening with the frackers. We've been reading and talking to them and noticing some of them are having I'll say moderate success [audio gap] (14:15-14:20) with mixed reviews but they're trying and in some cases it's sticking. Coil should follow along behind that and if the completion activity for the frackers goes coil is often directly involved. So we would see coil picking up certainly sooner and in a more dramatic fashion than service rigs. Does that answer your question?

It does. Yes, perfect. The second one was with labor. Can you maybe first of all give me a sense, how fungible the labor is between service rigs and coil? I mean I'm sure there's some skill set differentiation, but maybe at the lower end of the crew you can hire the same guy to do either system.

Sure. I'm not going to try and define the word fungible. That was a good one. That was a hard one for me. But the labor pool itself within the oilfield service market, there is some crossover. And we have over the years, especially with how coil in the completion side has replaced some of the work that service rigs were doing, we have successfully transitioned service rig hands into the coil market. I think the industry overall speaking for energy services we're just suffering fundamentally a shortage pool overall in service rigs coil. And the frackers, I believe, would say this as well.

Whereas the downturn has gone on, two things have happened. People have either left the industry in frustration or moved on to a different profession or a different trade or in some cases they're on either some form of UI or have gone back to a distant location like the East Coast or further away province. And unless we can demonstrate that we have steady work, they don't want to go through the personal disruption or the cost to come back to Western Canada. So that's where my comment on steadiness of work will help.

What we've noticed right now, a phenomenon that is a bit scary and a few of you picked up on it in your reports is because there is a shortage of available workers, all of us who are seeing this slight pickup in the industry are quite hungry to both hold onto our existing good people and attract new people. And it's created a bit of a wage increase problem short-term in order to attract folks. And if we're not getting the price increases and we're having to pay more for labor that's just bad for business from a margin perspective. And we're certainly hoping our customers quickly become aware of this dilemma. And it's not a good thing if we're absorbing additional costs and not seeing prices. So history would say that will eventually fix itself.

Okay, perfect. Last one from me. You mentioned the purchase of drill pipe and continue off the drillers on this. It sounds like the spec on drill pipe has changed and that may give rise to some opportunities for rental drill strings to become get into demand maybe before you would have thought. Can you just give us a lay of the land? Obviously, you're spending some capital there so you see something. How do you see that playing out here in the short-term?

Sure, so it's Don here Scott. On the drill pipe side of things you actually are correct. With the longer reach lateral sections in excess of 6,000 meters, what we found is there's a big demand for high torque drill pipe which can handle the stresses involved in drilling those long lateral sections. They're quite expensive strings and I know that from a drilling contractor perspective, some have the cash others don't. So it's put us in a bit of a good position as far as being able to provide additional drill strings where the contract drillers have not been able to afford those capital expenditures.

Okay and....

Sorry, Scott. I was just going to say we're also being pretty careful in this market. You know we've got a lot of pipe on hand that isn't going out, so when we're buying incremental strings like this, you can be sure there's a lot of internal questions to say, this pipe is going out right. We've got customers lined up so and we've been encouraged with how well that's worked.

Okay, the only other follow-up on that was just, how do you see your supply chain in talking to distributors and pipe mills especially for the high torque, high grade pipe that maybe haven't been in big production for a long time.

Sure. Actually a lot of it is brand new stuff, Scott. So and it ranges in heavyweight drill pipe from a manufacturing perspective, they're all still being built in the same area. So I would assume that that there will be some additional demand for that in the future. We're just going to keep our finger on the pulse as far as how big that demand will be.

Okay, perfect that's all I've got, I really appreciate the color guys. I'll turn it back.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you. The next question is from Brian Purdy from PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Brian.

I just want to ask about the equipment that was due to be delivered that's now delayed. I'm just wondering if you have a feeling for when it will come back into the market and if you think there is demand for that. I mean obviously it's a dynamic situation. It sounds like demand is picking up, just wondering if and how you get that new coil into the market and I guess how things or what your confidence level is with the new manufacturer.

Yeah so I just want to make sure I understand your question, Brian. Specifically when you talk about getting new equipment into the market, you're talking specifically about the two rigs with Option?

Yes, the deep masted coil. Yes.

Sure. So our comment first of all around getting into the market, so we've got four of those rigs sort of available. And I would say that's enough for – and we've got the Gen IIIs and the Gen IVs, so that gives us seven. So given the current market demand we determined that it's not like we're missing work by slowing the completion of the build down for these two remaining units. The one rig 2050 was actually – for us to say that we sort of grabbed our stuff and hooked it up and drove away. It was really done for the most part in a day and half. So things are, especially for the one rig fairly well assembled, but there's a lot of just hydraulic electrical work to be done and some of the technical finish.

We just, you can imagine in the example we've used internally it's like a home build situation, lot of that went on in Calgary in the last few years. If you're 80% or 90% done you're home and you dump your builder and bring somebody else in. They want to take some time and go over what's already been done before they proceed and go forward.

So the other trick that we run into is with our shortage of crews. We say we don't need to panic and rush to get this stuff out. If sort of the bottleneck is not equipment, it's crews right now. So we're going to not panic, turn it over to the fabricator from a [ph] guess (21:55) perspective. I think it'd be unlikely, we'd see that first rig come out in Q1, so and Q2's break up, so our target would be to have it ready probably for the third quarter of 2017 when we go back into a busier period.

And then the second rig, like I said in the formal comments it's really a matter of assessing the capital, looking at supply and demand and we perhaps have the opportunity to delay it and time it in a way that's favorable to us because we're no longer under a contract timing.

Okay, great and then, I just wanted to clarify one of your previous comments there. It sounded like you've been increasing wages, but prices have not yet been going up. Do you potentially see margins shrinking before they expand again?

Yeah, I think if – this was a surprise to us in the current quarter and it's a good thing. We all saw what we saw in Q2, but there has been in our opinion a change in labor dynamics during the third quarter period up to today's date, over that period in terms of supply and demand and wages. And so, yes quite simply, we believe pricing has bottomed, but isn't increasing and yes, we have had to incur wage increases. So by definition that will create short-term margin compression.

And when I look at a lot of the companies in sort of servicing and well completions and I look at the negative cash flow in the third quarter of a number of our service company peers out there. People are struggling and it seems a little bit crazy that we're fighting over labor but that is in fact what's happening.

Okay, with that type of situation in mind is the pricing conversation much easier to have and do you see yourselves as being able to push pricing in like specialized area like deep masted coil or do you have to wait for prices in general across the industry to improve?

Well I hate to sound less bold than my fracking service company pals out there, but I don't think we're in any position to push anything on a producer yet in this marketplace. We are still very much in environment where there's a smaller number of key companies and you know who they are that are driving the Western Canadian oil patch today. And if those guys are frankly good enough to us to keep giving us steady work and we can provide the services, we're in there doing our best to explain to them both, our business proposition, technology, leading edge service, delivery, safety and we're offering them the prices that we've always offered them but also explaining to them the difficulty with our business model.

What happens, the dynamic that happens next as other companies come into the situation beyond that sort of core of big companies that have been spending steadily and they start looking for a rig and we say, one we don't have a rig available or two, we got a rig, but we don't have crews. That starts to frustrate them and get in the way of their personal plans or their publicly committed plans in the marketplace. And they go what are we going to do about this and that's when discussion starts saying, well with a little more price, we can then go out and try and get these people. But for the whole industry that's only going to work for so long then frankly you're just out of bodies.

So I think the producers need to become aware of this, but maybe and as you said in our deep coil is probably the only place we can consider being a little strong on price. But a company the size of Essential we've got to look to others generally to lead this situation and drive price changes and we typically are, at our size a little more of a price follower than a price leader.

Okay and then final question. I just wanted to ask about how you would see margins in this environment in Q4. If prices haven't really moved yet, you're seeing a bit of pressure on the labor side, do you think your margin percentage could increase if you had higher volumes ,which it looks like you're going to get in Q4.

Yeah. I think we've done a fair bit of work before and [ph] shone out a (26:51) rule of thumb number that, from a contribution margin point of view, which is our revenue less our variable costs, we typically, we've determined that we've got about 70% of our cost base is variable cost. So what happens then and this is what I'll say some competitors have really fed off is in the service rig side, you can just completely lowball price, drive up your utilization and then assuming you can do that, you've got more absolute dollars to pay off your fixed cost thus giving you a better margin. But as soon as others try to do that, which inevitably you can see that happening in service rigs, you can go across the board and watch everybody now dropping the prices to try to, I'll say de-grade to one competitor that was leading price dropping and all that's doing is just pushing the whole sector down. There isn't going to be enough absolute work for everybody to get that additional margin.

So it's a real tricky game and I think, pricing has nowhere to go but up, I think. We can't keep going in this fashion and then a lot of us feel we've done all the cost cutting we can and that's probably where I'm at Brian. I think if we get activity to pick up here in Q4 and Q1, it will give us more contribution margin to apply against our fixed cost base and then yeah, we do get a stronger margin.

Looking ahead, which no one has asked to things like this carbon tax coming on in 2017 that's going to be exactly the same effect. Government officials and others who can't see this, it's a direct hit to our margin, makes us less profitable, less competitive and I don't know what some of our peers are doing. We have not yet entertained the pass through discussion with our customers, but they're going to have their own carbon tax issue, so they may or may not be receptive to that. But once again we've got to hopefully as a sector be able to have that discussion where carbon tax is a pure hit to margin.

Okay, great. Thanks for that. [Operator Instructions]

the next question is from [ph] Dan Healing (29:15) from The Canadian Press. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I just had a clarification on the labor front. You said that you wanted to hire more staff, how many more staff will you need, do you think?

Good morning, Dan. It's Garnet. Yeah I think our current plans so we've gone up as we said by about 100 staff from our low point in March. Our plan right now is to probably add another 40 to 50 staff, so it's not sort of huge in numbers but from a percentage point of view, it's a significant increase. The difficulty that we have of course is, we have to make the commitment to the staff first bring them on board and carry that cost and those guys, a lot of their income is based on them actually going to work. So one of our fears is if, the sector isn't picking up, one that we'll absorb that cost and two, if those guys don't get out in the field and actually get to work they're not going to make the money that they're hoping and they'll hit the road again. It's basically a false start for them and we really can't take that hit again as an industry.

Okay and you mentioned that some of the wages are coming up recently. Did the wages go down in the last couple of years, when staff counts were dropping?

Yeah we really, I'll say unfortunately were hard on our staff but I hope, fair on our staff in terms of explaining what we were doing. We actually reduced wages a couple times both at the corporate level, we did suspended bonuses, we rolled back salaries and we did that twice in sort of two years the downturn has been on. For the hourly guys, to add insult to injury, they had significantly less hours and then we actually rolled back their hourly wages as well and so they're working far less and then when they do work, they got less. So what we've tried to do is, reinstate the hourly wage to what we think current market conditions are, but the hourly folks unlike a salaried person still bears that risk that if they're not out there working in the field, they don't have income.

Okay, was the wage rolled back by a certain percentage or how did that work?

Yes it was and I know you'd as a news person, you'd love to get that [audio gap] (31:52). We're holding back on saying anything about that because I know there's both customers and competitors listening to these calls and I'd rather just keep that between ourselves and our employees, but thanks for asking.

Okay, thanks very much.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Mary and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.