Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Secretary, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Director - Institutional Research, Oilfield Services, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please standby, your conference is ready to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Fourth Quarter and Year-End Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Mary. Good morning and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Corporate. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our fourth quarter results, speak to the outlook, and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDAS. Please see our March 4, 2015 fourth quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements.

Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our March 4, 2015 fourth quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning and thank you for joining us. Yesterday, we were pleased to report CAD 22 million of EBITDAS for the fourth quarter and CAD 68 million for 2014. Both were slightly higher than their prior year comparatives.

2014 was generally a good year for Essential. Our fourth quarter was strong until the month of December when the falling price of oil began to impact customer activity and the demand for our services.

I will now speak about fourth quarter business results for each of our service lines and then offer my outlook for the first quarter of 2015, including the steps Essential has taken to deal with current industry conditions.

Revenue from Coil Well Service was CAD 41 million, a 15% increase over Q4 2013. We had incremental revenue from our new masted rigs and operating hours for the masted fleet were 19% higher than Q4 2013.

Our fluid and nitrogen pumpers, which support the coil operation, also contributed greater revenue, with a 26% increase in operating hours. Masted coil utilization was 104% for the quarter. Service rig utilization in the quarter was 49%, this was down slightly from Q4 2013, but still ahead of industry utilization. Well servicing gross margin, which includes both coil well service and service rigs, was up CAD 1.1 million from Q4 2013, due to higher revenue from coil well service and reduced labor costs. Compared to Q4 2013, we realized labor efficiencies from better crew management as the new masted coil rigs were put into service. Overall, revenue per hour for coil well service and service rigs was consistent with Q4 2013.

Our Downhole Tools & Rentals segment performed well in the quarter, with revenue increasing 14% from Q4 2013. Tryton MSFS tools, Conventional Tools & Rentals, each contributed to the increase. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was lower in Q4 2014 and Q4 2013, due to year-end inventory adjustments. These adjustments reflect a second half transition to new inventory processes and systems. We've now completed implementation of our new Canadian tools inventory system and don't anticipate any further adjustments.

Gross margin was higher in Q4 2014 and for the full-year. This reflects revenue growth from our U.S. operations and Q4 2013 margins were impacted by initial startup costs. In addition, there was increased activity from Essential's higher margin rentals business, from the rental specialty drill pipe used on long reach horizontal wells. Results for the Downhole Tools & Rentals segment for the full-year reflect a nice recovery after the challenging first quarter.

Now a few comments on our impairment loss on goodwill and intangibles. Our fourth quarter results included three impairment charges related to our Well Servicing segment. First, goodwill of CAD 44 million, and intangibles of CAD 3 million, and a write-down of our conventional coil tubing equipment of CAD 2 million related to our decision to retire 12 older conventional coil tubing rigs in the fourth quarter.

The goodwill impairment related to our coil and service rig operations, the intangible impairment related only to service rigs. The impairment reflects the near-term impact that the low oil price may have on Essential's cash flow and activity. Management does not believe that this is a statement on the quality of Essential as a business, or Essential's long-term prospects.

Now some comments with regard to capital. In January we announced our 2015 capital budget of CAD 21 million, including CAD 13 million of growth capital and CAD 8 million of maintenance capital. That remains unchanged. The growth capital is focused on our masted coil tubing build program with four additional rigs expected by mid-2016. We expect to have three Generation III and six Generation IV masted coil tubing rigs by mid-2016. Due to industry activity, in January 2015, we announced the decision to defer 3 of the 12 rigs in the original build program.

Now moving to the outlook. In the first quarter of 2015, demand for our services has fallen, reflecting the impact that low commodity prices are having on the oilfield services sector. For Essential, all of our service lines have been impacted by lower activity and pricing pressure, with service rigs being hit the hardest. While March was a strong month in 2014 that is not expected to be the case in 2015. For the year, industry activity is expected to be much weaker than 2014.

Given the circumstances, Essential has taken proactive steps to manage costs and spending. We've implemented a number of initiatives, including a 20% reduction in the cash compensation for our board of directors, salary rollbacks effective March 2015 for all of our salaried employees including 20% rollbacks for the executives, suspending various benefits and incentive programs for our employees and discretionary spending reductions in all areas, including consulting, advertising, promotion and administrative costs. Unfortunately, despite the cost reduction initiatives that we've taken, layoffs will still be necessary in Calgary and the [ph] field (00:08:13). We expect to have these completed by the end of March, so that our first quarter results will bear the cost of employee severance.

We anticipate annualized fixed cost savings from these initiatives of approximately CAD 10 million. Certain costs and incentives and the result from the savings by dependant on industry activity and Essential's revenue, which could increase or decrease compared to what was expected in determining this savings number. I want to acknowledge that our board and management realize the implications of the downturn to all of our stakeholders. First, our shareholders, many of whom have lost considerable value with the decline in the oil price – I'm sorry, in the share price; our employees, through salary, benefits and incentives, rollbacks and reductions and layoffs, many of our employees are also shareholders; our customers, whose revenue has directly impact by the falling price of oil and our suppliers who will also be impacted by less spending in the industry and to whom we're asking for price concessions.

Our management team and board successfully navigated through the last downturn and we're drawing on that experiences, we make decisions to work through this current downturn. Fortunately, we entered the downturn with a very strong balance sheet, and our focus on maintaining that strength. Our debt at March 4, 2015 was CAD 44 million. We anticipate a very slow second quarter as we approach breakup. With our cost reduction steps being implemented in the first quarter, we anticipate this will mitigate the negative impact of weak second quarter results.

Mary, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Jason.

Good morning.

So, I guess, first question for Garnet. Just on the deep coil site, Garnet, just want to get a sense of what you're seeing in terms of demand for the new units for the new Gen III and the two new Gen IV units that you received in 2014. Are all four of those units or rigs working in Q1? And can you give me a sense or give us a sense of maybe what the demand picture looks like for those four units, specifically, are guys calling trying to lock those up for Q3, Q4?

Yeah. Lots of parts to your question. I'll try and take them, one piece at a time. So, as noted in my general comments about Q1, things have gone, I'll say, all right in January and February, but the coil division has probably been the strongest of our operating divisions here so far in Q1. And the – I'll say, the demand for specific rigs, I probably can't really comment on that as much as saying, we take a look at the customer request and offer what they need for what they're doing.

The specific Gen III and Gen IV equipment, we're still working a way, the Gen IIIs have been, I'll say, working successfully. The Gen IVs, we're still being doing a little bit of tweaking on our technology in Q1, but to the extent, the demand hasn't been that high. Overall, we haven't had to sort of disappoint a customer, I guess, is the way I would say it.

Looking forward to Q3 and Q4, we really don't have a lot of clarity on post breakup. We've had a few customers approach us now happily with a small amount of work that they're interested in starting once breakup conditions pick up in Q2.

And, in fact, we've still been going along here in March with our deep coil as well, with some work, and that's a better outlook than I would have expected even six weeks ago. So, we're just playing it by year, and I can't really give you any comment between Gen II, Gen IIIs, Gen IVs, because it's quite customer-specific.

Okay. No problem. That's great. And then, just in terms of pricing for the deep coil and the service rigs, looks like Q4, you didn't really see a whole lot of pricing cuts, I think you said pricing was pretty much flat year-over-year. So, what are you seeing in Q1 here in terms of pricing for the deep coil and the service rigs, specifically?

Yeah. I mean, my comment in the formal script probably said that all that it's been all over the media and probably no surprise, we're under tremendous pricing pressure and that's been clear from the customers. The letters have been flowing in there, they're talking about it publicly, and I would say that a 10% pricing cut is probably the starting point, and then there's lots of different circumstances with our customer relationships, but there are others asking for more than that. And depending on – we have to, like any other service company, we look at our economics, the volume of work, our long-term relationship with that customer and decide whether we're going to proceed on that basis or not.

Between service rigs and coil, service rigs are definitely taking it on the chin, the hardest of any of our services. And I've spoken about this quite openly before too. I think, in the last two years, there has been so much new equipment added. You can even see the – at Q1 the industry utilization isn't what it should be and that's allowing customers to really put the boots to the service companies on reducing prices. So, 10% is probably going to be light on the service rigs side.

Our deep coil business, we've got a little bit of an advantage there, as many of you on the analysts side have pointed out, there isn't a lot of direct competitors to what we do, it gives us a little of strength, but we have to respond compassionately to what's happened to our customers on their oil price and revenue reductions and we have to drop our price accordingly, that's the masted side. The conventional side is very difficult. It's like the service rig business, there is too much of that equipment out there and too many operators on the service side willing to just completely drop their pricing, so that business is really struggling in Q1.

Okay, great. And then, just on the Downhole Tools business, it looks like you had another good quarter here in Q4, similar to Q3 for the MSFS tools. Just wanted to know if you had any – if you could give us some specifics in terms of demand in the quarter, was it mainly for the ball & seat products or did you see a nice uptick in demand for some of the new products like the MaxFrac tool or the Viking system?

Yeah. Thanks for that question. So, our breakdown on sort of Q4 2014 to Q4 2013 is, the sort of growth or improvement was two things. Our ball & seat multistage system revenue increased, so that was good to see, because you guys have pointed out that's been a little bit up and down, and still very much a big part of our story. Our new tools still have not gained the traction we would have liked to see. We believe we're highly competitive and ready to go, just in a difficult market, we find our customers tend to stay with what they're comfortable with and it's harder to penetrate and get customers to experiment in a low cost difficult market like this.

The U.S. operations, we commented in our growth in revenue, they have been steadily growing that business. As we talked about, it was primarily set up to do conventional work. We've now introduced some – we've talked about our MaxFrac tool and we have some MaxFrac jobs in the U.S. which help to grow the revenue. And so, that was a positive thing. And conventional tools, period-over-period, revenue was relatively flat, so those guys continue to turn out good numbers.

Okay. Can you remind me, do you also have the ball & seat and the Viking system going in the U.S. or it's just the MaxFrac?

Just the MaxFrac at this point, Jason.

Okay, perfect. Okay. Thanks. That's it from me.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh, hi, guys. Just on the masted deep coil. So, we've seen about a 40% decline in active drilling rigs Western Canada here Q1. Has your masted deep coil utilization come down in line with that or are you seeing maybe that stuff display some other conventional service rigs?

Yeah. Good morning, Steve. Our masted division, as it always has with its utilization compared to service rigs, has outperformed and we expect that trend so far as continued as you would expect in January and February. There has definitely been a slowdown, but there is – that business for sort of a happy spot for us, coil well service is doing quite well on the masted and pumping side. But overall, as we commented with service rigs, it's hard to outperform industry in that group.

Okay, okay. And then, maybe just on the dividend. So, I mean, if activity sort of stays where it is 40% decline in 2015, on our numbers anyway, it looks like your payout ratio for that dividend will be close to 40%. Is that a number you're comfortable with or do you have a payout ratio that's just target before taking a look at that dividend?

Well. First of all, I got to give you credit, Steve, for trying. And, I think, what you meant to start with is, it was great to see you guys approve your dividend in this market for the one we just announced, but unfortunately that's probably as far as it's safe for me to go in this market, given how difficult it is for us to see what the outlook is. But I think we've done a great job at, I'll say, setting the table for people with CAD 44 million debt level. This time of year, we also expect working capital to come in as we enter 2Q, that brings our debt down further. And from there, it's really a board decision based on sort of a long-term outlook and how the board would like to deploy capital.

So, we really can't commit beyond what we've already approved on the dividend. But I think our financial metrics in terms of strength are one of the best companies out there right now on the oilfield services side.

Okay, okay. So, there is no sort of that target payout ratio that you are looking at then, it's sort of just play it by year, I guess, or by quarter?

Well, the difficulty is, you could – I could throw out a number, but there are so many unknowns on the components of cash flow and revenue outlook. I can give you a bit of color on that that we – because of our experience in 2009 and the executive team here has been around the oil patch now for, most of us, for over 30 years. So, you basically look at worst case scenarios, possibilities, try to talk to your customers, but we have – from our largest shareholders, I think, our mandate is pretty clear. People like to receive the dividend. They're happy if we're getting the dividend out there to them and not reducing it, but at the same time, don't sort of jeopardize the health of the company.

And we've done a lot of work and I'm going to give a lot of credit to our employees, people have taken it on the chin hard in terms of the costing cutting, and it's to keep Essential long-term in a health place, so we can grow again in the future. So, there's a lot of factors to consider.

Okay, okay. And just, you did mention the cost cutting there. Just curious of the CAD 10 million in annualized cost savings, how much do you expect to realize in 2015 of that, I guess, the rollbacks take effect in March, I believe, and then – and possibly some layoffs before the end of the quarter. So, how much of that CAD 10 million will come in, in 2015?

Yeah. Let's say – I mean, CAD 10 million is an annualized number and having all those in place by, if you have it all in place by the end of the March, the simple math would be three quarters of that, which is CAD 7.5 million. Some of our incentive programs on other suspensions actually go back to the beginning of the year. And again, in 2009, we waited right till the last quarter at the end of the year to take a look back on the year and made sure that everything remains suspended, so we could see where we are at. And in that year, those people who wanted to look back, they whole executive team for Essential didn't take bonuses and – but our employees did receive them.

So, there is a lot of flexibility on that number, but CAD 10 million as a number on a 12-month-basis, we feel is realistic. And right now, sort of the general outlook that we take is, Q1 2016 will be a real turning point as well for knowing where we're at. So, some of the cost reductions could be in place for 12 months from March to March. However, if we're wrong and it's a happier outlook, then we'll begin to reverse some of those programs. There is also severance costs that I highlighted in the formal comments that will be included in Q1.

Okay. Thanks for that. That's all I had.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey. Thanks for taking my questions. I'll start by kind of tagging on the back of some of the questions Steve started there, to see if I can attack it from a different view. So, maybe talking in a qualitative as opposed to a quantitative sense regarding thoughts on the dividend, not necessarily trying to come at it from a payout ratio, because I completely understand reluctance to the kind of label that to a specific number. But talking in a more general sense, given the strength of your balance sheet and the fact that this is probably just a cyclical dip here in 2015 as opposed to a secular change in demand for your business, is there appetite at the management, board level to temporarily bridge the gap between cash flow and dividend requirement using the balance sheet, or is that something which wouldn't be palatable?

Thanks, Greg. Good morning.

Good morning, Garnet.

Always nice interesting spin on things and I just wrote down if I heard you correctly, if – this is a quote I'd like to use later, but probably a cyclical dip in 2015, is that accurate? [indiscernible]

(00:24:03).

So, that's the part that I wouldn't want to make business decisions on, in the sense that I'm trying to read everything I can get, talk to our customers, fellow services guys. And this one is difficult to call probably a cyclical dip. 2009 was, but we were already picking up again by the fall. This one, we have to plan for the possibility that this could last into 2016 or longer. So, we see what's going to happen on with this oil oversupply.

So, we don't have, as a board and a management team, what I would call the firm and clear view that it's just a cyclical dip, if you want to call it that. And our objective is to keep the company in good shape. Your other question, if I understood it correctly, is to put it more bluntly, would we increase our debt to, if we were short on the cash flow, to finance our dividend. Is that really what you were asking?

I think so. And, I mean, it's – it is to get the [indiscernible] (00:25:12) what I'm asking obviously with cyclicality in Canada, there is always a temporary seasonal bridge in Q2. But I'm just wondering if there is appetite at that management, board level to do exactly that?

Yeah. I mean, when we make dividend decisions, it's on an annualized basis. So, yeah, you bet, I mean, that's part of the business you bridge all sorts of stuff through Q2. But we actually don't – we're not that scared of Q2, the cost cutting measures that we're going to put in place, and that's really batten down and hatches once we get the breakup here.

I don't think our Q2 is going to be a particularly frightening financial effect. The real question is, is it responsible to borrow, to maintain the dividend. And again, that's very much of strategic choice. One of the other messages we've heard loud and clear from investors is, what would you do with the proceeds if you reduce the dividend. And there is possibilities of other things out there, and it all depends not on 2Q or short-term, it's much more that longer-term horizon and the strength of the Canadian oilfield services market.

So, we think this is a prudent thing to do is, prove the dividend, get to the 1Q board meeting and have another look at things. And we're just hoping we're going to give a little more clarity on the outlook in the next three, four months.

All right. Glad I asked. Thanks for that kind of insights there. And moving onto a couple of other things, just talking about the retirements charges, if I got this correctly, there was the intangible write-down, but then also a CAD 2 million write down of some of the order CT units. Is that correct and that was a tangible asset?

That was correct.

When we look at the balance of your hard asset fleet, not necessarily the intangibles and goodwill still sitting on the balance sheet, but the PP&E, is there a group of equipment there, which is, you're strongly looking at with having substantially underutilized assets that could be at risk for the write-down or is this kind of the bulk of the older equipment?

That's great question. The way the impairment – and our comment about the impairments not being a belief on the future strength of the company, I think, people know what, I'm an all-time accountant in this, the IFRS rules are sometimes a little bit unusual in terms of the outcomes, but basically we're using a long-term discounted cash flow when comparing it to what we have on the books. And the conventional coil fleet, the bulk of that, if you call it the bulk of the book value is still there, we built five of these. We call them deep conventional trailer rigs. And they are the newest that we've built over the last sort of three or four years. And they make-up the bulk of the capital. There's not much there left.

So, I think, the conventional fleet is a – just to mention another question, is probably going to have, a rough year. We had to take a serious look at that business when we get to break-up. And, in that case, if that business slows down more, then we have to assess if there is further impairments. But there's not a lot of book value left on the conventional side.

In our coil business, the bulk of the value is from the – we did the Technicoil acquisition in 2011, and then we've given lots of information on our masted coil build program on the Gen IIIs and Gen IVs in the last couple of years. And that number spent on the Gen IIIs and IVs is just shy of CAD 40 million and we haven't really had a, I will call it a rousing big activity cycle yet to get the benefit of that. So, that's – that capital is still in the books and I don't see that that's in any way a jeopardy. And other than that, you have the goodwill, as you mentioned, has taken a big [ph] chop (00:29:00) as a result of this forecasted cash flow estimate.

Would you be willing to quantify at all, what the – on the conventional side, how much is left on the books there?

We can probably throw that out to you. In terms of the – yeah, the conventional side, I think, we're somewhere around the CAD 20 million mark, is what we're looking at.

Great. That's excellent. And then, just lastly, Tryton. Nice to see the results in the quarter. Always a tough one to call on a quarter-over-quarter basis, as we've seen over the past couple of years. But just wondering, I mean, any added commentary, I know there were some earlier questions about it, but any added commentary on how it's shaking out in kind of this new demand environment in Q1, and then going into later the year? Does it seem to be in line with the demand for the rest of the services i.e. kind of we're thinking down 40% just because that's where E&P CapEx is going or does it appear to be an area which is insulated or more exposed to the cuts?

Yeah, thanks. Great question, and I'll see if I can add some clarity. So, one of the things to highlight, that business really saved our bucks in 2009 when we were in the downturn in that year, but if you look back historically on Essential, that's when we introduced our ball & seat Multi-Stage Fracturing System, and it actually grew through 2009 as we introduced that product. Right now, we don't obviously have that advantage, because we don't have a product expected to grow at that pace. And, I think, we're going to get hit unfortunately on the Multi-Stage side as customers spend less and we've thrown out the cap estimate of 35% or 40% reduction in activity.

The Tryton business on the tool business is not immune to that. For sure, I think, it will drop both on the conventional and MSF side at least that amount, and we should be able to keep going with the industry activity. We are also suffering pricing pressure on that business on both conventional and Multi-Stage. And it's purely a – it's almost like the charitable giving, our customers can demonstrate the revenue base is dropped by 50%, they say, if you want to work, you got to help us out. And so, we're going to suffer a pricing inactivity here. The area of strength that business historically with its production component on conventional tools, and if you recall, it was founded in based in the Lloydminster area, but even, unfortunately, in this market, some of that – with a heavy oil differential being high, low price of oil, even some of that good old fashioned heavy oil production work could slow down this time.

So, not particularly [ph] chewy (00:31:47), one area of bright spot I hear from the guys is abandonments. And there's been some stuff in the media here in Western Canada about abandonment work and that's, even in bad times, something that our E&P customers can avoid, and it could be some good work for us. And we've stayed in that market whereas a lot of our competitors have gravitated their guys and equipment just to multi-stage work, because its higher margin and higher activity. And we think we've got a good niche in abandonment. So, maybe that will keep us going through the downturn.

Okay, I appreciate it. That's really good. That's it from me. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Brian Purdy from PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

I'm just wondering if you could give us some estimate. You've mentioned the layoffs that you're going to be forced into here in Q1, do you have some estimate of what those severance costs will be?

We do, but I'm going to not throw anything out right now unfortunately for just out of respect of our employees. And we actually mentioned this to our employees in sort of late December in a note to employees in town halls in early February. We've been telling them this is coming as very unsettling for the employees. And now we've been pretty clear that our layoffs will be completed by the end of March, so that's only probably three, four weeks away. And if we put out a number of people are going to be doing all sorts of math on exactly what's going on, I'll tell you, there is two parts to what we expect and how we're approaching this. We've done all the rollbacks as we announced on our salaried employees and now we've got the numbers and we will have to figure out. There's going to be an impact of layoffs for sure on salaried employees, there has to be with the activity reductions we're taking. We've also recently announced some – some changes to the hourly employees wage structure and now a lot of those hourly employees will collapse, and literally when the equipment comes in, some of those guys won't be employees anymore, and we have to realign our salary cost structure to fit with that.

So, that is our approach and – but we don't want to throw out a number yet till we finish that. So, that will be news for our 1Q press release.

Okay. I guess, maybe touching a little bit on or taking the other side of some other questions. If you saw this downturn lasting into 2016, and 2016 you saw it was going to look like 2015, would you think you would be sort of at the cost structure you need to be at to survive through that next year as well, or do you think there would to be more to come?

Yeah. We're – I mean, our – again, our experience in [ph] those areas (00:34:45) that we run, we're setting ourselves up and have been working on this now for months, to set ourselves up through a very difficult 2015. Our internal belief is that, 2016 will be a stronger year than 2015. So, I don't see further reductions having to come is my hope and expectation. But we think that the turnaround will be much more in the back half of 2016 than necessarily Q1. And again, I'm happy to be completely wrong on this, I'm still trying to get a good luck at the back half of 2015. So, these are real sort of [indiscernible] (00:35:22) guesses at this point.

Okay.

Did that answer your question, Brian?

Yeah, yeah, I think so. And you've touched a little bit on some of the pricing pressure that you guys are seeing. And it sounded like the service rigs were taking the most pressure. Is there a point there where you start to turn work away just because the pricing is now worth your depreciation on the equipment?

Yeah. But it's not – I mean, I've read certainly about that from the, I'll call it the fracker point of view or certainly run into private guys where they say, always going to shutdown our business for a couple of years, because it's not worth working. The service rig business isn't quite like that, it's so much a – I will describe it as a [ph] dance (00:36:04) on a customer-specific basis, because the customers have their own multiple objectives. One, do they have a rig and a crew and company that can offer services in a certain geographic area, what's your safety track record. So, there is a bunch of other stuff more than just price. So, in a given region, yeah, we will not work for certain customers at a certain price, we say, go ahead, a competitor can have that. But we'd never be, I'll call it, a wholesale shutdown of the business, but we're going to have to – I think, our service rig business will have to be rescaled, given the description in my comments and also given industry utilization.

We're coming out of Q1, which is typically one of the best quarters that we would see and we're not seeing strong utilization. The outlook for the rest of the year probably is not great.

Okay. And in terms of the deep masted coil, you mentioned that some of the areas in the north, it sounded like sort of deeper gas plays, demand was still healthy. Is that fair to say, are you seeing more strength in that area, say, than some of the more oily areas of the Canadian Basin?

Yeah. We – I mean, our – I don't know if I word it quite that simply. And if you look at our materials, we talk about whatever you want to call them, but the popular deep, long, reach horizontal basins like the Montney, Duvernay, Bakken, we're trying to say that wherever there is activity in Alberta and BC Montney for long reach horizontals, we have the right equipment for that. And the real question is, which customers have money to keep going. And we know who those names are, we typically don't in conference calls like this like to throw out customer names, but we've got a great customer base.

And there's a – the Saskatchewan, Bakken, as an example, there is customers that are stills spending and continuing work that goes right into Manitoba as well. Those are oily basins. And so, I wouldn't just draw a line between liquids and oil and gas. And the good thing for us compared to service rigs, we think we've got a unique niche that if there is money being spent and work being cone, we'll be able to compete for that work.

Okay. And then, finally. I just wanted to touch on the capital program you sort of kept it as your previous reductions would outline. In terms of flexibility there, could you delay more of the spending if you felt that was necessary?

Yeah. I mean, I suppose that's possible. Right now, it ties into Greg Colman's and Steve's questions about the dividend. And my response on – there's too many moving parts to just give a simplistic answer to that. What we have looked at, the build program that we're doing and the equipment that's being delivered, a lot of money has already been spent on those units.

So, we've got it structured, so they are progress payments. And when we sat and did our January 2015 capital budget, we met with our fabricators, we've deferred the units that were either not started or barely started. And then, the other ones, we've decided we'll just keep going. We've probably noticed some of our delivery dates, Jeff and Don have met with our builder and pushed out the delivery a little bit further, which allows us to defer our spending and pace that a little bit better with our cash flow. All that makes sense to us, because what you don't know and I don't know is, when is this thing going to turn around and for us to have nine of those Gen IIIs and Gen IVs built, ready to go, that's a good thing and we'll be set. So, that's our philosophy right now, Brian, and I think we can afford it. And the one is maintenance capital that we always wrestle with and we've got that chopped down pretty lean right now. There's always, I suppose, opportunity, things [ph] are worse (00:40:04) to defer that little bit further, but right now we think that's a decent budget for us for 2015.

Okay. No, no, because in terms of some of those that say aren't started and you've deferred, I'm just wondering, if your suppliers would give you the flexibility to defer them further, if you thought you needed do.

Absolutely, yeah. So, the three that are on the deferral list could be – they are basically stalled indefinitely until we say go. Yeah.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Brian.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Bill Manuluk (00:40:38) from – a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi. I was wondering if you had any comments now on how your receivables are looking, the current quality, and how you're managing your receivables into the future here.

Hi, [ph] Bill (00:40:59). Thank you for that question. I'd be happy to answer that. So, receivables are an interesting topic during a downturn. So, it's a very good question. The first thing that we experience in a market like this, even in fourth quarter 2014, is some of the, I'll say, the larger companies, some higher profile companies. They like to use service companies for a little bit of a financing institution during a downturn, which means that in many cases, I think, our average receivables collection time it is about 70 or 75 days, but a lot of big high profile companies in a market like this will stretch their payment terms well beyond 90 days, which means we're carrying their working capital for them.

And that's uncomfortable for us. So, the way we manage this, we actually have a formal internal credit committee and we have approvals in place, because there is a lot of change going on with the customer base right now and we track and keep aware of balance sheet and financial crisis that some of our customers might be having and make sure that if there's changes, our field guys and sales guys are notified early, so that we don't get overly exposed to somebody who maybe suffering a deteriorating financial circumstance.

And then, we maintained a provision like a good company should for uncollectable amounts. And probably our last important [ph] tactic (00:42:25) is, there is a legal opportunity to lean wells of our customers, which used to be considered a real nasty thing for a service company to do, but in today's environment, it's actually becoming, I will say, somewhat accepted. So, if we feel uncomfortable, we will [ph] slap a lean (00:42:42) on their well, and yeah, can be a real judgment call, because it could be offensive to some customers, but we've got to take care of our business and that's what we do.

Does that answer your question, [ph] Bill (00:42:52)?

That does. Good. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey, sorry, just one follow-up. I wanted to ask about the service rig pricing, which kind of a little bit of commentary there. I'm wondering, are – for the service rig pricing, which is, by all accounts, being hit quite hard. Is it at the point where work is being turned down or it's effectively not – doesn't make sense for you to put them on the field, or is it still utilization [ph] game to (00:43:23) still trying to get them out there?

Yeah. I think, in – I actually I think that question was a version, Greg, was asked. But I'll answer it quite clearly. There is a price point for us for sure and talked about it before, where we get a specific demand from a customer, no questions asked and they dictate a price to us. We will walk away and have walked away from those requests. We know where our threshold is, but I said, it's actually more complicated than that, because often there is add-ons and throw-ins and conditions for things like rig moves, rentals, extras, and you bring up utilization, how much work does the customer have, how much work do we expect in the future, if we're going to take a thinner margin, you better be giving us a lot of work so we can make this work in the long-term, otherwise we're just wearing out our iron. So, it's a real judgment call and customers are not as carte blanches out, I would say, it's very -a low majority – a low minority being 10% or 15% that would detect one price.

Most of it is a negotiated dialog with them explaining to us their economics. We're assessing our cost structure and we often can shake hands and agree to disagree and there is no hard feelings, we don't choose to work in that region.

Great. Thanks, Garnet. Sorry, I didn't catch that earlier in the call.

No. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Mary, and thank you everyone for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.