Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Sebastian. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; and Allan Mowbray, CFO. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of the third quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our November 6, 2013 third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our November 6, 2013 third quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Yesterday we reported third quarter EBITDA of $17.1 million, down from $19.3 million in the third quarter of 2012. The EBITDA decrease is largely attributed to startup costs for us to expand the downhole tool business into the United States, and the absence of EBITDA from our drilling rig operations that were included in the Q3 2012 results. Our drilling division was sold in November 2012. Removing these items, EBITDA was relatively flat to last year, which is similar to general industry activity. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDA was $45 million.

From an industry perspective, in addition to wet weather at the beginning of the quarter, E&P companies were cautious with their capital spending as the oil price differential continue to be volatile and equity capital markets were slow, making it difficult for producers to raise capital. Overall, industry activity was comparable to Q3 2012.

Now as we move in to look at each of our service lines, revenue from coil well service was flat compared to Q3 2012. Our deep coil tubing utilization decreased from 79% in Q3 of 2012 to 73% in Q3 of 2013. The masted deep coil tubing fleet performed very well as utilization increased from 100% in Q3 last year to 112% in Q3 2013.

Revenue was positively impacted by our larger fleet of fluid pumpers and nitrogen pumpers quarter over quarter. More than offsetting this, however, was a decrease in our conventional deep coil tubing fleet, which experienced utilization at 27%. This was well below management's expectations and reflects growing competition in a 2-inch diameter coil tubing market. We hope to see improvements in Q4 utilization of our conventional deep coil, but still expected to be below Q4 2012.

We were excited to put into service our first Generation III masted deep coil tubing rig in September. This is the first of an extensive build program of 12 Gen III and Gen IV masted deep coil tubing rigs that are expected to go into service between now and 2016.

Now looking at the service rigs, utilization in the current quarter was 50%, an increase from 45% in Q3 2012. This is very good utilization relative to the largest competitors in the sector, but still from a service line industry perspective, although what we would hope to see at this time of year. For Essential, Grande Prairie and Fort St John saw improved utilization in the quarter and demand continued for our service rigs involved in SAGD operations.

In the last week, we took delivery of two new service rigs bringing Essential's total new service rigs in 2013 to 4. These rigs continue to high grade our service rig fleet, and in addition, we retired three rigs to date in 2013 and plan to retire one more in the fourth quarter. On the downhole tool side of the business, our segmented downhole tools and rentals performed very well in the quarter with revenue increasing 7% from Q3 2012. This increase is primarily due to demand for our Tryton multistage fracturing system.

Gross margin decreased slightly in Q3 2013 due to the cost we incurred to expand this business into the U.S. Our U.S. tool operation is at very early stages with nominal revenue earned to-date in the third quarter. From a pricing perspective, all of our service lines remained intact during the quarter. We do not anticipate price reduction pressures between now and breakup in the spring of 2014. We also do not anticipate any price increase opportunities in our service lines until industry conditions strengthen.

Other than our belief that our new Gen III and Gen IV masted deep coil tubing rigs are expected to command a higher price in return for the increased capacity, functionality and technical improvements that will provide additional benefits to our customers.

On capital, in 2013 we announced on October 23 a CAD 5 million increase in our 2013 capital spending budget bringing it up to CAD 50 million. The increase is for deposits and progress payments payable in 2013 for certain assets that will be included in the 2014 capital budget. As noted, we took delivery of one Gen III masted rig in September, and expect delivery of a second Gen III masted rig plus two Gen IV masted rigs during the fourth quarter.

We're very excited about adding these rigs to our fleet. They have the capability to work on long reach horizontal wells and are well-suited to work in deep high pressure basins, including the Montney, Horn River and Duvernay. These basins are expected to supply gas for the proposed LNG export facilities in British Columbia. In addition, customers are drilling in the Duvernay for oil. Our equipment is well timed for LNG demand, but we also feel confident that this new state of the art technology will work actively in the WCSB on a long reach horizontal well even if LNG development experiences delays.

On the 2014 capital front continuing on the theme of focusing our capital spending on assets that service deep long reach horizontal wells, we announced also a CAD 50 million capital budget for 2014, comprised of CAD 33 million of growth capital and CAD 17 of maintenance capital. Spending will be directed toward one Gen III, and three Gen IV masted rigs, plus one quintuplex fluid pumper, one rod rig and some rental equipment.

Now a few other general comments. And first of all, just want to address an item that came to our attention on October 23. We received a statement of claim filed against us by our competitor tool company named Packers Plus Energy Services Inc. that was filed in federal court on October 23. The statement of claim alleges products and methods associated with the Tryton multi-stage fractioning system, infringed a patent that was issued to Packers Plus Energy Services Inc. We believe this suit is without merit and we'll actively defend against the allegations.

In order to protect our defense strategy, I'm unable to provide further details at this time. We have 30 days to file our statement of defense from the date the claim was received. After that document has been filed, I should be in a better position to comment in more detail about our defense. From an outlook perspective, I will now make a few comments on the outlook and growth opportunities for Essential, which are relatively unchanged from my comments in August.

On the masted deep coil tubing rig side, as I mentioned we took delivery of one new masted rig in the third quarter and expect to take delivery of three new masted rigs by the end of the year. We have key customers that are anxious to put this equipment to work. The Gen III rig that went into service in September has already been working in the Montney with 5,500 meters of two- and three-eighths-inch coil tubing. We see the demand for Gen III and Gen IV equipment growing and accordingly have focused our capital spending toward these rigs in 2014.

Regarding LNG, I think there continues to be growing optimism on investment focused on the Montney, Horn River and Duvernay basins to develop reserves to provide natural gas for the proposed LNG export facilities. Such developments would increase the demand for oil-field services in general to complete and service these wells. Specifically, we believe Essential is one of the service companies that will benefit from LNG development. These wells generally will be deep, high pressure wells and they will require larger diameter coil tubing to complete. Our new masted rigs and our associated pumper fleet will be very well-suited for completion of these wells.

Regarding our expansion into the United States with our tool business, we have established three field locations, we've now hired local USA toolhands, and we've started to build inventory and have commenced operations and are generating revenue in the United States. Again, this is still very early in the stages of our operations.

As far as SAGD completions and well maintenance work, I still believe the SAGD market is projected to continue to grow. We recently saw some very exciting announcements by potential customers in the SAGD area. With our SAGD capable service rigs, we should be able to participate in this growth. We still have three rigs that are working in this area often on a 24-hour a day basis. With the new rigs that we have added in 2013, we have a total of six rigs that are SAGD capable and available for work in this market. This is attractive work, steady and typically 24-hour project work.

While we'd hoped to deploy the three new rigs into the SAGD market this year, it hasn't happened yet but we'll continue to work towards that objective in 2014. Our balance sheet remained strong with debt at the end of September of CAD 40 million and as announced in our news release yesterday, this is increased to CAD 45 million at November 6.

This concludes the formal portion of the call, and I'd now be happy to answer your questions.

Sebastian, at this time we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Thank you for your patience. The first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Jason.

Garnet, just focusing on the deep coil to start here. Obviously, the 2-inch deep coil conventional 27% utilization, so that's obviously a competition thing there. Just wondering on the masted coil at 112% utilization, is that using the 2 3/8 inches, the 2 5/8 inches, what is that using?

Most of our work in that market is going to be on the 2 5/8 inches and 2 7/8 inches, Jason.

Okay.

And then the reason for that is primarily the amount of hydraulic horsepower you need. If you have larger tubing strings, you need less hydraulic horsepower from a fracking perspective.

Okay. So it's just a matter of obviously those are – the bigger coil that's going deeper and there's just not that much competition yet in that part of the market, hence the 112% utilization?

So there is a couple of themes I would focus on with that question. First of all, in terms of the competition, I think you hit on a good point. We've seen that happen in the industry. We've heard comments about the pressures building in the 2-inch market. In Q1, our conventional business did well, and I think what you're seeing is probably it's an easier space to enter. We're seeing more competitors building in that 2-inch market, which means there's more competition and utilization drops, but it's also a function of how the industry has continued to change. And I've used the example before of a really long straw that if you're trying to pull fluids, you get so much friction on the inside of the coil, which is why you start moving into a minimum of 2 3/8 inches, then to 2 5/8 inches and 2 7/8 inches. And that's what we are seeing, which is why our capital program is directed towards these masted units with the larger diameter coil.

The barrier to entry is lower on this 2-inch market which is why you're seeing the competitive dynamics change. But as we've seen from comments in our own report with one of the major suppliers of sort of masted large diameter coil going into receivership and literally out of business this year, we've got another builder tied up. We see the barriers to entry being far higher on this large diameter, heavy-duty coil side, and we've got a great head start on the competition. So it seems to me, it's going to take quite a bit more time if at all for competition to catch up near like what has happened on the 2-inch market.

Okay. Great. So Garnet, just in terms of the new builds with the old 14 and the old 15, old 16 programs with the Gen III and Gen IV, are a lot of those backed by customer contracts or are you guys building most of those on just indications or spec or what have you?

Yeah. It's the nature of our business as a well servicing company. And I made this statement before, we're more like plumbers and electricians in the sense that we work on an hourly rate basis. We basically build the equipment fully on spec, but we do it with lots of dialogue with our customers and lots of awareness on what they need. We have had contracts before. They're not usually sort of say "iron clad" like a drilling contract for a duration of years with the penalty clauses in, but we do know from past experience that if we have the right equipment and there's a shortage of it in the industry that our key customers will offer us terms through the winter typically to make sure that they get exclusive access to that particular piece of equipment. A prize for us, of course, is to get standby, because if we dedicate a piece of equipment to a customer then if they're not able to productively use it, then we expect to get paid while it's not being used for another customer. That's probably our best case.

Right. Right. Okay. So just turning to the service rigs, obviously 50% utilization, that was a pretty strong rate. I think you were pretty much in line with Western Iraq in terms of that. I know, Garnet, we've chatted before, just wanted to know if you have any additional thoughts, if we look at the industry as a whole, service rig utilization still isn't really where I think a lot of us would've thought it would be just given the shift to the oily basin, more service intensity, et cetera. We've talked to a number of industry players and they've sort of pointed to potentially E&Ps trying to maximize short-term cash flows, also maybe wells are being drilled cleaner, sand controls better, just wondering if you had any additional thoughts on that?

Sure, Jason. Thanks for asking that, and I'll give a general answer and Don might want to add some specific color. As I said in my comments, 50% utilization, we're right at the top of the pack for sector performance with our competitors, but 50% utilization for this time of year is not a [ph] really (19:28) good number, we agree with that. The thesis, however, when I look at the number of producing wells and the latest data I saw was somewhere around 230,000 producing wells, the vast majority of those are getting to be oil wells, as all gas wells crap out and disappear. And it's impossible for those wells to do not at some point need service work when they're bringing in as a function of production, sand, water and most wells now after initial production shortly after a need to have downhole secondary pumping systems, which were out like any piece of machinery. So I can't see any other situation then for industry activity to pick up, the reason it hasn't been in the short-term, I would probably agree with you, it has to be both cash flow situations with the producers and other tactical decisions that they're making. But Don, anything you want to add?

Agreed, Garnet. Good color. Appreciate that. I think you hit it.

Yeah. So I guess we can reasonably assume, just given on that commentary, that we – there's got to be pent up demand and we should see an increase in activity at some point here in the near future.

Well, Jason, like Garnet has mentioned before, with the high differential, some of those moderate wells, say 5 cubes a day with high water cuts, I am not sure with the differential the way it is that they're actually worthwhile doing that work over operations until you see the trending change on that differential.

Right. Right. Okay.

The other – and just to put a punctuation on that point, this is a great business for us. However, notable in our capital budget that we're not adding any real new service rig equipment going forward other than to make sure we're ready for this SAGD operation. The overall industry fleet, however, continues to slowly grow in size. It's not a result of public companies adding equipment, it's almost all private companies and private equity driven. So it's a bit of a puzzle, but it's continuing to keep the industry utilization down.

Right. Right. Okay. And just I guess with respect to – you just mentioned SAGD on the service rigs, that's all obviously a busy area for a lot of different companies. So with you guys having six rigs there, but you said three of them you still haven't put to work, so why would that be if that play is very busy and you don't think you can get three of those to work until 2014?

Yeah. You're right, there's a – so we've got six capable, three actively working right now. And I can only answer that by saying it's a bit of a sales dilemma, Jason, and the oil sands producers or customers have been having their own particular challenges in today's market. And that's their battle to fight from everything from economics to project approvals to access to capital. But the market, in terms of actual production, is in fairly early stages. From a sales perspective, this is a whole different, it's a long-term bigger dollar commitment. They spent a lot more time doing due diligence and preparing to see who they want to work and we continue to maintain the fact that we're already there with three rigs gives us a great head start over our competition.

Right. Right. Okay. No, that's a great color. Thanks guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey Karen, gentlemen, thanks very much. Just a couple of quick questions starting with startup cost in the U.S. Wondering what the duration of those are going to be. Was this a one-time thing in Q3 or as is to be expected, was it like a negative contribution margin that's going to slowly move to positive over kind of two, three or four quarters. Should we just see a little bit of pressure on margins for the next couple of quarters?

Instead of choosing option A or B, I'll choose option C, other, to describe it but thanks for the question. So our U.S. operations, really we started to incur costs in Q2, now Q3 and will be a sort of negative cost to us in Q4 as well. We've got costs associated with manpower, facilities and sort of have a sort of a good idea of both our fixed and variable costs going forward.

Our revenue model is just starting to build now, and we're focusing on conventional packers, first of all just to get that business moving along, and expect to have increasing revenue as we go through Q4, but I still think it'll be very unlikely that that won't be a negative cash flow business in Q4 as well for us, just given the fixed cost to be set up the way we are.

As we move into 2014, our expectations are fully that that'll quickly move into a breakeven state, and then start contributing positive EBITDA into 2014. The specifics of modeling that out gets obviously a little tricky, but we feel pretty comfortable. It's maybe a little slower than we expected, but still confident with our business plan.

Great. And I guess I probably know the answer to this already, but would you be willing to quantify [indiscernible] (25:05) that CAD 2.1 million delta year-over-year? If you didn't have U.S. operations in Q3, what would that have looked like, what percentage of CAD 2.1 million was the U.S. cost?

Yeah. When I take a look at the – I did my own little sort of rule of thumb analyses on there. You can see the sort of period-over-period Q3 operating costs are up in that segment by approximately CAD 2 million, and using a rule of thumb of 30% or 32% margin, you can see from the revenue change how much of that would be cost driven from activity. So the other – there's always some one-time costs, there's also our conventional rental business in that segment that has various things going. So there's a big chunk of that remaining cost is startup cost with U.S. operations, which is why we had to specifically mention it in our text.

Okay. Sounds good. I'll break out the calculator and delve into that. Just keeping on the U.S. for a bit. I mean, understanding it's obviously negative margin at the moment for overall contribution to the firm, but what is the field contribution margin of the tools that you're choosing to the U.S. substantially different than it is Canada, either higher or lower, excluding your base overhead and all that because that's going to depend very highly on activity, but the actual contribution margins from each individual unit.

We don't right now – we anticipate a very similar margin model to what we've been experiencing in Canada in terms of the tools that we're using. We're having to do some changes to our products for the U.S. environment, and we'll price them accordingly in the competitive market, but right now just sort of modeling out our margin return and cost of labor and pricing them, we don't see it being a lot different from a margin perspective in our Canadian model.

Okay, great. Just moving over back into Canada, and a little bit on the CT there, and I did miss a couple of Jason's questions so I apologize if I'm repeating here. But on your quote, could you just remind us what the split is, 27 TP and what's masted and what's not?

Sure. So, the – and the comments on Jason's question that I added in the conference call, again our Jason's question that I added in the conference call. Again, our deep has a total of 27 units at Q3, and we break that into masted and conventional deep. And our masted deep units are 15 of the 27 and that includes the original we refer to as Generation II units that we acquired two and a half years ago from Technicoil, plus we've added the one Gen III now, and then our conventional units are then by default 12.

Okay. Great. And on that deep coil side, in the conventional, is this a merging competition, is this new competition that's coming out of nowhere, or was it just existing activity that was slower with existing supply being more than needed?

The first thing I will say is that, we'll call it the substantial decline in our conventional deep business from our perspective has shown up very fast. T1hat business you can see if you went back and sort of recreate the data on Q1. And I've often – Greg, you've heard me make the comment that our conventional deep business often moved a lot like service rigs – like our service rig utilization because of the fact it's about 50/50 competition and production work. So it's never had the crazy high utilization that we experience on the masted side where there's such a shortage of that skill set and that type of equipment.

So the conventional deep has historically moved along that way. Q2 was a very difficult business for well servicing overall because of the wetness and the difficulty of mobility and as we moved into Q3, we didn't see that conventional deep business. It just didn't come back out of the gates. And it appears to be a combination of, I will say, competition. It would appear to be a combination of change in choice of equipment for customers, and just perhaps even a little bit of regional activity on where we were targeting our sales efforts. We continued to have success in the Saskatchewan area with our 2-inch market primarily in the whole Bakken area, but our stronghold of Central Alberta and the Viking and the Cardium, it really came to a quick halt.

That makes sense. Okay. Moving to the masted coils coming out in Q4, the three, I don't want to get 2Q here, but what's the timing of the three new units coming in Q4? Is it going to be December 31st or are they coming to work tomorrow?

Yeah. We've really – I mean, obviously, every fabricator that we have worked with has been on this deep equipment on the masted side because of the technology, the complexity and we're spending lots of time testing that equipment. We're not rushing people, and at the same time we're taking a lots of time to do commissioning work. So I think the first Gen IV unit is put together, it's in commissioning right now and we expect to be playing with it here during the month of November. So it will give us a few jobs, we'll get it under our belt. The Gen III unit and the second Gen IV unit will be Christmas presents is pretty much how I would word it. So I wouldn't expect a lot of work out of those.

So that's going to be contribution financially in Q1?

Correct.

Great. Just you mentioned the fabricators there and the ones you're working with, obviously we had the CCWA announcement recently for one of the fabricators and you've got options and she's locked up pretty nicely. Who else out there is making sort of – not necessarily Gen III or Gen IV specifically, but the equivalent of that type of equipment right now for use in Alberta or in Canada, in general?

The other one we'll give honorable mention to is NOV Hydra Rig and we worked with them for our entire history of our company and having various pieces of equipment built. We had a great relationship there, they put out good, solid equipment for us and our competition to the extent that people have got in there, got their build spots. And there are a few other builders that we've chosen not to work with in the U.S. and then with operations in Canada, but our two preferred builders are Option Industries and NOV Hydra Rig.

And out of the total suppliers that you're aware of, have worked with or are choosing not to, what would be sort of the total supply that we could see coming into Canada next year of masted deep coil, not just Essential, but industry wide? I guess, what you're aware of, I suppose, and then also just what it could be theoretically based on your knowledge of their throughput capacity?

Where I'm going to go for that type of information, Greg, is I'm going to go to my favorite analyst because he is going to be able to give that information from my competitors.

Okay. I'll give Jason a call.

Yeah. See, the difficulty for us, of course, in that is that it's amazing the stuff that we read and hear about as well, but we don't see a lot of stuff coming to fruition. What we are working on is I think we can provide a little bit more to the market is what exactly is out there today. And we used to put that in the market in terms of total deep coil equipment that we were competing with compared to our 27 units, and then we pull that out because there was so much new equipment starting to appear in the conventional 2-inch market that we couldn't even accurately count it. We don't have quality data like we have with CAODC for a service rigs.

So instead, what we think we're going to try and provide is a status quo, which we think we can do reasonably accurately on the current masted business, but as far as what's coming, where it may come from, that's a tough one for us to even speculate on. But I think it's pretty evident knowing what happened at Surefire Industries, and knowing how delayed new arrivals have been for us and others. This isn't going to be a saturated market anytime soon.

No, that's fair enough. I figured it's worth a stab in the dark, anyway. Moving back to the conventionals, I mean part of it probably has to do, like you said, pushing a string or pushing a straw to very high lines and the 2-inch market being little bit more saturated. A lot of this, I suspect, or as it's been indicated to me by professionals and the businesses is to do with the tube size itself on the units. Are you able to, with your deep conventional units, go to larger diameter coil three-eighths or maybe even the size five-eighths, although I suspect not? And if so, what's the depths that are available to the larger diameter coil on the conventional trucks on the conventional rigs?

Yeah. And our possibility that's in this – that's a broader question could be, what are we're going to do for our conventional 2-inch business? And that is one of the possibilities that Don and I and our team have been talking about, do you invest in the capital and build to take these conventional units, and we could go up to 2 3/8 inches, but probably not 2 5/8 inches with the conventional units, but still we have a range of say 2,300 meters, maybe 2,500 meters and that's, that just failed in comparison to the numbers that I've read out by 2 5/8 inches, 6,400 meters with our Gen IVs, it's almost a third. So the question is, do we sort of stay out of that business? Is there a niche? Is there still – is there a bit of a redeployment activity involved from a sales perspective that will bring our conventional business back up to competitive standards? And as a minimum, there's probably a cost assessment thing we're going to have to look at on that business and sort of how it's structured across all the regions to make sure you've get the right people and the right equipment in the right regions, but it's something that Don and his team are really wrestling with right now.

Yeah. Cost and engineering, Greg, are probably one of the biggest considerations we have to make because failure on one of those units is basically unacceptable, so you go through the process of finding out – [ph] let you take (36:30) technical capabilities are and then if they are modifiable, we may choose to do it. If not, we're going to just probably go in a different direction.

What would be the estimated payback for new conventional deep 2-inch unit these days? If someone was to build one today, what would be the estimated payback based on industry rates?

Well, it depends on what you use for utilization. It's similar to my comment to Jason that, that business has typically worked around the 50% utilization mark, then its return would probably be similar to conventional service rig package or a little bit worse because they're more expensive than a big service rig, which we've said before that's get out to the seven-plus years at today's utilization which means why are people building that equipment. And as you get into fancier and heavier iron, and if you experience as we just did in the quarter a 27% utilization, you're off the charts, you're in the don't build new equipment territory.

That's fair. So seven years at the current utilization. And then just lastly, and this is it for me, I'm sorry to be taking up all the time here. On the SAGD side... [indiscernible]

(37:41) to me but others may be bothered, but yeah, you keep going, Greg.

Oh, definitely they are. The move in on the SAGD side, you have three rigs there now, three more that could be. Beyond that, is there any other of the service rigs that with relatively limited upgrades you could move into the SAGD market, or are we really stepping into a much larger capital position in order to suit them for that type of work?

Yeah. The SAGD rigs in this – the three that we've got built that are not working that we think are perfect for SAGD, an important message is they're not sitting idle waiting for us to get sales work. They are the best of the best in today's new lightweight, all-season, fully mobile doubles and they're prized by any customer and they're working actively right now as soon as they're built. If we put all six of those to work and needed more rigs, yeah, we could probably send a couple of our other rigs out there, but more likely we would get back to work in our capital program and we think we can turn out a new service rig probably in six to nine months, so we'll get enough head start to be able to have that ready.

So service rigs getting access to fabrication capacity is not a challenge. And as we've said, we continue to high-grade our fleet so our equipment is getting better and better every day and it's really a sales challenge as opposed to an ability to supply equipment and crews.

Yeah. The one thing, Greg, to me from a relationships perspective with some of the major companies that are working in SAGD, we have to remember that they're – it's not just a typically drilling and completions of production group you're dealing, it's a totally separate group of in-situ, heavy oil type people, which it does not bode in the same breath as your conventional work so you have to actually establish relationship with a new group of people with unproven track records. So I think we've proved ourselves with the companies that we work for now, it's just a matter of time, in my opinion, to get us into that fourth, fifth and sixth unit [indiscernible] (39:44) markets there, we'll build more. It's also much more predictable, too, from a manufacturing perspective.

Okay. That's good. No, I appreciate that. That's it from me. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Greg, it's good spending much time with you here.

Thanks, Greg.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Steve Kammermayer from Clarus Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh, hi, guys. I think most of mine have been answered, but just in regards to the LNG related drilling, what are you seeing there? Are the majority of the wells just being drilled and then not completed, and then perhaps we could see a big rush to complete these wells when and if these LNG facilities go forward or how do you see that playing out?

Steve, it's Don here. From my perspective, I've got a bit of an E&P background as well. A lot of the companies right now are doing what I would call delineation wells. So they purchased land from the crown, they have five years to prove production or they lose the land and it goes back to auction again. So my opinion is that a lot of these wells are being drilled and completed, tested and then shut-in due to pipeline capacities. But they're just basically building inventories and identifying the boundaries of those lands so they can do actual physical reserve calculations based on the information you get from drilling and completion. So yes, they're not – they're active, but they're not in full development mode yet.

Perfect. Thanks. Like I said, most – my other questions have been answered. Thanks.

Thanks, Steve.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to return the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Sebastian, and thank you for joining us. Have a good day.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.