Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Don Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited First Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Mark. Good morning and thank you for joining our first quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Development. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of our first quarter results, speak to the outlook, and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our May 5, 2015 first quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts.

For further information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, please refer to our May 5, 2015 first quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning and thank you for joining us. As everyone is aware, industry oilfield service activity in Q1 was significantly lower than Q1 2014 due to lower commodity prices and reduced E&P spending. Yesterday, we reported CAD 11 million in EBITDAS, down from CAD 23 million in Q1 2014. EBITDAS before severance cost was CAD 12.5 million. Our masted coil tubing operation held up very well with 90% utilization, and ours were actually flat to Q1 2014. This is notable, as industry well completions were down 34%, compared to Q1 2014.

Revenue from coil well service was CAD 32 million, a 23% decrease from Q1 2014. As I mentioned, masted coil tubing operating hours held up; and pumping hours while down 12%, fared better than industry metrics would predict.

Our pumping operations, which consist of fluid and nitrogen pumpers, typically support our coil tubing business. Demand for masted coil and pumping was largely initiated by customers working in the Montney, Bakken and Duvernay regions. Conventional coil tubing operating hours, however, were down 47% year-on-year, as this equipment is exposed to greater competitive pressures. Revenue in coil well service was reduced by pricing pressure with masted coil tubing and pumping revenue per hour declining 10% to 15% compared to Q1 2014.

Moving on to service rigs, our service rig utilization in the quarter was 37%. While it was down a fair amount from 66% in Q1 2014, it was ahead of CAODC industry utilization of 34%. As we predicted, when speaking during our Q4 2014 conference call, service rigs have been hit hard by the downturn. Operating hours were down 46%. Prices fell approximately 10% on average in the quarter, but the decline became more pronounced as the quarter progressed, reaching approximately 15% by the end of March. Combined well servicing, including both coil well service and service rigs, decreased 46% on a gross margin basis due to lower revenue partially offset by lower labor costs in coil well service from our better crew management practices.

Our cost-cutting initiatives were implemented by the end of March 2015, but the benefits will not be reflected in our segment results until second quarter and beyond.

Our downhole tools & rentals segment reported revenue 22% lower than Q1 2014, as the tools business was impacted by the decrease in industry well completions, drilling activity and reduced production work. In a shrinking industry market, competition has become a more relevant factor for this business, with price decreases approaching 15% by the end of March. There were positive elements in the quarter for this segment, however, including we experienced year-over-year revenue growth in the U.S.; albeit, it is a small portion of the segment. Revenue from the rentals business was consistent with Q1 2014 due to demand for specialty pipe.

While downhole tools & rentals gross margin was down CAD 2 million on reduced revenue, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for this segment was virtually unchanged from Q1 2014 at 29%.

Now moving to capital. Our capital budget remains as previously announced at CAD 21 million, including CAD 13 million of growth capital and CAD 8 million of maintenance capital.

As outlined in yesterday's press release, we made a few changes to the components of our growth capital. Our strong balance sheet and our belief in the industry's future focusing on long-reach horizontals let us to reinstate a previously deferred Generation III masted coil tubing rig, which is being fabricated by NOV Hydra Rig. NOV continued to build the rig during our deferral period, so we're lucky that it should be ready for work by October 2015.

From a capital budget perspective, our funding requirements remain unchanged, as we were able to space out delivery and progress payments on the last two Generation IV rigs by an additional two months – sorry, by a few additional months.

We made the decision in the first quarter to implement further enhancements and modifications to the first two Generation IV rigs. With reduced activity, we believe the demand for masted coil tubing could be met with our Generation II and Generation III rigs, while we implemented changes to the Generation IV rig design.

We could then apply the newest upgrades to the remaining four Generation IV rigs under construction. We are very pleased with the changes and expect the first two Generation IV rigs to be ready for service again by the end of the second quarter. We continue to believe, there is a unique unfilled market demand for the style and coil capacity that we will be offering our Generation IV fleet.

And finally, a few comments on cost management. In our Q4 2014 press release and conference call, we outlined the steps that we were implementing to manage costs and spending. It was important for us to do this in the first quarter to minimize fixed costs during the seasonally slow second quarter and thereafter. We followed through and to date, the following initiatives have been implemented. A 20% reduction in cash compensation for the Board of Directors, salary rollbacks for all salaried employees including 20% for executives, a 10% to 15% hourly wage reduction for well servicing field employees, suspended various benefit and incentive programs for employees, discretionary spending reductions in numerous areas and staff reductions.

Layoffs were an unfortunate consequence of the slower activity. Prior to the end of March, we released 25% of our salaried staff and 35% of our field staff. This works out to a decrease of 320 employees from approximately 1,000 employees that we started with. The objective is to continue to operate profitably during the downturn, while retaining key employees, so that Essential can return as a stronger entity when the industry recovers.

Now our outlook comments. As for the outlook, Essential is not in a position to predict how commodity prices will progress through 2015. At this point, it is difficult to predict the extent and duration of this downturn. We feel confident, however, that our timely and effective cost reduction steps have prepared us to endure what is likely a very slow second quarter. We went into this downturn with a strong balance sheet and we remain focused on controlling costs and managing our capital spending program to preserve the strength of that balance sheet. We are very proud of the way our management and staff have stepped up to this difficult challenge.

Mark, at this time we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Jason.

Good morning, Jason.

So, Garnet, I just want to start with the pricing declines, seem to be in that 10% to 15% range for most of the service lines in Q1. Have you experienced further pricing declines here in Q2?

No, our position right now is, as we said, it got into a little bit of a frenzy in the month of March as the activity slowed down; and the first quarter, as everyone knows, was not particularly good in March because of weather issues and economic issues and that put a lot of pressure on pricing. So right now, we're hoping that that is where prices have come down to and we're in a sense of stability, but there's a lot of road ahead of us. We really won't know if there's going to be further pressure until we move into the – I'll call it the fall and winter season.

Okay. And are you seeing any pricing pressures on the Gen III or IV units? I know you said in the past just with that type of equipment, you would expect those units to garner higher pricing.

Yeah, I think the – I'm going to say the relationships are still holding up on the pricing. As we've already said the Generation IIs and IIIs and IVs, our pricing cascades up through that particular group of coil products, but the activity – the Generation II units people are very familiar with them, the IIIs now, we're happy to say that out utilization has pretty much caught up to the Generation IIs. And I think now with the Generation IVs in this market, we'll probably have to offer a little extra price discount than we expected to get that equipment working, get people comfortable with it, but there is a – I think still a market premium for each of them because there is customer efficiencies and advantages with the ability to take those big units out and get their jobs done quicker.

Okay, great. And then just on the cost-cutting measures, 25% reductions to salaried employees, 35% reduction to field staff, always a sensitive topic, but do you feel like you're right-sized now for the current environment?

Yeah. We've been reflecting on that and as we look at some of our competitors and the tactics they have taken, we've talked openly with our staff about this way back to December. The way we made our decisions as we ran a – I'll say a pretty serious or aggressive model on a downside scenario and we acted quickly and feel that we're well prepared for certainly worst industry conditions than we see with today's oil price. I don't know what lies ahead, but we feel very comfortable. We've done what we need to do riding rate up and telling our staff, relax, let's get back to work here right up into the summer and maybe there'll be some new developments that come out on the [ph] political air (00:13:40) industry front between now and next fall, and we'll have to see what that brings.

Right. Okay. And then just on the modifications that you did to the two Gen IV units, just wondering what are those modifications and what's the impact of those modifications?

Jason, it's Don here. Basically, three different items. The real drive system, it was a state-of-the-art unit and our choice was to go back to tried and true. The other one was the [ph] injector cart (00:14:11) that goes up and down [ph] our companion in the derrick (00:14:13), and there was just minor tweaking to that, but when you're dealing with overhead equipment, you want to make sure that you get things right. So the third one was just some plumbing with respect to our [ph] BOP systems (00:14:26), and we feel very confident that we've got all those issues resolved.

Okay. And all these modifications just enabled the equipment to work more efficiently; is that sort of the way to think about it?

Correct. That's exactly the way to look at it.

The drive change, Jason, and we'll talk about that a little bit at our AGM tomorrow, but we went from basically, I'll say, a direct drive system that was a new technology, that option was trying back to a chain drive system, which is [indiscernible] (00:14:59) industry standard, and we feel a little more reliable where – we want to get that equipment working and perhaps the [ph] direct drive (00:15:06) will be the technology of the future down the road, but right now we've gone back to a standard chain drive.

Correct. When you start dealing with wheels that weigh in excess of 180,000 pounds, you want to make sure that you've got exactly what you need or you start and end up having problems in the field and that doesn't bode well for us.

Right, right, okay. And then just with respect to the deferred Gen III rig that was reinstated as part of the CapEx program, is that backed by a contract when it goes back to work in October?

No, it's not. We obviously have I'll say some fairly positive customer interest. We feel that there's a good demand for that, or we wouldn't be completing another rig to sit on the sidelines, so we're hopeful, but in this market we're in no position to demand contractual [ph] sign-up in terms (00:16:04) from a customer.

Okay. And then just final question, one of the themes on a number of the U.S. Q1 conference calls was this significant backlog of uncompleted wells in the U.S. I think it's 3,000 to 5,000 wells. I'm just trying to find the data on uncompleted wells in Canada's [ph] top, but (00:16:25) we've heard as many as maybe 300 to 400 uncompleted wells. Just wondering, what are your thoughts on that, any implications for Essential in terms of uncompleted wells in Canada?

Yeah. It's a very good point. We've actually searched for some of that data, too, because we similarly read the U.S. information on uncompleted wells. I don't think our magnitude appears to be near what we're reading about in the U.S. I don't have any quality data points. I do think though that we've seen this before in our past and we're aware of that in some client cases, where if they don't need the cash flow right away at today's prices, or more like yesterday's price that's sort of $42, $48 of oil, they would move slow on their completions, but I don't have any firm data points for you on – from a Canadian well count point of view. Don, I don't know if you've got anything to add there.

I think that you probably are correct, Jason in the fact that there is some – most operators in my opinion these days would probably choose to drill, but the only reason they would drill is to basically hold the [ph] crown lands (00:17:34) that they purchased in previous years because [ph] if we don't improve (00:17:39) production within five years, you [ph] lose the lateral (00:17:40) reverts back to the [ph] crown (00:17:42).

So I would suggest that there's a quite a few of those going on, but to suggest that we're actually drilling and not completing wells at this point, I would presume the operators probably would just choose not to drill.

Right, right. Okay, great. That's it for me. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thanks, Jason.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey, thanks, everyone. I wanted to start by just diving right into discussion on the dividend. You maintained the dividend announced concurrent with the quarter, which is good to see and probably a pretty good vote of confidence as to what you're seeing from the conditions out there. But [indiscernible] (00:18:21) I was wondering if you could offer us a little bit of insight as to how the discussions around the board table went regarding that. Was there a view that this could be an opportunity for you to decrease that cash flow, the opportunity costs [indiscernible] (00:18:35) you're seeing broader group of peers that are obviously taking a bit of a harder cut there. What was the chatter around the table like when you were looking at that dividend?

Yeah. Good morning, Greg. Thanks for the question. So our dividend, our financial commitment right now on a 12-month basis is CAD 15 million a year. And then you break that into quarterly basis, it's like CAD 3.7 million per quarter. And from our point of view, I think you can follow along in our debt position and see that we're maintaining our debt. We don't want to be running our debt up. Our capital program, we've got a very – in this market, I think quite an exciting growth capital program to allow us to build our fleet; also we'll be in a great position when the industry turns and improves.

And with the cost cutting measures we put in place as I said, we had a scenario in our mind, and basically [indiscernible] (00:19:36) on our Q1 as we expected way back in December and early January, we expected Q1 was going to unfold in that way.

So from a board perspective, when one lays out a plan like this, [ph] it goes (00:19:50), this is how the world may unfold. We're going to sit tight and stick to our guns and pay the dividend. The wildcard of course with you folks as analysts and for ourselves is what's going to happen in the back half of the year and for Q3 and Q4. And I don't have, as I said in the formal comments, any particularly special insights. Our customers, the one thing that we're particularly sensitive to is there's fewer customers now spending a lot of money, as is well known in the industry and we've got some – as we've always been proud of, a broad customer base, a lot of the top-end names that a company like Essential wants to be associated with for customers, and they are still spending and they've got plans.

However, if as I said, there is a – due to political events or regulatory or industry events, some sort of change by the time we get to the fall and there's a new outlook on Q3 and Q4, I guarantee you, our board will sit down again and revisit that dividend. So at this point, we're right on track with our game plan. If things look different when we have our August board meeting, it's possible that a different decision will be made.

My last comment regarding peers, we haven't actually seen, it's been surprising, Essential is proud to have one of the top – I'd say we're in the top quartile in balance sheet, debt management, very strong company, and there has not been a lot of dividend cutting, even by some folks that are – appeared to be in a much more troubled financial position than us. And the one exception I noticed, [ph] Canyon (00:21:28) pulled their dividend down by half. The difference in our case, we're investing quite significantly in organic growth program. And as long as we can fund that, we will continue paying the dividend. If that changes, we'll revisit.

So that's the only additional comment, Greg. I haven't seen a giant lineup at the door of others cutting our dividend yet.

No, I agree. But I do appreciate you're giving us a little bit of view in there as to how you're looking at the cash flow. Just changing gears a little bit. I want to focus on the U.S. As you mentioned, it's a small part of the business, but it did show year-over-year increase, I mean, it might be too much minutia here, but where did that come from? Was that just getting more customers on board there? Was it additional products and services into your existing customers? Where did that – like probably it wasn't a pricing lift, just wondering where that increased revenue came from?

Yeah. So, it's a great question, and it's an exciting business for us. If you look back one year ago in that business, we talked it had a negative [ph] EBITDA hit (00:22:31), and that's something that we're keeping a close eye on and worried about, obviously, in this tighter market. So for that business now that's [ph] inoperative in (00:22:41) another full cycle, they're getting entrenched with their customers. They've got a nice positioning like our tool business in Canada, where they can find ways to offer value to their customers and offer services sort of between the cracks in the sense that we're not a huge player, but we can offer very good service and products to a customer base there that is still spending some money in the U.S., where they feel the economics are still working.

We also got into the U.S. operation and [ph] now that's sort of older (00:23:13), we've done some cost consolidation there similar to what we've done in Canada, a little bit on physical location consolidation and a little bit on personnel reduction. So, we're actually quite hopeful that that business is going to be an ongoing contributor through 2015 and forward.

All right. Moving back up just in Canada, or I guess [ph] in corporate at all (00:23:36) you mentioned the tough decisions on the cuts there. Just wondering, were those all completed in Q2, or where they done in Q1 as well? Just wondering where they hit the income statement, what period?

Yes, the – so our cost cutting we – our salary rollbacks for our salaried employees were all effective around call it the March 20 or early April timeframe depending on payroll cycle. So, virtually no effect in Q1. The impact that we saved in Q1 with the suspension of 2015 incentive programs, all of that is a savings in Q1, and then the layoffs were completed – the vast majority by the end of March, so we highlighted the severance amount that was paid out by the end of March, and then the savings for those employees that unfortunately we had to let go, those savings will be benefit to us in Q2 and forward quarters.

Great. On the downhole tools side, Tryton, just wondering if there was any shift in type of completion methodology, which seems to be dominating the demand there, always good to get a little bit of insight there?

Yeah. I don't know – I'll say there's been no shift in our primary tool offering, but to some extent a little different than we wished it was. There's lots of discussions, a year ago we were discussing is the ball and seat multi-stage completion system, as it met its end. And I still I would say at this point absolutely not. It's a valuable product, still being used by many customers. We've introduced – we've talked before about this [ph] match frac (00:25:18) product, which is the [ph] single ball drop (00:25:23) dissolvable plug-and-perf system, and it's been actually working successfully as part of our U.S. revenue expansion, and we've actually run a few of those now, very small amount, but in Canada and some of that is where you've got E&P customers that are [ph] a cross-border (00:25:39). They like to try out their same technology ideas on both sides of the border.

The one that is making slower headway than we would like is our Viking shifting sleeve tool. And we think we've got an excellent product. Our guys are excited. We've had some great trial runs with companies, but I will say the producers are a little reluctant. This isn't a good market to go out there and wing it and try something new. So they're really sticking with their guns in the tried and true, whatever they're comfortable with, and it's kind of hard to argue with some on that front given all the other uncertainties.

That makes sense. And the last thing I wanted to ask and this is it for me, and I did miss a part of your prepared remarks, so I do apologize if you already touched on this. But when you saw sort of the "pricing frenzy" in the end of the March there, did you ever get to the point where you were turning down work where the pricing was below what you thought was appropriate to put the equipment in the field, whether it was below variable cost or just wearing out the gear without giving any return?

I can answer that question for you, Greg, it's Don. The answer is no.

Okay, simple as that. Well, that's it, everybody. Thanks very much for taking my questions.

Thanks, Greg.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Brian Purdy from PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Brian.

Hi, Brian.

Most of my questions were answered, but I just did want to ask maybe a bit more about the masted coil. Obviously, the strategy to build this kind of advanced equipment has worked out really well. You've got some pricing protection and obviously good utilization and are still adding to the fleet. Do you have an assessment of your market share in that masted coil area? And is there much competition at all for you?

Well, we've actually tried to – in case there's any industry people, we're trying hard to push for this. There isn't good data. So CAODC does not – the industry drilling association for that covers service rigs – does not and has chosen not to address coil tubing equipment . So there's no data there. There's the group called [ph] ICODA (00:27:51), which is a technical group and they own up their data currently. And we're hoping that PSAC, in fact, will adopt and start to attract some interest in tracking coil counts.

So with that little plug aside, we think we're confident we're the largest masted coil tubing outfit in Canada. I think a lot of people are familiar, there's a large private equity. I won't say [ph] large but sort of (00:28:19) medium sized private equity finance coil tubing company that's out there, that is actually some spin-off folks from Technicoil that we acquired four years ago, and they're working a way on – I think, they're probably the next largest organization in Canada. And a few of the other larger competitors have a few units, but nothing like what we have.

And even though we've ventured in and had conversations in the U.S., I don't – I have not been able to find any large U.S. players on the masted side. So we think we're on to something pretty special here and both in Canada and eventually if we ever wanted to look towards the U.S.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

Okay. Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. We have no further questions at this time. I'd like to return the meeting back to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Mark. And thank you for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference call has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank all who participated.