Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Don Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jeffrey B. Newman — Senior Vice President-Corporate, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Director - Institutional Research, Oilfield Services, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Andrew Bradford — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
John Bereznicki — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jeremy K. D. Mosher — Associate - Equity Research (Energy Services), Peters & Co. Limited

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited First Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, John. Good morning and thank you for joining our first quarter conference call. With me on the call today are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Corporate. This morning, Garnet and Don will give you an overview of the first quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our May 6, 2014, first quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our May 6, 2014, first quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning. Yesterday, we reported first quarter EBITDA of CAD 22.5 million, down from CAD 33.4 million in Q1 2013, which was below our expectations. As we mentioned in the outlook of our year-end release on March 5, the first quarter of 2014 started out very slow for Essential. In addition, periods of unusually cold weather disrupted our ability to work at certain times in the quarter.

Unlike the drillers and the frackers, who seemed to experience strong activity in the first quarter in Canada, the production and completion market was not overly busy, which created an environment of increased competition and inefficient utilization. Lower utilization is bad for our margins as fixed costs take a bigger piece out of those margins.

We also experienced inconsistency in sales due to variances in customer activity. Some of the customers we worked with extensively in the same quarter last year spent less on programs in the current quarter. Our sales team is adjusting to these changes, but unfortunately, we got caught in a few cases by not being able to replace customers and work to help us achieve the strong results last quarter.

During the quarter, we experienced increased competition in well servicing. Despite competition, we chose to hold pricing steady through this period, which bode very well for our future. We did not believe that lower pricing would have driven higher utilization in the quarter. The CAD 11 million EBITDA miss against last year's quarter was almost evenly split between the impact of reduced revenue and increased costs in Q1 2014.

The revenue impact was about half related to our deep coil tubing operations and half related to our Tryton Tools division. Our deep coil revenue was down from utilization reductions in both masted and conventional deep coil. We believe the masted coil and Tryton Multi-Stage Fracturing revenue reductions are both temporary and that the trends will be reversed in upcoming quarters.

As we have said before, however, the conventional deep coil market is facing increased competition. That reduction may take a longer to change. The costs hit to EBITDA in the quarter was primarily from increased labor, fuel and repairs and maintenance costs. Negative margin from our early-stage Tryton USA operation also added to costs in the quarter. We expect that the majority of these cost impacts on EBITDA will reverse in the back half of 2014 as we do these things.

First, deploy our new deep masted Generation III and IV coil tubing rates. Secondly, improve cost recovery practices from customers. And finally, we expect to see ongoing improvement in our Tryton USA operations. General utilization increases will also help us with those cost absorptions. It needs to be acknowledged that we experienced strong performance from our service rigs and conventional tools and rentals in the quarter.

I will now ask Don Webster to discuss our service lines in more detail and provide some insights on our capital program.

Good morning. Looking at each of our service lines, coil well service, revenue from masted deep coil was below Q1 2013. Our masted deep coil utilization was 109%, below the prior quarter of 148%. The utilization we experienced last year was clearly exceptional, and industry conditions were not strong enough this quarter to support that level of utilization. There is also more competition in the market for our Generation II rigs from deep conventional and new masted entrants.

We had hoped that our masted utilization in the quarter would see greater contribution from our new technologically advanced Generation III and IV rigs, which have less competition. After taking delivery of our second Gen III rig in February, we had two Generation III rigs operating in the quarter, but we did not see them working at full pace until the month of March.

Delivery delays of the two Generation IV masted coil tubing rigs resulted in gross margin reductions due to the absence of their revenue, but costs were already in place. Our masted coil and fluid pumping operations both experienced margin reductions in the quarter due to increased cost for labor and for fuel. Additional crews were hired and were being trained, so we were – so we'd be ready with our new equipment. Crews were also paid during the time it was too cold to work. Fuel costs were higher in Q1 2014 as the price of fuel has risen approximately 16% and usage increased.

Going forward, we are looking to pass our fuel cost increases to our customers. Deep conventional coil tubing was down with utilization at 35% compared to 62% in Q1 of 2013. We discussed in the third and fourth quarters the impact increased competition was having on the less technical 2-inch coil market.

Since Q3, we have restructured our business, leadership, sales and cost structure to better align these operations with today's market. We are optimistic about our masted deep coil tubing, fluid and nitrogen pumping operations going forward as this new equipment is put into service and reaches expected utilization. Management expects margins will improve for the remainder of the year.

Service rigs. Utilization was 66%. While this was down slightly from 69% in Q1 2013, it was still well above industry average and one of the highest compared to our publicly reported peers. Our downhole tools and rentals segment saw conventional downhole tools and rental activity increase from Q1 2013. This was driven by demand for production-related and abandonment tool products, our strategically positioned service locations and growth in our rentals business.

Lower sales for the Tryton MSFS was our biggest surprise in the quarter. We believe this is a temporary issue. Lower sales was a result of some customers choosing to broaden their choice of completion techniques, competitive bidding practice and some competitors' service bundling.

As you would expect, we continued to develop new and innovative tool designs to meet the challenging environment. We have faced this competitive – we have faced competitive industry pressure in the past and we expect to overcome them going forward.

Capital. In February, we took delivery of our second Gen III masted coil tubing rig. While we had expected to take delivery of the first Gen IV rig at the end of March, that did not occur. I am happy to say we planned to take possession of the first rig by the end of this week and will have it ready for work after breakup. We and our customers are very excited about this. Our crews can't wait to get their hands on these new rigs.

The second Generation IV rig is expected by the end of the second quarter and ready to work for the third quarter. Our capital budget is unchanged at CAD 53 million, including carrying capital from 2013. In addition to the rigs I just discussed, we expect another Gen III rig in the third quarter and a Gen IV rig in each of Q3, Q1 2015 and Q2 2015. A rod rig and fluid pumper was cancelled and additional investment for rentals was added.

Garnet will now provide some insight on the statement of claim and our outlook.

Regarding the statement of claim, we have no further news or development at this time with respect to the statement of claim filed against us by Packers Plus. The court process will continue over the next few years and a court date is not expected until 2016.

Outlook. The prolonged cold weather in western Canada delayed spring breakup and some of our equipment continued to work into the beginning of April. Based on customer indications for work programs and plans to date, it looks like activity following breakup will return to more typical levels compared to last year. Customer urgency seems to be better than last year at this time as some of them were not able to complete their winter programs.

There are reasons for optimism for the remainder of the year including the weaker Canadian dollar and the positive impact that will have on producer cash flows, improved access to equity capital markets for some of our customers, and recently improved natural gas prices, along with relatively strong oil prices.

Our U.S. tool business realized quarterly revenue growth compared to the fourth quarter of 2013. This business did generate negative gross margin for the first quarter, but it is in early stages and we're happy to see an increase in momentum. We announced yesterday that we purchased a private U.S. downhole tool company on April 30 for $5.1 million. This company provides conventional downhole tools, rentals and services to a very diversified customer base and is an important step in our U.S. growth strategy. This further establishes our U.S. operations and strengthens our presence in this region.

Despite a rough first quarter, we remain fully committed to our strategy. We are expecting a back half of 2014 that is busier than the back half of 2013. We will also have four new deep masted coil rigs working, which will absorb much of our extra labor costs. These new rigs are uniquely capable of working on deep, long-reach horizontal wells. We have customers that are anxious to put the Gen IV equipment to work once it is in service, and we are confident that these rigs will work actively in the Western Canadian Basin.

That concludes this portion of the call. And we're happy to answer any of your questions. Thanks.

John, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jason Sawatzky from AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Jason.

Good morning.

Garnet, with respect to the delays on the deep coil, were those rigs all coming from Option Industries or where there also some delays with NOV and do you expect these types of delays could continue to happen with the new rigs that are coming?

Jason, it's Don here. From a Generation III perspective, NOV has always been a supplier of choice and has never really had significant delays.

Okay.

On the Generation IV stuff, that is all Option Industries.

Okay.

And because of its new technology, some of the things at that that particular rig does compared to a conventional Gen II or Gen III, that accounts for a lot of the delays.

Okay.

Once we get the first one up, it's in test, doing the commissioning, we anticipate that the subsequent rigs will have a much quicker delivery date and more reliable source from when we plan to receive those rigs.

Okay.

Just to add on that, Jason, the benefit that Option Industries is getting, as we encounter and solve situations that are delaying that first rig, that quickly gets applied all the way down the line to the other ones that are already in progress. So now that, as Don said, we're a week away from delivery of the first one, it gives us a much greater sense of confidence on the sequential rigs to follow in their timing.

Okay. Great. And I'm not sure if you can answer this, but I mean just wondering if you had received the [ph] 3D core rigs (16:14) on time in Q1, how much roughly would they have contributed in revenue? And I'm just trying to get a sense of the revenue impact in the quarter from the – strictly from the delays.

Yeah. I don't think we're probably in a position to throw out a number on that. I can tell you that we've spent a lot of time trying and we've given information before on the sort of quicker payback or the very good economics of these Generation III and IV rigs. And basically, the best answer I can give you is that we don't see any deterioration in those economics in today's market, and it would all depend on timing of when they came in in the quarter. And you just sort of run out your model from there.

So that's probably the most important thing I can say to you is that we still feel confident that the stronger pricing because of the new technology and the efficiencies that we'll get in using it for work should drive very great economics for that equipment.

Okay. So, just turning to the MSFS business, a little bit of a surprise there obviously with the revenue being down so much. Just wondering if you can provide any insight into the competitive threats or the change in completion techniques that maybe hurt that business in Q1.

The completion techniques, and again, it comes down to operator preference and cost savings from an operator perspective. What we've noticed is we've seen kind of a push to more plug-and-perf-type operations. We've also seen sliding sleeve technology along with a brazer jet type application being utilized rather than MSFS. We also don't believe that the market is going away, it's just different ways of doing things.

Jason, as we talk with our sales team, as you know, our primary revenue base on the MSFS side has been the ball and seat packer system. And what we've seen during the duration of that last couple of years, where this business has really thrived, the use of single-element versus double-element packers, we saw a surge to increase the number of stages, then it pulled back and then they increased number of stages again.

And now, we're seeing a bit of a wave that did catch us a bit by a surprise with some key customers changing and trying other techniques. But in our opinion, in no way is the, I'll call it, a ball on seat multi-stage completion technique going away, it's evolving. And as Don mentioned, we see, as customer preference has changed, we've got the key personnel with the customer relationships and the expertise, and we will just establish our own tool based in the direction the industry is going and see – we'll see that business rebound again is our expectation.

Yeah. And, I guess, that was my next question is, given maybe the change in environment with customers looking at these other options, are these types of revenue numbers from the MSFS side, is that sort of the new reality going forward or, like you just said, do you think it does bounce back pretty quickly and you see that the revenue from MSFS ramp up again quickly?

Well, the thing and it's – obviously, I believe we will see that, but I'll try and give a little more information that will hopefully give you and others a bit of confidence on why I believe it. This group has been with us, the Tryton team, essentially unchanged for nine years now in terms of very low turnover, a very tight team. And if you looked at our quarterly results from that operation over those nine years, we do have occasional spots like this where we've seen some big ups and the occasional big down. This one's one of the biggest, I'll agree. But the fact that those guys are still in place, they're committed, it's a relatively small team, as you know. I've got a lot of confidence that these guys are motivated, they're directly personally affected by the financial success of that business, and they've been at it a long time, they'll turn it around. We've got some specific strategies in place already.

Okay. And just for my own knowledge again, if I was looking at the different completion messages, if you were to use a plug-and-perf or sliding sleeve, are those types of methods typically cheaper than the MSFS?

They can be, and it comes down to again customer preference. The other big factor is that there is different – for shallower or lower pressure wells, you may choose to use a different technique versus a deeper, longer-reach higher pressure well. There is just different methods and it all depends on the environment you're in right now like, say, Cardium versus Duvernay, Viking. There's a lot of different plays out there and each play typically will have specific preference. And then, historically, operators used information and results to determine the best method of conveyance.

Okay. So it's not just the case of these other methods are cheaper, so I'm going to go with that, it's not that?

No.

No. Okay. So then just finally on the service rigs, obviously had a really good quarter there. So at 66% utilization, so you guys were higher than Western [ph] Iraq (21:50) at 63%. Is there anything you're doing differently to achieve those utilization rates or is it just geography and good execution?

Yeah. I think that's probably it, Jason. And we've said before, we highlighted a couple key areas in our MD&A that performed strongly on a geographic basis. And the rigs that we have working in SAGD operations also obviously help our utilization because that's very good, steady high utilization work.

But it's a tough business out there in service rigs right now, and even though we're happy that we didn't see a pricing reduction. I think, speaking on behalf of all well servicing operators, we would like to see a price increase someday because the economics aren't great. And it looks like there's always another private guy building a rig around the corner. So, our sales team deserves the credit, and I will call it our regional operational relationships deserve a lot of credit that they have the people that they work with regularly. And that's helped them out.

Okay. Great. That's it from me. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Jason.

Thank you. The following question is from Andrew Bradford from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Sure. I'll try to follow on that comprehensive list of questions from Jason there. I want to look at – I want to come back to Tryton, I don't want to beat this into the ground, but I want to – help me understand a couple of things. So, first of all, is – when you talk about competitive pricing and bundled services in the MD&A having influential factors on the first quarter performance or on first quarter sales, was that relating to a specific play or specific group of plays that you're active in or was that across the board?

I probably don't have – for me throw that out would probably be more confusing than helpful. I'd go back to what Don just answered to Jason, is that I think, depending on the play, we have seen changes from things like a ball and seat system to – and we've got our own coil conveyed tool that we call the Viking tool that basically different areas of the country, different plays, they'll play around with different techniques including the single, double packer, different stages. It just keeps changing.

So I don't – it'll be a very long answer, I guess, and I would say that one of the problems that we have with the size of our operation, it's about 100 people in total counting the tool hands and all the guys in the shop putting things together, that if you get a few key customers making a dramatic change, our sales team has to scramble and reestablish or redeploy the resources elsewhere. And I think a little bit of that happened in Q1, Andrew, that we really didn't expect.

Okay. And maybe I could just ask it differently if you don't want to – I'd understand if you don't want to answer. But I'm just curious, if you look back, say, in previous quarters, is there a region of the basin that you're more concentrated in with the suite of tools from Tryton?

So, would you like me to answer for both conventional and multi-stage?

No. Multi-stage in particular, because it's what changed the most here.

Right. I honestly don't. Don and I are looking at each other, and when we sit through and talk with the sales team and we look at the data, one of the strengths, and I think we've talked generically before, when we look at our customer list, our customer list is quite broad, it's quite changing. But you do get periods where there's a convergence of certain customers really make a big percentage of sales. And I just don't have anything pointed for you either on a customer basis or a region basis that would really sort of nail that question home.

Okay. I'm admittedly grasping here as well, anyway, so...

Sorry, Andrew, I just can't give you that detail. I just don't have it.

No. That's okay. Could you describe a little bit just in – briefly describe the order cycle for these tools? Is it an orders placed a month ahead of time, two months ahead of time, [ph] I mean, for (26:31)...

Yeah. I can give you a bit of color on that and I think I can't remember if I know a number of the analyst listing have been to our new larger shop in Edmonton, that's very well laid out. And basically, we have bins of the different parts and components for building this multi-stage packers and certain of them are relatively generic, but it's usually the customer engineer that will choose. And depending on pressures and hydrocarbon content, he'll choose exactly how he wants to design the packers.

So we've got all these bits and pieces that I've described almost like a mechanical-type setup. You dig into the bins and you custom-build them for the customer. When we are in a region, we will often advance-build. One of the prides of the Tryton team that we often win work over our competitors is that we're very quick and responsive and able to quickly build whatever is asked for and get that product on location because, occasionally, customers don't find ahead as far we would like them to.

So, we've got pretty quick turnaround time from a manufacturing point of view. We've got five Canadian manufacturers and one in the United States, and the diversity of spreading it around, and you've followed us for a lot of years, we used to be beholden to one and then two manufacturers, we could get caught a little bit more in logistic squeezes. So, in summary, now with diversified manufacturing, a very large sort of warehouse and cast pre-building these packers, we often can turn things around on jobs on – within a week is lots of glory stories with some 24-hour operations assembling packers.

Is a week a typical timeframe for a customer to tell you I need – I'm looking for these particular tools on my [ph] lease (28:34) at this time?

Andrew, in most cases, the planning, initial planning of these wells is done during the drilling operations. So, a geologist will have his trajectory and have an idea of what his expectations are within the lateral section. I think just to reiterate Garnet's comment, I think one of our fortes is the ability to change. So, while you have made plans during the drilling operations, the actual operation itself may be different than what the expectation was prior to drilling.

And I think one of – again, one of our fortes is the ability to change and the ability to supply customers on a fairly quick basis once they actually know what they've got.

Sure. I'm just trying to gauge here of the degree of visibility that you have in terms of the order flow into the summer months, and it sounds like you won't really get a beat on that until probably as we close in on the summer months, is that a fair statement then?

You know what, and I wouldn't sort of say yes to that as a rule of thumb. I'm going to give you the answer you probably don't want to hear is sort of an it depends. And ironically, after a dismal Q1 for those guys, there's some good excitement going on now in Q2. And it's one of the dilemmas that we get where you can have a whole bunch of customers that sort of show up on shorter notice that we would like, which isn't very efficient from an operational perspective. But at this point, we're obviously jumping at whatever we can get.

So there is no consistency to that. One of the downsides of being the size that we are, although it helps to be small and nimble and have a broad customer base, but we do get caught in these crunches either for short-term request of big jobs or the other way around where key customers pull the pin on us and we're left holding air.

Okay. Thank you for that. Just one last question to close off. And I promise I won't ask anything more about Tryton. As you look back in the first quarter, did you notice that any particular month or period of time surprised you by the low order flow? Was it – I know you've mentioned on the MD&A a slow start, but was it also a fairly rapid drop-off in March?

Yeah. The notable thing, I mean, we released, as we said in the – in my comments, our year-end results on March 5, January was a bad month pretty much across the board for our services, and it was a bit of a shocking start for us. And then February was the one that also had a lot of these weather disruptions that February can be a big month, and then March has, I think people following the industry know, was – ended up being a pretty decent sort of comeback in a month. So that's sort of how it unfolded.

And that really – okay, and that was just as relevant for Tryton, I guess, right?

Yes.

Okay, perfect. Good utilization on the service rigs, definitely commendable. Can you make any comments at all as to sort of the pricing dynamic? I know you said you'd like better economics [ph] that got (32:00) universally agreed upon among service rig providers. But can you make any comment as to sort of changes in year-over-year pricing or year-over-year margin in that business even if it's just directional?

Well, year-over-year pricing from our point of view, we – from an all-in pricing point of view, as you know as a long-time well serving guy, the things that start in a tough environment that start to disappear are things like your extras, your rentals, your moving cost. And our all-in prices is still strong, which means that people aren't chewing away at us. And Don and I, I don't mean to speak for him, but we believe that, although the economics aren't good and we're not getting price increases, these customers really now appreciate the value of experienced crews, quality equipment and a strong safety record. And that's what's keeping us going. That's what's keeping us steady. From a cost perspective, though, our margins aren't where we'd like them to be and we continue to incur more costs to meet, I will say, ongoing regulations of – it's everything from hours of service to safety expectations of our customers to disruptions in work from everything from cold weather to relocations. And we've got to get the message through to our customers that when we're doing a good job and meeting their expectations on safety and timeliness that we've got to get paid for it. So that's probably my generic answer, Andrew.

Okay. Perfect. That is helpful. When you look back at the conventional tool business and rentals, was that rentals or was that the downhole tools that drove that, because that was a very strong result I thought in those numbers? So was it – could we lean on one side or the other thing, it was Decarson or was it more Tryton?

Well, the – so they both did well, but the conventional tools which is the Tryton conventional business increased itself. And we did see some improvements on the rental side. The bulk of it is obviously conventional tools. The strength there, those guys, as you know, have this strong history and based in the Lloydminster area. They've picked up some big contracts and some steady work, continue to expand their arena where they're working and then just are a well-run group with a good bunch of guys. And it's just – it's really what we call it conventional, some people refer to it as commodity packers, the magic is exactly what the whole Tryton brings, expertise, quality sales, really delivering what the customer wants.

The rentals business has been Decarson, and we're actually – it's possible we're looking at actually migrating that name in the near future here to Tryton. It's basically been sitting slow for while as we had to alter and change our inventory and our sales focus with the changing industry needs. And those guys are finally getting there. And you saw we increased our capital budget to buy some more equipment that was suitable to what the sales guys wanted that opened the door right away. So that business, as you know, was higher margin and it's been increasing. So they had a very strong quarter as well, and we expect that to continue going forward.

Okay. Thank you for that rapid fire. A couple more questions. Just – is there any basin or any region in western Canada that you don't think Tryton has good penetration into that you would like to see it – or that you, strategically, you'd like to advance more into?

Well, the key that – when you go to our outlook section or look at our investor slide deck and for Essential as a whole, there's obviously some building market excitement for Northeast B.C. LNG, the whole natural gas market. And you take a look at our map and where Essential is positioned, and today, you're not seeing a lot of revenue from us for that whole anticipated growth where the drillers are getting going and the frackers perhaps are getting anticipated benefit. And we'll – we can share in that world and I think that's a good upside for the company overall.

But other than that, we've got a broad base of nine service locations and our guys again, unlike heavy equipment, they move around the pick-up trucks. They're very mobile. We ship equipment by plane, by trucks, whatever needs to happen. So that's one of the strengths. We're not going to get caught by being isolated out in a single play. They're very mobile and very well spread in their customer relations.

Okay. I have two more questions, but I'm mindful of the time here. One just relates to, when you talk about your optimism for the back half of 2014, I mean, from an industry level, I would share that optimism, I think many would, is your existing customer base – I'm thinking about, say, coil and service rigs right now. Is your existing customer base reflecting that tangibly back to you, like, customers that maybe – you talked about in your MD&A a little bit about how some customers, their programs weren't necessarily there and you anticipate they're coming back, are they telling you that they're coming back or is that just an anticipation kind of in the same way that I would anticipate that the back half would be busier?

So, in this – thanks for that question, Andrew. A part of this get to the nature of our business as a production and completion company that I would say to you, yes, we've got specific indications from customers. But I'm not going to quote a customer name and, unfortunately, it's a rare day when a company in well servicing as we are and our tools and rentals business, we don't get to quote programs and contracts the way a driller and a fracker would, and maybe some investors look at us and say that makes us a lesser company. But I don't believe that, it's the nature of how the industry allocates out our work.

Where we do have great excitement, and it could change that, is in this, if not the Gen III equipment, certainly the Gen IV equipment. I have said before that when customers see something they really like that they need to exclusively get their hands on, that's why you're seeing contracts with some of these big triples, customers need it to execute very large, long-term programs. And we think that there's potential for future contracts on some of these new deep coil. But in the mean time, no, unfortunately, the best I'd ever be able to give you is a general industry sentiment and customer dialog because they don't have to lock us down. There's still enough competition. They don't have to lock us down yet like they would a big triple or perhaps a frac group.

Indications are important, that's why I asked it, so you have more frequent conversations than I do with your customers for sure. So the last question then just relates to competitive response in the downhole tools segment. So you suggest that you have an innovative team. So, how long do you suppose it takes to design, prototype, beta test and implement a new product into that market?

Well, and again, I apologize if I'm not going to be able to give you sort of an answer to go through that. But I can tell you some specifics. Our expertise with our tool guys, we don't have a big R&D department and we don't have a bunch of scientists sitting and trying to think of the next best thing. Our expertise is we get in tight with our customers. We understand and work with some of the best engineers in the industry in Canada, working with our customers, and we are developing modifications of our existing processes. There's only so many ways to set a packer, slide a sleeve, do a perforation, and move on to do your next one. That's what this is all about, to do it efficiently, quickly and cost effectively.

And we've got some stuff underway, and I don't know, Andrew – we've got an Investor Day coming up next week. And if you're going to be attending that, which I hope you are, you'll get to see a little more insight on these – some of these new tool ideas and where we're at. The reason we haven't put anything in our outlook in our MD&A other than general statements but of course we're working on it because the next thing then, analysts are stating, well, how much is this going to be and they want to model it out, it's premature. We know we've had a tough quarter here. We know we're going to recover and we're going to tell people what we're doing about it. But I can't lay out an exact timeline for you on delivery of new products nor what we expect the revenue base to be from those products.

Thank you for your commentary. I appreciate it.

Good talking to you again, Andrew.

Me too.

That's a lot of questions. You're going to have some analysts ganging up on you when you see them [indiscernible] (41:45).

I think I beat Jason Sawatzky there.

Yeah. Thank you.

Thanks, Andrew.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Following question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys.

Good morning, Greg.

One sec. I'm just marking off questions that have already been asked.

[indiscernible] (42:13) list.

Hey. So, just switch gears a bit out of the U.S., you say still negative gross margin, but trending upwards as you expand on your rental business down there – sorry, your downhole business down there. Just wondering, how is it trending versus sort of your expectation versus budget? And then if we can project it a little bit further, when do you expect it to be a positive contributor?

Yeah. It's – I mean, I think it's been a little slower on the – so this is excusive of our acquisition. It's been a little slower than we expected, but I'll just say recent optimism in the second quarter has been very good and we expect actually even in the second quarter, we're hopeful that we'll start being sort of at that breakeven or slight positive cash flow mark.

My comment that I made last quarter is, we hope that business will be breakeven, a slightly positive cash flow by the end of the year. Now, we've got to overcome our Q1 negative cash flows, and we're a bit behind. So I still think that's possible. I think breakeven is a very good target on the year. And then going forward, if we have a good strong back half, that means 2015 is going to be looking good. The acquisition that we did fits beautifully right into the geographic location of the existing operations.

So the purchase of Sam's there, does that – I mean, I'm just trying to reconcile this here, so overall, U.S. operation still negative by year-end positive cash flow. Is that including the acquisition, so if we were to tact that on there, does that still keep you in the negative or does that automatically vouch you into positive contribution?

For modeling and our – sort of I'll call it our base expectation is call it breakeven for organic operations and slab the acquisition on top of that.

And presumably the acquisition is cash flow positive?

Yeah, presumably. Yes, I mean, that would be our expectation. It's yes.

Okay. Great. And can you quantify that impact in Q1, what – if you just take out your U.S. negative cash flows, could you tell us what it would look like? Is that couple hundred grand, is it couple million, just wondering what the size of that was?

Yeah. We're sort of looking around, we worry about getting over the detail with some of these responses because it's not really disclosed anywhere, Greg. So, the best I'm going to say to you so I don't get offside with anybody is it's not a huge number and it's not that meaningful relative to the numbers that we're talking about. But I don't know if I can get into any more detail than that.

No problem.

Yeah. Let me just give some thoughts here to that and I'll see if I can throw a number out.

No worries. And then just we spent a lot of time talking about downhole tools. So I think we'll just leave that alone and maybe shift over to this coil tubing very briefly. You just mentioned in your initial comments and then also in the printed release that you think the reductions in the masted coil is just a temporary reduction. I would probably tend to agree with that, but I'm just wondering if you can give us a little bit more confidence in that. Was it a certain area, a certain customer, certain region that caused the temporary slowdown there? Or why do you believe it's transient? By the end of the quarter, was it popping right back up again? Just trying to get a better feel there.

Yeah. Greg, it's Don here. Just getting back to the start of the year, January slow start, February intermittent cold weather, different than our service rig operations. Service rigs are mechanically driven, and typically coil operations are hydraulically driven. So when you get extreme variances in cold weather, you're going to have a few hiccups or issues as far as start-ups – start and then shut down.

From a March perspective, again, as we had mentioned in our conference call, we see some really robust activity levels, and that appears to be carrying forward into April to a certain degree. So I'm quite optimistic about the ability to get right back into it again here once the road conditions improve.

That's great color. And then this is actually last one, and it is on downhole tools. Just following on back of a lot of Andy's questions there. Just to ask it specifically, was the breakdown broad-based, was it all your customers that kind of cut things in half quarter-over-quarter or was it a smaller number of large customers that basically went to zero?

Yeah. I'm going to actually [ph] check your bone here (46:57) first and answer your last question. And I was not sure, [ph] in regard to our (47:01) material, and I think one of things I can say to you on the U.S. loss, it's probably not sort of overly significant throw out for you, it's less than CAD 1 million.

[indiscernible] (47:14)

That's helped Q1. So, there you go. And now, on your other question about the customer mix, we spend a lot of time with the sales team on this really trying to understand. And there were a few significant large customers that spent less. So, we still – we had some wins and gains and some positive stories in certain customers. So, I would describe it more as lumpiness within the customer base, some up, some down and some big customers down as opposed to across the board, either there's something wrong with the Tryton business or the multi-stage system is gone.

So, some people are still liking it. We just didn't have – and it's a short window over the winter where if you don't make up for the missing customers, you miss that window and we have to get back on the horse later on in the back half of the year.

A little bit of M&A activity too in the quarter can disrupt relationships, but what happens there is, all of a sudden, we're selling to a key contact and a key customer. And as you know, M&A can both slow down programs and disrupt decision-makers.

It's great color. And I guess, on those specific customers that spent less, have they given you any indication of spending more or, to your earlier comments, is it still kind of too early to tell, you're not going to know until we get into the summer?

The best I can tell you on that similar to – I like that, by the way, Andy. I haven't heard Andrew Redford called Andy before, I think I'm going to adopt that one for him. Similar to his questions, when I talked directly with the Tryton sales team, they really – they're optimistic. They're – they know they've got some work to do, but I don't have anything specific and tangible. It's not like they've been blacklisted by any customers that we're aware of. They're just back doing their thing beating the streets with increased vigor. I can't emphasize enough. This is very personal, very significant to them as well as sales and businesspeople.

This is the first profile that this business has taken in, I'll call it, a negative way. And all the conversations we're having today isn't going to make them feel very good. I know our team. These guys are – they're hungry, competitive, put on your favorite playoff sports analogy hat and say, they're going to have to suck it up and dig in and show that they can come back and win the series, and I'm betting on those guys.

Yeah. No, nothing ever moves up into right consistently. So I appreciate that color and also thanks for the dig on playoffs. Thanks, everybody. That's it from me.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. The following question is from John Bereznicki from Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, everyone.

Hi, good morning.

I think you've pretty much addressed everything I had on my mind. Just one quick housekeeping question. Looks like you've kind of, I guess, tweaked your CapEx program a bit. Wasn't entirely clear, that CAD 53 million, does that include the tuck-in or that is exclusive of that?

CAD 53 million is exclusive of the $5.1 million Sam's Packer acquisition.

Got you.

So it's not in the CAD 53 million.

Okay.

As we've mentioned in the conference call, we've determined, we decided to change some of the profile where we saw a better bang for our buck was in our rental tools division. So we chose to go with just some different CapEx expenditures rather than going forward with stuff that may not have as big an impact.

Got you. And just quickly on the Sam's acquisition, I mean, how does it fit strategically with what you have in the U.S., and what kind of synergies do you think you can extract out of this?

John, it's Jeff Newman speaking. We view Sam's as a strategic acquisition, it complements our organic growth. They work predominantly in the Texas and Oklahoma Panhandle region and as well as Southern Kansas. So when we talk about synergies, we think both companies going forward are going to benefit from access to a larger customer base, expanded service offerings and access to a larger labor pool than either had in the past.

Okay, great. I appreciate the color. That's it for me. Thanks.

Thanks, John.

Thanks, John.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Following question is from Jeremy Mosher from Peters & Company. Please go ahead.

Sorry, guys. My questions have all been answered.

That's okay with us, Jeremy. Thanks for calling.

Thanks.

Thank you. We have no further questions registered. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, John. And thank you, everyone,7 for joining us today. Have a good day.

Thank you. The conference call has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.