Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Secretary, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Jason Sawatzky — Director-Institutional Research, Oilfield Services, AltaCorp Capital Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Roy H. Ma — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Lara Joan King — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Jamie Murray — Analyst, Desjardins Capital Markets
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, GHS Securities Canada Ltd.
Aaron Sherlock — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Ltd. First Quarter Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Alana. Good morning and thank you for joining our first quarter conference call. With me on the call are Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Jeff Newman, Senior Vice President, Corporate; and our new CFO, Allan Mowbray. This morning, Garnet will give you an overview of the first quarter results and then open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please see our May 7, 2013 first quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statement. Actual results could differ materially, and there can be no assurance of future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions please refer to our May 7, 2013 first quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thanks, Karen. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We were pleased to announce record EBITDA of CAD 33.4 million for the first quarter. These results validate our business model, which is focused on horizontal completions and oil production work. This record was especially rewarding as industry oilfield service activity was slower in Q1 2013 than Q1 2012 and our current quarter results did not include the benefit of our former drilling division, which historically contributed strong EBITDA in the first quarter.

Now, looking at each of our service lines, Coil Well Service had utilization for deep coil at 110%, up from 102% in the same quarter in 2012. We experienced strong demand for both deep coil tubing and associated pumping services. Coil Well Service revenue increased 17%.

During the quarter, we had steady work in the Saskatchewan and Manitoba/Bakken and the BC and Alberta Montney plays. We also had a longer winter drilling season with the colder weather that continued in later March this year.

Pumping utilization increased quarter-over-quarter with a larger fleet. We increased significantly our fluid pumping hours compared to Q1 2012 with the addition of six new pumpers, three nitrogen and three fluid. Recruiting and training initiatives undertaken in the second half of 2012 enabled us to crew additional fluid pumpers in the quarter.

Our Coil Well Service pricing was unchanged during the quarter. Even with this strong 110% Q1 utilization, Essential's masted coil tubing fleet has room for further growth in fleet utilization when industry demand improves. As evidence of this, one of our masted coil tubing rigs experienced 150% utilization during this quarter using a standard well servicing 10-hour day. Our conventional deep coil fleet would not see the same high utilization as masted, but in a strengthening market, we also have room for utilization increases in conventional coil.

Now, Downhole Tools & Rentals. In that division, revenue increased 11% compared to Q1 2012 due to the strong growth of the Tryton multi-stage fracturing system business, which had revenue growth itself of 42% compared to Q1 2012. This is in part related to introduction of our new horizontal multi-stage, single element packer in the latter half of 2012, which continued together strong customer acceptance. Conventional Tools revenue in the quarter was higher than Q4 2012, but slightly lower than Q1 2012.

And finally, Service Rigs, our utilization was 69%, similar to Q1 2012. Demand for our service rigs was high, particularly for the rigs working in Northern Alberta and the three service rigs working 24 hours a day on SAGD work in the oil sands. We did not experience pricing reductions in the quarter.

Now, a few comments about capital. Our customers require innovative equipment to complete and produce longer, deeper and more complex wells. Innovation and effective customer execution is the focus of our Well Servicing and Downhole Tools businesses. Fortunately, we're able to accomplish this with our tool business with nominal capital investment.

Essential's four deep masted coil tubing rigs under construction will introduce increased real capacity for longer and larger diameter coil, higher masts, and unique safety and operational features, taking our customers to new depths. The three different fabricators we are working with to build this equipment are progressing on track so far in 2013. We expect to have one Generation III rig from Surefire Industries and one Generation IV rig from Option Industries working in the third quarter of 2013.

Option Industries is the group who built our deep coil tubing reel trailer in 2012. We expect Option to deliver a second Generation IV deep coil rig in Q4. NOV Hydra Rig is also building one Generation III rig for delivery in Q4.

If you're unclear about my comments referring to Generation III and Generation IV terminology, please refer to the comments in our Outlook section of the current press release.

In addition to these four masted coil rigs planned for 2013, we also have deposits and build spots with Surefire for two more Generation III masted rigs. We plan to speak to the outlook for these build spots with our Q2 results. These last two rigs are not currently in our 2013 capital budget nor included in the forward fleet count. Our budget at CAD 45 million remains unchanged.

Now, a brief comment about Colombia. We have now downsized our Colombia operation and are currently operating two rod rigs on contract. I don't have any significant news to share with you today about Colombia. I expect that this quarter will be our last quarterly operational loss of significance since we still included costs related to our larger Colombia operation. During Q2 2013, our contracts will be completed and our operations will cease.

We continue to seek buyers for the Colombia operations. Our initial path was to seek buyers for the entire company. We are now also speaking to buyers interested in the individual assets. We anticipate that we will complete our exit by the end of the third quarter. Our anticipated proceeds from asset sales are expected to significantly exceed shutdown and disposal costs.

And finally on the outlook, we are planning oilfield service activity in the rest of 2013 to be similar to 2012. It was nice to have such a strong start to the year. We continue to watch infrastructure developments closely, including the process and timing of approvals and development related to oil export pipelines and LNG export facilities. These uncertainties have existed for some time now, but we don't anticipate things getting worse. And in fact, there is some longer term optimism developing.

In the meantime at Essential, we remain convinced that producers in Western Canada will continue to focus on oil, horizontal drilling and completions. Essential has proven that we have the equipment and crews to meet our customers' needs safely and efficiently.

It was also noted in our outlook that we have commenced an organic expansion into the United States. I think this is a natural evolution for Essential given our proven expertise in horizontal completions and work-overs. Our expansion into United States will be through our Tryton tools division.

Given the low capital investment's intensity of the Tryton business model, our U.S.A. expansion provides us with upside opportunity on nominal investment risk. We believe there is demand for our services and we are excited about this opportunity.

Our balance sheet remains very strong with debt at the end of March at CAD 36 million, and that gives us a debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA at a very reasonable 0.5 times.

That concludes my formal comments to the call, and we would be happy to answer any questions. Karen?

Alana, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jason Sawatzky with AltaCorp Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning everyone.

Morning, Jason.

Garnet, just first question here. Just looking at the service rigs, you guys posted a really strong utilization rate at 69%. [ph] Iraq (00:11:17), who typically leads the industry on utilization, they were at 74%. So you narrowed utilization gap with [ph] Iraq (00:11:25) quite a bit. Historically, it's been 8% to 10%. Is that mainly due to the strong SAGD and Northern Alberta activity, or are there other pockets or areas of strength for your service rigs?

Thanks, Jason. Good question. I think our strength – I mean, the service rig business for us, we've continued to, I think, focus our attention on areas that are profitable, move a few rigs around where the activity is.

So I would suggest it's been quite broad based for us, but certainly similar to our deep coil fleet, we highlight the three rigs working on SAGD operations on 24 hours a day because that helps anybody's utilization when the main calculation is on a 10-hour day basis.

So I would think that's really the answer, but we have a hard time coming up with any tangible sentence to throw into our MD&A because it was fairly broad-based across-the-board improvement.

Right. Okay. I guess, so further to that, with the new build service rigs, I think two of the three are earmarked for SAGD work. What's the ultimate opportunity for the service rigs in SAGD and the heavy oil play? Could you add another 10 rigs into those plays over the next few years? What does that look like?

I mean, right now, our target – we have three rigs working and we actually hope to have another three. And Don's goal is to try and have six by the end of the calendar year working in the oil sands.

Where that goes? I think the information I've seen on SAGD, although big in terms of development of the reserves, production is just sort of coming along and I think there's tremendous expansion opportunity there. So, it's going to be a target of good service rig companies and we will continue to build equipment. Our greatest advantage for us is our constantly improving safety record and the relationships that we're building early with these key oil sand clients. So I think that gives us a great head start on this space.

Great. Okay. Just shifting to the Downhole Tools, obviously, adoption of this new MSFS tool seems to be going very well. Just wondering what percentage of the total MSFS revenue did these new tools now make up?

Well, we don't, as you know, get into that level of detailed disclosure by sort of tool line, but we wanted to highlight that because the main message we like to get out with the Tool business is it's constantly evolving, but we're really evolving with our customers.

Right.

And as people know, there's been a change from sort of an ever-increasing number of stages to then with some of the reservoir and production data came in on horizontals. Customers have pulled back a little bit and in many cases, looked at fewer stages and trying to do cost reductions and find ways to accomplish the same production performance with lower cost.

So this new tool really is just – it's a cost efficiency benefit that's working very well for customers who are trying different things. So, we don't really track our tools like that, but it had a meaningful impact in this last quarter.

Okay. Fair enough. And then just final question, you did mention potential U.S. expansion. Just wondering if – can you give us a timeframe for that? And you mentioned that going in with the tools first, if that goes well, could you see yourself moving in service rigs and coil behind that?

Yes. So, on the first part of the question, when you're doing an organic growth strategy, the good part is you don't incur a big initial investment cost. So that part is – it's a little harder to put a spike and say, here's where we're going to have revenue because there's no formal close date like there would be with an acquisition.

So we feel certainly, there'll be revenue. My guess is we'll start to see something in the back half of the year, hopefully partway through Q3 and into Q4. Knowing the nature of that business, it's a very realistic possibility from our perspective.

Because of the nature of the Tool business, again, we really just need shops, guys with pickup trucks and then inventory access and key people. It's an easy one to go in and really give us intelligence and understanding of the U.S. marketplace and begin to develop some relationships.

The future for our Well Servicing business, one day that may happen as well. I could see us going in on the backs of key customers, Canadian customers operating in the U.S., or we'll just wait till we build up sort of intelligence and relationships through the Tool business and then see when opportunities unfold.

Great. Okay. That's good detail. Thanks, Garnet. Thanks, everyone.

Yeah.

Bye-bye.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Just following up on the previous discussion about the single element in packer, although you're not breaking out the specific percent of the market that that represents now, wondering if you could offer a little bit more color just about the type of market that you are moving into the customers that you're working with that. Are they new or existing customers and what type of play types is it ideally suited for?

I'll give an initial answer, then I'll turn it over to Don Webster, COO, can add a little bit of play type color for you.

Again, this is just the highlight in this market of multi-stage fracturing completions. It's very competitive, very cost-sensitive for our customers, especially with the high differential environment that we have been in. And everyone's on the producer side, very competitive at trying to outperform their peers.

So, there's no sort of single customer. It's still very broad based. And we're intrigued and interested at the different strategies that customers have for how they're doing their completion work with different tools.

Some of them will prefer the standard ball & seat system with lots of stages; others are going with fewer stages. It's a very exciting time for us because we know that the industry is trying new things, trying to figure things out and as a service company, we're happy to work along with them and contribute our ideas. So, it's broad based in both the breadth of customers and no sort of single rule of thumb on who's doing this and who isn't.

So, Don, over to you.

Morning, Greg. Just to follow up with Garnet Amundson. He uses the term innovative and I think that is probably the best description. It's basically an evolution for us as far as the single element goes. Obviously, we started kind of smaller looking at the Cardium stuff, which is not as deep, has lower fracture gradient, so on and so forth. And we'll just keep expanding and moving onto more and more complex operations as our customers look to us to help them with their downhole operations.

Thanks. It's good color. And then just kind of carrying on with that line of thinking, it's probably reasonable to assume that the whole basin isn't growing at the rate which your Downhole Tools division is growing, meaning that you're probably taking market share away from your competitors.

So, with that in mind, what's the differentiating factor that's causing customers to switch over to you? Is it a pricing? Is it a quality of service? Is it cost savings on their side that they're getting better flow rates, better IRRs? What's the main differentiation from you and the people who are losing business to your packers?

Well, I will answer the first part. Unfortunately, our customers rarely share their flow rates or any details like that with us, but I go down to our key factors to success. Those people who've seen our investor presentation have heard me go through this a lot and really at the top of list is our key personnel. We've just got a tremendously dedicated, skilled and experienced group of people and you have to execute – given the cost of these horizontal wells, the customers have to have trust and confidence that you're going to be able to get the job done in widely varying circumstance. And I think our reputation continues to build.

On your question about whether or not we're taking a bigger piece of the pie, we referenced in our MD&A about sort of drilling, which was down approximately 7% or 8% in terms of utilization, and completion stats were slightly down quarter-over-quarter. So, by definition with our growth, I think that's probably an accurate statement, we must be cutting into someone else's market share.

I emphasize again, as you know, Greg, the difficult thing for us in the Tool business, just like our deep coil business, there's very few comps for us to look at like there would be on the service rig side. So, we think we're doing very well, but I don't have hard data to really ever validate that.

Don, anything you want to add?

No, I appreciate that.

No, [indiscernible] (00:21:04), Garnet.

Just switching gears a little bit on to your capital program. On the construction of your masted units that are coming out, I might have gotten this wrong, but I think on to your disclosure, you've got a few build spot set up – more build spot set up for your Generation III, which I think a little bit shallower versus Generation IV rigs, and I'm just wondering if you can explain why that is. For my simplistic viewpoint, I was under the impression the longer – later generations were in more demand, but please correct me if I'm wrong there.

So I'm looking at Don to sort of explain the practical differentiation, but the Generation IV units are being built at Option Industries, which is a very boutique fabrication shop out of Drayton Valley, Alberta, and we believe their current capacity is fully locked up by Essential and we hope to continue with that. And these things take a long time to build, as we've been highlighting before, and there is a certain innovation R&D element that goes with them. So that's sort of a step ahead.

In the meantime, Generation III coming from Surefire and NOV Hydra Rig also have been having challenges and we actually started those rigs before the Generation IVs. So, it tells you that there's been a bit of a catch-up by the guys from Option.

And Don, maybe you want to add a little more color.

Yeah. Bottom line, Greg, if you look at all the evolution of the business started with Gen I and Gen II, Gen III is basically just a bigger, better, more electronic, more data acquisition-type unit.

Gen IV is significantly different than that altogether. It has its own power capabilities. It's self-mobilizing. There's a number of differences between them. So, if it looks like we're continuing with Gen III it's because there's demand for it, but we also see a significant demand for the potential on our Gen IV stuff as we've seen a significant acceptance of the reel trailer, which is kind of the prototype for the capacity of that particular unit.

Well, that helps us a lot. I appreciate it. And this is my last one and I'll wrap it up there. But just your comments, Garnet, earlier on 24-hour operations, really helps at the utilization very much coming from positive angle.

As we've heard on conference calls and disclosure, in this reporting season, from other service operators and different business lines, 24s don't always mean higher returns for the service companies. I'm wondering if you could add any color and context in that perspective from your specific 24-hour operations. Are they things which are benefiting your profitability or is it more just satisfying a customer need but it actually is a lower return-type operation for you?

Yeah. Thanks for that clarification. I think it's – for us, we're pretty fussy about profitability and they are – I'll call it, we're earning a fair margin working with our customers and making sure that we do earn a fair margin on that 24-hour work.

Where it can be more costly is to do that. We basically need three sets of crews because you got to have one crew resting and then a day and a night crew, and there can be some unique crew rotation challenges and things like accommodation challenges, which are extra cost. But if you work that correctly with the customer and customers are usually very fair with us, we're trying to just earn a fair margin.

So, I don't share that concern that although 24-hour operations help utilization, I think you can see from our margin in that division that we're not suffering on profitability.

Okay. Thanks very much. That's it from me.

Thanks.

Thanks, Greg.

Thank you. The next question is from Roy Ma with PI Financial Corp. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Roy.

Good morning, Roy.

Hey. Just to dive a little bit deeper into [ph] trying Tools business (00:25:00), if I may just go into – given just the amount of disclosure that was in the MD&A, I can see that percentage revenue from the multi-stage fracturing business is increased along with the overall revenue. Can you kind of maybe give me some color what are – is it a matter of pricing or has your job capacity gone up significantly in the sequential basis?

Yeah. Sure. And as people know, we're trying to constantly get the right balance between our disclosure and the – I'll call it the full transparency of this very competitive business and trying to help out with that. But part of the reason we dropped our job count is the jobs are changing in nature and cost from our perspective between the standard ball & seat jobs, the multi-stage, the short packer, the single element packer. So there's a lot of other factors.

So, in our case, we give that percentage between multi-stage and conventional work. And the multi-stage really took off in this quarter. The number of stages is varying extensively with our customers, all the way down to some of them are doing as four – a few of this – 4 and 10 stages and then there's others still up in the high teens and low 20s. But we're not hearing as much of that sort of high- and mid-teens stages in the work that we're doing.

So, it's a great variety across a wide spectrum of geographic bands. So I don't really have any rules of thumb I can give you. And again, one of the things that we're thrilled about with this business is how we can adapt and change with the changing needs of our customers. It's a very resilient business.

Yeah. Okay. No, that helps, I guess. And maybe just to kind of reflect on -what I'm after a little bit is how should we think about the growth rate in terms of how much of a hockey stick can we use in terms of our forecast. I mean, I can understand from the qualitative commentary that you guys are very bullish about that business. And I'm trying to keep that in the back of my mind, but at the same time, keep that in check in terms of how do we put a number on it. Is there any guidance that you can offer from that perspective maybe on a relative basis to the same period last year?

Roy, it's Don here. Actually, it's a good question. It's very difficult question to answer, primarily because it's so dependent on the operator, it's so dependent on the reservoir characteristics of the wells that are out there. It's a very difficult question to answer.

And Roy, I'll just give a generic view. Remember, you've followed for a long time now and I think it was about two years ago in Q3, if you looked at our trends in the quarters, we had one quarter that was just a big, old spike up in that business, and it was the timing of some weather events and it went up. And unfortunately, a few analysts and investors dropped their ruler on that and ran straight up and assumed that would continue. And then Q4 came in flat and then people said, what's happened to the business?

With the nature of this and we have to go with our customers' pace, it can be a little bit spiky in quarters. We have great confidence in this business in terms of our own internal planning. What I would do is plan for during your steady solid increases as we've now shown since way back probably five years. And we don't always know where it's going to come from, but I think we've shown that and we don't plan for anything else.

If we outperform that, that's great, but we're not planning for a rocket ship. The one that could be just a tremendous success is the U.S. thing, but it's in touch early stages. Again, no guidance at all from us on that.

Okay. Maybe if I can come out from a slightly different angle. From a profitability standpoint, you had a all-time high at this point in terms of margins, like even before, let's say, the current downturn?

Well, it's – the margin has been coming up in the public disclosure for the segment. There's a couple factors for that. We've highlighted before that the wireline business that we had in the past always sort of brought that margin down. And then, as you know, in oilfield services when the business grows in critical mass, it helps to cover, I'll call it, your loan for fixed cost for things like shops and leases and that sort of thing. So as the business grows in critical mass, the margin comes up.

We've also, as we've highlighted before, had some advantages. Excuse me. Now that we've broadened our fabrication to more players, we're getting some cost advantages on larger orders, shipping and logistics. So I don't think that the business is probably moving up to a higher point, and we also have that Rental business in there as well that we've talked about with our downhole tubulars rental business, which typical rentals are up closer to the 50% margin. So depending what's going on, that consuming the margins around as well.

So I don't know. It might be at a – when you say an all-time high, the margin is probably higher than we've seen for a while. But I wouldn't expect that to continue because, again, our [ph] whole thing (00:30:50) as a service company, we want to be fair to our customers and our profitability is always utilization and activity. We're not trying to overprice.

Okay. Well, thanks for that very comprehensive answer. I was really more up to isolating the Tryton multi-stage fracturing business, but I think I can get the picture from that.

Thanks, Roy.

Just moving on the deep coil, I know from your prepared commentary that you didn't take any pricing hit or discount thing. I don't know if I put – or I'm putting words in your mouth, but as far as like forward-looking is concerned exiting spring break-up, how is the pricing environment for deep coil services relative to where you were as you enter into 2013?

Yes, a good question and I'll just go back when I first made the comment when – I think there's a lot of pricing reductions as we went into the winter of 2012 and 2013 and a lot of people were worried and said, there's going to be pricing reductions. And Don and I both said, we did not anticipate any pricing changes or reductions all the way through to break-up, which we've now lived and experienced. So we're very pleased with that.

I think as you know now, our customers will be regrouping through the spring, getting their reservoir data in and looking at things. And it's a tough market out there for a number of our customers, but at this point in time, I'm not anticipating tremendous pressure or pricing reductions. [ph] The odd person (00:32:28) asks us about pricing increases and I just think it would be a difficult time for that.

The advantage that we have again, tremendous safety record and there's a shortage of the equipment that we're providing in deep coil, and that allows us to maintain our prices. So, I would hope it will stay the same, but again it's a long way till the fall season picks up again. So we're going to be listening and talking with our customers.

All right. Thanks very much, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Roy.

Thank you. The next question is from Lara King. Please state your company and proceed with your question.

Hi. It's Lara from Stifel. How are you?

Good, Lara. Thanks. How are you?

Not bad at all. You touched on it in your response to Jason in terms of requirements. With the U.S. expansion, how do you plan to approach staffing level? I know it's small, but do you plan on bringing guys in from Canada at least initially or what are you thinking?

We're actually going to be – believe it or not, a little combination of both, but our primary staffing strategy will be hiring U.S. personnel. And the reason is that downhole tool community is actually quite tight and there's a lot of relationships. We've talked before in the past about we've had U.S. manufacturing and we've had relationships in United States for a long time, and a lot of the – if I can say some of the original key guys from the Tool business have really grown out of the Canadian environment and are in the U.S. So there's good relationships there and good parts have always – that will be our dominant strategy.

Maybe I missed this, but are there particular regions that you're going to focus on in the U.S.?

You didn't miss it, and I'm not prepared at this point to talk about that. We discussed it and the reason is, again, we don't want to play our hands. We know that some of our competitors listen to these calls. So, we'll get our feet on the ground and get set up and then reveal that in the future.

Fair enough. And then just – I believe you mentioned in your MD&A that you're making a switch to build the rod rig versus a double. What is it about the market that led you make that change?

Oh, there's a significant amount of service rigs in the business right now. And what we're finding with the advent of a lot of more focus on oil operations that there's basically a need for additional rod rig capacity. And basically, as well as rod rig accelerators, which is [ph] coil rod (00:35:00), but we just felt that there was a need. And because we already have an existence with our 14 rod rigs, it just seem to add additional ability for us to gain work and it also helps us with our crew retention.

That's all I have. Thanks, guys.

Thanks. Lara.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Kammermayer with Claric (sic) [Clarus] (00:35:23) Securities. Please go ahead.

Oh. Hi, guys. Congrats on the quarter. Most of my questions have been answered. But just on the dividend, I know you have issue – or started the normal course issuer bid, but you have a pretty conservative payout ratio and it's a pretty positive outlook for the future here. Have you guys thought about increasing the dividends? Actually maybe a better way to ask is, what would need to happen for you to raise that dividend?

Thanks. We're going to stick with your first line of question. I was going to say yes. We have thoughts. It's been asked and the right answer is our numbers are clear, our business is simple and, yes, our payout ratio is probably one of the lowest out there, and our balance sheet is strong and our operations look good.

When you have an outlook, as we do right now, as we talked about in the conference call commentary, we're coming into now what looks like a soggy and wet Q2 and we know there's a lot of moisture out there. And following up on my response to pricing and how we'll deal with customers as we get into the fall of 2013, I don't think this is the right time to have that contemplation. You have the thought and then we talk about at the board level and said, let's just sort of see where the industry is going.

So, for those people who are receiving our dividend right now, shareholders, I think they know what's extremely safe. And certainly, we do get the questions and requests about, come on, you guys can increase that and the board is well aware of it, and we'll keep our eye on that as we make it through break-up.

Okay. So you've thought about it and I realize maybe now is not the time for the soggy/wet and the pricing. But what would actually need to happen say, Q3, Q4 that you would think, I don't know, a little more seriously about it?

I have to leave my answer to that. I want to say it's all in the magic of the boardroom seat. That's the best answer. And just to emphasize again we're in great shape. We've got tremendous choices to lots of different things and it's a board decision. So, I have to just stop it there.

Okay. Great. That's actually all I had. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Jamie Murray with Desjardins. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Nice quarter.

Good morning, Jamie.

Good morning, Jamie.

So my first question is just on your fluid pumper fleet, 73% utilization. Good number there. I just wonder if you could give some more color on – in terms of whether you're running all 18 of your units [indiscernible] (00:38:00), just some highlights on the utilization of those units.

Basically – Jamie, it's Don here – we are not running all 18 units. Basically, we are crewed up for 24-hour operations of approximately 13 units and the reasoning for that is because that's such a large volume of equipment. We intentionally leave one, two, potentially three units against the fence just to handle normal wear and tear, if we were to have an equipment issue where a pump had a problem that we have capacity without having to go to third-party people.

So, we still have an answer. We still have vacancies, if you want to call it that, where we would like to get additional crews. There's still upside potential, but it is difficult to maintain the safety requirements in today's market, bringing the right people and train them. So, as Don and I have said forever, we're building this up, but it's taking time to get the right people in this difficult market.

Right. Okay. And then just in terms of the units you're running, are they all just supporting essential operations internally or is there any outside work performed?

They do some outside work – [indiscernible] (00:39:13) work. They support our conventional coil tubing units. And in fact, during some of the drill-out operations with our service rig operations, the pump capacities on a typical service rig, the type of drilling operations for seats and ports requires higher pressures and higher volumes. So we've been successful at kind of spreading that equipment throughout our fleet.

But our strategy is the pumping business will never be – and I'll call it a marketed business. It's an associated support business for our coil operations, primarily.

It was built for coil.

Okay. Right. Yeah, that's good for that. And then just on your capital program, could you just give some color maybe in terms of the units you're bringing in? Are they committed to any customers or, I mean, what's the outlook for those when they actually enter service?

The – I can't – I'm not comfortable to reveal names, but I will just say that for these Generation III and Generation IV units and we talked about this reel trailer that came out and we actually had an advertisement in The Roughneck Magazine about our reel trailer, talking about the depths of the work that we did for a customer. And we hit a record depth of just about 5,600 meters with 2 5/8-inch coil.

And that reel trailer is basically the prototype built by Option Industries for these Generation IV coil units. And it had such good success for customers who are dealing with these very long reach horizontals that it creates dialogue between our salespeople and our engineering team, and they're expressing interest in this new equipment when it comes out. And the fact that we've got the crews and experience to work that new equipment.

So those discussions are happening and we feel very comfortable that it won't be difficult to get that equipment to work.

Okay. That's great. And so, just following up on that, given kind of what you said the interest and the size of the wells that they'll be working on, is it fair to say that they'll be some of your highest, I guess, return units in the fleet once they're operational?

It's hard to answer a question like that, but again I made the comment in the formal conference call script about utilization capacity because just the way well servicing is calculated, people drill well when you – in 110%, if there are any more upside. And yeah, these guys, when they are working full 24s on pad jobs and moving from well-to-well to the fact that we had one rig working at 150% utilization is exciting.

So, with these new generation rigs that come out, I don't know if we even thought through exactly pricing and economics because those discussions are – well, economics is the wrong term, but pricing with our customers relative to duration of commitment. But I expect the returns, the payback to be very good because, again, customers are inherently selfish when they see good iron and great crews, they want them for themselves and they know that it's worth paying for.

Yeah. That's great. Nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jaime.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Brian Purdy with GHS Canada. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Brian.

I know you sometimes don't like to give out too much granular information, but you kind of opened the door here with this 150% utilization rate on your masted coil unit. And I'm just wondering, you've got some big units coming out later this year, if you would expect that those units would be in that ballpark anyway in terms of utilization when they reach the market.

Well, thanks for the question. I don't know if we're in a position to answer that in a reasonable basis until we've got customer commitment. So the timing of this equipment coming out is perfect. We're expected to work in Q3. And whether we'll be able to speak to outlook in Q2 or not, but by Q3, all this stuff working for our customers, we'll be able to speak to the winter.

So I would expect it should be very busy, but 150% is a tough bar to reach. But for people doing modeling like yourself, these equipments with what customers are doing should be in high demand. And if we had 110% utilization for this strong Q1 across both masted and conventional, our masted coil typically works at the higher end of that utilization spectrum. Conventional, less than 110% to come up with that average.

So, with that in mind, you can probably do your own modeling. It's something reasonable. And as a management team, as I think our investors know, we typically try and line and target to the market something that we feel we can do and hopefully exceed that.

Okay. And then the Gen IV-type models that you're coming out with, they sound pretty unique to the Canadian market. Have you gotten enough indications from customers that that depth of coil is something that they'll use on a regular basis?

It's actually one of the reasons why we built that unit is for customer demand. And again, Garnet uses the term innovation and I think it's perfect. And basically, the unit is being built to a certain specification based on a number of customer demands.

So, it is a unique piece of equipment and it is different than the Generation II and Generation III units in that it is self-mobile, it's got additional capacity and the power section for that particular unit doesn't drive off the truck and has its own 800kW genset. So it is quite unique and we built it based on what our customers wanted, as well as we've got such a large presence with coil tubing masted and conventional that there's a number of ideas and things that come from our people, which makes it even more advantageous to go in that direction.

Okay. And just given the length or depth of that coil, I mean would it be fair to say that those would be like going into Horn River basin or are there other areas that might use that as well?

Well, the – and again, we don't know the answer, but it's quite, I will say, highly capable of work in places like the Horn River. It might be highly capable of doing work in deep Bakken work, really anywhere. And what we've been experiencing – and again, it's not us driving this brand. It's really you take a look at where customers are going with the lengths of their horizontal legs and the total distance of their wells to reach the end or the total distance of these wells. You need larger diameter coil just to allow – so you don't end up with the friction on the coil and then you get bigger, heavier. It becomes a real engineering challenge.

We think these units are – in terms of fully mobile and drivable on Canadian roads with road bans and all the road restriction issues, we don't really think there's anything like this out there. But we are chasing where our customers, engineering and geology teams want to go as opposed to – we're not trying to drive the business in a hope that our customers come up and seek us. We're responding to where the customers already said they want to go.

Okay. Great. And then just on these deep coil units, obviously, you have a couple of different suppliers you're using here. I know there's been some challenge getting deliveries of deeper coil units. What's your level of confidence that these ones come out kind of on the schedule that you've given us? Is it pretty high at this point?

I would say it's better than what we had for understanding last year. We're a lot farther along within the projects on the Gen IV stuff. There's a lot of stuff – specialty steel that have come from overseas and stuff. So we've kind of gone past those hurdles and I'm fairly confident that our delivery times will be on schedule for 2013.

Okay. Okay. Great. That's all I had. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. The next question is from Aaron Sherlock with TD. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. First of all, congratulations on the quarter. Scott's currently out of the office. I just wanted to touch back on the deep masted coil rigs, you have four rebuilds coming on here. And I just wanted to get a sense of a ballpark figure for the number of 2-inch coil tubing rigs with a depth of, say, 5,000 meters or greater that they are in the base and if you could provide one -and what percentage of the current market share you have or where you would like to get to see additions you're bringing on?

Aaron, thanks for the question. Good morning. As I've said before, those people who have heard my comments on the service rig business, it's – I refer to it as a very transparent. It's been around a long time, and I know from the many public companies, what utilizations are, who has what equipment.

On the deep coil business, there isn't accurate industry data out there. We know from the group called [indiscernible] (00:48:59) what the total coil feed is. The vast majority are not deep units. So, our estimate is that there's 85 deep units working and competing with us for long-reach horizontals in Western Canada and we estimate that we have 25 of those.

But as far as whether they are 2-inch or 2 7/8-inch, part of the advantage with our equipment, you can change the reel and injector, and we can deal with different diameters of coil depending on what our customer is achieving. So there's no sort of a static way to compare size or diameter of coil across the industry. So, it's also not possible to know what other people are building and what's coming, but I can tell you that we're well aware of the three fabrication shops that we're using, in our opinion, are probably the best three places to go in Canada. And we get a pretty good idea if we wander around in those shops to see what our competitors are doing.

So, I'm not as familiar with what's being built in the U.S. And if people are being – having stuff built in the U.S., if they would perhaps choose to bring that into Canada at some point, but that's I think the best data you can get.

Okay. Thanks. Thanks for the color there. It's been touched on before, these new Gen III and Gen IV rigs are seeing high interest from customers. Do you have a figure for how many are under contract or spoken for or these new build ones, have people shown interest to contract immediately after they're finished construction?

I think I went through that response in a previous answer that we're building equipment to meet customer demand, but we won't have any clarity on that until we get into the fall 2013, winter 2014 drilling season.

All right. That's all I have. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Aaron.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now to like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you for joining us today and hope you have a good day.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you for your...

[Abrupt End]