Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen D. Perasalo — Secretary & Vice President-Investor Relations, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Garnet K. Amundson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Donald A. K. Webster — Chief Operating Officer, Essential Energy Services Ltd.
Mark Westby — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.
Greg Colman — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Brian Glenn Purdy — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Scott Treadwell — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jeff Fetterly — Analyst, Peters & Co. Ltd.
Stephen J. Kammermayer — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Essential Energy Services Limited Third Quarter Conference Call and Webcast.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karen Perasalo, Vice President, Investor Relations.

Please go ahead, Ms. Perasalo.

Thank you, Gretta. Good morning and thank you for joining our third quarter conference call.

With me on the call today are, Garnet Amundson, President and CEO; Don Webster, COO; Allan Mowbray, CFO; and Jeff Newman, Senior VP, Business Developments. This morning, Garnet and Don will give you an overview of our third quarter results, speak to the outlook and open the line for questions.

In this conference call, we will be discussing financial measures, including certain non-IFRS financial measures such as EBITDA. Please refer to our November 04, 2015 third quarter news release for definitions of these terms.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. Such statements are given as of the date of this call and involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors and assumptions were used to formulate such statements. Actual results could differ materially and there can be no assurance for future performance or market impacts. For additional information with respect to forward-looking statements, factors and assumptions, refer to our November 04, 2015 third quarter news release.

I will now turn the call over to Garnet.

Thank you, Karen. Good morning.

Yesterday, in the context of current industry conditions, we reported strong third quarter results. Third quarter EBITDAS was $8.5 million with a margin of 18%. While this is a significant EBITDAS decrease from 2014 considering the 50% deterioration in revenue during the period, we are pleased with the results.

Timely wage reductions that matched service pricing declines allowed us to protect service line operating margins. We carefully managed all other discretionary spending in the period. We are also seeing the benefits of significant fixed cost reductions that we made in Q1 2015.

We want to remind our investors that Essential's operating and administrative costs are heavily weighted to a variable structure such that only 20% of our costs are fixed. Essential made the difficult transition to variable wages for our coil well service operating employees in 2011. This is the same transition that some of the Canadian frackers are embarking on today. Although it requires trust from employees, we believe in the no guarantee labor model for our employees and for our field staff.

Our service rig and downhaul tools and rentals employees have always been compensated on a primarily variable model. Corporate and management staff had significant pay at risk in our bonus program. In this highly uncertain operating environment, our variable compensation model balances the needs of employees with the financial returns of the company.

We will now discuss the outlook, dividend increase, dividend decrease, our 2016 capital spending budget, and third quarter results for each of our businesses. Now on the outlook, the decline in world oil prices in the third quarter contributed to an increasing negatively industry outlook. Many industry experts do not see an oilfield services retrieve until late 2016 or 2017. We are believers in the lower for longer theme and are financially preparing for that possibility.

In Canada, we're facing incremental headwinds with pending policy decisions on carbon taxes, royalties, oil export pipelines, and final decisions on LNG terminals. Yesterday, we announced an 80% dividend reduction. This will reduce cash outflows by $6 million and preserve our unique low-debt position during the time of unprecedented uncertainty. Given the uncertainty as to the duration of this downturn, delaying a dividend reduction and possibly accumulating incremental debt may not allow us the flexibility to fix the situation if we underestimate the downside. We cannot let that happen. By reducing the divided early, even if the downside does not occur, we still have choices on how to use any excess cash.

In the short-term, any surplus free cash flow will be used to pay down debt. Longer term, once the industry improves, we can use cash flow and/or debt to resume our organic capital build program. Essential also has a long history of making successful, accretive, private, and public company acquisitions. We want to ensure that our financial position is strong at the end of this downturn, so we are in a position to repeat past successes.

As current industry conditions continue, competitors in the Canadian oilfield services market will likely get more ruthless. Through Q4 2015 and into 2016, we anticipate further service pricing reductions driven by desperate competitors and financially strapped customers. Until we see an industry recovery or a reduction in the number of oil field services companies, competing for a shrinking pool of work, there is risk that our 2016 revenue could be lower than 2015. As we have no way to mitigate this risk, management and the board have decided to reduce all controllable cash outflows including capital spending, fixed cost, and the dividend. Significant compensation reductions for all of our employees remain in place.

It is notable that due to our conservative balance sheet, we have not had to seek covenant relaxation from our lenders, nor endure punitive higher interest rates due to excess debt or potential covenant breaches. This is a true value-add advantage for our shareholders that we want to maintain.

Yesterday, we also announced a modest 2016 capital budget of $9 million including $4 million for growth capital and $5 million for maintenance capital. This allows for completion of a Generation IV masted coil tubing build program in 2016. Upon completion, Essential will have 10 new Gen III and Gen IV masted coil tubing rigs. Through the downturn, the masted coil tubing rigs have maintained strong utilization in a shrinking well completions market.

Essential has a relatively new equipment fleet that is suited to the current industry direction of long reach horizontal wells. Upon completion of the build program in 2016, the company will expand approximately $52 million on new masted coil tubing rigs, just in the past few years.

We have been an industry leader in disciplined cost management. Cost management has become ingrained in our culture. We have discussed our cost reduction measures in the past three conference calls, and I am pleased to note that Essential is on track to realize annual fixed cost savings of $10 million. The bulk of these cost reductions have been personnel and compensation related.

Since the beginning of 2015, our head count has been reduced by 40% which is 420 employees. We will continue to review and monitor this cost structure. Despite significant cost cutting and head count reductions, we also remain focused on retaining our key personnel. So the business is ready to benefit when the market turns around. This is a delicate balance.

Now Don will speak to you about third quarter operations in each of our businesses.

Thank you, Garnet. Good morning everyone.

Revenue from our coil well service was $24 million, a 38% decrease from Q3 2014 due to lower activity and pricing declines. With industry well completions down 48% from Q3 2014, Masted coil tubing and pumping operations were relatively strong reporting utilization of 70% and 57% respectively. This is in part due to the continued work by our customers and our high quality equipment and services. Price pressure resulted in Masted coil tubing and pumping revenue per hour declining approximately 15% compared to that of Q3 2014.

Coil well service has been a bright spot for us as some of our bigger customers continue with their capital programs. We continue to be active in the Bakken, Montney and Duvernay regions. For our service rig divisions, we continued to be lift hard by the downturn with revenue down 65% from Q3 2014 due to activity and pricing decreases.

Our service rigs in the Grande Prairie and Fort St. John regions performed relatively well with utilizations higher than industry average. However lower utilization in central and southern Alberta pulled Essential's overall utilization down.

Service rig revenue per hour declined approximately 10% from that of Q3 2014. On a percent of revenue basis, well servicing which includes coil well service and service rigs, gross margin increased from 26% in Q3 2014 to 28% in Q3 2015. Pricing reductions were offset by lower labor, repair and maintenance, and discretionary spending.

Our downhaul tools and rental segment reported $16 million of revenue, which is 55% lower than Q3 2014. The tools and rentals business was impacted by the decrease in industry drilling, well completions, and production work. Aggressive competition reduced activity from certain key customers and pricing pressure continued to be the main theme.

We experienced pricing reductions of up to 20% compare to that of Q3 2014. Gross margin as the percentage of revenue at 23% was lower than Q3 2014 due to reduced revenue and the smaller contribution from the higher margin rentals business. This margin was supported by significant cost reductions implemented early in 2015. Our rentals business is highly drilling related.

The Tryton business team has lean high variable cost structure, so it's well designed to weather a prolonged downturn. Even in a period like we have experienced in 2015, Tryton tool's fixed costs were less than 15% of revenue. This is the fourth industry downturn experienced for the Tryton management team. As the business was established during the difficult 1997 downturn, management believes that this business has meaningful recovery potential when the industry rebounds with minimal incremental capital investment and nominal incremental fixed costs.

I will now turn the call back Garnet.

So in the near-term we expect activity for the fourth quarter to be slower than Q3 and significantly below Q4 2014 as E&P companies reach their 2015 capital spending limits and their cash flow remains constrained. Currently Essential remains – maintains one of the strongest balance sheets in the Canadian oilfield services sector. We are focused on maintaining that strength through prudent spending. Every cash out flow is carefully considered. This underpins Essential's strength and future viability as we continue to navigate the downturn. At November 4, 2015, Essential had $32.3 million of debt outstanding and reported debt to EBITDAS of 0.9 times at the end of the third quarter.

Gretta, at this time, we would like to open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Mark Westby of AltaCorp Capital. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Mark.

So just first to touch on masted coil obviously saw pretty strong utilization in the quarter at 70%. What are you kind of seeing now going into Q4 and how are you expecting things to trend in that business over the next year, particularly with regard to your new Gen III and Gen IV units?

For Q4 specifically, we've actually come out here and October has been probably a lot more like the start of the third quarter. But as far as the month of November, I am uncertain; I mean we've had a little bit of a funny weather with some early snowfall, works been a little patchier; and I like many other oilfield services companies, have fear that this early Christmas shutdown could show up at any time either from late November to early December or who knows. So, I think the business itself for coil is going to be working as well as ever. It's really a function of what do our customers do here in Q4.

Moving into 2016, it's a wildcard. Hopefully, we'd clearly communicated the message of uncertainty. And I think the general theme that I have been picking up from customer messaging, from our peer companies and anything that I've read on a macro basis is there is a real possibility that Q1 could start out even slower than last year's Q1, but the rest of the year beyond that is a big uncertainty.

Okay, great. And then touching on your downhole tools, you've noted that the business has become fairly hypercompetitive although your results for the quarter were actually pretty good in that segment. How do you view this business going forward, both with regard to your conventional tools and your Tryton tool?

Yes. Thanks for that question. The tool business, in Don's comments, he specifically emphasized that that business was actually found and formed in 1997. So Don's comment that it's been – those guys are the same people more or less have been through four industry downturns. So to say that they're veterans of managing their cost structure would be an understatement. There is not a – as we highlighted as well, there isn't near the same fixed costs component nor the same investment in capital required for something like our drilling business or fracking or coil or service rigs.

So the business collapses nicely which is why I think we surprised a lot of the market on the upside with a good steady margin even given the competitive pricing pressure otherwise on that business. So again, I would – as an investor, I'd really keep an eye on that business. It's got both the durability to ride through a downturn and then a proven history of passing back up and showing great profitability when there is any form of an industry turnaround.

I am not sure that that's well recognized when I take a look at the valuation on the share price of Essential today, I think for the most part, we get measured and valued on our heavy equipment businesses of service rigs and coil and I think that tool business is just a fantastic gem that often gets not noticed.

Okay great. And then just one last question, looking at things from a market share perspective, are you – given the markets become hypercompetitive, are you seeing a lot of pressure that's resulted in reduced market share, maintaining market share, or you actually gaining market share in your different business lines?

The first, I'll just – the easiest one for me to comment on when it comes to market share in peers is the service rig business, and have got in front of me as I know each of you have on the analyst side peer utilization. And we're right in the hunt for the third quarter. An interesting trend on service rigs that's happened is all the public companies have been reducing their fleet size due to inactivity and once again the CAODC industry fleet is basically staying about the same size, which means there is actually equipment additions going on with our private competitors. And that seems to defy logic and gravity to me, but it's happening. So, by definition we're losing market share there. But given pricing in margins, I'm going to say we're quite comfortable with that happening because it doesn't make sense to us.

On the coil side, I think we've been pretty clear. We're a market leader in the coil and pumping side of the business. To look at our sustainability of maintaining our utilization and given a 48% drop in completions and our utilization period-over-period and the same timeframe has only dropped between 15% and 20% that tells you we're doing some things right. There is also less of that type of equipment in the marketplace. So knowing that the producer world is focused where they have money on long reach horizontals, we have a lot of the right equipment for what they're trying to achieve, and that's a nice place to be.

And the tool business, unfortunately, I don't have what I would call reliable market share data. The theme there again is as we said lots of desperate competitors, behavioral things and we just – the key to the game on the tool side is keep an eye on the costs and preserve that margin. And the fact that we have a low fixed cost structure allows us to continue to be competitive regardless of what's going on in the marketplace by regularly and alertly adjusting our pricing and business structure.

Okay, great. And finally are your – you had your two Gen IV units that underwent some alterations during the year. Are those units now holding the field or is there any initial reaction from customers to those units at all or-?

The units are completely up and ready to go. They did work and contribute to our utilization in Q3. Utilization to-date here has been, I will say, minimal. And mostly because and I'll admit our timing, we're disappointed. We wish we would have those units out working when the marketplace was busier. And right now I think a common theme with our customers is they're just kind of finishing up what they've been doing with equipment and crews that they're comfortable with.

So, Don can add a little bit of color. But one of the things, some of you've been to our Red Deer shop and seen the layout that we have there when you drive down Highway 2. We're just west of Red Deer, and we've been bringing, I will say, some impressive large customers through -touring through and taking a look at that equipment and what its capability is. So, it's a different market niche with a different sales proposition, and I think we still feel very confident the future is going to be bright for that equipment.

Don, any color you'd like to add?

Actually, that's pretty good color, Garnet. It is interesting, because when you do, do a comparative on a tour basis, when you look at the Gen IIIs versus Gen IVs, it's actually opened a lot of – like Garnet said some of the major customers who are trying to do show and shines, just give an impression of what these things can actually do, not only from an operational perspective, but from a technical and software as well as data requirements perspective, they're quite impressive.

Okay, great. Thanks guys for all the color. Those are all my questions.

Thanks Mark.

Thanks Mark.

Thank you. The next question is from Greg Colman from National Bank Financial. Please proceed.

Hey, everyone.

Good morning, Greg.

Good morning, Greg.

So to start off, congrats on a good quarter in tough times, I mean really nice to see your performance there. I want to kick it off by just jumping into margins. Tough decisions that you guys had to make but good to see the results coming through. I am wondering – and I do want to apologize I had to step off the call earlier, so I might have already missed this, but it was only briefly. But did the quarter and the margins we saw in the quarter fully reflect the cost cutting decisions and implementations you had to do or was it still a scaled impact during Q3 meaning the full impact of the cost changes won't be felt until Q4?

I think my comment would be that we basically have the majority of our cost reductions done by the end of March and then Tryton actually did its – a lot of its fixed cost head count reductions during the second quarter. So the third quarter should be fully reflective of the cost reductions. What we've – the number that we provided during my comments in the conference call that only 20% of our costs are fixed. That's an annualized number that I think would be we're trying to give a little bit of help for those of you modeling our structure going forward. So, that's a distinctly small percentage in my view relative to a lot of oilfield service companies and really trying to hit this point home again that although we can't predict where the top line is going with this industry; when we've got a low fixed cost structure like that, it should bode well for us all the way going forward now.

So, I did catch that on the prepared remarks that the 20% of costs were fixed and I would agree with your commentary that that's very low operating leverage versus a lot of other players we see in the broader services space. Now, just a curiosity and I think I already know the answer here, but is there any more – to count on that could – that 20% fixed cost structure go lower or is that realistically just where it shakes out and that's as response of the cost structure as you would practically see?

Yes, we often have our employees listening to these calls as well, and I'm going to just say that the sad tail in this market, never say never. And what happens when we go through our cost structure, the largest, just like our cost savings, our largest cost burdened on the fixed side is of course people and headcounts. So, in a market like this, we're watching all the time and we can't afford to have any employees that aren't fully engaged and fully occupied. And as different things happen in the business, certain aspects of our operations can become quiet and it's horrible ominous feeling, but when that happens then we can end up with people that aren't fully engaged anymore and then we'll make the decisions we need do.

The next one that's big and certainly harder to deal with is things like lease costs for shops, facilities, our downtown Calgary space, and those are a little tougher to get out from under. We've seen that with some of our competitors that – you try and even in this market if you get out of the space, can you sub lease it or sell a facility. One of the advantages that we have is, we really only have a one small piece of real estate that is owned, the rest of them are leased and we review our lease terms, stay in touch with our landlords and if there is opportunity for savings there, we'll take steps. But other than that at this point, we start collapsing down to the fundamentals of – this is where it's not fun to be public company, because I keep joking that our processes and our people work just as hard with little number as they do with big numbers, it's not really an opportunity to get below a certain level.

Got it. Understood. Switching gears a little bit talking specifically about the coil tubing pricing side, really happy to see the resilience there down only on a per unit basis 10% year-over-year. Could you give us a little bit of color on how much fleet mix is holding that up with the addition of the higher rigs, with the larger rigs, with the Gen IVs and what apples-to-apples pricing would look like for coil tubing like on a same rig basis year-over-year?

Yes. Well, there is actually – thanks for that question. The pricing as much as it held up, if our dream had come true for getting these Gen IV rigs to work and the strategy was to have those come out at a significantly higher pricing or a premium pricing, we would have obviously fought off that pricing reduction factor even more. I think what's happening though is certainly our customers we know they are suffering from a financial perspective. Those folks that are giving us steady work. We're not sitting around waiting for them to sort of come and aggressively ask us for pricing. We're really trying to understand their needs and their business proposition and offer them the best technology and the best crews we can for those people, who are still working.

So there isn't a good period over period purity I could give you because of that factor. Meaning for everybody that's working, they are probably able to get better equipment in crews, newer technology for a better price today than was our hope at the same time last year. And I cannot really predict where that might have to go next year. The difference again that we have is if we're offering a value proposition as Don said between technology and coil capability, range, reach and safety that they can't get elsewhere, I think customers are still willing to pay for it, but we are working with them closely to make sure we offer them a fair price.

So if I can sum up and come back to you on that one then, it sounds like the rig mix with the Gen IVs coming out actually didn't have much of an impact on kind of spotting the pricing and the 10% reduction year-over-year being down only that much is more just the consistency – just with the existing same fleet year-over-year, that's what the pricing compression was?

I think in a simplified answer that would be correct, Greg. And to put another just because I feel an urge to do it, it's got a happy spin on things that those pricing parameters that we've talked about with the building of the Gen III and Gen IV fleet, if we get to an industry recovery and turn around, there is tremendous upside from pricing because of the specialty technology we have, but your summarization is correct for this current period.

Got it. And then just wrapping up, moving over to Tryton, quarter looked really good, it's always tough for everyone to predict this, assuming probably you guy as well. Just wondering what we're seeing going into winter and the activity happening here from a technology demand standpoint; are your core clients moving towards or away from the core Tryton offerings right now? Maybe that's too strong a statement [indiscernible] (29:40) there's been basically shifts away or shifts towards what they're doing in their particular regions, just wondering how the ones you're shaping up versus say Q3.

Yes, actually, thanks Greg, your comments are valid on that tool business that it's a difficult one for us to sort of forecast or give guidance on for you folks and even to judge what's happening in the market, but I'll try and paraphrase. There is really the, I'll say, the three primary components in Canada and then the U.S. operation, the Canadian components are conventional tools, our multistage tools, and then the rentals business. In Don's comments, he specifically mentioned the – we lost, I'll say, the margin kick from the rentals business, that's drilling rentals and with all the idle drilling rigs out there today that is a tough business to be in. Now we also do some BOP rentals and service work and that keeps a little bit of cash flow coming through the door in that business.

The multistage tools are primary driver there for revenue in the period and I will say the foreseeable next few quarters is still our ball and seat multistage completion tool. We've had some other products that we've introduced that sort of come and go, but they have not contributed any kind of significant momentum in the period. And as we've said almost at every conference call, we've also got a bunch of new tools and tweaks in the hopper that the guys are working on, but it's going to be somewhere further down the 2016 timeframe and I don't expect in the next couple of quarters we're going to see meaningful contributions.

The part of the business that's been so good for us that we count on is this convention tool business. And it's competitive, because we'd said before that a lot of folks stepped away from conventional tools because of the more lucrative higher margin multistage game. With the current industry conditions, it's like everybody is into whatever they can and that's the more severe pricing reductions and the intense competition. And the best thing we have to offer which gets back to old school, oilfield services, if you've got good people with experienced customer relationships providing quality service and a top-notch safety record, you will work even in this market and that's really our value proposition on the tool side.

Got it. That's it for me. I appreciate. Thanks all.

Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you. The next question is from Brian Purdy of PI Financial. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Hi, Brian.

Hey, Brian.

Most of my questions were answered, but I wanted to ask about the dividend cut. Obviously [ph] picking (32:28) the balance sheet in the time like this is paramount, but you guys are in already in pretty good shape from that standpoint. I am just wondering if you have other thoughts for the additional cash that you're going to save from the dividend such as share buybacks or M&A.

Yes. Thanks for asking that. The way – before I answer your – end of your questions specifically, I'll just add a little more color on how we made that decision, and the answer of course to this when I talk about our opportunity if there is surplus cash, it all depends on your outlook in 2016, and I can say that our analyst consensus prior to release of this quarter was in the $21 million or $22 million mark for 2015. So I'll speak to that for the full year. The real question is what's going to happen in 2016 and beyond, and how long is this downturn? And there is a mix between right now with our consensuses data before this release, I think, the analyst consensuses on 2016 for us was something like $35 million.

And I have everything I've read – excuse me, my own views, customer discussions, interactions with our sales guys. I have a very difficult time seeing that 2016 could be any different than 2015 as a starting point. PSAC, the industry organization that some of us belong to, just put out there their data approximately two days or three days ago, and they have 2016 well count below 2015. And there is some momentum building now suggesting there is lots of reasons including our customers not having the ability to hedge. Their credit facility is being reduced and their budget is coming down, lots of notional suggestion that 2016 could be quite a bit below 2015. So, when you start running that through and you deduct our dividend, our capital program, you're getting awfully tight, and I don't have a crystal ball. My comments and the Board's view is that by pulling the dividend down, we save the cash today, and we don't run that risk of accumulating debt on the books that we can't pay off later.

We are in an enviable position today, so the way we run our scenarios is we come up with an outlook. And then, we run downside sensitivities and we want to make sure that even if things are darker than we're hoping they are that our investors will be in good shape and that we don't have to get in that difficult discussion with the banks. So, if there is surplus cash and I am completely conservative and off my rocker, you bet, we'd love to use our normal course issuer bid is in place. We've got some additional organic capital ideas that we love to spend on. And as I said, this is if you look back in our history, we acquired Technicoil coming out of the 2009 and 2010 downturn and that was a very critical strategic acquisition for us that's done very well for us. That was our most recent example. But that's what we would look to, Brian.

Okay, okay. Now that's great, thanks very much. And I just wanted to ask as well, I mean when you have a line of business like your deep masted coil tubing rigs, that where utilization is holding up little better. Are there third party services there that you're able to get cost reductions on or maybe even acquire to vertically integrate better or is it something where you already – where you think you want to be?

Actually, Brian it's Don here. Yes, we actually have several services that we already provide primarily being our fluid pumping division, matched with our masted equipment and then we also have a fairly large fleet of nitrogen units both pumping and bulker units that actually add to the support. As far as getting into other lines, at this point in time, unless you're looking at the testing or something like that, I wouldn't be too keen on that.

We do have another bright side for us or future side that we're looking at, and we have a strategic alliance with a proprietary chemical company and that includes friction reducers and solvents and all that kind of stuff. And based on doing some work with that, it bodes very well for both N2 and our fluid pumping division. So, we're hoping to see that revenue increase and see some additional success in the future with that.

Okay, great. That's all I had. Thank you very much.

Thank you. The next question is from Scott Treadwell of TD Securities. Please proceed.

Thanks. Good morning guys. I just really had one follow up. You guys have a pretty interesting footprint across a number of bids of drilling and completion, and I am just wondering if you've seen yet either in competitors or in service lines that you guys sort of stand beside when you're on location? Any uptick yet in safety or reliability issues whether they're equipment or people that have potentially been caused by sort of low pricing and maybe cutting a bit too deep?

Oh, man, I love this question, Scott. And it's-

Me too.

Yes. And I say that because it's – internally we spend so much time focusing on and talking about safety and it's something that doesn't often come up in an investor call like this that I just love the opportunity to talk about things.

First of all, this gives me a beautiful chance to plug that Essential, and we just went through with our board meetings, has had an all-time low TRIF or safety incident record in our history. And the reason that has happened we spend time talking with the board and our staff about that. There is basically no tolerance right now from our customers for unsafe work practices. And we've talked about our significant reduction in head count. We're keeping the best folks, the best guys and those people who are working want to keep working, they get their heads up and they're focused and they know they've got the cultural support from management.

That is the Essential story and opposite to what your theory was, we've actually been driving our incidents, the severity of incidents down and are operating safer than ever before. I think there is possibly that that can happen. I wouldn't want to speak about any competitors or call it other services on-site locations; you might know better than I would. But where that can go horribly wrong is if you've got a gap in your culture and employees are feeling either disenchanted or disgruntled or if they're not giving enough work time, the horrible thing of I'll either say intentional injury or distracted injury, because guys are worrying about their financial or personal circumstance and they get hurt. That has not been our experience, but horrible industry downturn like this, when people are worried about a lot of other factors, it is a real industry risk factor.

Don, anything you want to add?

Okay.

Actually just to reiterate, I think, equipment is equipment. We can buy steel all over the place. Our people are the most important thing. And as in my position, we cannot do without them and we will always make that our first priority is safety.

Okay. And so, just to make sure I am hearing it right, when you guys look to your KPIs, I mean obviously your safety numbers are good, but you're not seeing your operations being slowed down because somebody else is having safety or efficiency issues?

No, Scott, I would suggest that that isn't the case, albeit I mean, like Garnet mentioned, we're not in control of other services on location, but we absolutely have input and we have an amazing refuse to work policy that the guys that they love it and we support them 100%.

Yes, if that was an issue, what Don is talking about is, we've got our sort of names and numbers posted in our equipment. And if our guys were on location with another service company and felt that either their work practices or conduct was unsafe, we literally have given them permission and expect to call to say I want off this lease or I don't like what's happening here, because the conduct of another service company can put our guys at risk, and we've given them permission to back up and hit the road if they don't feel comfortable.

Okay.

And that hasn't happened.

Okay. And that's what I would assume, because I think like most of you guys – like everybody is keeping their best staff, it was – it's more on the equipment side at some point guys, a nickel and dime things and as things start to break, but it sounds like that that hasn't played out just yet.

No, we haven't experienced that.

Okay. Great, guys. That's all I've got. Thanks for the time.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeff Fetterly of Peters and Company. Please proceed.

Good morning, everyone. First off, in terms of the dividend, you brought a reduction through when you announced Q2 results in August. You followed up this quarter with a subsequent reduction. I'm just curious in the management view and the board commentary what changed from an outlook standpoint that you're seeing today that you weren't expecting when you made the initial decision on the dividend in August?

Good morning, Jeff.

I think from our perspective, a lot has changed in, whatever you want to call it, three months or four months here since the early August decision to bring it down 50%. Everything from industry outlook to I will say further concern about governmental policy and political directions. And I would say that even the price of oil, the forward curve issues on the price of oil and this lower for longer entrenchment, I would call it, has become more of a concern. So although we ran sensitivities that showed some of the same data when we made our decision in August, I would suggest that there is probably a gut feel or a greater probability towards the low case that we're moving in that direction is how I feel compared to three months or four months ago.

Have the severities of your sensitivity analysis changed or lessened relative to three months ago or are you just biasing towards the lower end of the range you were thinking three months ago?

I think I just answered that. But if I take a look at macro factors, and when we made the decisions in August, again there is no basis except customer dialogue watching our peers, reading all the information we get from folks like yourself and all the other analysts and trying to put it all together and say what does it mean to us. And on the balance of probability when I get to going through that same exercise right now and show in a few political evolutions or changes that have happened since then, as I said we have a very good understanding of our cost and our business. I just think that from a probability perspective, we've shifted our momentums of that lower side of the range of possibilities looks like it's more in the radar of real when it did in August.

You mentioned at the beginning of the call or earlier in your verbatim that free cash flow will be utilized for debt repayment as a priority in the near term. How does repurchasing stock figure into your thought process right now?

Yes, it's a – I mean, we set up our normal course issuer bid in March 2015, and we haven't used it yet, since that was setup. And the amazing thing that commented to a few people, I am actually trying to make sure that virtually everyone of our senior employees has a good first class understanding of cash in versus cash out. And one of our huge variables also that is affecting us is something like working capital consumption to receivables. Some of our customers are taking longer to pay our receivables. Working capital can go up and down, so there's a lot of uncertainty.

If we had a good handle on working capital, we now will have turned all the levers as I said down like capital spending all the rest. If we feel and see that there is cash flow coming in, we know where we're at with working capital and our covenants. Paying down debt and use of the normal course issuer bid, those are both very smart moves. We get the benefits of the normal course issuer bid, but it's not smart to do that. And I've seen that done by some folks that have – they're running crazy high debt using normal course issuer bid and paying out a dividend and being offside with their covenants. And I don't see that as a prudent choice.

I think our shareholders expect us to conduct ourselves within our banking covenants. And to the extent I don't have certainty that we can do that, then preserving cash is exactly how I would manage my personal circumstance to be onside of the covenants and that's how we manage the company.

Just a question on the coil tubing side, what is your line of sight for the two Gen IV units to go back to work or go to work?

Don, you can talk a little bit; did you hear the comments earlier, Jeff, so we don't repeat ourselves, but-

I did.

-about the [indiscernible] (47:15)? Okay, so Don, any other color you can add there?

I guess basically, Jeff, we are trying to market the rigs to our clients that work in those basins that I'd mentioned in the conference call. Obviously Bakken has a big play for us, Montney is another big play, and we are just starting breaking to the Duvernay. So, I believe that the Gen IVs will be probably primarily located in those particular areas and we've had a lot of customer interest in it.

It's just meeting the – like those rigs are designed for ultra long, ultra deep, horizontal wells, and that the issue is that some of the companies mostly super majors, some are doing it and some are not. So, what we're finding is we're having ability to maybe service the customers with our Gen IIIs, which also have significant depth capabilities. But with these show and shines, there's been an awful lot of interest in, like I'd said before the technical capabilities as well as the information technology capabilities of those rigs that differ from the Gen III and the Gen II work that we have.

Given you've had fairly limited activity with the Gen IVs to-date and you've been marketing them for over 18 months, is there concerns around the commercial application of those units either in the current market or the broader market?

To say marketing them for over 18 months, Jeff, is – I can't say I totally agree with that in the sense that I mentioned earlier. We had some technical issues. Given the slowdown in the industry, we pulled both of those units back off the market to do some redesign work. So, I think that's a bit of an overstatement.

Our belief that we would like to do from a marketing perspective is to get some mileage under those from a test run point of view, and that's certainly the focus and direction that we have given our sales team. From a customer point of view, they're looking for simplicity and consistency and that's a tough sell. As Don said, these rigs are – they're big, heavy, and they're designed for a specific purpose. And it's hard for them sometime unless they've got that in their future horizon to say, yes, I'm ready to bring this on, and you can get some running time on a shallower well, and that's the dynamic that we've got to work through with our sales team.

Are you concerned that the third unit when it comes out this quarter and the three units for next year are going to not have a lot of work in front of them?

To say – I would say the whole fleet, Jeff, I don't – I mean this is a program that we've been working on from the design of this equipment. We started on the idea, call it, right after Technicoil four years ago. So, from my point of view, I want higher utilization for all of our equipment. The fact that we're getting this iron built, we love how it's turning out. We're getting these units out. As we put in our materials, we'll have one more delivered, we hope by the end of calendar year and then continue with the testing of that. So, we'll have four of those hopefully in our possession by the end of the calendar year.

But my goal, as a business man, is to just increase utilization, bring in cash flow and make sure I've got an offering that customers want. And we've got one of the best between our – a lot of our competitors the best they've got to offer is what I call a deep trailer conventional rigs. We've got those too. We've got one of the best menus in the industry to offer fit for purpose for whatever a customer wants to do. And if I can put up utilization numbers like we did in 3Q at 70%, I don't specifically care whether or not the Gen IVs are working.

Okay. Just last thing, is your intention to crew of fully crew the two units that you have on the Gen IV side plus the incremental units coming in as they arrive?

The way we manage our crews is in direct correlation with utilization. So, as we look at our forward planning and have expectations on utilization, we're running as lean as we can for two reasons: one, the guys who are working for us want to work, so we don't want a bunch of idle time. And two, the customers actually often develop, I'll say, preferences for specific crews. So, what we should see as we go forward and the advantage again of these Gen IVs not working as much as we would like, it's giving us training time to rotate some of these guys through on the commissioning, the preparation and we're getting more and more guys familiar with Gen IIs, IIIs, and IVs, which gets back to this menu approach of we get the best fleet out there, the best breadth of offering and our guys want to work, and they're as excited about the Gen IVs as we are.

Okay. Great. I'll wrap it up there. Thanks.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Steve Kammermayer of Clarus Securities. Please proceed.

Hi, guys.

Hi, Steven.

Good morning, Steve.

So, you mentioned expectations of about $10 million in annual cost savings, we thought your cost cutting measures here, so as they're phased in I guess over Q1 and Q2 of this year, how much of that number do you actually realize through calendar 2015?

We're at about – I think our number is about low $6 millions net of severance at this point. And we say net of severance, because we incurred the bulk of the severance in Q1 and then a little bit more in Q2. So on that rate, we're sort of ahead of the curve from being proportionate to when we announced that cost savings number. So, I would guess we're going to be based on this proportion maybe somewhere around the $8 million or so marked by the time we get to the end of the calendar year.

Okay, okay. And being I guess phased in throughout the year, so just going back to your comments on analyst consensuses here roughly around $22 million for the year. So, if we see, call it identical activity in revenue in 2016 we look to see that $22 million number go up to possibly $24 million, $25 million getting the full year contribution of these cost savings; is that a fair comment?

Yes. I mean I've got to be careful, because we do not give guidance, and that's almost a tricky thing for me to answer. But yes, if you take the same activity, the same equipment, everything happen the same and then putting a lower cost structure the same year, obviously yes, then the EBITDA does go up. And then on top of that, going back to Jeff Fetterly's line of questioning, we are adding incremental equipment to the fleet. So, on a simple basis if everything was equal, you could say yes, then we should go up some more. But that is not usually how the world unfolds for us.

And as an example, we've talked little bit I think in the MD&A how our customer breadth continues to narrow. And what I mean by that is some of the customers that we're probably working in Q1 2015, they're just running out of money and they're getting tight and they're not – they may not be working in Q1 2016. Some of the customers that had hedges in place through the first half of 2015, those hedges are not available to them anymore going to Q1 2016. So I just got to throw that out to say there is a number of factors that have come to our attention that suggest it might not be equal from an activity point of view.

Right, right. Okay. Maybe we can put it this way then, so in the quarter here you did EBITDA margins of 17.7%, so maybe we don't need to talk about actual activity through the winter here. Are those margins sustainable or I would expect those to go up as more cost savings come through in the last quarter of the year here?

Yes. So I'll just take you through the components and how we look at it. The first thing I say all the time around here is that utilization wins and it's our best path to prosperity. So to the extent we can maintain or increase utilization, we would like to do that. On the pricing side, we don't get – we are a price taker. We don't get to set prices, and I think we're pretty clear in our commentary we expect further pricing pressure and prices to decline. So the dynamic on the revenue side between how does utilization increase or decrease pair up with a pricing decrease that can create some unpredictable results.

From a cost perspective, we're very proud of where we've taken our fixed cost structure to, but as you bring down the margin all of a sudden your fixed cost structure literally can go from being okay to that's too high. And if it's too high, I think we've proven we'll take the steps necessary to make the necessary adjustments.

On the variable cost structure side, we've got a number of things in place that we can control, the biggest one being labor, the second one being repairs and maintenance. We were under on our maintenance capital spend and have spent less on repairs and maintenance not that for any reason other than if we're not working and depending on the nature of the work, our historic estimates on maintenance capital and repairs and maintenance can reduce significantly from what we've experienced in the past. We have no control over fuel, which is our third highest variable cost, so really it gets back down to the labor issues.

And we're fully prepared to make further adjustments to labor cost even on the variable side if that's necessary to keep our guys working and to protect our margins, and I think we've proven that. We were actually on the service rig side, I think we've been quite a bit ahead of the curve, which was – it's hard on our guys at the start that we adjusted our variable wages more than some of the peers, but I think now it's proven out that that was the right thing to do.

Okay, great. That's all I had. Thanks guys.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Perasalo. Please proceed.

Thank you. And thank you for joining us today.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.