Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Thomas R. Schmutz — Chief Executive Officer, FLYHT Aerospace Solutions Ltd.
Paul William Arthur Takalo — Interim Chief Financial Officer & Director, FLYHT Aerospace Solutions Ltd.
Bruce Krugel — Equity Sales Representative, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to the FLYHT Aerospace Solutions Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

Due to the volume of questions expected on today's call, we ask that you please limit your questions to three to allow time for others in the queue. If there are any outstanding questions at the end of the call, the company will be happy to take them by e-mail through investors@flyht.com.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Schmutz, Chief Executive Officer for FLYHT. Please go ahead, Mr. Schmutz.

Thank you, Miston. The format for this call will follow the past calls, where I'll provide a review of our Q2 results operationally and financially from a high level. Paul Takalo, our Interim CFO, will then provide a more detailed review of the financial results of the second quarter and the year-to-date summaries, where they are applicable. I'll then discuss our 2016 goals where we stand on those and also answer some questions that we receive via e-mail and then any questions that may be called in. After that, we'll close the call.

So our second quarter was just announced last night. It was a good quarter for FLYHT. Our total revenues for the quarter was a healthy CAD 3.4 million, which was 4% lower than Q2 of last year and a little bit lower than the first quarter of this year at CAD 3.7 million.

As I stated in the letter to the shareholders, the revenue shortfall relative to last year was in our recognition of AFIRS hardware units. We ended up being able to recognize 17 units this quarter compared to 27 a year ago. However, June was a very strong month in terms of revenue recognition, and 60% of the revenue from the AFIRS units we actually achieved in June. April and May were slow.

The recognition rules vary according to the use case and the situation, so it can get a little bit complicated as to when we can claim revenue on units when we ship them, and timing does play a part. So while the AFIRS revenue fell a little bit shorter where we wanted to in the quarter, our other major revenue categories were up significantly.

The voice and data services revenue component, which is our Software-as-a-Service component, was up 14% this last year over the previous year. And the parts sale, which includes the IP license payments for our shipments to A320 and A330 products for forward fit and retrofit was up 31% over the same quarter last year.

Now, in the total performance for the quarter, we also included non-cash charges from the issuance of stock options in the second quarter. We do that each year. So, it makes it a little bit more difficult to produce positive results in this quarter – in the second quarter. It will be nice if we are able to spread those charges across the year rather than burden them into one quarter, but it's not really practical to do that from an accounting standpoint.

So, these options are super important to the business because there are really our primary method at the – for the board and myself and the rest of the management to attract and motivate quality people that we need to be successful in this very competitive business. So, this is really just an operational cost and it ends up getting burdened into the second quarter.

The – when we take the non-cash charge out of the quarter, we were still slightly negative at about CAD 330,000 and again this results – this results from a shortfall of our recognizing AFIRS kits in the quarter. We were positive in this quarter last year, but we – if you recall, we have the one-time event where we sold an intellectual property within the same quarter, and that countered the impacts of the issuance of the stock options.

Now, if we look at the year from a year-to-date perspective, things look very good. Overall in the first half, our total revenues are 16% better than last year, at this time, through the second quarter. The AFIRS hardware is within 1% of last year's set in revenue recognition, and our voice and data services is up 11%, and our parts revenue is up 41% relative to last year.

We have – our fourth major revenue component is services, that's down – but that's a very, very minor overall component, and it is not predictable. So, historically, as I mentioned inside the letter, our business is cyclical. So the first half of the year is always like the second half or second half is always stronger. So, we're pretty optimistic for the second half of the year based on where we stand right now.

On the, I would call, very good news front, the June hardware recognition was brisk, and the value and the quantity of shipments in June and July have been exceptional. So, in fact, during July, the – I believe we set a company record for the value of units that we shipped in the month. And we were actually ahead of our estimated 2017 budget through July for the value of shipped units. So our budget, which we did last year and produced the goals from that budget had us shipping a certain value through July, and we're ahead of that value at this time.

So, I mean, we are optimistic that the AFIRS revenue will catch up to where we plan it to be, they'll occur in third quarter of this year, especially based on the strong July. Now the sales orders have been progressing as well. So during the second quarter, we received sales orders and new contracts and purchase orders for nearly U.S.$5 million for parts, AFIRS hardware, and voice and data contracts.

During the first quarter, we had, at our end-of-the-quarter announcement, told investors that we had received about U.S.$5.6 million in orders. So that brings us through the first half of the year to a little bit over U.S.$10.5 million in new sales and orders for the first half of the year. That substantially exceeds the revenue over that same period. So we're looking extremely good from a book-to-bill ratio at the midpoint of this year.

The sales activity has been growing our sales order backlog which I reported earlier this year, exceeds now CAD 25 million. I will update that figure periodically. And it creates – this backlog creates significant optimism for our ability to achieve future revenue goals. The bottom line is that we have a very exciting sales funnel, and I hope to be bringing new sales news quite soon.

Operationally, FLYHT had a wonderful opportunity developed during the quarter. We signed agreements for two trials to test the Autonomous Distress Tracking and Timely Access to Flight Data features of our product. And these will satisfy the requirements levied by the ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organization, for new aircraft going into service by 2021. We had announced that FLYHT received the U.S. patent for our FLYHTStream capability which is also registered in – this was for the United States, it's also registered in China and some other countries. It's awesome to see these patented capabilities that FLYHT has been offering commercially for several years now within the industry now being recognized as the potential solution for the way that aircraft will operate soon and beyond in the industry. So we're really quite excited about this sequence of events.

One trial is being conducted by FLYHT and Boeing on a FedEx 777. The second trial is with industry heavyweights, and we've not yet been able to announce that, but we hope that we'll be able to announce it soon. Both of these trials will use our real-time data streaming capability, and they'll use either satellite constellations from Iridium or Inmarsat, or in the case of Boeing, they'll be using both. We've modified our AFIRS units so that it can stream using the organic Iridium resources which is a capability that we've had for several years. And also now, we can stream through alternate communication resources such as Inmarsat if they exist on the aircraft.

The data sets from these trials that we're conducting will validate what we think is a fantastic approach to the connected flight deck. And this data that we collect will be used to drive industry standards, and FLYHT will be serving as the technology expert in these trials. The logistics and the planning phases for both of these trials are underway. We expect to have conducted the FLYHT tests for one of these trials in this calendar year, and early next year for these – the other trial. It's also really wonderful to see FLYHT working directly with these large corporations and not through intermediaries. To me, this speaks volumes, about the maturation process that FLYHT has undergone these past few years. And I am very proud to be able to represent our company for these organizations.

So with that intro to the quarter, Paul is going to now provide additional financial details for the quarter and the year-to-date. Paul?

Okay. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Paul Takalo, I am the Interim Vice President of Finance and CFO for FLYHT. My capacity is CFO. I'm pleased to present some summary comments on the financial results of the company for June 30, and the three and six months and ended.

I'm going to repeat some of the things that Tom has already said, but I think that they're important to be mentioned. While the quarter saw an end to the consecutive quarters of profitability, management still pleased with the results and the financial position at June 30. While overall sales slipped by 4.2% from roughly CAD 3.5 million to CAD 3.3 million, year-to-date sales have increased by just under 16% from CAD 6.1 million to CAD 7.1 million.

Gross margin continues to be strong. For the quarter, it was at 66%, whereas year-to-date 68%, and this is comparative to 2016. Of course, the gross margin is going to vary depending on the product mix as Tom talked about a little bit earlier. Well, FLYHT continues to grow cost containment and cost management as is a primary focus, and it's a delicate balancing act of trying to grow, we're trying to keep the cost under control.

Overall expenses for 2017 or second quarter 2017 have increased by CAD 220,000, but year-to-date, we are actually down by CAD 145,000. To break that down a little bit, the distribution expenses, of course, which look after sales and marketing activity have increased by roughly CAD 170,000 quarter-over-quarter. That's primarily marketing activities as well as salaries and benefits. The administration expenses both for the quarter and – quarter-over-quarter and year-to- date has stayed relatively stable.

And in terms of R&D, again, the focus is on people and strengthening our research staff. Again, it's up quarter-to-quarter, but really not significantly, and most of the labor costs have been offset by increased government assistance. Our labor costs are up roughly quarter-over-quarter by about CAD 150,000 and CAD 120,000 of that has been covered off by government assistance, which I'll talk about a little bit more.

While the company doesn't publish budgeted amounts, we do track it very closely and use it as a management tool. And currently, the company is ahead of budget. Sales wise, our expenses are below budget and our last year-to-date is also below budget. Tom mentioned stock options, again, because of the stock options usually being issued as a result of the Annual General Meeting, May is usually the big month for taking a hit of stock options. For 2017, in the second quarter, we took a charge of CAD 411,000 compared to CAD 340,000 in 2016. That's a combination of slight increase in the value of the options or the number of the options awarded, but also the strike price, the calculation of the compensation cost to the company.

From a balance sheet perspective – again, the financial position of the company is getting stronger. When you look at the modified working capital, which is for FLYHT's purposes, it's a normal working capital with a add-back for unearned revenue and customer deposits. Our working capital has increased from CAD 2.8 million at year-end up to CAD 3.9 million at the end of June. And this is a balance – bit of a balancing act too, because there's significant efforts to try to get our inventories down for values of our inventories and turn those into cash, plus it'll continue to keep our working capital strong.

As previously mentioned, in 2016 in the Annual Report we announced that the company had obtained what they call – what we're calling a WINN grant as part of the Western Economic Diversification program, and we've got acceptance of about CAD 2.3 million. And up to the end of June, we have been able to receive about CAD 5,700 of that, which is again been used to offset the labor and other costs toward some of the technology research projects that we're working on. [indiscernible]

(00:15:59).

Yeah.

Okay, Paul. Thank you very much. So as I mentioned in the CEO letter that company – the quarterly results, we continue to focus on goals that we established in our Annual Report, and we call these goals our FLYHT Plan. Our first public goal is to increase overall and monthly recurring revenue by 25%. And so as I announced earlier, we currently stand at 16% increase for the first half of the year, so that puts us within striking distance of the goal in what is traditionally our stronger second half of the year. The recurring component is up 11% in the same period. So more work is required in that component.

We will measure the success on this recurring revenue component, our Software-as-a-Service component by looking at the December 2017 invoices versus the December 2016 invoices. So we remain very busy selling basic services and upgrades to our existing and new customers. We are, as I mentioned, inside of the letter launching a new overnight STC upgrade for certain classes of deployed units, and this activity is specifically targeting this revenue class of recurring revenue, our Software-as-a-Service products that we sell to our customer base.

We are evaluating several customers to launch this and also to follow on. And we're really quite excited about the revenue potential that exists from this activity. We also outlined our goal in the FLYHT Plan, which was to close the major services deal in China, and to win new contracts in Southeast Asia, Europe and the Middle East. We have engagement on all of these areas, and I hope to be able to report positive news on some of them soon.

Likewise we're pursuing OEM positioning. Remember, this was a goal last year that we fell short on. And we're aggressively pursuing other OEM positions this year. OEMs, in this case, we define as new air – as air framers and new ones, large integrators and also other value-added OEMs that we think would be successful in at least – we think that [indiscernible] (00:18:18) this year and winning a new OEM position.

We also have a goal to finish the year EBITDA positive, which was published in our FLYHT Plan. We are way ahead of our budget estimation for EBITDA at this part of the year, which is through the first half of the year. So we're really quite optimistic about our ability to meet this goal at this point in the year. Our final public goal is to grow our public value through strategic business initiatives.

And so, we placed some internal success measures around this very broad goal. Well, we've already achieved several of these measurement criterias. We consolidate the stock and position the company for future stock price growth. Very pleased with how we look at this point with the consolidated stock figure. We published a video with Kathy Ireland in Worldwide Business that drew attention to FLYHT and it also, if you haven't seen it, included a fantastic testimonial for FLYHT from the Caribbean operator, Liat.

We also recently closed on a CAD 1.5 million line of credit with a major Canadian bank at extremely good rates. I mean, these are rates that FLYHT has never sniffed before. So we are very, very pleased with that outcome. We don't have a specific need for that line of credit and we have not drawn against it. But we wanted to improve our access to the additional money at a time when we did not need it, because that's really the best time to get it. More objectives will be monitored and I will report these in the – these – as we have these future successes.

So, at this point, I'd like to answer questions that have come in from e-mail, that haven't been addressed by the things that we've talked about. And after that, we'll turn it over to Miston for questions. So, let me scroll down here to these questions.

So, the first one is, I have two questions that I would like to be addressed at the conference call or otherwise. FLY has been heavily investing in research, do you foresee a continuation of this trend in the next two quarters? If so, can you educate shareholders on the importance of research with the company?

So, this is a great question. I know that in some ways that we've reported R&D and the past financial statements have confused investors a little bit because we've reported results independent of R&D and that may be gave the impression that – that ultimately R&D, the phase we're in, then we would go into maybe a harvest stage or something like that. But the reality of this business is that R&D is crucial and vital to what we do. It's an extremely competitive environment that we operate in. There is a – what FLYHT offers is truly unique. There's really nothing else in the market that does what we do. But if you look at competition in our space, we see competition for parts of what we do from a lot of different companies.

So, I'd like to say that global flight tracking, for example, it's a value proposition that FLYHT offers, it's not the value proposition. And there is a lot of competition, and there is a lot of other sources of tracking what FLYHT does. So, we do compete with other tracking companies, but that's not our primary competition, because that doesn't really define what we do. Tracking is a value proposition. What FLYHT does is, is we provide cost savings and efficiencies for operators of the aircraft and we proactively enhance the safety of the aircraft, and that prevents accidents and save lives.

So, that's a really broad statement. Tracking is a part of that, but so is our ability to monitor aircraft exceedances and engine exceedances and deliver engine trending information to provide the ability for operators to dynamically log into their aircraft and diagnose problems that have been shown in exceedances. These are capabilities that nobody else does. We compete with other clients that provide communication services, telecom, satellite communication services onboard aircraft. So, yeah, we compete in that area, that space, but when we compete with them, once the sale is done, that's all they have in terms of revenue. We now, once we get installed in the aircraft, have this opportunity to upsell all of these wonderful services that save our operators' money and become this subscription service for FLYHT.

So, I don't envision a time where we're not going to be able to – where we're not going to be spending R&D. We also characterize all of the STC work that we do in the company, we report that inside of the R&D. And as you know, we have a substantial library of STCs. We have more STCs for SATCOM products than anybody else in the world. And it's over 70 STCs. We cover virtually every aircraft in the world. The only ones that are not in our library right now are the brand new aircraft, the 787, the A350 and the C Series. We virtually have everything else. And the only reason that we don't have those aircraft, yes, we don't have the opportunity yet. Those are pretty new.

So, we will continue to spend. I would like to spend more and really what throttles our R&D spending is the balance that Paul mentioned before about running the business and staying cash flow positive. But if I had brothers, I will invest heavily because I believe that we have a position in the market that is enviable and that we want to preserve our position. So, that's I think enough on R&D.

The – so the next question is, what is the target of AFIRS revenue for the next two quarters? How confident are you that you'll achieve your objectives? What are the factors that can impact your forecast?

So, I think my best answer to this was answered during the call when I mentioned that our revenue for AFIRS hardware flows directly from our shipments. And at this point through July, we are ahead of our budget. So, that I think demonstrates my confidence and our ability to meet our target at this point.

The next question is, it says the second quarter shortfall – was the second quarter shortfall caused by revenue recognition going from second to third quarter, but not lost revenue, for us deliveries meant to hit last week of the quarter hit a few days later.

And so, that's right. It's really a timing issue. Through July, we are on track with the shipments that we had projected for the year, but we were slow shipping in April and May, and then we were going crazy shipping stuff in June and July. So, it's really just a matter of timing and when customers are ready to take the equipment, when their aircraft are ready for installations, there is just – whether or not the STCs are ready because those are not always within our hands, so we do the work within those regulatory bodies that have to approve and their timelines are – their timelines we don't control that.

So, there's a lot of factors that can go in to the timing of when we're able to perform the shipments and then ultimately we have accounting rules that determine when we can claim the revenue. So, it's a little complicated. I think we're doing a fantastic job. We can't predict exactly when things will happen, but I'm really proud of our team thus far projecting where we would be in shipments through July, and I'm very excited that we're on track.

Another question says, can you update us on hoped for success with units in process of developing an STC which will allow many of the aircraft that have been installed with AFIRS that are not currently providing recurring Software-as-a-Service voice and data units? Have you spoken to any of the operators to get the level of interests or must you've the STC in place?

So, I mentioned this during – in my letter and in the discussion that we had earlier. We are in the final strokes of developing additional STCs that will help us to convert units that are out in the field that are not producing recurring revenue to do so. We have been speaking with several customers. We're identifying a launch and we've got I think a really great opportunity to increase our monthly recurring revenues through this activity. I'm not going to go into more specifics than that.

The next question says, as it seems that your progress is moving forward substantially, can you tell us if you're also seeing more attention and interest from the investment community?

So I go and see investors and institutions typically about at least three times a year, and this year will actually be more than that. I have been visiting Toronto – actually, we're doing the call from Toronto today – Montreal, Vancouver, New York, other places in the United States as well. And in the two years that I have been doing this, I can tell that it's gone from where I show up for these meetings, and it's almost a burden for the individual to receive me and to listen to talk about FLYHT, to now I'm showing up and I mean there is anxious anticipation on both parties to talk about FLYHT and the excitement with the success that we are having. So I have seen an enormous change in the two years that I have been here.

What we have tried to do, and I hope that this is the view of the investors and the investment community out there as what we've tried to do is that we have tried to outline our vision of what we're going to deliver. I have tried to under-promise and over deliver, and I think that we're doing that. And I have purposefully tried not to be promotional on what we are doing, I will try to stick to the facts and build credibility. And I believe that we've done that. So things are really going our way right now. I'm really excited with what's in the queue and what we've been able to report. So that is a – I think a good explanation of where we are, at least where I see us in the investment community.

The next question says, can you elaborate on customer recurring revenue issue for June.

So I reported, again, in the way of being very transparent with our shareholders that we had a – one of our clients that we had through a contract with a third-party, we had to turn them off because there was a renegotiation of the contract. I've put that in there because I wanted to explain, we really literally have none of our customers ever forego our service. Once they turn on these recurring data services, they integrate the real-time data into their operations for both maintenance and operation of the aircraft. This information becomes extremely valuable and they use it to run their operations.

And so as long as our customers are profitable and they stay in business, they re-update, sign up for services over and over. So it's an extremely sticky business that we provide them. And it points to the value that these services provide our clients. This client, however, was one that we engaged through a third party and that third party is working through a renegotiation of a contract. And so -- so that – we were pretty confident that we're going to get them turned back on. But there will be a small dip or maybe not a dip, there will be less growth in the recurring services until that happens. So I think that's about all I can say on that point.

Here are some other questions. What's your estimate of what I would call the accounting cost of share consolidation? And is this included as part of the second quarter business expenses?

The answer to the second part of the question is yes, those are in second quarter. And the answer to the first part is, I think all-in, it maybe was on the order of CAD 20,000 to consolidate the stock, that's all the services, the labor everything. So it was not a substantially expensive activity.

The next question is, can you please explain how revenue recognition works in regards to hardware sales, what are the benefits of this method and will this method continue to be used in future?

So our revenue recognition policy is identified and noted in our Annual Report. We've got about nine different conditions on revenue recognition depending upon this scenario. In some cases, we can recognize the revenue when we ship the hardware, and that's wonderful, and that's the best case. In some cases, we can't recognize the hardware until we install it on the aircraft and turn the services on that are associated with that hardware and that it's been in operation for some amount of time, like a month. So the difference between those two can be substantial, it can be several months difference between recognizing on shipment or recognizing [ph] after it's (00:32:41) installed and providing recurring services. So all of this is done according to the established rules that we've worked out with our auditors. Obviously, we would love and we do everything that we can to recognize the revenue as soon as possible, but that's not always within our control.

So I don't anticipate that we're going to be changing any of this, our policy is our policy. We do very actively, when I work with David and the rest of the team, look to construct our contracts with our customers so that we can recognize the revenue as rapidly as possible. It's in everyone's interest that we do so.

The next question is, what is causing the sales contract backlog, i.e., are there deficiencies in FLYHT's method of delivery that need rectifying? Does it have to do with the availability of customer aircraft or customer funding, whether FLYHT's plan is for reducing the backlog, and perhaps for the most part eliminating it?

Well, I introduced this information earlier this year on what our sales contract backlog was. This is a wonderful thing. I mean, this question seems to – make it seem like sales backlog is not a good thing. I want to assure everyone that our sales contract backlog is a great thing. Sure, it'd be wonderful if every contract that we sign, we could ship all of it immediately and recognize the revenue immediately, but that's not the real world, I mean that's not the way this industry works. The reality is, is that we sign contracts with customers, and I call that sales, so we sell the product, and they sign a contract, they may not have all of the aircraft, the aircraft may not be available, they have their own plans that they're putting together to address their market, even if they have the aircraft, they may not be available. It takes – they have to put out of service to install the equipment if they already have the aircraft. So there is a plethora of things that go into identifying when exactly the equipment can be installed and ultimately when we can claim the revenue.

But what the sales contract backlog allows us to do is, for example, we're going into our budgeting and planning activities for next year when I get back from visiting clients on this trip. And we – the beginning of our budgeting process is to take a look at our sales backlog and begin planning which part of that backlog we will be able to apply, say, for example, to 2018. And then we know that there is going to be a certain amount of book and ship that we can pick up during the year so that will be the – that which is in backlog, we'll add to that book and ship, we'll add then other opportunistic goals that we have, and that's really how we build our budget for the year.

So, this contract backlog is exceptional and outstanding. And I shared it with the you, the investors, because I wanted you to understand just how solid our business is and how well we are set up for future revenues, because this sales backlog will convert into future revenue.

The next question says that – talked about a January 27th announcement that Avmax received a certain STC for the Dash 8, 100, 200, 300 Series installs. And the question goes on to say [indiscernible] (00:36:26) installations to proceed, how many of the 146 units have been installed to-date?

And so, we have shipped 21 units to Avmax. This was an important STC for them to install part of their fleet, but we have a great relationship with Avmax. In fact, they continue to be a really big advocate to FLYHT and they're installing according to their needs, in their timeline for their aircraft fleet. Nothing has changed. They continue to roll it out. And so, as they rotate their aircraft with their lessor – their leasees, they may install the equipment.

The wonderful part about this relationship is, we've actually – it's led to I think – offhand I think three different instances of customers receiving the Avmax-equipped aircraft as part of their fleet, becoming familiar with FLYHT's product through that leasing of the aircraft, and then going on and buying our product for other aircraft that are within their fleet. So, without question, it's a great relationship that we have with a great customer, Avmax. It's leading to other business. It's going to continue to proceed.

Again, we would love for the entire – I think it was 146 units that we originally signed with them, love to have delivered all of those, but they're rolling them out on their timeline, and we're extremely happy to work with them. And we're using our relationship with Avmax to demonstrate to other lessors within the industry how valuable our product – that AFIRS is and how we can help them to manage their fleets.

So there is one final question that was sent in earlier, and I'm going to have Paul actually – I'm sorry, there's actually two – there is more. Okay. So one says, can you please explain how revenue recognition works. I've done that. And yeah, so the last question I'm going to have Paul handle it, it says, there was a significant sequential increase in the administration expenses from Q1 to Q2 this year due primarily to the combination of both share-based compensation as well as salaries and benefits. Can you please explain these increases? Were there any one-time or timing-related issues in the Q2 numbers? And going forward, do these amounts signify the ongoing quarterly rate?

Paul, can you shed some light on that?

In terms of the administration expenses, again, second quarter is a heavy – heavy quarter for expense-wise. If we – I guess when we start at the top, when we talk about salaries and benefits, there were some termination costs in there that we hope are a one-time thing, which again, they were recorded in the second quarter. But most – some of the other increases were legal, audit and also Investor Relation costs. Again, the legal and Investor Relation costs relate to the Annual General Meeting. And in terms of the audit costs, it really just the final billings from the audit. They're likely to be ongoing as part of the second quarter costs going forward from year-to-year as they're – they're just as long as the AGM is in that quarter. But the cost will show up in whichever quarter of the year. Those events take place.

Okay, great, Paul. Thank you. There's another question that came in, it says FLYHT has a great story, what is the company's focus on B2B, business-to-business prospects, and business-to-consumer? Can you comment on a typical acquisition cost?

I don't have – we have not gone through determining typical acquisition costs, that's a good question. We have really – in the two years that I've been at the company, or two years next month or in October rather, we've generated a lot of really good data that we used around the business. So I have not generated this particular metric. It's a good question and I think it's reasonable that we do so, but I haven't done that yet.

In terms of our focus on B2B, that is certainly our focus. Business-to-consumer, I mean, I have had investors periodically talk to me about kind of taking the story to individual consumers and trying to get consumers to put pressure on regulators and airlines to help move us forward. And I understand that position. I think it's a difficult one. We do sure like this interview we did with Kathy Ireland and then, periodically, we've done some other activities to try to increase the awareness of FLYHT both within the business community and with individuals. But we don't really have a strategy right now of specifically targeting the consumers. I think that our plate is pretty full just trying to pursue business. I think that's our right strategy and we're going to continue to pursue that way.

So, Miston, is there other calls now that we would take from callers?

Yes, there is. But before we get to the caller that's already in the queue, I'd like to give some instructions. [Operator Instructions] The first caller in the queue is Bruce Krugel from Laurentian Bank Securities. You may go ahead.

Hi, Bruce. I can't hear you.

Hi there. When I first saw the results, it didn't look like there was any traction or there was no visibility or traction, you need to certainly address that with regards to your Q2 outlook. So I'm feeling a little better about that. With regards – in your narrative you spoke about being a head of plan with regards to year-to-date EBITDA. Can you give some color – my point and EBITDA profitability, my point being you did CAD 200,000 positive EBITDA Q1, you've just done negative CAD 620,000 in Q2, so that will put at a negative. Are you saying that accounting for July you've swung back to a positive?

No, we had – as part of our budgeting process last year, we budgeted the entire year and we came up with our FLYHT Plan goals, which I've discussed in this call. One of those FLYHT Plan goals is to be in – positive EBITDA company through the year. And so, as we mapped our different revenues and expenses through the quarters, we expected to go negative. We expected to go significantly more negative than we are right now. And we also anticipate to be positive when we finish the year. So I'm not going to provide those details because they're internal, but I can tell you that we are way ahead of EBITDA where we expected to be at this point in the year.

Okay. Second question, on the Boeing front, which you announced. The trial takes places Q1 of 2018, so if all goes well and the God smile, how do you see that trial unfolding as it relates to Boeing and timing?

Okay. So we're working with Boeing, we are going to be – we're in the logistics and planning phase at this point. We'll be shipping product to them prior to the end of the year that will be installed – it will be tested in the lab, integrated and installed on the FedEx 777. They will perform the flight test where they will collect the data. That data then will be used to feed industry working groups to demonstrate how this solution can be used to satisfy these ICAO mandates which I spent time talking about earlier in the call and that I published a lot of detail in the investor letters that we found on our website.

Through these activities, we're working directly with no – without an intermediary, we're working directly with Boeing Engineering, so they're working with our product and gaining an understanding of it. And through this entire process, we're actually certain that we're going to delight that customer and that we can ultimately hope – there's no guarantees, but we can certainly hope that this interaction with that customer will ultimately lead to sales. And I'm extremely confident in our ability to demonstrate the value of our system, not only to very clearly provide the information that they require in order to make plans for meeting these mandates, but also to – there's nothing like using a product to understand its value. So we hope to do – to demonstrating our value proposition that we then become in a much better position with both of them and their customers. So that's the objective of the trial.

Okay. And then my final question, obviously heading into the Chinese deadline, 31st of December, the Q2 numbers didn't – are not indicative of a ramp for everybody to meet those deadlines. I am thinking, again, from your narrative that, that pace has picked up quite dramatically and we should see certainly from the AFIRS perspective a very strong second half of the year as people ramp to meet the deadline. Is that a fair interpretation of what you said?

The deadline that you're referring to is the Chinese mandate?

Yes.

Yeah. So, couple of answers to your question. The first is, is that the second half is always much stronger than the first half. So that's just a cyclic nature of our business. We expect to deliver more in our – our budgeting process anticipates that because we have many years of data. And that's why our EBITDA tracks like it does. Paul mentioned that we incur certain costs in the beginning of the year or the first half of the year that we don't in the second half. So there's a lot that goes into why our second half will be stronger and why I am extremely positive on our year at this point.

In terms of China, there is a very clear mandate, and it require that the operators within China install by 2015, and then comply with an inspection period by the end of 2017. So, there's no question that that's a mandate. It's required, there's no question that there will be compliance for that mandate. The practical aspects of China are that many of these airlines are partially owned by the government. So, there is quite a bit of I guess dialogue and negotiation between the airlines and the government agencies, such as the CASC. These occur on national and regional levels. And there is a certain amount, I would call it, power depending upon the size and the capabilities of the entities within China. So the bottom line is that this mandate is real, there will be compliance to the mandate, but the timing is may or may not actually line up with the timing that the government has outlined. And so, we continue to be extremely successful in that market. We're extremely pleased with that market. One of the things that we take away from that market is that China is growing at this enormous rate, they're getting 25% of the aircraft that are produced from Boeing, Airbus, Bombardier, Embraer.

So they've looked to the West because of the maturity of the airline operations in the West. And they look to the West for solutions to problems that they encounter because of their enormous growth. But nobody in the West has those problems, they don't have anybody to look to. So they think out-of-the-box, they look for solutions that makes sense. They build their own solutions to satisfy these problems that only they have, and they've seen an innovative company like FLYHT with a product that meets requirements that nobody else can meet and they're extremely receptive. And so, at FLYHT, we like to think that the difficulty that we have with large carriers in the West is going to be overcome by acceptance in the East, because once – we're going to get large contracts there.

And the operators that use our system are going to have a competitive advantage, especially on mixed fleets using our product and that's going to drive acceptance in the West, at least that's my perception, that's the way I see it. And it's this wonderful opportunity that we have in China because of their growth and because of the investment that FLYHT has spent, making our supple player there, so I hope that answers your question, Bruce.

Comprehensive answers. Thanks very much for that, and I'll hand it over to other questioners.

We have no additional questions at this time.

Okay. Great, Miston. So I'd like to wrap-up the call then. Thank you for listening either on the live call or if you're listening to the recording. The recording of this version will be published on the FLYHT website very soon. It will be in the Investor Relations section underneath Presentations & Webcasts.

So I would like to finish this call with a shout out to a very special group of people. Paul Takalo, our Board of Director member, who introduced himself earlier is now serving as our Interim Chief Financial Officer, while we conduct a search for our permanent replacement for CFO.

So Paul has been a member of the board for a long time, now several years, and he's severed as the Audit Committee Chair for many of these years. So I mean, he really knows the company, he has been associated with FLYHT for long time. And after being in the CFO role for a couple of months, I asked Paul what's surprising about the company since he was now viewing it from a very different perspective.

I asked him, did the company or the business seem any different than what I had been describing to the Board of Directors, that was my question to him. And he said, no. He thought that the Board of Directors was very well informed about the company that I had really very properly reported the company to the board.

However, he said that, what did surprise him is just how difficult the successes are that the company reports, and how impressed he was with how hard everybody works in the company to achieve the successes.

So, that made me and the CFO feel really proud of our team and the work that we do. So in completing the conference call, I would just like to publicly thank all of the employees at FLYHT for the extremely hard work that they do, the dedication that they show for these hard-won successes that we win.

So, thank you very much for calling in, listening. I hope you have a great day.

This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect your lines. Thank you for participating. And have a pleasant day.