Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Thomas Grubb — Chief Financial Officer, Head-Investor Relations and Managing Director, Greenhill & Co., Inc.
Scott L. Bok — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Greenhill & Co., Inc.
Devin P. Ryan — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Daniel E. Paris — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Douglas C. Sipkin — Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP
Brennan McHugh Hawken — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Ashley Neil Serrao — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Douglas Doucette — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Vincent Hung — Analyst, Autonomous Research US LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the Greenhill Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Grubb, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us today for Greenhill's third quarter 2015 financial results conference call. I'm Chris Grubb, Greenhill's Chief Financial Officer and joining me on the call today is Scott Bok, our Chief Executive Officer.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations regarding future events that by their nature are outside the firm's control and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The firm's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from what is indicated in those forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and factors that could affect the firm's future results, please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.

Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We're under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date on which they are made.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Scott Bok.

Thank you, Chris. This year has continued to be a good one for us in terms of important M&A announcements such that as of a few days ago, our announced year-to-date transaction volume, the sum of all deal sizes, for the Thomson data source we typically cite is up 69% from the same period last year to its highest level since 2008. However, very few transaction completions fell in our third quarter, resulting in lower than typical advisory revenue and that lower revenue level resulted in higher than typical cost ratios.

There were three primary factors that constrained our revenue outcome in the quarter and the year-to-date, each of which should in due course turn in a much more favorable direction on its own. I will speak to each of those now followed by a few comments on the overall M&A environment and then followed by a discussion of our capital advisory business. After that Chris will speak to our cost, balance sheet matters and dividend.

The key factor in our quarterly revenue outcome was simply the somewhat random timing of transaction completion, something that's obviously far out of our control. Fortunately, this year, we've been centrally involved in more large deals than what the case in recent years, but unfortunately the nature of those larger deals is such that they can take longer to close.

Specifically, as we note in our press release, last year, a large majority of our most important announced deals as measured by total expected fees also made it a completion in the same year, while this year it's just the opposite. A large majority of this year's most important announced transactions, particularly this year's several largest is measured by expected fees look likely to get to completion beyond this year-end.

While that substantial difference in transaction timing will obviously impact this year's results negatively, it also means that for 2016 we already have the largest backlog of fees from announced transactions that we have had at the start of any of the past several years, and we have more than two months left in the year to grow that backlog further.

A second factor in our results this quarter and throughout this year is that we continue to be in a market where improvement in M&A activity is heavily focused on the U.S. market. Our U.S. M&A business is performing well. And this year, the portion of our advisory revenue coming from clients in North America looks likely to be the second highest since before our IPO, exceeded only by 2009 when we were in the debts of the financial crisis. However, we've always prided ourselves in being a truly global firm, and thus we have very substantial resources deployed in other markets where M&A activity has been stagnant or even continued to decline.

For example, in Europe, the number of deals, $500 million or greater, is on track to be slightly worse than in four of the past five years at a level about half of where it was at the 2007 peak. With respect to M&A activity, Europe is increasingly seemed to be made up of multiple separate regions with very different market characteristics. And fortunately the UK, where we have a longstanding strong market position has been a positive exception to the overall European trend. Several important deal announcements this year by our team in that market reflects that.

In Australia, given the smaller market size, we focus on a number of deals $200 million or greater and that figure has continued to decline in the past few years from a level 30% below where it was in 2010 and roughly half of what it was at the 2007 peak. And for Brazil and other emerging markets, the general news flow makes clear the multitude of reasons for there being little M&A activity.

Notwithstanding the recent years of unusual relative strength in the U.S. market, we continue to believe in the necessity of having a truly global footprint for long-term success, and in the quality of our advisory teams and the regions that have seen last activity of late.

The third and last factor worth noting is, one that is also applied for some time. That is the fact that improvement in M&A activity has been heavily focused on mega transactions of $10 billion or greater size. Market data as of a few days ago, shows that we're on track to have 8% fewer transactions globally in the sub $500 million category this year, and only 3% more in the important $500 million to $5 billion category. Only in deals north of $10 billion in size has been a really dramatic improvement.

But if you look at the number of deals in these various categories, you see that what this means is hundreds of fewer smaller deals offset by only a few dozen more very large deals globally.

Just as we expect improvement in M&A activity to spread over time to other regions beyond the U.S. and UK, it also seems logical to expect it to spread to the full range of deal sizes. I know some market commentators are starting to declare that we are at or near our peak of the M&A cycle, but the data citied above in relation to Europe, Australia, Brazil and elsewhere as well as the data in relation to deals sub $5 billion in size, would suggest that for many parts of the M&A market the post-financial crisis upturn has barely begun.

Our dialogs with CEOs and boards validate the view that M&A activity feels a long way from slowing down. The fundamental drivers of modest organic growth opportunities, low cost of capital and dynamic technological and regulatory change within many industry verticals all remain in place. It still isn't easy to get deals done especially in the occasional periods of market volatility to come along, but corporate interest and M&A opportunities remains high.

Now let me turn to our capital advisory business. Their market conditions for both primary fund raising and secondary transactions have been robust, except for some delay in transaction completions as we saw significant volatility and public equity market valuations in the latter part of the quarter.

However, the near-term outlook continues to look strong for this business. For secondary transactions in particular, we believe the market remains in a growth phase where high valuations mean more transactions which in turn leads to greater liquidity in a still fairly young market, which in turn drives more transactions.

In short, we believe there's a bit of a virtuous circle in place in this market. And having become the market leader through the acquisition of Cogent earlier this year, we are very well placed to benefit from that.

Now, I'll turn it over to Chris.

Thank you. I'll now go into a bit more detail on compensation costs, non-compensation costs, tax rate and capital management and balance sheet matters.

Starting with compensation costs, our compensation expense ratio for the third quarter was elevated 61% due to the revenue outcome Scott discussed earlier on the call, which brings our year-to-date compensation ratio to 56% slightly higher than the 55% compensation ratio we achieved through the first nine months of last year.

Consistent with our historical approach, we include all GAAP compensation costs in these figures, which means that, unlike many of our peers, we include all recruiting, acquisition and related personnel expenses when discussing our compensation ratio. While our full-year 2015 compensation ratio will be dependent on the fourth quarter and the resulting full-year revenue outcome, our goal remains to have a GAAP compensation ratio that is the lowest among our close peers, which we have achieved every year while also being able to compensate our people competitively and continue to reward high-levels of productivity.

Moving to our non-compensation costs. Our non-comp costs were $18.8 million for the quarter and $53.1 million on a year-to-date basis, with both figures elevated by a variety of unusual items. These unusual items include transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Cogent, foreign exchange losses related to the way we financed our investment in our start up in Brazil, and duplicative lease cost in transitioning to new office space in Sydney.

For the quarter, these non-core expenses added approximately $1.6 million of additional expense. And on a year-to-date basis, the total impact was approximately $4.6 million. Excluding these expenses, our core non-comp costs including the additional ongoing core expenses for the Cogent business, were $17.2 million for the third quarter and $48.5 million for the year-to-date period, and remain well under control.

With respect to the non-core costs noted above, there will be no further acquisition costs related to Cogent, the transition of office space in Sydney is now complete, and the Brazilian currency hit a 20-year low in the third quarter, suggesting the negative FX expense there should be largely behind us.

On prior calls, we commented that we expect the Cogent transaction to take our non-comp costs from a run rate of below $60 million to high $60 million on an annual basis, and we continue to believe that is a good estimate.

Touching briefly on tax rate; as discussed in today's earnings release, our third quarter tax rate was 40% and our year-to-date tax rate was 39%. This higher-than-usual tax rate is driven by a greater proportion than usual of our earnings being in the U.S. relative to other jurisdictions where we operate with lower tax rates.

Going forward, our tax rate will, as always, be a function of the jurisdictions in which we generate earnings, with the U.S. having the highest tax rate of any region where we operate. As and when the regional mix of our revenue returns to our historic norms, our tax rate should decline to historic levels as well.

Looking at our capital management activity, our dividend this quarter was again $0.45 per share consistent with the quarterly distribution made over the last several years. And as Scott mentioned in the press release, an indication of our confidence in the current pipeline announced transactions and other deal activity.

During the third quarter, we repurchased a small number of shares due to employee restricted stock vestings, and for the year-to-date have repurchased approximately 340,000 shares for a total cost of $11.9 million as a result of such vestings. As we said when we acquired Cogent earlier this year, our near-term focus is on repaying the modest amount of acquisition debt we incurred. Once that is behind us and as the revenue picture evolves as noted earlier, we expect to return to our historic share repurchase program. With the Cogent acquisition, our share count has ticked up very slightly above where it was post our 2004 IPO, but our long-term track record for avoiding dilution of shareholders remains very strong relative to our peers and maintaining that position remains a core objective of the firm.

We ended this quarter with cash of $35.3 million, investments of $3.5 million and a revolver balance of $44.9 million. While we ended the quarter with a revolver balance a bit larger than our cash balance, as of today, we are already back in our usual position of having a global cash balance in excess of our revolver balance.

Now let me turn it back to Scott.

Let me close with the thoughts of the difference between the quarter we had and a strong quarter is really quite modest. Our business has minimal capital requirements and our costs, apart from compensation, are largely fixed. So, for us, the real story is always all about revenue.

Given how much of any incremental revenue drops to the bottom line, it would not have taken much in additional transaction fees being realized to lead to very different and better financial results. And you only have to look at our 10-year history to see that we have an unparalleled track record of converting revenue into profits and capital returns to shareholders including more than $500 million of dividends paid out since our IPO.

Looking ahead, much of what would lead to dramatically different and better results should happen naturally with little action on our part. First transaction timing is obviously out of our control, but large announced transactions with long timetables can generally be expected to work their way to the finish line. History shows that very few deals get blocked by regulators and even the largest transactions rarely take more than around a year to get to completion. More typical transaction timing alone would have led to very different and reasonably satisfactory results for us for the year-to-date.

Second, we have a strong and long established team stationed in key markets around the world, and thus are very well positioned to benefit as improved M&A activity broadens to other regions beyond the U.S. and UK and to deal sizes other than mega transactions. That also should happen naturally as regions and companies of all sizes continue to heal from the financial crisis, and companies face the imperative to grow their businesses despite economic growth that generally remains tepid, and that would also lead to dramatically improved results for us.

Lastly, on top of waiting for those two factors to turn in our favor, I want to be clear that we continue to be laser-focused on the things that are within our control to create a business that drives strong and growing revenue over the long-term. Like any great sports team or other professional services firm, our primary management focus is on acquiring and developing talent, while at the same time not being reluctant to occasionally part ways with bankers whose skills or relationships have proven to be insufficiently effective on an independent advisory platform like ours.

As we look to expand and upgrade our talent pool, we focus on two strategies. One is adding new senior talent from outside the firm, and we've done a lot of that this year both in M&A and in capital advisory, and both by recruitment and by acquisition. We are very pleased with the new client activity generated both from this year's MD recruits and from the team acquired in the acquisition of Cogent.

Looking ahead, we continue to see good opportunities to recruit additional senior talent. An equally important part of our talent strategy is growing our own senior talent. And we have numerous examples of people who joined our firm 10 or more years ago very early in their career, and have since developed into important revenue contributors as well as leaders within the firm.

The early progress of those more recently promoted to Managing Director as well as the strong pipeline of talents still coming up to the ranks, suggest that this strategy of internal personnel development will become an increasingly important part of our talent strategy alongside external recruiting.

With that, we're happy to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question will come from Devin Ryan of JMP Securities.

Hey Scott, hey Chris, how are you?

Good. How are you, Devin?

Hi, Devin.

Good. So just looking at results year-to-date and kind of trying to parse through some of the commentary, I mean, so it clearly maybe a tougher year and hopefully next year is of on a better note just based some backlog you noted. But if that's the backdrop, how do you balance compensating people that that really produce at a high level this year, but still continuing to invest in people that maybe this wasn't a great year of production, because I know that you got be balanced but when revenues are spread thinner, how do you think about that balance?

Look, a comp every year whether you're at the absolute peak of 2007 or at the trough of a period like 2009, it's never easy in our business. I mean, people obviously have high expectations in any year, even when it seems like revenue is very high and you work through it. I think our history has been and will continue to be that we've rewarded people who've performed well, that doesn't mean we completely cut off those who haven't but we believe in for the future. But, you have to go case by case, person by person. And I think our track record of really a very high retention rate over the last almost 20 years now would suggest that we know how to do that in an effective way.

Got it. Great. And appreciate the commentary around the M&A cycle and kind of where we are from kind of a data perspective, but are there any anecdotes or kind of things you would point to where you'd say based on the conversations with boards in the specific examples where you feel like this cycle still has a long run way to go. I know the data, it may suggest and we hope that's the case, but is there anything where you're kind of getting a sense from your conversations with board members that they're just now starting to think about growth again.

Look, there are plenty of them, but I'm not going to name them on the call, obviously, all that kind of stuff is confidential and its hard to give sort of no names anecdote. But I'd say this, look, over the recent weeks, the pace of sort of flow of new assignments and bakeoffs that we've been invited to and other situations where you're invited to the high level to talk to a company and maybe in a more serious way about a possible transaction that hasn't declined at all.

As a matter of fact, I would say the last few weeks' feel really quite good, in that sense. So I'm not seeing anything that would indicate that the little state of market volatility we've had has derailed M&A at all, and I think you're seeing that some announcements, it's certainly behind the scenes we're seeing that in terms of the early stage pipeline being filled with bakeoffs some of which you win, some of which you lose, but the fact that even the ones you're getting invited to and end up losing are suggesting there's a lot of activity out there. And as long as we have a reasonable batting average in winning those, we'll continue to do fine, I think.

Got it. Maybe on that point, I mean, you guys have been around longer than a number of kind of some of the newer advisory firms that are starting up, but are you seeing more firms today in bakeoffs and kind of the independent models seem that there's more kind of firms with a critical mass and a bigger branch than they were five years ago or 10 years ago. So is that a dynamic that's playing as a competitive environment that you think is impacting business at all, or is it still you feel more head-to-head with the bulge brackets?

We still certainly compete with the bulge brackets more than anybody else. I think, overall, the competitive picture is, again, you have to look at it pretty carefully. I mean, it won't surprise you to hear that I think the European banks continue to get weaker. You've seen some announcements even in recent days here that suggest that there's probably going to be more turmoil and kind of strategic developments at those places that probably at the margin help us win business against them, probably hurt them and keeping good people. So that's kind of one category.

The American banks, I think, are doing pretty well. And look, they've always been tough competitors, and they're probably still the people we run into most often when we're competing for a piece of business. With the so-called independent advisors, like ourselves, clearly there are more of them. There probably aren't as many more as you may be thinking. For example, the two most recent to go public are both at least 10 years older than we are. They weren't public for the whole period we would, but they've certainly been around for a very long period of time.

So there are some new ones, there're some tiny ones as you know who may pick off one or two or three pieces of business in a whole year and there're some others that are much more typical or much more comparable to us. But, overall, it's always been a competitive business, it's probably a little more like it was when I started my career where there were lots and lots of small, medium and large competitors as compared to, say, 10 years ago when there was just really the bulge brackets kind of owned everything in the early days of our firms formation and development and the formation and development of some of the other firms like us.

Okay, great. I'll hop back in the queue. Thanks, Scott.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from Dan Paris of Goldman Sachs

Hey, guys. How are you?

How are you, Dan?

Hi, Dan.

I'm good. Thanks. So, just wanted, from a high level perspective, the delay in some closings this quarter, would you attribute any of that to the volatility that we've seen in end markets, and corporates kind of intentionally delaying it or was this all kind of normal course regulation taking longer things of that nature?

It's certainly wasn't the former. I didn't see – I mean, again, we don't do a lot of work in the private equity world. I mean, maybe in that world the ability to do a junk bond offering and finance the deal may become more difficult for some people. But the phenomenon I'm more talking about, I mean, clearly, you can see we've announced some bigger and more significant transactions than we did say, last year, probably the last number of years.

But when you do those bigger things, they tend for whatever reason they have a little longer regulatory review. It can be because they're reviewed not in one country, but in five or 10 countries in some cases. And it can be just because it's bigger and so bigger markets shares are involved. And so, it takes longer to get through the process.

I'm sure that's the phenomenon that other firms will see particularly with the largest transactions. But I don't think any of it had anything to do with the market volatility. Really, I mean, if you look, I'm not going to talk about individual transactions, but if you did look at company commentary about their own transaction, you can see the expectations they're setting for closings which in many cases people are talking about a year on the larger ones. I mean, the very large beer transaction, which we're not involved in, they were quite open about the fact it's going to take more than a year to close. And there're lots of transactions that aren't that big, but they're still very large that are in kind of the same boat.

Got it. And then understanding that completions are near impossible to predict, I mean, you seem to allude that most of these transactions would spill over into next year. Does that set up risk that 4Q revenue number to look something similar to this quarter, or is there anything you can kind of point us to in that and trying to kind of size that?

Yeah. Obviously, I don't want to be predicting our quarter's revenue, because that's really impossible to do. But, look, I would say even apart from the larger phenomenon I'm talking about, where we've announced more bigger deals this year, but they're just the types that are going to take longer to close and they're going to close next year. Even apart from that, the third quarter was a very unusual quarter in terms of just the sheer number of transactions that we closed. I mean, we always list in our press release pretty much every M&A transaction that we've closed during the quarter. I mean, occasionally there'll be something that's confidential or whatever that we won't list, but we almost always list pretty much everything.

And I can't remember the time we ever had as few as four. And of the four that are listed in there, you can see the relative sizes. They're not all significant ones. Certainly, none of them are really, really large ones. So I would say, the third quarter sort of feels like very, very much an outlier in terms of not only a big transaction that are taking a lot longer, but even the kind of normal run of smaller deals.

And I'm sure, look, when you look at your data sources, which you guys all look at, but we typical don't, you could probably have seen coming into this that there were about four transactions that closed for us during the third quarter. I think when you look for quarters to come, I think you're going to see quite different numbers and scale of transactions.

Is there any way you can size any of that for us today, like i.e. the revenue backlog on uncompleted deals is, X assuming everything closes. Is there any way to think about that or you can't give that level of granularity?

I don't think that's wise, because once you start on that path, you have to do it. And of course some of it's difficult to calculate. But the point I made in the script about a large majority of last year's sort of major top tier deals getting done during the same year, and a large majority of this year's getting deferred beyond that, including as I said, the several very largest, I mean, obviously it's very heavily skewed and that's why we made the point that we have already the best backlog we've had in terms of announced deals, not just sort of general pipeline, in terms of announced deal fees for any January 1 in many years and we still got two more months to keep increasing that margin versus recent years. So obviously, I'm talking about significant numbers and things here, but I think to quantify it doesn't really make sense.

Okay. Understood. And then maybe just last one from me. If the deal timeline completion keeps getting pushed back for whatever reason, is there a way to think about what is the minimum level of revenue or earnings required to kind of support the current dividend? It seems like repaying some of the debt remains a priority too. So how do we think about that balance there?

I think it's a pretty low figure that would be, to put the dividend into the question, certainly we don't think we're there. Again, if you look, obviously we do, because we're involved in these deals, but you can see things making progress. It's not like deals, and that's why I made the point, it's very rare for deals to take much more than a year to get done. So, it's not like things that may look to the public like they're going to close in Q1 or are going to close in Q1 of 2017 instead of 2016. I don't think that's realistic at all, just the way deals normally play out and the announcements companies are making.

So, I think, we're well out of the range of having to worry at all about the dividend or any other balance sheet related issues. And the only question really is, when do we start repurchasing stock again. And we look at this backlog, and when we expect it to come in and turn to revenue and we think it's not going to be that long, you're going to see us back to our usual position of net cash like we are today, and of repurchasing stock and getting back to a share count that hasn't increased in 10 plus years.

Got it. Very helpful. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure.

And the next question comes from Douglas Sipkin of Susquehanna.

Thank you. Can you guys hear me?

Yeah, can hear you fine.

Good afternoon. How are you?

Good.

So I just wanted to drill down a little bit on Cogent. And I guess, maybe if you could just sort of update how we should be thinking about it in light of, I guess, a little bit more of a volatile environment. I know you guys provided sort of their full-year 2014, and you guys don't disclose the revenue. So I think some of the challenges at least I'm having are trying to think about that stuff, thinking about, I guess, around the $40 million or so that it did last year, and obviously I don't think that's going to be for 2015, but any color as to how should we may be thinking about that revenue stream.

I know you guys started providing sort of the number of transactions they were involved in, I think you said 23. I mean, can you maybe provide us like what's kind of like the numbers they were doing last year, and how if at all has that market changed in light of what we've seen volatility wise in August and September? And how do we think about that relative to sort of what they did last year? Because I feel like that maybe at least from my perspective, some of the problems in terms of modeling right now.

Look, I think, I could give you a lot of statistics that probably would do nothing but confuse you and really not have any meaning to them, because obviously you can have some deals that are very small, and some deals that are midsize and some that are larger. So to give you sort of numbers of deals versus last year and so on, wouldn't make much difference. I would just say this, we've been pretty clear. This business is performing well, that we think there's kind of a secular growth thing going on, because it seems like more companies are now managing – not companies, institutional investors are managing their portfolios of private investments, the same way they manage their portfolios of public investments.

So it seems like there's just more overall activity. Our guys continue to feel like they've got by far the leading market share. And, look, I would say the business feels – as we sit here right now, feels better than it did a year ago. And I think the pace of new assignments, the number of new assignments, the number of ones that are really quite significant in terms of the fee potential, are all looking like this business is doing very well.

And if I were to model it, that's for you guys to figure out but look, it's not a huge part of our business. I think to assume something, I mean, we obviously, we have the earn-out which gives you some target of what they were expecting to exceed. And I think that team still expects to not just achieve that, but to exceed that figure.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, in terms of some of the offices where guys you've highlighted where there's not a lot going on. One thing I have noticed, I mean, historically, you guys have done a great job with the non-comp. and I know you've done a deal, so there're some expenses related to that. But it feels like maybe the non-comp is an area where it seems a little bit more elevated than normal based on your history of prudently keeping costs low, and I'm wondering at what point to some of these territories where nothing is going on, maybe you evaluate some sort of streamlining.

I mean, I'm not saying, go away, but something where you can sort of manage the business a little bit more effectively, because at some point, if revenues just don't come back for the long period of time, it gets pretty expensive to sit with it. So I'm just curious if that's something you guys are exploring with certain territories where that just doesn't feel like there's a lot of going on and there probably won't be for some time.

I wouldn't, look, I don't want to give the impression people are sitting on their hands. I mean, people are busy, believe me. It's just a matter of how hard it is to get transactions done in certain parts of the world, but, honestly, of all the things you might want to spend a lot of time thinking about modeling. Non-comp in my mind would not be one of them. I think if you take away the things that really are sort of as we said non-core really non-recurring type things transitioning a lease or some foreign exchange losses on the money we put into Brazil and so on. If you take those out, as Chris said, we think we're very much on track for exactly where we said we would be at the beginning of the year.

Yes. There are some parts of the world, take Brazil where it's very hard to get deals done, but their non-comp costs have obviously come down very considerably just for the exchange rate, and likewise in Canada, in Australia and in Tokyo and even in Continental Europe. So the places, I mean, there's still one tiny silver lining really to very weak exchange rates in some of these markets. There's not a whole lot of activity in some of the non-U.S., non-UK market. So it's not really a big factor in hurting revenue. But you do get some savings in non-comp obviously as well as in base salaries and things like that. So I think our non-comp is still very, very much under control. And we've not really changed our philosophy or I think our execution in that respect.

Great. And then just finally, and I know you've touched on it. So, forgive me. I'm just trying to put it into context. When you speak about sort of starting January, I mean, what are you referring to in terms of, is it the fee revenue potential is the strongest in, I don't know if you said, how many years, but, or is it sort of the deal value is the strongest in how many years?

I'm talking fees. So what we're doing is, we're taking announced transactions, and the fees that we expect to collect that are still to be collected on completion and maybe other events along the way, if you will. That the backlog from those, and on top of that, obviously, there're things we're working on that haven't gotten to do an announcement and so on. There's always the backlog of that kind of thing.

But the backlog that's obviously pretty solid because it relates to announced transactions not just for hope for a transaction. That we will enter 2016 where there's already very significantly better than we entered 2015 or 2014 or a number of years before that with. And as I've said, we have two more months to make that differential even bigger.

Okay, great. Thanks for answering all my questions, Scott.

Sure. Thank you.

And the next question is from Brennan Hawken of UBS

Hi. Thanks for taking the question.

Sure.

Just a quick one, or actually I should refer as that maybe a broad one, Scott. And of course, any single quarter can be really lumpy, right, so not about this quarter per se, but even if we take a step back and look at the last several years, there's been a lack of revenue growth with Greenhill, and a lot of the competitors are doing meaningfully better, have shown substantial revenue growth.

So, obviously, the market is difficult, but others are able to execute in the market and it includes some permissive focus on the midmarket and smaller deals. So, is there something that needs to change? Is there an approach that needs to be adjusted? Do we need to do something substantially different here, or do you think that it's all just choked up to bad luck?

I mean, I wouldn't say bad luck. But I would say this, look, the firms, in general, that have had significant revenue growth, have had a very significant head count and cost growth and share count growth. And so we have made a, sort of, you could call it a strategic policy decision a long time ago, like when we went public that we were going to focus very much on real profitability. And so, we did this in 2004 and 2005 when we were the only public firm of our type out there, and we've continued to do that since then, which is why while others again have taken somewhat of a different approach of very aggressive head count growth and so we've talked about ad nauseam, they'll pro forma out a number of the costs related to that. But if you look at the real cost, and if you look at the share count, I think that growth has been pretty expensive and we focus on profitable growth.

And I think if you look at the way our firm has developed and what we've built out, and you look even in the year-to-date announcements, look, life would be a lot easier if things were closing four months instead of 12 among the big things. And then we wouldn't be having this conversation about growth. But I think we're very content with where we are, and we think our really, as I said, an unparalleled track record of pre-tax profit margin that many others have set as a target but not achieved share count that essentially what it was when we went public 11 years, 10.5 years ago and $500 million in dividends paid. I think that's the strategy we're going to stick with going forward.

And we think as number one, the obvious thing if just deals that are announced work their way through the pipeline and get close, and then beyond that as the M&A activity expands beyond U.S. UK, I think the chickens will come home to roost in a very positive way in terms of the investments that we've made.

Okay. All right. Thanks for that perspective. Where did MD head count finish up at the end of the quarter?

75 client-facing. My CFO tells me here, which I think it's about where it was last quarter. Maybe one plus or minus, I don't remember.

Okay, great. And then, last question here. So, it seems like there might be some timing difficulties for sure, which have been hit on extensively. We've got $14 million roughly of dividend payments per quarter. You've got, I think, around $35 million cash on the balance sheet. What are the cash requirements as you approach year-end for bonus payments? How should we think about cash trajectory between now and year-end?

I'll leave you to do your own modeling for the next 10 weeks for the year, because that's not a very long period of time. But as Chris said, we are back in our normal position of cash well in excess of our drawn revolver. Of the $500 million in dividends that we paid probably more than half of that has been paid since the first time I was at in one of these calls, whether we would be able to pay the dividend. And we continue to have confidence not only in the short time, but in just the pipeline of business we have as we go forward. So I think, leave it up to sort out how we're going to spend it, when we're going to come back to share buybacks et cetera, but we're quite comfortable with the business as we see playing out over the next several months.

And even with the $22.5 million debt payment due in April 2016, that's not an issue as well?

Half of that was repaid already in the second quarter. So your number should be half of the number you just threw out there.

Perfect. Okay, great. Thanks for clarifying that.

Sure. No problem.

And our next question is from Ashley Serrao of Credit Suisse.

Good afternoon.

Hey, Ashley.

Scott, I heard you comment and just dovetailing off of Brennan's question. Do you think there is an argument to be made that you should be trading off compensation as share count discipline in favor of building franchise value by hiring people and growing revenues?

Look, I think, as I said, we believe in profitable growth. We've added a lot of people this year, probably the most we have in any years since maybe the couple years just post crisis when there was really a lot of people flaying the big bank sort of 2008, 2009 2010. We've obviously got the whole Cogent team that came on board. We've added people in Australia, and Japan, and Houston and San Francisco at the MD level. And I think we're making investments at the right pace in order to maintain our sort of historic tilt to our profitability and returning capital to shareholders while also investing in the firm to grow.

Okay. I guess, the skeptic would argue that the past few years you've been able to hang on to some of your margins really through a lot of benefits from people departing the firm. And at the end of the day also a lot of goodwill on the balance sheet does not really expense through the income statement when you do deals. So curious what your take on that is.

I think, you overestimate the importance of people leaving the firm. I mean, every year, we give out obviously quite a lot of stock as part of our compensation because we want people to be aligned with shareholders. And sure there're some clawback that comes when people go and essentially the RSUs they give back get thrown into the pot and given to somebody else as part of incenting and rewarding and retaining them for the future.

So I don't think there's been anything – I mean, if anything about our firm you have to say, there's nothing hidden. I mean, we do no pro formas, it's all – you can see the cash, you can see the very substantial dividends that have been paid, the share buybacks and I think it's about as simple as that. And I think the fact that we have a very high retention rate over the years of people would suggest that we're obviously doing something to retain people and we're doing something to reward shareholders.

Okay. What do you think the market is missing, because it feels like the market has spoken by just [ph] relating (40:45) the stock on a multiple basis? So what is the market missing? What would you tell the market going forward?

Look, I think we traded at a very long time, as you well know, at a very large premium multiple. And right now, from what I can tell, we trade at a very similar multiple to everybody else. So I don't think it's sort of gone to a really anomalous level. I think investors probably more so than analysts saw what deals were going to close this third quarter and sort of had their own view as to what earnings were going to be. So I don't think, for example, our share price would be where it is if people really thought we were going to achieve the revenue numbers that were in some of the analysts' reports.

So I think investors were kind of ready for a volatile quarter where not a lot got done. I think on the whole, people look at the announcements, the pipeline of that, I think, probably feel reasonably good about the business longer term. But look, we hit a dry patch, there's no question about that and we just had a quarter where as I said, I can't remember a past press release going back many years when we had a few as four – I mean, we usually have a multiple of that in terms of deals that are announced.

So look, I think we'll work our way through this. And I think there've been times over the years when our share price seemed very high to me, and there were times over the years when our share price seemed surprisingly low to me. So I think those who are interested in the 6%-plus yield and the longer term benefits of what we built here, have chance to buy and those who want to get out obviously have a chance every day to sell.

Okay. It feels like the definition of scale has changed. Folks are more invested in building a franchise with a deeper moat and more sector expertise. Do you believe you're at scale? Would you like to quicken the pace in terms of like adding expertise? Is there demand in the marketplace?

Look, I think we want to continue to add people very thoughtfully and carefully. Look, I know that investors love a rapid growth story. I know, and in particular the analysts probably do, love a story of rapid growth. And it's easier to sell a story of rapid growth than sort of a reality of actual numbers. And I can harken back to almost exactly 10 years ago when we had, if you look at the peer group today, I think Evercore has the highest market cap of a very close peer group at almost $2 billion.

We had a larger market cap than that in – almost 9.5 years ago with 7% of the people that Evercore has today. So were investors probably reading too much into our growth story at that point, yeah, I think they probably were to value a firm with just over 100 people at $2 billion. And I think likewise, right now, the market is probably giving too much value to other firms that are selling a story, even some firms that have been around for a very, very long time, but just came public, give them a lot of credit for a growth story.

We're focused on the reality of building a great business with people over here for a long time and generating cash flow, which we can reward them with and return money to shareholders rather than doing things that may – investors or analysts may find exciting in a short-term. We're much more focused on actual substantive results than trying to do things that we think will sort of trigger a certain market reaction in a short-term.

All right. Thanks for all the perspective and taking my questions.

Sure.

And the next question is from Doug Doucette of KBW.

Good afternoon, guys.

Hey, how are you?

Good. Just had a quick question. So I know you mentioned that deal activity's kind of been pushed out to 2016. But seeing as 4Q is typically seasonally strong, just keeping that in mind, do you anticipate any element of seasonality this year?

I think, I find that question a little bit confusing. I definitely announced that deal activity is pushed out to 2016. In terms of deal activity measured by announcements, which is what I think of the activity that's what we work on, we work on getting deals signed and announced that's actually been quite a busy year and it continues to be one. What I've said is that the approval process is usually regulatory and obviously shareholders as well, will take a lot of things into 2016.

As far as seasonality, I've never really believed a lot in that. It can be fairly random in the sense that even companies, even principals don't have much influence over when deals get closed. They can have a lot of control over when they get signed. And if it's a small and private deal, it's pretty easy for them to maybe control up, but if there's a regulatory process the best they can do is, work their way through that and I don't think companies spend a lot of time worrying about whether a deal closes in late December or early January for example.

Okay. Yeah, that's where I was getting at. That's my only question. Thanks.

All right. Thank you.

And next we have a question from Vincent Hung of Autonomous

Hi. How's it going?

Good. How are you?

Very well. Two questions. So, do you think you guys need to be more nimble when it comes to chasing opportunities in the M&A space, because when you talk about the lack of M&A opportunities outside of the U.S. and you're telling shareholders to be patient and wait for activity to come back. But why don't you just try and chase the more nearer time opportunities in the U.S.? I know there's going to be some difficulties on deploying bankers, but just want to get your thoughts on that.

Look, obviously, there's a limit to what you can do in terms of where I'm spending my time and a lot of our people are spending their time, obviously, we're doing as much as we possibly can in that markets like the U.S. and the UK where there's actually quite a high level of activity. But clearly you're not going to a large degree redeploy a bunch of people sitting in Australia or Brazil to come to the U.S. and do transactions for a year and then go back home.

If you want to build a business in those markets, it's really all about building relationships with clients. And you do that when the time is right and the environment is right, those relationships turn into revenue opportunities.

So if you believe in the global model, which certainly we do and we think it's, I mean, all the major banks have spent lots of time and money trying to build a global model. And we've done the same thing. We're not going to, for some short-term reasons, give up on that and say we're going to just be kind of a U.S./UK firm or something like that. We believe very strongly in the opportunities elsewhere around the world. And except really at the margin, it's hard to sort of move people around to say, we're all going to rush to New York to try to do deals for a year because there's more here.

Yeah. And I would just say your bankers are backing the existing strategy, because I can't imagine everybody patting themselves on the back at your town halls when your share price is back to the lowest level since 2011, competitors keep gaining share. And the newer players that have emerged in recent years are now considered the so-called winning teams.

Look, I think people are busy here. As I said, it's been a great year in terms of deal announcements. And I think people are pleased with what they've got and done, and they have confidence their deals will close and generate revenue. And I think things in that sense are actually finer. Our people thrilled that we had a quarter when almost nothing closed, of course, not. But I think people are experienced enough to know that there's just very little influence we can have over that. And you just have to move onto the next quarter and see what closes then, and most importantly, keep yourself focused on building client relationships and getting deals announced.

You can sort of have some influence over when they get done and put into the pipeline, you can really have almost none as to when they cross the finish line for closing. So, I think, certainly our senior people who have done this for 20 years or 25 years or more years and they understand that completely.

Okay. Thanks for your insights.

Okay. Thank you. I think that's our last question. So thank you everybody and we'll speak to you in about three months.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.