Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, Equity Group, Inc.
James A. Eberle — Chief Executive Officer & Director, GSE Systems, Inc.
Jeffery G. Hough — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Senior VP, GSE Systems, Inc.
Mark W. Schappel — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the GSE Systems Reports Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President of The Equity Group. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. You may begin.

Thank you, Mandy, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that statements made during the course of this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and Section 21-E of the Securities Act of 1934. These statements reflect current expectations concerning future events and results.

Words such as expect, intend, believe, may, will, should, could, anticipate and similar expressions are words that are used to identify forward-looking statements, but their absence does not mean a statement is not forward-looking. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual performance or achievements to be materially different from those projected.

For a full discussion of these risks, uncertainties and factors, you're encouraged to read GSE's documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including those set forth in periodic reports filed under the forward-looking statements in the Risk Factors section. GSE does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to Jim Eberle, Chief Executive Officer of GSE Systems. Jim, please go ahead.

Thanks, Devin, and good afternoon. I'd like to welcome everyone to GSE Systems 2013 third quarter conference call. Also on today's call are our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Hough; and Larry Gordon, our Senior Vice President and General Counsel.

Earlier this afternoon, we issued a press release covering our quarterly financial results, a copy of which can be found on our website at www.gses.com under the Investor Relations section.

On a sequential quarterly basis our third quarter results were a significant improvement from the second quarter of 2013. Although none of us are pleased with the continuing losses. We're encouraged that the proactive steps we took last quarter to reduce costs and improve efficiencies are beginning to take hold. These measures should save us approximately $1 million on an annualized basis and the success thus far in combination with increased orders supports our forecast of a return to profitable operations in the current fourth quarter.

Of the $17 million of orders that we had initially believed would close in the first half of 2013, we have closed several and several more remain pending. We now expect the remaining decisions to be made between now and the end of the first quarter 2014.

Some challenges persist in the post-Fukushima nuclear world, most notably as it relates to substantially lower revenues in Japan, whereas of September 2013 all of the country's nuclear reactors have been shut down, and Germany, which has decided to abandon nuclear energy by 2022. In the U.S., regulatory concerns, public pressure and lower cost fuel sources, notably natural gas, have combined to stall the once heralded nuclear renaissance.

We are also continuing to invest in combining our immersive 3D gaming technology with physics-correct simulation models to provide immersive, highly effective training solutions. Although our Activ3Di business has grown over the last several years and is expected to be breakeven or to be slightly positive this year, industry appreciation of the profound impact of this next-generation technology will have in the training with the workforces faster and better, is still developing.

After a difficult first three quarters of 2013, we are beginning to see improvements in our operations and end markets. It will be a slow process, but we are making progress. We continue to believe that GSE's future lies at the intersection of growing global energy demand and the shortage of qualified energy workers and that our engineering and training solutions can bridge that gap for energy employees around the world.

We are still very optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business. And we repurchased 177,755 shares of GSE's common stock in the third quarter 2013 as well as completing our $3 million share repurchase plan in October 2013, repurchasing an additional 99,170 shares during the month. In total, the company has repurchased just under 1.6 million shares of common stock during our repurchasing plan.

I'll now turn the conversation over to Jeff Hough, who'll review our results for the quarter.

Thanks, Jim, and thanks to each of you for joining us today.

Revenue for the third quarter declined by 8.7% to $11.9 million from $13 million in the third quarter of 2012. Although the revenue we recognized on our $36 million Slovak simulator project increased by $3.4 million in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to third quarter of 2012, this increase was more than offset by decreases in our EnVision product revenue.

We recognized $2 million in the third quarter of 2012 on a EnVision contract to provide simulation and computer-based training – learning modules to a global energy services company. And as we've noted in prior quarters this year, we incurred lower revenue from nuclear customers in both Japan and Germany as part of the aftermath to the Fukushima earthquake and tsunami, which occurred over two years ago. At September 30, 2013, we had $2.7 million of backlog remaining on our Slovak project. This project is scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2014.

Gross profit for the quarter was $3.1 million or 25.9% of revenue as compared to $5 million or 38.8% of revenue in the third quarter of 2012. Gross profit was impacted by the higher percentage of revenue associated with the Slovakian project in Q3 2013 as compared to Q3 2012. It was 31.1% of our revenue in the third quarter of 2013 versus only 2.3% in the third quarter of 2012 and lower revenue from the EnVision projects, as we've mentioned. The Slovakia project, because of the high hardware component, has an overall gross profit lower than GSE's normal gross profits, while the gross profit for EnVision products is significantly higher than the company's normal gross profits.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Q3 of 2013 were $3.8 million, an increase of 9.3% from $3.5 million in the third quarter of 2012. The increase is related mainly to operating expenses for the new Oracle ERP System, which was implemented in the fourth quarter of 2012, higher facility costs related to our new U.K. office and higher software product development expenses net of capitalization.

We reported a net loss of $1 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2013 compared to net income of $816,000, or $0.04 per diluted share, in last year's third quarter. Our balance sheet remains very strong. At September 30, 2013, our cash balance, excluding $2.2 million of restricted cash, was $17.6 million or $0.98 per share. We had working capital of $26.5 million and no long term debt.

I will now turn things back to Jim.

Thanks, Jeff. While the nuclear industry in Japan, Germany and the U.S. is under considerable pressure, we still see a significant opportunity in markets where nuclear power will grow. In China, where 28 plants are under construction, 53 are planned and 118 are proposed, we remain in a strong position and are actively strengthening that position.

We're substantially finished dissolving our joint venture in China, which will return over $1 million to cash and allow us to retain 100% of the revenue and profit from all future orders in China. In South Korea, we have signed agreements with in-country partners to pursue work within Korea as well as with Korean exports. We are positioning ourselves to pursue new nuclear work in the Middle East and Southeast Asia and we remain very strong in the small modular reactor space, which we believe long term will be a significant technology in the future of nuclear power.

We continue to enhance our diversified offerings and are increasing our engineering services work. We have closed a number of contracts globally to provide our post-Fukushima solutions. We're utilizing our high fidelity modeling and engineering capability to perform a feasibility study on a brand new, first-of-the-kind power plant technology for a leading international provider of energy products and services.

Additionally, we have received our first true software development contract to provide a graphical user interface for an engineering-grade severe accident analysis code. And in the U.K., we received contracts for our first fracking simulator and a world's first engineering simulator that'll be used as an analysis tool associated with nuclear fuel transport.

We have terminated certain underperforming business development assets and have brought on and are pursuing certain other strategic business development hires. We remain focused on M&A both here and abroad. We have progressed negotiations with the prospects, we have provided term sheets, as I mentioned on the last call, and we have follow-on targets with whom we're in the early stages of discussion and negotiation.

Lastly, the game changing opportunities that I referred to in the last call remain active and we have achieved additional significant milestones necessary to bring them to fruition.

Now, I'd like to open the call up for questions and answers.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mark Schappel of Benchmark. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good evening.

Hi, Mark.

Jim, what was the nuclear, non-nuclear mix this quarter?

Jeff?

Yeah. For the orders, it was 76% nuclear and for revenue, it was about 63% nuclear.

63% revenue and 76% orders. Okay. And how about the percentage of backlog? What's that look like?

Backlog still remains about 75% nuclear.

And on the Slovakian simulator project, if I recall correctly, that winds down in the first quarter of next year, is that right?

That's correct. Substantially, it'll be complete in this quarter, but there is a little bit of trailing into the first quarter. So we can confidently say we'll wrap it up in the first quarter of next year.

And would you expect gross margins to kind of revert back to historical norms at that point?

I would. I would expect to see gross margins as a percent to get back up. Obviously, it's a lot of revenue to replace, so would expect to see revenue drop from where we have been, but, again, it'll be higher quality margin revenue.

And, Jim, I was just wondering if you'd just go into a little bit more detail on the delayed deals for the first half of the year? It sounds like you closed some of those this quarter. And it looks like it's going to be another several quarters before they come in. Is that a good read?

Yeah. It is. Mark, we were – obviously, we expected some of them in 2012. Then it looked like we were expecting $20 million in orders in the first quarter of this year, and $17 million of orders between those quarters pushed to what we had hoped would close in the second half. We have closed a good number of those. Our orders in the third quarter was essentially double those of the first and second quarter and we expect actually higher orders in the fourth quarter. However, some of the orders that we anticipate to close have slipped into the first quarter of next year. There are some rarities. There's one job that I can think of in particular out of our Swedish operation that is postponed on a multi-year basis, but that's one job.

Okay. Thank you. That's all for me.

Thanks, Mark.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Okay. Gentlemen, we have no further question in queue at this time. Would you like to make any closing remarks?

Sure. As always, I'd like to thank all the talented, hardworking women and men worldwide who make GSE what it is, and I thank all of you on the call for your time and continued interest in GSE Systems.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.