Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, Equity Group, Inc.
James A. Eberle — Chief Executive Officer & Director, GSE Systems, Inc.
Mark W. Schappel — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
Dick Ryan — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to GSE Systems reports First Quarter 2012 Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] . As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President of The Equity Group. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. You may now begin.

Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that statements made during the course of this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934. These statements reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results.

Words such as expect, intend, believe, may, will, should, could, anticipate and similar expressions are words that are used to identify forward-looking statements. But their absence does not mean a statement is not forward-looking. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual performance or achievements to be materially different from those projected.

For a full discussion of these risks, uncertainties and factors, you are encouraged to read GSE's documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those set forth in periodic reports filed under the forward-looking statements in the Risk Factors section. GSE does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

And now I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Eberle, Chief Executive Officer of GSE Systems. Please go ahead, Jim.

Good afternoon. I would like to welcome each of you to GSE Systems' 2012 first quarter financial results conference call. I am joined today by our Chief Financial Officer, Jeff Hough; and Larry Gordon, our Senior Vice President and General Counsel.

This afternoon, we issued a release covering our financial results for the first three months of the year. We are pleased with our performance and are optimistic and excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.

Revenue in the first quarter of 2012 rose 8.7% to $13.4 million from $12.3 million in the first quarter of 2011 mainly due to higher fossil stimulation revenue. We continue to focus on diversifying our revenue streams. During first quarter of 2012, approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from nuclear projects compared to 64% in the first quarter of 2011 and 68% for all of the last year. Gross profit improved both on a dollar basis and as a percentage of revenue due to lower total revenue for the Slovakia project, which carries a lower gross profit percentage than our normal gross profit percentage, and an increase in revenue generated in our fossil simulation business. We have $500,000 turnaround in operating income during the quarter, which reflected higher revenue and gross margin and a decline in amortization expense. Pre-tax income rose to $800,000 from $400,000 in the first quarter 2011. Net income for the first quarter of 2012 was 530,000 or $0.03 per share compared to the net income of $1 million or $0.05 per share in the first quarter of 2011. Please recall that the first quarter 2011 includes the benefit of a reduction in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance by $1 million in conjunction with the acquisition of EnVision Systems.

EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $900,000 compared to EBITDA of $700,000 in the first quarter 2011.

Moving to the balance sheet, our cash balance as of March 31, 2012 was $17.2 million excluding $5.4 million of restricted and unrestricted Certificates of Deposit. This compared to cash and equivalents of$ 20.3 million at December 31, 2011, which excluded$ 6.2 million of restricted cash and unrestricted Certificates of Deposit. The change in cash and cash equivalents from year-end 2011 was primarily attributable to cash flow timing, $0.3 million in treasury stock purchases of GSE common stock and $0.5 million investments in the GSE units' joint venture.

Our cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2012 equated to about $0.93 per diluted share. If we were to add in the $5.4 million of restricted cash and CDs, cash per diluted share would approximate $1.22. At March 31, 2012 and as of today we have $0 in long-term debt. During the first quarter 2012, we purchased an additional 162,387 shares of common stock, bringing our total share purchase under our plan to 986,761 shares. During the first quarter 2012, we were awarded $17.8 million in new contracts that address multiple disciplines in end markets.

Our backlog at March 31, 2012 was $56.5 million compared to $51.5 million at December 31, 2011. At March 31, 2012, approximately $4.7 million of GSE's backlog was related to the Slovakia project. In May 2012, the customer of our Slovakia project notified us of its decision to suspend work on the contract due to changes in the Slovakian regulation requiring it to redesign certain aspects of the plant. This decision to suspend the contract is not related to work being performed by GSE. We are currently negotiating with the customer regarding ways the company can continue to work together, including supporting the project during the suspension period, and other hardware and software changes that the customer would like to incorporate it into the final simulator.

At March 31, 2012, we have a $5.6 million outstanding invoice included in [ph] accounts receivable (0:06:15), $350,000 of recoverable cost and accrued profit in our built and a $2.9 million performance bond in place to secure completion of the contract.

As we announced today, subsequent to the first quarter 2012, we received more than $5 million of new orders, the largest of which is generated by our wholly owned subsidiary, GSE EnVision LLC. Under a multi-year agreement, GSE EnVision will provide simulation and computer-based learning modules to assist the subsidiary of a global energy services company in core fundamental operations training for control room operators, instrumentation and maintenance technicians, and process engineers in multiple refinery and ethylene plants, as well as engineering centers. Other contracts included work extensions on existing projects, including additional work on two small module reactor simulators.

Before we turn things over to questions, I want to take a moment to address the global energy landscape and how GSE is positioned to benefit from global macro trends. With respect to nuclear energy, a little more than 12 months after Fukushima, some countries, most notably Germany announced plans to extinguish the use of nuclear power. That country appears to be in the minority with respect to the integration of nuclear power as part of a multi facet approach to clean, dependable and safe energy practices. Today there are some 435 nuclear power reactors operating in 30 countries plus Taiwan. In 2010, these provided about 14% of the world's electricity. According to World Nuclear Association, there are currently 60 power reactors under construction in 13 countries in Taiwan. Another 163 reactors on order are planned in 28 countries, most of these being Asia. Fifty countries with no current nuclear power capability have announced considerations to add nuclear energy to their power generation capabilities.

In the U.S., the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is actively reviewing 13 combined construction operating licenses for 21 nuclear power reactors. On February 09, 2012, the NRC approved plans to build the first two nuclear power plants in the U.S. in more than 30 years. The new plants will use 81,000 reactors built by Westinghouse Electric. a standardized design approved by the NRC in December of 2011. Each new plant will be required to have a have a full scope stimulator ready for operator training and certification about two years prior to fuel load.

With our leading market share and excellent reputation and world class technology, GSE is poised to capitalize on a worldwide nuclear energy growth by providing engineering, training and simulation solutions. In February 2012, the NRC both issued the first three new rules to deal with safety issues based on eight changes identified by Fukushima experts with implementation expected by the end of 2016. The rules, subject to reviewing commission action, will require all U.S. nuclear operators to develop plans to deal with extreme situation, such as earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters that could affect multiple reactors operating at a single site. In addition, all plants would have to improve instrumentation in the pools used to store spent fuel, nuclear fuel and have to make changes to contain vent structures of plants similar in design to the Daiichi Nuclear Plant.

In Japan, Prime Minister, Yoshihiko Noda stated that he is determined to restart the country's idle reactors by the summer of 2012. At December 31, 2011, GSE Sweden subsidiary has projects in progress in Japan with a backlog of $4.6 million, none of which have been delayed or affected by Fukushima. In fact, we believe we will continue to win nuclear contracts in Japan.

In March 2012, the state-run China Daily cited that Deputy Director of the Committee of Population, Resources and Environment of the CPPCC National Committee as saying that the ban on proposed new atomic energy plant that was put in place following the Fukushima disaster would soon be removed as a comprehensive plan on nuclear safety control has been submitted to the state council. Previous nuclear accidents have resulted in new regulations, requiring additional operator training, higher fidelity models and new testing scenarios. Accordingly, as evidenced by the new safety rules that the NRC has recently voted issue and the comments in China Daily, it is likely that additional government regulations enacted in the aftermath of Fukushima nuclear accidents will result in requirement for plant modification and new testing scenarios that would result in a need for higher stimulator fidelity, such as that designed by GSE. In order to meet the world's needs, all forms of energy, nuclear, fossil and renewable must play a role. Published reports as stated by 2040, electricity generation will cap at more than 40% of global energy consumption. Now take into consideration that over the next five years 42% to 50% respectively of the nuclear and electric natural gas utility engineering workforces may need to be replaced. GSE is prepared to address this looming large gap gas. For more than three decades, we have leveraged the simulation capability that we developed a nuclear power for non-nuclear projects. Globally, we have delivered 121 fossil power plant simulators and 96 process industry simulators. This is an exciting time for GSE with a multitude of opportunities and avenues for growth before us. We believe we possess the human, capital and intellectual resources to address these opportunities.

We continue our evolution as a global energy solutions provider and expend our global presence. We appreciate the time today and now will be happy to take your questions. Operator please go ahead.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes

from Mark Schappel with the Benchmark Company, please state your question.

Hi Jim, good evening.

Good afternoon, Mark, how are you?

Starting with the Slovakia and the nuclear stimulator, could you just adjust a little bit more detail some of the issues surrounding that project and why was put on hold?

Sure, primarily they had project delays on their side and what they are doing is allowing the rest of the project to catch up. What that does is it because of their being behind; it prevents us from moving forward. However, what their advisors have asked us to submit is option one being complete suspension on our side and what the cost of ramping down and ramping back up at some point is versus keeping a reduced crew on that project. So what we expect is that there will be some change order, whether it is as a result of a stop and start or a result of keeping a smaller group of people on the project for this period of time.

And I take it the suspension was relatively short order, it's been in the last week or so?

Exactly, that's exactly correct. It was in this month.

And you still have other people outside, I take it, as well?

Currently we do while assessing the situation, because it will take our people to put the project in a sort of orderly shutdown condition so that then it can be brought back up in an orderly fashion.

Okay, great, and moving on a little bit TAS Engineering, do you know what the revenue contribution was in this quarter?

Can you say that again please?

With respect to TAS Engineering, I was just wondering what the revenue contribution was?

It was $1.1 million.

Okay, great, thank you. And then, NuScale Power, just the success on that project, were you able to renegotiate new contracts or is that still in process?

Yes we were. As a matter of fact, part of that $5 million in new work that we mentioned, some of that is associated with the next phase of that project.

Great, thank you.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Dick Ryan from Dougherty. Please state your question.

Hi, Jim. Say, I didn't catch on the Slovakian project. How much of that is in backlog? And I think you mentioned receivables, any concerns on collections there at all?

So, at this point I have no concerns on receivables. The only potential impact I see at this point is that they may – there may be some dragging out because of the delay in the project. As far as the backlog, we say as of the end of the March 31, that's $4.7 million. About $1.7 million of that is hardware.

Okay. You mentioned $500,000 increase in the JV in China. What's currently going on there?

So, that was the final tranche of paid-in capital for the JV. So that was all part of the original agreement and what's going on is the JV is doing well. It has recently, it turned to profitability as far as contributing to the income statement out of the joint venture proper, but also the presence that -- the combined presence that we had in the combined marketing sales ability, as you may have seen and I know you and I have played phone tag until this call, but the $7.4 million of new contract, the new contracts in China, a lot of that can be attributed to our presence and our efforts there in China.

Is that business for AP1000 there, is it for the Chinese design?

It is Chinese design, so it's what's considered third generation passive safety Chinese design.

Okay. And the 5 million in order subsequent to Q1, so that's not in the 56 million backlog. Do you have a sense of how that backlog should flow over the next nine months, 12 months?

I think that at this current level about, 56 million that over the next nine months or so that will probably be pretty consistent in that range. There are some opportunities for some big jobs to come in and make changes in that. At the same time, of course we are burning at a higher rate than we have in the past, so we're going to continue to build. The other thing is a lot of our growth areas are in our acquisition company, which tend to burn their backlog faster than the traditional GSE nuclear backlog and as well as fossil jobs. We are focused on increasing fossil jobs. Those tend to burn in about a 12 month period as compared to two to four years on a nuclear job.

Okay, one last one on the training side, can you provide an update there? What you're doing to either jump start or any other opportunity there?

Sure. We have two important contracts that we're executing currently, one which we had announced prior is with Avery, so there are pilot jobs there. That's 3D visualization work, and that work continues and these are, as I mentioned, they are pilot. So the idea is that Avery will take these modules, present them to their constituents and essentially, for us it turns out to be market research. And then, the follow on modules will be dictated by their interest of the constituent. At the same time, we have also won some other 3D jobs with other companies doing breakers. We're also pursuing many, many opportunities in that space.

As far as our full on training, actually we've won a job with a major Southeastern utility where we are delivering senior reactor operator certification training. So, this is important in a couple of ways. It's the deepest that GSE has ever gone in delivering nuclear training in the U.S. and we leveraged our VPanel technology and our generic pressurized water reactor to differentiate our proposal offering. So whereas competing against the traditional training company, they will not be able to provide that technology in the simulator and the class room. And that's a real differentiator. So while dollar wise at this point those are not hugely significant, they are sort of flags in the ground as to where we're heading.

We have lots of opportunities in the international arena and we continue to pursue those, as I am sure I mentioned to you. I mention it to really anybody who asks. I think probably our first large training nuclear contract will be outside the U.S. just because of how entrenched the U.S. is in their current training paradigm.

Okay. Very good, I will get back in line, thanks Jim.

Thank you, Dick.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. There are no further request for questions at this time. I'll turn the conference back to management for closing remarks. Thank you.

Thank you.

Well, I would like to thank everyone for their time and your continued interest in GSE. Additionally, I would like to thank all the GSE employees and management that work so hard to contribute to our success. I hope to see some of you at the Benchmark 101 conference May 31. We expect to participate in a number of other events in the coming months and will keep you posted on our activities. Thanks and have a great afternoon.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you all for your participation.