Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Devin Sullivan — Senior Vice President, Equity Group, Inc.
James A. Eberle — Director, Chief Executive Officer, GSE Systems, Inc.
Jeffery G. Hough — CFO, CAO, Secretary, Treasurer & Senior VP, GSE Systems, Inc.
Mark W. Schappel — Research Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
Mark Tobin — Director of Research & Senior Research Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the GSE Systems, Inc. Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Devin Sullivan, Senior Vice President for The Equity Group. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. You may begin.

Thank you, [ph] Royale. Thank you, everyone. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us today.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that statements made during the course of this call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results. Words such as expect, intend, believe, may, will, should, could, anticipate and similar expressions are words that are used to identify forward-looking statements, but their absence does not mean a statement is not forward-looking. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual performance or achievements to be materially different from those projected.

For a full discussion of these risks, uncertainties and factors, you are encouraged to read GSE's documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those set forth in periodic reports filed under the forward-looking statements and the risk factors section. GSE does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Eberle, Chief Executive Officer of GSE Systems. Please go ahead, Jim.

Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome each of you to GSE Systems 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call. I'm joined today by our CFO, Jeff Hough; and Larry Gordon, our Senior Vice President and General Counsel.

This afternoon, we issued a release covering our financial results for the second quarter, as all of an overview of a new contract award related to our 3-D visualization technology. In my prepared remarks, they will be brief, so we can get right to your questions.

Revenue in the second quarter 2011 was $11.3 million as compared to $11.8 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decline was driven primarily by delays and recognizing revenue associated with the previously announced pending resolution with the British utility and customer initiated delay on the Slovakia project. These were partially offset by $600,000 of revenues from GSE EnVision, which we acquired in January this year.

The customer initiated delay associated with the Slovakia simulator will cause this project to end later than we had originally anticipated, extending from the first quarter of 2012 to early third quarter 2012. We continue to believe that this impact will to some extent be offset by new business we have won and expect to win throughout 2011 and 2012.

As it relates to the British utility, we expect this resolution to be signed by both parties in the third quarter of 2011. As part of our ongoing efforts to diversify our business model, in the second quarter of 2011, approximately 64% of our revenue was generated from non-nuclear projects compared to 73% in the second quarter of 2010.

We are much more than a nuclear simulation company and believe that we have developed the platform that can stand a variety of processes and work force development needs including fossil, oil & gas and alternate energy.

Gross profit improved on both the dollar basis and as a percentage of revenue through the addition of revenues from GSE EnVision, which carry a higher gross profit margin within our traditional product offering and a lower revenue contribution from the Slovakia project, which carries a lower margin due to the $16.4 million hardware portion of that contract.

Operating income was $248,000, down about $503,000 from last year's second quarter. Notwithstanding lower revenues, higher SG&A was the primary contributor factor to the decline. This increase was primarily attributable to the operations of tax holdings and GSE EnVision. We also had a modest rise in R&D expenses, including costs related to the development of 3D Visualization technology. I will talk a little bit about the progress of over 3D effort shortly.

The net loss for the second quarter of 2011 was $244,000 or $0.01 per share compared to net income of $370,000 or $0.02 in the second quarter of 2010. However, excluding a $410,000 non-cash loss on foreign exchange derivative instruments, we would have been profitable for the quarter.

Moving to the balance sheet, the company's cash balance at June 30, 2011 was $18.6 million compared to $19.5 million at March 31, 2011 and $26.6 million at December 31, 2010. The change from year-end 2010 was primarily attributable to the use of approximately $1.2 million of cash in the first quarter 2011 related to the acquisition of EnVision; $4.4 million, which was used to cash collateralized standby letters of credit, which are used as performance bonds on several projects; a $1.4 million payment to a subcontract on the Slovakia project, which we made in April; as well as a May 2011 equity investment of $500,000 in our joint ventured GSE units. As it relates to the cash collateralization, these standby letters of credit are required as part of the changes to our credit facility as previously announced. The cash collateral is included in the restricted cash-ins on our balance sheet.

At June 30, 2011 we had a total of $5.4 million of restricted cash. At June 30, 2011 we had zero long-term debt. We are comfortable on our ability to meet our liquidity and working capital needs for the next 12 months as well as pursue our acquisition strategy. Backlog at June 30, 2011 was $55.0 million compared to $55.9 million at December 31, 2010. While we would have expected backlog to increase, we're seeing several significant project schedules shift to the right. As such, we expect to close in coming quarters.

In March 2011, GSE announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which the company may, from time to time and depending on market conditions, share price and other factors, acquire shares of its common stock on the open market or, in private, we negotiate transactions up to an aggregate purchase price of $3 million. For the period April 1, 2011 through August 5, 2011, GSE purchased over 280,000 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $625,000.

As I mentioned earlier in the call, I'd like to update you on our first contract award for 3D Visualization services. In July 2011, GSE received a contract from the Electric Power Research Institute, otherwise known as EPRI, to develop a 3D Visualization based maintenance application for an Air Operated Valve Actuators commonly used in power plants. The 3D application to be delivered by GSE is part of a pilot program by EPRI to determine the usefulness and member of value of 3D Visualization technology transfer solutions to augment EPRI's current maintenance and equipment reliability products. In addition to a highly realistic 3D rendering of the Valve Actuator, the product includes interactive lessons on disassembly, inspection, reassembly and component troubleshooting aids. The 3D Air Operated Valve Actuator application will be delivered in January 2012 and is designed to run both on a PC and on mobile devices for field deployment.

We believe that a current level shares of GSE stock on attractive long-term investment opportunity, we will continue to utilize our strong cash position to purchase shares as part of comprehensive programs to enhance the value of GSE for its shareholders.

We appreciate your time today. And we'd now be happy to take your questions. Operator, please go ahead.

Thank you. And we'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Mark Schappel with Benchmark Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good evening. Given in your prepared remarks, you mentioned that you saw some projects shipped out to the right within close this quarter. I was wondering if you could just give us some more detail on these, specifically whether they're on the nuclear side of your business and did they relate to Japan?

Okay. Hi, Mark. So as far as -- it's actually both nuclear and non-nuclear, and none of the projects that we've seen move have been tied to Japan, would these -- would be what we would characterize as sort of the normal ebb and flow of these very large projects, high to new plants and they can move a quarter or multiple quarters at any given time.

On the nuke side, does it include your full scope simulators?

Yes, primarily the ones that I'm referring to, to bring attention to the investment community are the larger ones. So full scope nukes, large installed base contracts or relatively large non-nuclear full scope simulators.

Okay, thank you. And then also you mentioned a $1.4 million payment to a subcontractor for the Slovakia project. I was wondering if you could just give some more color on that?

Yeah, of course. So as you know, a large portion, over $16 million of that contract, is a hardware, and our vendor on that is Siemens's. So this is just one of the milestone payments associated with the hardware, that's -- as part of this. And the payment milestones between GSE and the Slovakian utility are not necessary linked to the taking delivery of the equipment from the hardware vendor. So it's more tied to a performance milestone on GSE's project side. So we fully expect that will be reimbursed, no concerns about it. It's just again sort of the normal ebb and flow of AP and AR, of course.

Okay, there is nothing abnormal here then?

No sir.

Okay. And then your backlog breakdown. Could you just give us a percent of nuclear versus non-nuclear?

Sure. In the backlog, nuclear currently sits at 81%.

81%. And then one last question here. Could you just give some update on the new scale power, Small Modular Reactor project? Are there some difficulties [indiscernible] (0:11:58.4) that you back with that, and I was wondering if you could...

Yeah. I'll do my best. Where we don't currently have, I would say the formal update, we are hopeful, yet cautiously optimistic that they will get funding. We have information that they have brought some staff back. So that's encouraging. But as of this point, they have not satisfied the outstanding accounts receivable. We have been assured if they do get funded and get back into business, we would certainly be made whole on that. And I believe updates are in the very near-term, but we don't have anything formal at this point.

Okay. Thank you.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Mark Tobin with Roth Capital Partners. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Jim. Thanks for taking my question.

Sure, Mark. Good afternoon.

First, just housekeeping. You had $1.1 million on revenue during the quarter on the Slovakian project. How much of that was hardware?

Sure. It's approximately $600, Mark.

And then how -- can you give us a sense of how much revenue broken down with the hardware portion is remaining? And more specifically, when you expect that to be recognized? Are we going to have zeros for the next couple of quarters in the fixed backup in 2012 or is there --?

No, I can give you some color on that. So we have about $5 million remaining in backlog, and again it's pretty evenly distributed between hardware and traditional labor associated with the simulator. And what you can roughly expect, about $1.2 million in revenue each of the next few quarters.

Okay. That's helpful. And I guess somewhat related to that topic, it's interesting to see, with the lower level of Slovakian revenue, that your gross margins are in the 33 -- mid-30s type of range. Is that a reasonable expectation once you are done with this -- done with this project and some of the other lower-margin projects?

I wouldn't want to take it to a number that high yet. It's not traditionally where GSE was prior to this. You can certainly see the positive effects of the acquisition companies, both TAS Holdings, which is usually a mid-30s type of gross profit margin and the EnVision, which is in the 70% plus or minus range as well as not having the contribution of the lower margin from Slovakian. One thing I would also point out is another thing that sort of brought the gross profit margin up a little bit higher is we took the expense associated with the British utility job but not the revenue. So just mathematically, because there's less revenue and the gross profit margin will be the same whether we had the revenue or not. Had we had the revenue, the number would have come down some. So it's suffice to say, we expect to be north of the 25% on a normal basis. And then really the key to getting up into the 30s is going to be the success of our -- all of our initiatives in the news basis, things like the 3D Visualization, training like the acquisition company.

Okay, that's helpful. And then following upon Mark's prior question. On the -- I think you had $6.6 million in Japanese related backlog. Is that progressing or can you give us a status on those specific projects?

Yeah, I'm happy too. There is progressing, those projects are progressing as originally planned in schedule. We have not seen any retreat on our existing business in Japan, which we obviously take as a positive sign being this far past the incident, and we don't expect at this point to see anything change.

Okay, that's helpful. I'll jump back in the queue. Thanks, Jim.

Sure. Thank you, Mark. According to my screen, you were the end of the queue, Mark.

Mr. Tobin, do you have any further questions?

I guess, just a broader question, if you could just offer commentary on the general environment that you're seeing as far as an opportunity standpoint and certainly the nuclear sector continues to evolve, And just be interested in hearing your thoughts.

Sure. I went to a little greater lengths in the press release this particular quarter than in some of the other quarters to sort of articulate that, just what you say. And really this remains what I'll call a challenging environment in that there is obviously a lot of volatility in the nuclear global business. And different countries are responding obviously very differently. And so, things that looked kind of clear a couple of years ago obviously are pretty muddy.

I believe that geographically, there is still opportunity. We believe China is going to continue to be a target rich environment. They're moving forward with many reactors. And the ones that they put on hold, we have reason to believe that some of those projects when they are revived may switch to AP1000 from the CPR 1000, which we believe bodes well for us. The underlying continuing demand for increased energy leads us to believe that we are doing the right things regardless of the business environment today and obviously all the volatility around the world associated with the world markets, which we've experienced over the past week.

More energy is going to be needed clearly. And so, we still believe that more energy means more plants and there will be more plants. All the various energy sources, which is write-down, the allied force and our diversification strategy to make sure we have solid offerings in each of the spaces. And more plans means more operators. More people will need training, which speaks to our focus in the -- to develop the training solutions to meet those needs.

So I do believe we're doing the right things to prepare ourselves for – in the future growth and in both top and bottom line, and also poising ourselves for the addition of complementary services to the energy industry.

Okay. And just specifically on China, you made your -- the investment in GSE units this period. Can you give us a sense of the progress that that group is making?

Yeah. Well, one of the things that we have found is that – I'll sort of lump GSE, China and the joint venture together because they really operate seamlessly together. The -- we had a very significant award in the beginning of the year, and that contract was delivered to GSE China as opposed to the joint venture. And regardless, people out in the joint venture are going to be working on the jobs. So it's from a financiary point standpoint, it's actually better for GSE that we get awarded directly as we get revenue and the profit rather than just 49% of the profit.

Yeah, that was an award of an AP1000, and it was a full AP1000. We were not partnered with Westinghouse on that job. So the asking price was in our typical range and we are going to actually simulate the control system as well. That is the first one we have been awarded. We expect AP1000 to be at least 50% of the market share in China as well as globally. And we will have delivered a solution solely from GSE.

So the JV continues to win non-nuclear business, and – but that -- those asking prices are much lower than what our parcel awards are in the U.S. And so, 49% of the profit on those jobs is not the reason we did the JV. Certainly, it's nice that they continue to win work and we'll see some benefit from that. But the real opportunity was for us to pursue the nuclear business in China, and we see that continuing. So on our side, we're satisfied with what the joint venture has allowed us to do, and we believe that there is really only upside.

Jim, that's helpful. Thank you for the color.

Sure.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.

All right. I'd just like to thank everyone again for your time and your continued interest in GSE Systems.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.