Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Kalle J. Ahl — Senior Associate, The Equity Group
Kyle Justin Loudermilk — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, GSE Systems, Inc.
Christopher D. Sorrells — Chief Operating Officer & Director, GSE Systems, Inc.
Emmett A. Pepe — Chief Financial Officer, GSE Systems, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the GSE Systems Inc. Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2016 Financial Results conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Kalle Ahl at The Equity Group. Thank you. Please begin.

Thank you, Roya. And good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that statements made during the course of this call may be considered forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934. These statements reflect current expectations concerning future events and results.

Words such as expect, intend, believe, may, will, should, could, anticipate, and similar expressions are words that are used to identify forward-looking statements, but their absence does not mean the statement is not forward-looking. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual performance or achievements to be materially different from those projected.

For a full discussion of these risks, uncertainties and factors, you're encouraged to read GSE's documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including those set forth in periodic reports filed under the forward-looking statements and Risk Factors section. GSE does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

On this call, management may refer to EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income, and adjusted EPS which are not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. Management believes that these non-GAAP figures in addition to other GAAP measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the company's operational performance.

Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of GSE's business and make certain operating decisions, such as budgeting, planning, employee compensation and resource allocation. This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to GSE's historical operating results, as well as to the operating results of its competitors. Since management finds these measures to be useful, GSE believes that investors may benefit by evaluating both non-GAAP and GAAP results.

Investors should recognize that these non-GAAP figures might not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. These measures should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for, or superior to, any measure of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with SEC Regulation G can be found in the company's earnings release.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to GSE's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kyle Loudermilk. Kyle, please go ahead.

Thanks, Kalle, and good afternoon. I'd like to welcome everyone to GSE Systems fourth quarter and full-year 2016 earnings conference call. Also on today's call are Chris Sorrells, our Chief Operating Officer; and Emmett Pepe, our Chief Financial Officer. Earlier today, we issued a press release covering our fourth quarter 2016 financial results. Hopefully, you've had a chance to review this news release, but if you have not, a copy can be found on our website at www.gses.com under the News section.

Today, we reported solid fourth quarter financial results capping off an outstanding turnaround for GSE in 2016. We have successfully delivered on our commitments to our customers and our shareholders. As a result, I'm very proud of our team's collective effort in achieving these results. We reported fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA of $2.1 million bringing our full-year 2016 adjusted EBITDA to $4.6 million, which is over three times the corresponding figure for full-year 2015.

Among other highlights, this quarter, we continue to generate strong operating cash flow and strengthened our balance sheet. We concluded 2016 with a cash balance of approximately $23 million, up 56% from the start of the year. This quarter, we also continued to win important new projects including a major contract expansion with EDF Energy to upgrade the control room station simulation system at their Torness nuclear power plant in the United Kingdom.

We're using GSE's industry-leading JADE suite of software to develop modern sustainable models for their control room simulators. We are also providing classroom simulators and a debriefing room simulator for students. We expect the implementation phase of this project to commence in mid-2017 and be completed within three years. This project is yet another example of the value that GSE's technical engineering and software solutions deliver to customers across the globe.

Total new orders in the fourth quarter of 2016 rose 21% to $16.8 million from $13.9 million in the prior-year quarter driven by the EDF Energy contract expansion. As a result of our new business success, we finished the year with near-record backlog of $73.2 million, up 53% from a backlog of $47.9 million at the end of 2015.

Backlog at the end of 2016 includes $68.8 million in Performance Improvement Solutions backlog and $4.4 million of Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting backlog. Our pipeline remains robust and we are pursuing a number of new business development initiatives to strengthen our backlog further.

Globally, we continue to see the greatest activity in the United States followed by our international divisions focused on the UK as that country upgrades its nuclear fleet, China, Korea as well as Japan as that country restarts their nuclear reactors.

In our view, the outlook for nuclear in the U.S. and abroad remains positive for our business. In the U.S. for instance, there's a growing recognition of the value of carbon-free electrical generation from nuclear. Several state legislative initiatives are underway to recognize the critical importance of generating carbon-free electricity by providers of nuclear power, a key component of the country's carbon-free energy mix.

On our last call, we discussed New York State's Clean Energy Standard, which provides an emissions-free subsidy of $1.07 per kilowatt hour that helps ensure the state's existing nuclear power plants remain economically viable in an era of low-cost natural gas while helping to level the playing field with wind and solar subsidies.

Following suite, in December of 2016, Illinois passed the Future Energy Jobs Bill, which similarly recognizes the value of carbon-free electrical generation from nuclear. These subsidies were essential to the Clinton and Quad Cities nuclear plants to remain economically viable in the process saving over 4,000 high-paying jobs while generating more than 22 billion kilowatt hours of carbon-free power each year.

Nuclear power accounts for more than half of Illinois's electricity, all without carbon emissions. Several other states that have been evaluating comparable measures include Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Ohio.

We believe the long-term industry dynamics remain in our favor and we are focused on growing our revenue in 2017 by executing operationally on our backlog, driving organic sales, and effectuating our corporate development strategy. I'm very pleased with the direction our business is heading.

I'll now turn the call over to Chris Sorrells, our COO, who will provide some additional context on where we have come from over the past 18 months, as well as an update on our M&A efforts. Chris, please go ahead.

Thanks, Kyle. To begin, I want to take a step back and recap the progress GSE has made since our leadership transition commenced in August of 2015. Key business and operational improvements in 2016, our first full year with new leadership in place are as follows. We expanded our sales and marketing capability with a highly skilled and experienced team to grow our revenue as we move forward. We rebuilt our entire R&D and Finance team with disciplined and seasoned executives. We proactively improved corporate governance and enhanced our Board of Directors by adding several highly skilled executives with strong backgrounds in finance, accounting and technology sales and marketing.

We incorporated best-practices across our entire organization to improve customer service and satisfaction, dramatically improve efficiency, reduce operational risk, enhance employee morale and increase profitability. As a result, we reaped the financial benefits of the hard work of the entire GSE team.

Gross margin increased by approximately 600 basis points to 29% from 23% in 2015. SG&A expense decreased by roughly 12% to $12.5 million from $14.2 million in 2015. Excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, our underlying SG&A decreased by approximately 20% or $2.7 million, reflecting our effort to streamline operations and introduce accountability into the organization.

Adjusted EBITDA rose 231% to $4.6 million from $1.4 million in 2015. Finally, we've registered a dramatic improvement in cash from operations, which grew to over $10 million compared to $1 million in 2015. Our strong operating performance, along with an enhanced credit facility and financial processes that freed up restricted cash, has resulted in a meaningful improvement to our balance sheet. Our cash position as of year-end stands at just under $23 million, compared to approximately $14 million at the end of quarter two, 2015. During this same timeframe, restricted cash declined from $4.5 million to $1.1 million.

In summary, since August 2015, we have streamlined the operations, strengthened the balance sheet, and significantly expanded backlog. By focusing on talent, we recruited top leadership with experience building and managing larger assets and appointed excellent new members to our board with skills that will enhance our thesis.

GSE's stock during this timeframe has risen from approximately $1.35 per share to $3.20 per share, up approximately 137% as of yesterday's close, which corresponds to an increase in market cap from approximately $24 million to approximately $60 million. We feel this is just the beginning of a long and exciting growth journey.

We are now keenly focused on growing the business both through organic and inorganic initiatives. Our M&A pipeline, which did not exist 18 months ago currently exceeds 150 targets with over $1 billion in combined revenues. We are actively and prudently seeking out companies that offer natural adjacencies to our offerings that have a high potential to add value to our customers as part of our platform. Having conducted primary research for the purpose of creating a competitive landscape map, we are now utilizing more of our resources and time to advance towards a successful value-creating transaction.

In addition, we've hired two outside companies to help with outreach including Harvey & Company, a business broker that is directly reaching out to target companies, and a specialized firm that is conducting outreach to over 5,000 intermediaries based on their specific deal parameters that we have established. We are seeing promising results, continue to move forward with discussions with some of the more exciting prospects and hopefully, we have news to share in the coming quarters.

Before I turn the call over to Emmett, I also want to note that in 2017, we plan to be more proactive in our Investor Relations. You can expect to see us speaking at a greater number of investor conferences this year. We presented at the Needham Growth Conference in January and we'll be presenting at the ROTH Capital Conference next week in Dana Point, California.

We also hope to incorporate several non-deal road shows into our 2017 calendar and always love the chance to speak to investors and analysts.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Emmett, who will review the fourth quarter financial results.

Thank you, Chris. I'll begin with a review of new business. Our Performance Improvement Solutions segment bookings totaled $13.1 million compared to $9.3 million in Q4 2015 with orders across multiple sectors and multiple geographies.

New Performance Improvement Solution contracts in the fourth quarter of 2016 included $11.3 million for simulator upgrades and services in the nuclear power market. $1.1 million for new full-scale simulators and other projects in the fossil power market. $0.5 million for various tutorials and simulators for customers in the oil and gas industry and 150,000 for miscellaneous engineering services and training projects. Nuclear industry training and consulting orders totaled $3.7 million in Q4 2016, compared to $4.6 million in Q4 2015. The decrease is primarily a timing difference that we expect to be pick back up in first quarter of 2017.

Now, on to review our financial results for the fourth quarter. Total revenue for Q4 2016 was $13.3 million, compared to $14.3 million in Q4 2015. Performance Improvement Solutions revenue in the fourth quarter of 2016 was $8.2 million, down from $10.3 million in Q4 2015, due to the timing of hardware revenues in U.S. Nuclear. Specifically in Q4 2015, we recognized $1.3 million for a large project when the hardware was delivered to the customer and the project was complete.

Nuclear Training and Consulting revenue increased 25% to $5.1 million in Q4 2016 from $4.1 million in Q4 2015, reflecting our increased work with a large utility company. These related revenues increased from $0.4 million in Q4 2015 to $2 million in Q4 2016. Specifically, the addition of increased support services, which generated $1.6 million in revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016 with this utility customer.

Gross profit in Q4 2016 was $4.3 million or approximately 33% of revenue, compared to $4.6 million or 32% of revenue in Q4 2015. Net income in Q4 2016 was approximately $1 million or $0.05 per basic and diluted share compared to $1 million or $0.06 per basic and diluted share in Q4 2015.

Non-GAAP adjusted net income as defined in our earnings release in Q4 2016 increased to $1.9 million or $0.10 per basic and diluted share from $1.3 million or $0.07 per basic and diluted share in Q4 2015.

Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our earnings release in Q4 2016, was $2.1 million in the quarter compared to $1.8 million in Q4 of 2015.

Our cash position at December 31, 2016 increased to $22.9 million from $14.6 million at December 31, 2015. We continue to operate with no long-term debts and have working capital of $12 million at the end of the fourth quarter.

We also benefited from establishing a new enhanced credit facility, which removes certain restricted cash covenants and provided more favorable returns for the company. We are currently in a process of retiring our current letters of credit. We anticipate this will be completed in the first quarter of 2017, which will further reduce our restricted cash balances.

The increase in our liquidity, new credit facility and capital resources will allow GSE to pursue the organic and inorganic opportunities that Chris and Kyle detailed earlier in the call.

I will now turn the conversation back to Kyle.

Thanks, Emmett. Operator, please open the floor for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] One moment please while we pool for questions. Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (18:10). Please proceed.

Hello, gentlemen. Gentlemen, congratulations and very well done. It seems like based upon your backlog, you have more business than you can handle. I have a list of top 10 infrastructure and infrastructure support corporations for the new Trump economy and you're in the number 3 position.

I'm just wondering have you established any kind of special liaison to the new energy secretary Rick Perry to pitch your products and your services and benefit from this new administration that has a focus on the infrastructure and infrastructure support.

Okay. Thanks for the question, [ph] Danny (18:55). It's fair to say no, we have not established direct line of contact with the new Secretary of Energy. But we remain encouraged that as we outlined it, we feel we're in a good position to benefit from any favorable trends that may evolve in the nuclear power industry.

Now then, a correlated question, which is that based upon the most conservative metrics that I utilized, it seems that your stock should be trading for at least $8.45 per share minimum. So it seems it's radically undervalued to – at least the metrics that I utilized for valuation. Can you explain why you think it's a – why it might be undervalued and are you not nervous about the possible take over time? [ph]

Danny (19:45), we don't comment on the stock price. We just focus on operating the business and reporting in on a quarterly basis as you see.

Okay. Very good. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Mike Smith (20:21) a private investor. Please proceed.

Yes, can you talk more about your current backlog and give us some color around maybe the timing of it, and the nature of it, and along those lines talk about $1 billion pipeline way out to the future potentially? Can you give us some more comments on that?

Sure. [ph] Mike (20:46), it's Chris and we appreciate the question. From the backlog perspective, it is at $73.2 million as we mentioned. That is, if you go back and track our 21-year public company history, pretty much near a high and certainly far in excess of the backlog that we have seen over the past three previous years.

So a lot of hard work went into that. The big boost in backlog was the large order we announced last March. If you look at our backlog, historically, we tend to burn 60-plus percent of that backlog. There's also a cash and carry component of our business. There's also a component of our business that isn't large in the backlog with contracts tend to roll quarter-to-quarter, that is our Hyperspring subsidiary. That business runs $17 million to $20 million a year in revenue. So you can do some math and kind of start to at least map what 2017 may be. So needless to say, we feel good about it.

In terms of the M&A pipeline, [ph] we walk in (22:07) in 18 months ago and wanted to convince ourselves, this is a business that could be scaled. We have gone out and done primary research ourselves without the use of intermediaries and we determined that there is a large ecosystem that fits naturally with our existing customer base and product offering.

2017 is a key year for the unveiling of that strategy and we're working hard. We're not making promises, but we do at least provide transparency that goes beyond what you typically see for a company, in that we talked about the number, we talked about the size that the potential could be. Keep in mind, of the number and of the revenue, I mean, these aren't all perfect companies and they're not all for sale. They may not be cultural fits; there could be a host of issues that develop. But it shows the potential.

And so, what we focused on here is under-promising, over-delivering, and we focus on accountability and transparency. So we're providing that to you to tell you that this is a platform we hope to consolidate off of. And we're going to be prudent with your money. We think like given our operators and we're diligently working and hopefully we have good stuff to share over the coming quarters.

Okay. Very good. That's it for me.

Thank you. We have no further questions in queue at this time. I would like to hand the floor back over to Mr. Loudermilk for closing remarks.

Well. Thanks, everybody, for joining us. In the coming months, I hope to get a chance to meet and speak with many of you including those that will be attending the ROTH Capital Conference next week. We're very excited for that, very excited to wrap up 2016 and looking forward to 2017. Thank you again for your time and interest in GSE.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.