Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of Audit Committee, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Antonia Borovina — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Tania Gonsalves — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited 2018 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict.

Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully, and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in forward-looking statements unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company.

Additional information identifying risk and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including, without limitation, the company's Management Discussion & Analysis for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Thank you and good morning to all, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited second quarter 2018 earnings conference call. I would like to introduce myself. I am David Wolf, the President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call has the following format. First, I will provide a summary of operational and financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018 with a focus on our sales, markets and operational performance. Michael will follow with a detailed discussion of our financial results for the periods, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as of the end of June. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on the outlook for the current year and coming year. We'll then open the line up for questions. I would remind all participants that we will not be providing financial guidance, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to either historical periods or general trends in the business.

I'll begin with our sales results. I'd have to say we had a great start for the year in Q1, which has continued into the second quarter. Sales for the quarter grew 30% to $7.3 million, while sales for the six months grew 61% to $14.3 million, primarily driven by sales into the human clinical market, which grew substantially, largely due to the contributions from Gynemed acquisition augmented by strong increases in the sales of our clinical instruments and quality control testing services. Sales into the animal breeding market also grew substantially, while sales into the research market were somewhat down.

As this was our first quarter that included foreign operations on a comparative basis, we will also be providing information on sales growth in each period in constant currency by applying the exchange rate in effect on the reporting period to the prior years. In this quarter, constant currency growth was 28% versus 30% as reported and 59% or 61% for the six months, reflecting the strengthening of the euro in 2018 versus the similar period in 2017.

Organic growth was 14% for the quarter, led by a very strong showing for our image analysis systems and LYKOS laser, with continued positive performance in our quality control testing services business. Organic growth was 16% for the six-month period.

Consistent with our reporting on the Embryotech acquisition, we only include in organic growth, businesses which we have owned for the entire quarter. Accordingly, Gynemed operations will begin to affect organic growth in our next reporting period.

Gross profit increased 22% year-over-year to $4.1 million for the quarter; up 44% to $8.1 million for the six months. We were pleased to see margins nudge up 56.7% from 54.5% in the fourth quarter of 2017, as a result of a greater contribution from the sales of our own higher-margin products and services.

Following 19 quarters of reporting net income, we did reported net loss of $ 133,000 for the quarter, largely due to the negative effect of a change in the fair value of a derivative issued in connection with the Gynemed acquisition. Michael will explain this in more detail in his remarks.

Finally, adjusted EBITDA, which was one of the key metrics we used to internally measure our progress, increased 7% to $1.5 million for the quarter and 39% to $3.1 million for the six months. While EBITDA growth has been a little behind our sales growth, this is reflective of our continued investment in sales and marketing resource to drive that top line growth. We believe this is the right strategic decision and we are pleased with our progress.

I will now return the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. Thank you all for joining us this morning. As reported, Hamilton Thorne's sales increased 30% to a record $7.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $1.7 million from the $5.6 million of the prior quarter, primarily driven by organic growth as well as the full-quarter contribution from the Gynemed acquisition completed at the end of April of last year.

Gross profit for the quarter increased 22%, an increase of $1.7 million, as a function of our sales growth. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 56.7% for the quarter ended June 30, up from Q4 and also improved slightly from Q1, as David noted, versus the 60.5% in the previous quarter, and that is due primarily to our new business model of product mix, particularly the expected increase in sales of somewhat lower-margin third-party products in our Gynemed distribution model, and partially offset by increases in higher-margin branded instruments and quality control testing service sales. Results are also in line with our plan.

While sales increased 30%, requisite operating expenses increased 7% for the quarter, primarily due to the addition of the acquired Gynemed operations for a full quarter. Operating expenses were also impacted by continued strategic investments in our research and development and sales and marketing resources, all partially offset by reductions in other categories due to continued expense controls, and offset for this quarter only by the prior-year Gynemed acquisition costs.

Research and development expenses increased due to the addition of Gynemed's R&D cost, as well as investments in our teams of professionals at HTI and ELI working on next-generation products and services.

Sales and marketing expense increases reflect our substantial added investments in the expanded direct sales team in the Americas which we initiated last September. This change from our previous distribution model to the new direct sales model is a primary driver of our organic sales growth, where we added veteran sales professionals in the IVF industry to add incremental sales as quickly as possible.

The expense increases are also attributable to addition of Gynemed expenses, including an additional sales resource in 2018, as well as amortization of intangibles related to the Gynemed acquisition. Net interest expense increase for the quarter is reflecting increased borrowings to partially finance the Gynemed acquisition.

As David noted, following 19 quarters of reporting net income by Hamilton Thorne Limited, we reported a net loss of $133,000 for the quarter, attributable largely to the negative effect of a $615,000, which was $218,000 for the six months, change in the fair value of our financing derivative issued in connection with the Gynemed acquisition. Without this non-cash charge, the company would have reported net income of $482,000 for the quarter and $978,000 for the six-month period.

This derivative relates to the convertible debentures issued in the Gynemed acquisition, is evaluated on a quarterly basis and reflects changes in the foreign currency value of the euro as well as the share price of HTL, since it is a debt instrument which is convertible to shares over the course of the three-year notes.

As we know, the share price of HTL increased substantially in the second quarter. This represents a bit of a paradox, which we gladly accept, that our share value increases contributes to this non-cash valuation expense. This required quarterly valuation actually added $398,000 of non-cash income to the results for the first quarter based largely on the strength of the euro and results in a net change or a total expense for the six months to date of $218,000.

Income tax expense increased substantially in 2018, as we previously recorded, as we now recognized income tax expense due to the Q4 recognition of the $4.3 million in deferred tax assets, which stems from the accumulated net operating losses of the prior years. Current income tax increased due to German taxes on Gynemed's income for the period following the acquisition and a certain U.S. state income taxes. Deferred income tax expense, as a reminder, is a non-cash expense and is offset by our tax assets.

Other comprehensive income for the quarter was actually an $825,000, also non-cash expense, due to foreign currency translation gains by the parent company from the foreign operations of its subsidiaries, primarily in Europe. This valuation in Q2 reverses the $489,000 OCI gain in Q1 of this year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter June 30 increased 7% to $1.7 million. For the six months year-to-date, sales increased 61%, gross profit increased 44%. Operating expenses for the six months were up 29%, and net income grew 74%. And then finally, adjusted EBITDA improved 39% for the first six months of 2018. I would ask you to please refer to our Management Discussion & Analysis report for detailed reconciliation of our adjusted EBITDA to net income.

Turning now to the company's balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $6.28 million, an increase of $533,000 from the end of – at March 31. Working capital is consistent at $5.8 million at June 30. Cash generated by operations was $976,000 for Q2 and is now $1.7 million for the six months year-to-date compared to $1.58 million in the prior year. We invested over $600,000 in inventory growth in Q1 and almost $300,000 in Q2, increasing operating levels from seasonally low levels in December, expanding our product offerings in the Americas, and providing for planned summer supplier production slowdowns primarily in Europe.

We continue to review and manage our inventory to optimize our new and our existing opportunities. Cash used in investing activities was $315,000 for the quarter, primarily for investments in intangible development costs and also laboratory equipment.

Cash used by financing activities was $244,000 for the quarter, attributable to scheduled acquisition-related term loan debt payments, pay-down of our revolving line of credit of $200,000 and offset by the warrant exercise in April of $457,000.

At June 30, our revolving line of credit was down to $1.0 million, as we have an additional $1.5 million of availability in the total line of $2.5 million. We continue to seek and evaluate further acquisition and other growth opportunities in the global ART markets. And in July, we utilized $640,000 of cash to acquire the ZANDAIR air purification business, which will be immediately accretive to HTL.

Now let me turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. As you can imagine, we continue to be positive about the markets that we serve and optimistic about our prospects, and believe that we can make progress in our key areas of focus for the year, which are increasing our organic growth, continuing to innovate, and continued execution of our acquisition strategy.

In the second quarter, we continued to invest in expanding our sales marketing footprint, including the expansion of our U.S. and European sales teams. We also continued to focus our efforts to drive additional cross-selling and marketing synergies across our business lines.

On the innovation front, we announced the release of updated software for our laser systems in early May and have seen positive response from the market. We continue to work on a number of new products and product enhancements and – at this time, that we will roll out over the coming months.

We're also making progress on obtaining U.S. market clearance for the Gynemed line of media products. We have filed our 510(k) and are in the process of taking the appropriate actions to demonstrate full compliance with FDA requirements. We continue to expect to launch the entire portfolio of Gynemed media products in the U.S. by the middle of 2019.

Regarding our M&A activities, early in the third quarter, we completed the acquisition of the ZANDAIR air purification products business from Zandair Scientific. We see a significant opportunity to grow revenues from the ZANDAIR product line by leveraging our established sales and marketing resources and applying them to this established and well-respected brand.

On an ongoing basis, we have a disciplined sourcing and screening program that has included contacts with over 80 different companies on our target list and a number of active discussions underway. As the ZANDAIR acquisition is relatively small, we believe that we have both the operational and financial resources, including our EBITDA growth, strong cash flows, and healthy cash balance of $6.3 million at the end of the quarter, to complete additional acquisitions as the opportunities develop.

We will now open the line up for questions. Operator, could you please present the first call from the queue.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mr. Doug Cooper. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Very congratulations on another nice quarter. Just on the organic growth, David, 14%, can you give us a bit more color maybe where that's coming from, product line, the geography, that kind of stuff?

Sure. So, thank you, Doug, and appreciate the compliment. I think, as we discussed, our organic growth, again, just to be clear, for this quarter does not include any effect from the Gynemed acquisition. That will be in next quarter's results. So, this is effectively the results from the equipment business and the quality control business that we operate.

As we said in our remarks, the growth was largely driven by increased sales in the equipment grid business, particularly our laser sales – clinical laser sales, and augmented by some nice growth, but not as strong as the equipment growth, as well as it not being as large a business in the quality control testing services business.

And on a geographic basis, it's mostly in Europe still or is it in the North America?

So, that's a good question. So, the growth, we've seen growth across the board. The Americas was a strong market for us this quarter, again, in part because of the continued emphasis on the direct sales team. Asia Pacific also was a strong region for us. Europe continue to grow, but not as strongly in this particular quarter.

I do caution, particularly in the equipment business where there's a level of kind of lumpiness involved in it, that you shouldn't draw too many conclusions from one quarter of activity or change at that little kind of granular level.

Okay. How do the 14% compare to industry? Is the industry still around 70% kind of thing or...

Yeah. So, we've seen and we've been actually trying to do some better market research on that, and we've seen reports ranging from 6-and-change percent growth to about 9% growth. So, we think our kind of consensus view and the view of the certainly the only other major public company that announces their views on this is in the kind of the mid-single digits.

Okay. In terms of the organic growth, just one further question on that, did you get into more clinics themselves or are you selling more product to existing clinics?

So, that's a little bit harder to tell, in part because we still continue primarily outside the U.S. So, the majority of our sales is...

Through distribution?

...through distribution. So, we don't always know exactly where the products end up. In the U.S. business where we do our direct sales, it's largely into clinics that we already serve, but that's also a function of our market share, in that we serve a significant majority in some part of our business of the clinics in the U.S. and particularly of the larger clinics that would be the kinds of people who would be buying their second, third or fourth laser.

Okay. Just shifting gears into Gynemed, not included in the organic growth, you had one extra month of contribution, I guess, year-over-year.

Yes.

Can you give us an idea of what their growth rate is? I think the revenue when you bought them was around $9.6 million. Can you give us an idea of maybe what their run rate is now?

Yeah. So, we don't – yeah, so again, we run the business as a combined whole. So we don't really look at that as a separate business in the sense of being able to provide that kind of number. We do look, when we look at our organic growth, of what this build out of that entity from their financial system, so we could do a comparison on that basis and that's what we'll present next quarter.

I would say, in general, the growth in the quarter, certainly on a – and this is in part due to foreign currency, on a U.S. dollar basis was strong; on a constant currency basis, obviously, there was a little less so. There was growth, but not the kind of significant growth, frankly, that we saw, let's say, in the equipment business.

Again, it's hard to generalize from one quarter. We look at longer-term trends and we do our quarterly reporting, but we try to think – look at both the quarter, the six months, and then some longer-term profiles to really get a sense of what's going on in the business.

Okay. And so, from where I sit, sort of I expect introducing the culture media product into the U.S. seems like a big catalyst in terms of margin profile and the opportunity, say, mid-next year. What is the sort of steps that have to be taken and how big an opportunity you think, can you maybe let us know the culture media business is in the U.S.?

Yeah. So, the culture media business is, obviously, a big opportunity in the U.S. for a couple of reasons. There were well over 200,000 cycles going on in the U.S. There's good reasons to believe based on some secular events that are going on in the U.S., including the addition of primarily private companies – well, large companies offering supplemental fertility benefits to their employees that there will be a meaningful up-tick in IVF. There's some consolidation going on, which is increasing capacity, which has been constrained. So we think the growth in IVF and the actual number of cycles will be very strong in the U.S. And the consumables business, whether it's our pipette business or the media business, grows linearly with cycles once you're established.

In the short-term, our challenge is to get that business and establish it. The steps are, first of all, to get FDA clearance for the media products. Our approach has been to file on one select media product, understand exactly what the FDA is going to require from us. And then, over a period of time, filing all the other products in a manner that will be clear that we've complied with everything the FDA is asking of us. Barring some unforeseen issues, which could happen possibly happen, we have a level of confidence that we'll be through that whole process, again, by the middle 2019.

Then becomes the hard work of penetrating a market with a admittedly strong product, product line has a great reputation in Europe but is not all that well-known in the U.S. We have the advantage that we have a couple of unique products that we can bring to the market that we believe will capture some market share and act as kind of a Trojan Horse to start opening up for other products. But, I would say, it will take some time for that to become a meaningful business. But the nice part of the consumables business is it has a long tail. Once it's established, if you keep your customers, you continue to generate revenues for a long time. So, the lifetime value of that customer justifies both the regulatory and the sales effort.

Right. And maybe just as a point of reference, there's 200,000 cycles in the U.S., so just take that as a number, what will be the revenue per cycle of, say, culture media and pipette?

Yeah. So, it depends in part upon whether it's a fresh cycle versus a frozen cycle, hence part of whether or not it will include vitrification products in that. But, overall, people view that between sort of at the low-end, $30 to $50, and maybe at the high-end as much as $100 of product of media product per cycle.

Sure. And great. And my last question on the ZANDAIR, I guess, the numbers you gave, the company generated roughly $550,000 in revenue and $160,000 of EBITDA. This will be consolidated as of July 19, I guess?

Yeah.

So you've got most of the third quarter. How many – this is going to be included in your hardware or your equipment, I guess, segment -segment phasing?

Yeah. So, the business has been both a – the nice part about it is while this is an equipment business, it generates a good consumables stream as the air filtration and purification products that require both filters to be replaced and UV lamps, ultraviolet lamps, that also to clean the air to be replaced. So, it's been – we don't give out the exact number, but a portion of it will be in the equipment business, a portion of it will be in the consumables business.

Do you want to give us an idea of what percentage of the revenue is consumables?

It's pretty consistent with our overall business.

Okay. And how many sites would they be in? How many IV clinics would they be in?

Again, the same issues we have with the rest of our business or even more exacerbated with the ZANDAIR business, as they primarily have sold their products through distribution worldwide. So, we see, again, one of our opportunities, I believe, that was a good solid distribution channel but, I believe, we have a better distribution channel. So, I think, we can upgrade some of our distribution, as well as generate more direct sales in the markets that we sell direct. So, again, that's one of the reasons we're optimistic about our ability, not only to maintain that business, but to potentially to grow it significantly.

Okay. So, some good cross-selling opportunities you think there. Okay. That's it from me. Thanks very much, David.

Well, thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Bob Gibson (00:25:45). Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my call.

Well, thank you.

You said you had about 80 companies sort of that you're looking at. Can you give us an idea how the valuations of these target companies have changed over the last, let's say, this year and how you see valuations going in the future?

Yeah. So, at the risk of making this a long-winded answer, we look at, have looked at and keep a running tally of well over 150 companies. We stack rank them based on desirability, from our perspective, in terms of product line, size, location. So, the 80 companies is a subset of the entire list that are at the upper-end of our list. We categorize them A, B, C and R for rejects. So, the As and Bs that we try to keep in some level of contact with, and then you had a smaller subset of those we actually have some level of discussion with.

So, on the valuation side, we've been pretty disciplined in our approach to valuation. If you look at the deals that we've done, it really depends a little bit on the size of the deal. But the recent deal that we've done, the ZANDAIR deal, we paid 4 times adjusted EBITDA. I think the highest we paid is 6.5 times. Clearly, that's a low multiple from kind of a typical private equity metrics and a low multiple versus some of the acquisitions we've seen in our industry. But, we believe, it's important for us to be selective about who we acquire and to be responsible in our valuation approach.

So, we might see valuations nudge up over time. But I don't think you're going to see us really abandoning the discipline that I think has allowed us to be successful.

Okay. Great. And your operating expenses, would you say this quarter is pretty much a good run rate going forward?

So, each quarter – so, this is reflective of our, I would say, like our base operating expenses from a run rate basis. There are always variables that take place each quarter. We spend a significant amount of money on a couple of large trade shows that can affect our quarterly base.

In this quarter, the Q2, for example, we did a significant training. We have a training program we do in Asia, bring all of our Asian distributors in, because it's hard for them to travel to the U.S. from both cost and visa perspectives. We had 50 or 60 people that attend that. So, that's a big expense.

So, each quarter has some level of variability to it, and then there's a little bit of seasonality in terms of when certain kinds of insurance and social security expenses come in. So, from a 50,000-foot level, I would say, it's fairly typical. There'll be always a little churn under the surface. And then, kind of overarching this is we are continuing to invest in the business in a, I would say, a methodical way, but you will continue to see more investment over time on sales, primarily in sales and marketing and R&D resources.

Perfect. Thank you so much.

My pleasure. Operator?

Your next question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Hello. This is Antonia on the line for Dave. Thank you for taking my questions. So, maybe firstly related to your sales and the sequential increase. So, you mentioned that the equipment business can be lumpy. So was there anything this quarter that was onetime-ish or maybe uneven like such as a large order?

Good question. And just to remind people who may have not followed the company as closely or as long as Antonia. In fourth quarter, we did have perhaps unusually large equipment order in Europe for one large lab and another small lab installation that meaningfully affected our numbers. I am pleased to say in one respect, though obviously we love those kinds of sales, that Q2 actually had none of that. We did not do any large lab installations in Q2.

So, these numbers are, I think, fairly reflective of the general trends in the business subject to the kinds of ebbs and flows that can happen, again, through both our direct sales channels as people buy or don't buy and just sales or distribution as people build their stock and that sort of thing. So, this was – there was nothing particularly kind of one-time about this. I think it really just reflects the – well, as we talked about earlier, the significant growth in the equipment business actually for two sequential quarters. And I think it's one of the reasons that helped get us over our Q4 sales number, which was previously our record quarter.

And then related to the modest margin improvement that you're seeing, can we expect to continue at this level or do you believe there's room for further improvement? So, unfortunately, I think there's room for both further improvement and potentially some bouncing on the other direction. It really will have to do with product mix.

So, clearly, our own instruments, particularly when we sell them direct and the lab testing services, have very high margins. So, as those businesses grow, which they did in this quarter, then I think we continue to see both, clearly, margin improvement. And as we get scale in some other things, we have the ability to potentially bring some outsourced manufacturing in-house and other areas where we can get some margin improvements.

On the other side of that is, we do have an initiative in the U.S. particularly to increase our sales on a broad range of lab equipment and consumables, including products that are just manufactured by others, so where we act as effectively a distributor. So could have a dampening effect on margins.

And then, sort of moving back to your first question, if we were to have significant laboratory – full laboratory install or a large chunk of equipment, whether it be in Europe or the U.S. in a particular quarter, that could also have a dampening effect on margins. So, I think, there's a bit of a push-pull in that. Clearly, our goal is to see continued margin expansion, but not at the expense of refusing otherwise profitable business.

And then, my final question is related to the sales and marketing expansion this quarter. Just wondering if you could provide a little bit of details on that, like how many sales reps have you added...

Yeah.

...and if you have any near-term plans for that?

So, it's just a couple of people. We actually added them in Q1 in part, and I'd have to go back and actually remember exactly which month in Q1, but both of them have been on board for a little bit. But on the annual basis, when you compare this year to last year, those people we had in Q1 are new to the cost structure as are some people that we hired in Q4. And I think that's, again, typical of our thinking where we will add sales resources, in this case, it was one in the U.S., primarily focusing on the quality control testing services business, and then one in Europe where we see people that we will add, but we are very thoughtful about adding people. We're very clear that we want to be growing both top line and bottom line, so adding sales forces and sales resources is something we will do and continue to do, but we will do it cautiously and on a controlled pace.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your last question comes from the line Tania Gonsalves. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Congratulations on the good quarter. Most of my questions have been asked already, so just a couple here. Could you tell us a little maybe about how the transition is going in Europe, you're moving a lot of that third-party contract manufacturing in-house?

So, thank you. Thank you again for the thoughts and for the question. So, I would say that the idea of moving third-party contract and manufacturing in-house is today aspirational. So, we have some discussions underway and they would be tied up largely with potential acquisitions. But on the ground, there's no operational activities taking place that are going to show up in the numbers in the short term.

Okay. Do you have an idea of, is that like a 2019 story then?

So, one of the interesting things about our acquisition strategy is, as I said earlier, we've got a large number of companies that we target broadly. We've narrowed it down to a short list of companies that we're in some kind of active discussions. That list changes over time as somebody is either more or less interested or we are more or less interested as we learn potentially more about the business, have valuation discussions, decide that we get – again, we can get more or less excited about a particular prospect. But overarching this, nearly all of the prospects of the size of company that we're looking at are owned typically by the founders, their families. So, there's a level of both economic decision-making that goes into this as well as personal decision-making.

So, it's very hard for us to make predictions when it's acquisition based about when a particular acquisition will actually occur, because it can be such a personal decision with factors that are outside our control.

So, it's a long-winded way of saying we're very cautious about making any time frames to either particular acquisitions no matter how close we may feel we are or particular initiatives relating to acquisitions.

That being said, given the number of targets we have and the number of discussions we have, we do have a level of confidence that a good solid acquisition will pop out of the pipeline in a timeframe that makes sense for us. Whether, in fact, is one that helps us on bringing some of that manufacturing in-house or adds to our product line or provides us additional territory coverage, that will remain to be seen.

Okay. Thank you. And then maybe could you provide a little bit more color ZANDAIR's current penetration across the U.S. and the European market. Given your direct sales force in Europe, do you think there is the ability to really grow there and maybe what the competitive landscape is like?

Sure. So, there is one major competitor to this product and a number of smaller ones that business is – it's hard to know exactly because nobody really breaks out the individual numbers, but we believe that business is somewhat larger than the ZANDAIR business, which gives us some level of confidence again that the overall market is fairly significant. So, for us, it's going to be a market share grab, both potentially replacements of existing systems from existing customers and then as new customers come on board, either because they're building a new lab from scratch or building new lab facilities or deciding based on some of the marketing and scientific work that we're doing, that air purification and filtration should be a higher priority. We believe we can grow that business.

So, today, I'd say the penetration is probably – is strong in the U.S. because it's a U.S.-based business, strong in parts of Europe. It tends to be stronger in parts of – well, European and other places, where the clinic is a stand-alone clinic. Clinics that are operated within hospital settings generally have the air filtration at a large level, because we offer two systems, an in-room system and an in-duct system. So, the in-duct air filtration is typically managed by the hospital's biomedical engineering staff, which is harder to penetrate.

So, we see that the market share and the penetration is actually relatively low, which means that we have good opportunity to grow the business.

Okay. Great. And then, one last one, given everything that you're seeing in the news right now, do you ever worry about trade risk, now that you do have infrastructure in place in Europe?

So, yes, I don't know if you've noticed, but I think about two quarters ago, we added actually a risk factor in our MD&A, talked specifically about trade risk. And the ones, I'd say, we're most focused on today would be the trade risk in China, because there's clearly issues around tariffs that are underway, the risks in the UK with Brexit. EU, which has been, obviously, a much bigger market today for both of those, we have a little less concern, but [indiscernible] (00:40:29) the latest news today about, I guess, automobile tariffs maybe should make us think about that.

On the flip side though is most of our business in Europe is conducted in Europe and selling products that are made in Europe. So, I think, we're far less susceptible to – it's far less of an import-export business and more of a inside the European Union business.

Okay. Perfect. And that's all for me.

Well, thank you very much.

We have no further questions on the queue. You may continue presenters.

Okay. Well, we would like to, again, thank everyone for joining our conference call this morning. We encourage you to go to our website for more information on Hamilton

Thorne. I will comment that we've recently launched a new more Investor Relations-oriented website, which is www.hamiltonthorne.ltd. And for people who are looking for access to news releases and more general information about the company, find it there. People looking for information about products and the specific markets that we serve, that can be found in the websites for each of our individual branded companies.

So, again, thank you for your interest and look forward to reporting again on our next quarter's results.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.