Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of Audit Committee, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited 2017 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.

Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information. Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advancements, or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subjected to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully, and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on those forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by security law applicable to the company.

Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including, without limitations, the company's management discussions and analysis for the quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn your call over to David and Michael.

Thank you. And good morning to all, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited 2017 year-end earnings conference call. I'd like to introduce myself. I'm David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call will follow the following format. First, I will provide a summary of operational and financial results for the 2017 calendar year and the fourth quarter, with a focus on our sales, markets and operational performance. Michael will follow with a detailed discussion of financial results for the periods, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity at the end of the year. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for 2018. Finally, we'll open up the line for questions.

I would like to remind all participants that we are not providing financial projections or forecasts, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to the historical periods or general trends in the business.

I'll begin with our sales results. Overall, 2017 was a very successful year for Hamilton Thorne. Sales for the year-ended December 31, 2017 increased 110% to $22.1 million, largely due to the contributions from our new businesses, the Embryotech quality control service and assay business which we acquired in September 2016, and the substantial revenues resulting from the acquisition of Gynemed & Co. GmBH which we acquired in April of this year – oh, I should have said 2017 or last year.

I'm also pleased to report that through a combination of new sales and marketing initiatives and the expansion of our product offerings, we were able to generate approximately 7% organic growth for the year, which we define as the growth in operations owned by the company for over one year.

Fourth quarter sales increased 97% to $7.2 million, primarily driven by these acquisitions, augmented by 14% organic growth. Sales for the fourth quarter were positively impacted by the significant growth in our equipment business for the U.S., as our expanded sales force gained traction, and also by two large laboratory equipment installations in Europe.

As expected, gross profits were somewhat lower, primarily due to product mix, including these two unusually large sales of third-party equipment in one quarter. Sales into the clinical Assisted Reproductive Technologies market or the ART market continues to be our area of greatest growth, primarily driven by the contribution from the addition of Embryotech and Gynemed revenues.

On a percentage basis, our clinical ART business added up to just under 90% of our sales for 2017 versus closer to 75% for 2016. We're also pleased to see that recurring revenues that we generate from our consumables and service offerings have expanded to cover a wide range of customer needs and accounted for around 55% of our sales in 2017 versus less than 30% in 2016. We expect to see the percentage of consumable sales continue to grow in 2018 as only eight months of Gynemed sales, which is substantially a consumables business, were included in the 2017 numbers.

For the year and quarter, including the effect of the initial realization of the deferred tax recovery of $4.2 million, largely related to our United States net operating loss carryforwards, the company reported a net income of $5.7 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Michael will provide a more detailed discussion on this deferred tax recovery in his remarks.

Adjusted EBITDA, which is one of the key metrics that we use internally to measure our progress, increased 172% to $5 million for the year versus $1.8 million for the prior year.

On the acquisition front, during the year we completed the significant expansion of our product line, geographic coverage and scale when we acquired Gynemed in April, as well as completed the integration of the Embryotech Laboratories business.

The results from these acquisitions, which included a full year of Embryotech and eight months of Gynemed activities, along with our organic growth, contributed to doubling our sales and achieving over 170% EBITDA growth for the year.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne.

Hamilton Thorne sales, as David has indicated, increased 110% to over $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, more than doubling our prior year 2016 results. Gross profit for the year increased 92% to $13.2 million in the year. As we planned, gross profit as a percentage of sales was somewhat down at 59.6% for the year-ended December 31 versus 65.3% in 2016, primarily due to product mix and particularly the increase of sales of our somewhat lower-margin, third-party products to Gynemed customers, but also partially offset by increases in some higher margin branded consumables and quality control testing's service sales.

Operating expenses increased 83% to $10.8 million for the year, primarily due to the addition of Embryotech and Gynemed expenses post-closing, acquisition-related expenses, and significant increases in the amortization of our acquisition-related intangibles. Operating expenses were also affected by continued strategic investments in research and development, sales and marketing resources, plus a significant increase in non-cash, share based compensation expense resulting from stock option grants last year just after the acquisition.

Net interest increased $572,000 to $828,000 for the year-ended December 31, primarily due to increased borrowings to offset and partially finance the Embryotech and Gynemed acquisitions.

Cash interest paid was somewhat lower at $421,000 for the year. Current income tax expense increased to $131,000 for the year-ended December 31, 2017, compared to only $18,000 in 2016 which is attributable to the German taxes on Gynemed's income for the period following the acquisition, as well as certain U.S. State income taxes as the net operating loss carryforwards relating to state income taxes have largely expired, as well as our U.S. alternative minimum tax impact.

For 2017, U.S. federal income taxes were offset by the utilization of a portion of our federal net operating losses incurred in prior years. Our deferred tax recovery, a reversal of the expense was $4.3 million in 2017, primarily due to the initial recognition, as of December 31, 2017, of deferred tax assets generated by the company's historical U.S. federal NOL carryforwards.

The company recognized this tax asset initially in 2017 as we believe it is now more likely than not that the substantial benefit from these NOL carryforwards will be realized based upon the HTL expected future U.S. income tax – income streams generated by our additional acquisitions.

Just as a further expansion on that, as everyone knows from our footnotes, Hamilton Thorne generated significant net operating losses from 2001 to 2012 as we developed our current laser and image analysis technology and developed our highly respected brand with distributors around the world. We have worked closely with our audit team and our professional tax team to evaluate the company position of these NOL carryforwards, and in meeting the IFRS standards, more likely than not, that we will be able to recognize those in future periods.

The asset, as we have recognized it, will offset future U.S. federal income expense from a cash basis perspective, and it will preserve our operational cash flow for further R&D and operational growth needs. So, as a result of that recognition, net income increased to $5.7 million for the year, due in large part to that deferred tax asset, together with increased revenues and profitability for the relevant periods, offset by increased operating expenses.

Other comprehensive income for the year-ended December 31 was $1.1 million compared to $25,000 in 2016. This non-cash gain is due to foreign currency translation gains by the parent company from the foreign operations of its subsidiaries. Total combined net income and other comprehensive income for the year-ended December 31 was $6.8 million versus $700,000 last year prior to the tax asset recognition.

Adjusted EBITDA, which David notes, is an important internal metric for us. For the year-ended December 31, increased 172% to $5.0 million versus $1.8 million in the prior year, attributable again to the expanded scale of our operational revenues and gross profit growth, and partially offset by increased operating expenses for those operations.

I'd like to take just a couple of minutes to talk about our results of operations for the fourth quarter ended December 31. Fourth quarter sales were up 97% from $3.6 million to $7.2 million. Gross profit was up 58% to $3.9 million. Sales and gross profit were up primarily due to the added revenues and gross profit from Gynemed acquisition and augmented by our organic growth. Gross profit percentage was somewhat lower than previous periods due to product mix and was particularly affected by two large laboratory installation projects in the quarter.

Operating expenses were up 79% to $3.4 million, again, due to the addition of Gynemed, as well as to research and development and sales and marketing resources, expenses incurred to complete the Gynemed acquisition, as well as increased amortization of our acquired intangibles and increases in share-based compensation expense.

In the fourth quarter 2017, again, the company's net income increased to $4.7 million while adjusted EBITDA increased 43% to $1.4 million versus net income of $507,000 last year and adjusted EBITDA of $977,000 for the prior-year fourth quarter. And again, these changes were attributable, from a net income standpoint, to the recognition of the deferred tax asset; and adjusted EBITDA was due to the increased sales and gross profits, offset partially by our operating expenses.

Moving over to the balance sheet and the liquidity section, the cash balance at December 31, 2017 is $5.7 million, and that was up $3.9 million from the $1.8 million on hand in the prior year at the end of December 2016. Substantial increase is attributable to both the increased scale of business, as well as proceeds from the company's April 2017 private equity placement to support the acquisition of Gynemed.

Cash generated by operations was $3.2 million for the year, compared to $990,000 in the prior year, an improvement of $2.2 million, attributable to increased net income and non-cash expenses from acquisitions, and tempered by initial acquisition-related expenses, one year expenses for Gynemed, as well as managed changes and accounts receivable, payables, accrued expenses and seasonal increases in our inventories.

Cash used in our investing activities for the year was $10.0 million, primarily for the $9.2 million acquisition cash portion of the Gynemed acquisition, as well as $390,000 for equipment and $520,000 for ongoing capitalization of our intangible development cost for new and enhanced products.

Cash generated by our financing activities totaled $10.7 million, consisting of the $8.5 million of proceeds from the private equity raise and the $4 million of acquisition-related bank term loan, all of which was partially offset by scheduled new and existing term loan debt payments. In addition, our revolving line of credit was reduced $1.2 million at December 31, with an added $1.3 million of availability in the $2.5 million portion of the bank facility.

Now, let me turn the call back over to David who is going to comment on the HTL outlook going forward. David?

Thank you.

For 2018, our major areas of focus are in increasing our organic growth, continuing to innovate, and the continued execution of our acquisition strategy. On organic growth, now that we are – the work of integrating our acquired business is largely behind us, we have the opportunity to focus more on organic growth. In our last call, I mentioned that we have substantially increased our direct sales and support teams in North America, and are augmenting our product offering with the selection of third-party equipment and consumables. In 2018, we'll continue to invest sales and marketing dollars in our growth.

In [ph] 2001, (00:15:44) for example, we also added sales resources in Germany and at our Embryotech operation. We expect these investments to bring us closer to our customers and increase our sales of both our own branded products and services, as well as some of the new third-party products we'll be offering.

With increased sales resources, we can focus on additional cross-selling and marketing synergies between our North American and European-based businesses. An important emphasis for us is increasing the sale of Gynemed consumables in the U.S. We initiated this with the introduction of Gynemed-branded micropipettes in the U.S. market late last year. While this initiative has been a little slow to take off, we expect to see the consumables business in the Americas grow as we gain momentum. We have also recently filed our first FDA 510(k) submission to get clearance to offer the Gynemed family of cell culture media products into the U.S. We will follow up with additional submissions over the next few months.

On the innovation front, it is critical that we continue to innovate to meet the evolving needs of our customers. We spent over $1.5 million on R&D last year, would expect to spend a similar amount this year. As I've discussed in the past, most of our development efforts are focused on products and services that we can get to market in a reasonable time with manageable technical, market and regulatory risk.

Our focus, therefore, is generally on next generation of our existing products, as well as new products that are within areas that we know well. We have a number of new products and product enhancement under development at this time that we will roll out over the coming months.

Finally, the continued execution of our acquisition strategy continues to be a focus. As we think about it, the successful execution of our acquisition strategy includes, first, getting the value out of the deals we have completed; and second, going after next transactions. We feel good about where we are with the integration of our completed acquisitions and the progress of these businesses under our stewardship, and are actively pursuing additional targets. With continued earnings growth, strong cash flow from operations, our cash balance of $5.7 million and increased borrowing availability, we believe we are well-positioned to execute on our acquisition program.

With that, I'd like to open up the line for questions. Operator, can you please present the first call from the queue? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Good morning. I've got a few questions. The first one is you've commented that fourth quarter was boosted by two large laboratory equipment installations in Europe. I'm wondering, when you talk about 14% organic growth in Q4, were those installations included in the organic growth or are they a part of Gynemed's business and therefore not included in the organic?

Yeah. Thank you. Yes. So, those sales were made and delivered out of the Gynemed operation, so they were included in the Gynemed number, and were not included in the 14% organic growth number.

Okay. So, organic growth really jumped in the fourth quarter, 14% versus 7% for the year. Was there anything else that might have been considered one-time-ish in the fourth quarter? Or should this be the type of organic growth we expect going forward?

Right. So, that's an interesting two-part question. So, there was nothing particularly one-time-ish, to use that word, in the fourth quarter. We did see the beginnings of our new sales team generating some momentum on the equipment side, which included sales of our own branded products and now combined with some third-party products to be able to offer, let's say, a complete ICSI workstation, which increases the total value of that sale. That being said, I would hesitate to forecast going forward, but clearly we have established the goal that we want our organic growth to be above the generally-believed industry growth of 7-plus percent [indiscernible] (00:20:12) and be certainly into the double-digit range.

Okay. If you took out these installations, the European installation, what would have been your organic growth of the quarter and of the year?

So, those European installations weren't included in our organic growth, so it wouldn't have changed that. Obviously, it would have reduced the overall growth of the business.

Okay. Yeah. [indiscernible] (00:20:41). [indiscernible]

(00:20:41) meaningful percentage but not, I would say, not double digits [indiscernible] (00:20:49) double digits.

Okay. And so these types of installations, are they somewhat regular for you or were these unusual? Do you get, say, one per quarter of this type of installation?

Yeah, good question. Maybe we should have been clearer in our discussion what it meant to be unusual. So, these kinds of sales are typical in – have been typical in the German operation two-, three- or four-year over the past few years. What was a little atypical that we described as unusual, to have two of these occur in the same quarter, which tends to bulk up the number in a – just by the arithmetic of it. So, we would expect to see, as a part of our steady business and have seen in the past as a part of the steady business, these kinds of lab installations going forward.

And what is the type of revenue contribution and EBITDA contribution, all right, on average for an installation like that?

So, the revenue installation, it really can vary. It's usually in the several hundred – couple of hundred thousand euro range. As we discussed, it depends a little bit on the mix. But since the margins on third-party product tend to be lower, we would see lower overall gross margins. But since our costs of delivering those are somewhat lower and we don't have R&D and other activities relating to those, we think the EBITDA margins are within line with generally [indiscernible] (00:22:32) on our entire business.

Okay. Next question. Have you seen any recent changes to reimbursement or other growth drivers for the IVF space, either in the U.S. or other countries, that might positively or negatively impact the IVF sector?

Yeah. So, we are generally immune from the kinds of reimbursements that tend to change significantly, for example, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements in the U.S., and tend to put really significant price pressures. We are seeing, on the other hand, several positive activities going on in the U.S. On the government side, the Veterans Administration recently started a program to provide IVF benefits to both combat veterans and spouses of combat veterans who may have been injured in combat.

Whilst it's small dollars and small number of people will be covered, it's indicative of a sense of this change of attitude. Probably much more interestingly is the proliferation of private insurance programs that generally large technical companies such as – technology companies such as, let's say, Google and Facebook, would offer on top of their standard insurance package to provide assisted reproductive benefits to their employees. This insurance is typically not available through the typical insurer because it's not part of state-mandated programs, so they're offering that. I would have to speculate on the number of covered lives, but it's becoming a meaningful number at this point.

Okay. And I've got one more question. You mentioned, with bringing the Gynemed pipettes into the U.S., that was a little slower than expected, but you feel that there is increasing momentum. What are you seeing that leads you to believe there's increasing momentum and why was it slower and why is it picking up now?

So, the – I'll start with why it was slower and then – and go to the momentum part. So, the – as we introduced these products, we went through a period of sampling, so providing samples to clinics. We see from feedbacks in clinics in terms of things they liked and didn't like. It turns out that there are some differences between, generally speaking, some preferences in Europe and preferences in the U.S. on some small changes but important in pipette design. So, we have been selling some of the typical European pipettes, but are also looking at and starting to bring in the, I would say, the more American kind of standard pipettes.

What gives us encouragement is we're seeing not only initial order sampling and initial orders, but reorders. And again, the nice thing about the consumables business is once you are able to convert somebody to your products, you can generally count on a recurring revenue stream that pretty much flows in accordance with the number of procedures that are accomplished.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Just a quick get-back to David's question on the lab installs. Can you give us an idea of what the gross margin would have been excluding those lab installs?

That would a good question. I may throw it back to Michael, but I would say it would be certainly several hundred basis points, but not more than that.

Okay. And just on the – you mentioned on the – earlier in the call that you started the 510(k) process for Gynemed's cell membrane or cell media in the U.S. Can you talk a little bit about the clinical pathway, and when – how long that will take?

Sure. So, it's – we – the Gynemed media family has – I think we've counted about five or six different components, each of which will require a separate 510(k). We started with one family that we believe we understand well, having well-established predicates and can be done more quickly. We will be doing additional filings, as I mentioned, over the next few months. I would say that a safe bet would be that 12 to 18 months for clearance to market these products. Could it conceivably be shorter for some of the products that are – have clear – more clearly established predicates and maybe, in fact, be a little longer, but that's our working assumption.

Okay. So, what's...

I wouldn't expect any meaningful revenue in 2018, if that's your question.

Right. So, while your cell media sales are going to be in Europe today, and, say, [indiscernible] (00:28:01) 2018, 2019, maybe late 2019 into the U.S.?

I think that's a safe bet.

Okay.

And then, of course, it will take some time for that – for adoption.

Right. And just in terms of gaining share or getting share, once it's available in the U.S., what would be the strategy there? I mean, what do you – because you talked about the consumables business, obviously somebody has that share today. Would this be a new clinic business or trying to convince somebody to take yours over theirs?

So, it's a combination of new clinic business. Obviously, if you start with a new clinic that hasn't necessarily established all the protocols, then it's a much more level playing field and we have as much opportunity as anybody to generate business in that.

In existing clinics, the strategy is a combination of offering products that we believe have some significantly superior attributes, for example, on the media side, longer shelf life, which can be critical for the media business; and exemplary customer service and support.

The customers, as we talked about, are very demanding, and expect us to be able to stock and provide the products they need and fulfill them as rapidly as they need them. And some of our media competitors behave that way, others build – manufacture only to established schedules and require clinics to buy multiple months in advance, which again begins to cause some of the shelf life problems that I alluded to.

Right. I'm just turning to the acquisition strategy, is there anyone particular vertical, either A, or geography, B, that you're maybe more interested in?

So, let me talk about geography first. The areas that we feel comfortable that we can do acquisitions, manage to understand both the due diligence, the integration and then bring in appropriate businesses today, are primarily in North America and Western Europe. It happens that that's where most of the targets that we have identified are located. And so I think that's a good fit. There are targets that – further down the road as we were to get larger and can handle the complexity, in Asia particularly, that might be more interesting to us. But I think that's a little bit further out.

In terms of the areas that we're focusing on, our strategy is and has been to seek targets that bring the attributes that we like, first of all, help complete our product line or fill the gap in our product line. Secondly, have the kind of profit – sales and profit dynamics that we like. Third, ideally bringing significant recurring revenues. And fourth, have a cultural fit which, in our mind, really is a commitment to the customer service and support that I spoke about earlier.

Okay. I think that's it for me. Gentlemen, thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

I'm back, this time with only one question. Do you have any...

A three-part question, no doubt.

No, just one part. Do you have any color on recent changes in Asian market dynamics?

So, the Asian market is by no means monolithic. I think the largest markets today are Japan and China, and they behave very, very differently. China is obviously very much an emerging market with the dynamics there of growth being driven by increased wealth generation within the country so people can now afford more IVF, and by the relaxation of the one child policy to a certain extent, so people are looking at this as maybe the last time they can get IVF.

India has similar dynamics, say, for one-child policy, and – but is much, much smaller; which Japan, which is a significantly larger market, a large market, certainly larger than India, maybe the same size as China, has much higher per capita, obviously smaller population, much higher per capita, much more mature market. So, we've seen more growth obviously in the developing markets. And that's – we focus on all the [indiscernible] (00:32:55) where we tend to see the growth dynamics.

And is your business changing in any way in those markets? Are you finding any different distributors? Are you launching products there like you are in other markets?

So, the – it really depends on the markets. Again, India is – from a regulatory perspective, can be a relatively easier place to do business from a – so it is easier to bring products into India, so we have established distributors for our media products and our Gynemed branded consumables in India. The Chinese market tends to be on the other extreme, a very difficult regulatory environment. Maybe I should have mentioned this when you asked about changes, the Chinese regulatory structures are changing. They announced last September a new catalog that will come into effect this September, which actually changes the regulatory for – even some of our existing products. And it's created a little bit of a confusion in the marketplace. Japan, as I'd mentioned earlier, is relatively stable, has a much better understood, well-understood regulatory structure. And while it's not simple necessarily to launch new products into the Japanese markets, at least from a regulatory perspective, we don't have some of the barriers we see in China.

Sorry, I'll add to the question. The Gynemed media in India, is that new since you took over Gynemed or was that always there? And then in China, these changes, could they result in the withdrawal of some of your products from the market or the existing products grandfathered and allowed to stay on the market?

Yeah. So, good questions. On the India question, Gynemed has historically – through our Gynemed operation, we have historically had distribution in India. We've been pushing that a little bit more. So, that was an existing initiative that is expanding. On the China side, China's requires reregistration of their products from time to time, so we're working through those periods. While we could see some delays, we certainly don't anticipate that we would be in a position where we would completely withdraw our product.

Okay. Thanks.

Anything else, operator?

There are no further questions at this time.

Well, very good then. With that, I would say thank you for participation in this little lively question-and-answer session. And I look forward to speaking again at – when we release our first quarter results in around a month.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.