Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Director, President & Chief Executive Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Tania Gonsalves — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited 2018 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict.

Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully, and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company.

Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including, without limitation, the company's Management Discussion & Analysis for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Good morning, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited third quarter 2018 earnings conference call. I'd like to introduce myself. I'm David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. And on the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer. This morning's call, we will have the following format. First, I'll provide a summary of operational and financial results for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, with a focus on sales, markets, and operational performance. Michael will follow up with a detailed discussion of our financial results for the periods as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as of the end of September. And I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the coming year. We will then follow up with questions.

I would like to remind all participants, we do not provide financial guidance. So I would like to ask you to limit your questions to either historical periods or general trends in the business. I'll begin with our sales results. The quarter ended September 30 was a solid quarter for us. Sales into the human clinical market continue to show strong growth, driven by increased consumable sales, including increased sales of Gynemed consumables through distribution channels. Sales into the animal breeding market grew substantially, while sales into the research markets were somewhat down.

U.S. direct sales were somewhat below expectations for the third quarter, particularly with respect to direct sales of third-party products. This is in part due to the seasonality of the U.S. equipment business which you can observe by looking at our historical results, as well as some issues with product availability. I'm happy to say we are already seeing a rebound within the fourth quarter.

Organic growth was 11% for the quarter and 13% for the nine month period. This is the first quarter where we've included the full results for Gynemed, so we're also reporting constant currencies, so that's 12% in constant currency and 13% in constant currency for the nine-month period.

Gross profit margins have been consistent for the year within a range of approximately 50 basis points but were down versus the prior year which is a reflection of the mix between direct sales of our relatively high margin products, our own branded high margin products, and sales of branded products through distribution channels and direct sales of third-party products, both of which have somewhat lower margins.

On the regulatory front, in prior conference calls, we've had some discussions about laser registrations in China. I'm pleased to report we have successfully finalized our [ph] reregistration (00:04:17) in November. While we were out of the market for a short period of time in the third quarter, this had no meaningful effect on our sales results which have been consistent for China over the last six or seven quarters, including this last quarter. We are also making progress in obtaining U.S. market clearance for the Gynemed line of cell culture media. We have filed a 510(k) with the FDA and in the process of taking the appropriate actions to demonstrate full compliance. We continue to expect launch of the entire portfolio of the Gynemed media products in the U.S. and additional markets by the middle of 2019.

Regarding our leadership team, I'd like to note that Eric Dorman the founder of Embryotech, retired from his role as president of Embryotech in September. He continues to serve as a senior scientific adviser to the company. At that time, Joel Lopez who joined Embryotech in the spring of this year as VP of Sales and Marketing was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager. We want to thank Eric for his service to the company, and I personally look forward to continuing to work with him on continued innovations.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. Hamilton Thorne's sales increased 13% to $6.8 million for the quarter ended September 30, an increase of $781,000 over the $6.1 million in the prior year Q3, primarily driven by organic growth in consumables and instruments.

Our gross profit for the quarter increased 6.8% (sic) [6%] to $3.8 million, an increase of $211,000 as a function of our sales growth. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 56.4% for the quarter. Gross profit margins of 56.4%, as David has pointed out, have been consistent for the year within a range of approximately 50 basis points but were down versus the prior year quarter, reflecting the ongoing mix between direct sales of our own high margin products and services and the somewhat lower margin sales of our branded products through distribution channels and direct sale of third-party products. These results are also in line with our internal planning.

While sales increased 13%, requisite operating expenses increased 11% for the quarter. Operating expenses were impacted by acquisition expenses of $68,000 for the ZANDAIR product line with the remaining 8% of the increase attributable to continued strategic investments in research and development, sales and marketing resources and increased amortization of intangibles related to the Gynemed acquisition.

We invested significantly in our expanded presence at ESHRE, the industry's annual European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology Conference. Research and development expenses actually decreases the net number due to our increasing focus and capitalization of specific R&D projects by our team of professionals working on next generation products and services.

Sales and marketing expenses increase reflect our substantial added investments in the expanded direct sales team in the Americas which we initiated last September. This change from our previous distribution model to the direct sales model is a primary driver of our organic sales growth, adding veteran sales professionals in the IVF industry.

We have also invested again in our European sales team and the expense increases are also attributable to our increased ESHRE presence this year. Following 19 quarters of reporting net income, we reported our second quarter of net loss in Q3, a net loss of $545,000 for the quarter while maintaining nine month year-to-date net income of $215,000. This is due entirely to the negative effect of an $896,000, now $1.1 million for the nine months, change in the fair value of our derivative issued in connection with the Gynemed acquisition. Without this non-cash charge, the company would have reported net income of $330,000 for the quarter and $1.3 million for the nine-month period. We also incurred acquisition related expenses of $68,000 in the third quarter.

The derivative relates to the convertible debentures issued in the Gynemed acquisition in April of 2017. It is evaluated on a quarterly basis and reflects changes in the foreign currency value of the euro, as well as the share price of HTL since it is a debt instrument convertible to shares over the course of the three-year notes.

As we know, the share price of HTL increased substantially in the third quarter up 26%. This represents a bit of a paradox that we gladly accept as our share value increase contributes to this non-cash valuation expense. This required quarterly valuation fluctuates with share price and currency changes and actually added $398,000 of non-cash income to the results of the first quarter, partially offsetting losses in Q2 and now in Q3.

Income tax expense increased substantially in 2018 as we now recognize income tax expense after the Q4 2017 recognition of $4.3 million of deferred tax assets. Deferred income tax expense is a non-cash expense which is offset by those assets. Our comprehensive income for the quarter was actually $230,000 non-cash expense due to foreign currency translation gains by our parent company from the foreign operations of our subsidiaries, primarily in Europe. This non-cash valuation also fluctuates with a gain in Q1 and an expense in Q2.

Adjusted EBITDA, which is one of the key metrics we use internally to measure our progress, increased 1% year-over-year and $1.3 million for the quarter on seasonally lower sales levels and was up 24% to $4.4 million for the nine-month period. EBITDA growth has been slower than sales growth, reflecting our continued investments in sales and marketing to grow our top line. The non-cash derivative valuation tends to skew operational results which are eliminated, along with stock compensation charges, in reporting adjusted EBITDA.

For the nine months 2018 year-to-date results, sales increased 42%. Gross profit increased 29%. Operating expenses were up 22% on investments. Net income is lower due to the derivative valuation. And adjusted EBITDA improved 24%, attributable in part to the full year 2018 Gynemed results. Please refer to our management discussion and analysis report for detailed reconciliation of our adjusted EBITDA to net income.

Turning now to the company's balance sheet and cash flow. We substantially enhanced our cash position by closing a deal financing with net proceeds of approximately $7.1 million in September of 2018, ending the quarter with a cash balance of $13.2 million. Working capital increased to $12.2 million on September 30, an increase of $1.2 million. And the increases in cash balances and working capital were augmented by proceeds from warrant and option exercises, together with increased operating income and seasonal changes in receivables, payables and inventory, and offset by capitalized R&D expense and principal repayments to our bank under our term notes. Cash generated by operations was $730,000 for Q3 and is now $2.5 million for the nine months year-to-date compared to $2.0 million in the prior year.

We invested over $60,000 in inventory growth in Q3 and $850,000 year-to-date, increasing operating levels from seasonally low levels in December and expanding our expanded product offerings in the Americas. We continue to review and manage our inventory to optimize our new and existing opportunities.

Cash used in investing activities was $971,000, primarily for the investment in the ZANDAIR product line, acquisition as well as ongoing investments in intangible development costs and laboratory equipment. Cash provided by financing activities increased to $7.1 million due to the proceeds from the September 2018 equity private placement and are offset by scheduled acquisition-related term loan debt payments.

At September 30, our revolving line of credit was $1.4 million, and we have an additional $1.1 million availability in our $2.5 million total revolving line of credit. In November, we closed an acquisition line of credit with our commercial bank that will expand our ability to complete acquisitions in a relatively lower cost of capital and on a faster basis.

As stated in the earnings release, we continued EBITDA growth, strong cash flows and a strong cash balance of $13.2 million at the end of the quarter. We believe we are well positioned to continue our acquisition strategy to complement our existing organic growth.

Now, let me turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. We continue to be positive about the markets we serve and optimistic about our future prospects. Much of our efforts right now are focused on coming in with a strong fourth quarter. Q4 was very strong last year and I'm pleased to say that, halfway through the quarter, we are confident in our ability to turn in solid results.

Looking forward to next year, we continue to have many of the same goals that we have for 2018 which are increasing our organic growth, continuing to innovate, and continued execution of our acquisition strategy.

In the third quarter, as Michael stated in his discussion, we continued to invest in the expanded sales and marketing efforts, including the expansion of our U.S. and European based sales teams. We also continue to focus our efforts to drive additional cross-selling and marketing synergies across our business where we see steady improvement. These investments and initiative contributed to our attained 11% organic growth in the quarter. And we expect these advances to continue.

On the innovation front, we announced the release of updated software for our laser systems in early May, have seen positive response. We continue to work on a number of new products and product enhancements under development this time which we should roll out during 2019.

Regarding M&A activities, earlier in the third quarter, we completed the acquisition of the ZANDAIR air purification products business from Zander Scientific. As you can see by comparing reported with organic results, ZANDAIR products represent approximately 2% of third quarter sales. We continue to see significant opportunities to grow these revenues from the ZANDAIR product line by leveraging our established sales and worldwide resources.

As many of you know, we have a disciplined sourcing and screening program that has included contacts with over 80 different companies on our target list, a number of active discussions underway. I certainly do not want to signal that an acquisition is imminent. However, as the ZANDAIR acquisition was relatively small, we believe that we have both the operational and financial resources including our EBITDA growth, strong cash flows, healthy cash balance of $13.2 million at the end of the quarter and a new $3 million of availability under our acquisition line of credit to complete additional acquisitions as they might develop.

We'll now open the line up for further questions. So, operator, please present the first caller from the queue. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Good morning. I've got a few questions. The first one is at least one of your competitors noted weakness in China specifically in the ART equipment sales. You didn't see that yourself in Q3, I'm wondering if you have an idea why you may be seeing divergent views in China.

Sure. So, I probably shouldn't name a competitor by name. But I believe the one you're speaking about also reported that they, similarly to us, had regulatory issues in China which they did not resolve. So, their laser sales, specifically were, I assume, somewhat down, perhaps nonexistent in China in the last quarter. Since we were able to resolve, go through the regulatory process on a relatively smooth basis, pretty much in keeping with our expectations, we didn't see any significant change in certainly, our laser business. The balance of our equipment business in China is meaningful but relatively small, so no particular change there.

Does this create an opportunity for you or are they still out of the market and will your lasers have less competition now?

Perhaps. I mean, certainly an opportunity. There are, as we all know or so should know three major laser producers in the market, two of whom, at least as of last reporting, are authorized to sell in China, [indiscernible] (00:17:37) and one other competitor. We haven't seen any public announcement on our third competitor's regulatory issues. My guess is they will resolve them in due course and we'll see the normal competitive environment that we've always seen.

Okay. In the U.S., you mentioned your results are a little lighter than you expected because of lower sales of third-party products. You mentioned product availability was low. You expect a rebound in the fourth quarter. Is that purely because the product availability situation is resolved, or is there any other reason for a rebound in the fourth quarter?

No. I think there's two reasons. One is product availability which can do with constraints in our manufacturers and also our getting frankly a better understanding of lead times from third-party manufacturers and being able to manage those lead times. So I think that part of it is working itself out.

Secondly, and perhaps as maybe secondly more importantly, is there is typically seasonality in the U.S. equipment business, much of purchasing particularly in for-profit clinics is motivated by year-end budget spending and year-end tax spending. So we evolved. We've seen significant increases in Q4 and relatively lower volumes in the third quarter.

So again, based on orders booked to date, we've clearly seen that a significantly higher, a higher level of order flow than we had for products in Q2. And then lastly, our sales team is doing a great job out there, somewhat constrained again by product availability and other issues. But as we resolve these problems, they just get more and more effective.

Okay. Time-lapse seems to be a rapidly growing area. And I believe you sell a third-party time lapse system in Europe. Is there an opportunity to bring that to North America?

So, yes, we do sell time-lapse, third-party time-lapse system in Europe. That particular manufacturer has distribution in the U.S. through another party at this point that we do have discussions with them. We are looking at an alternative system. And obviously, as you know, our long-term strategy is to have more and more products across the broad spectrum of offerings in the IVF lab manufactured by ourselves. And that would – an incubator category is one that we've talked about for some time. And time-lapse incubator would be certainly an area that we would have a lot of interest in.

So this will be something you would buy as opposed to distribute for the vendor.

I think we might be opportunistic. So in the short term, I would expect we may do some distribution over the longer term. Again our ambition is to provide the broadest range of products possible. I would hope to see us have our own line of incubators and whether we build or buy will remain to be seen based on what's available in the market.

Okay. And one last question. If you ex-out sales of third-party products, what is the organic growth?

So that's difficult to say. I have to be honest, we haven't looked at that, but my guess is it would be about the same, maybe potentially a little higher, but we'd have to actually go look at that.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Tania Gonsalves. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a couple of questions for me. So we saw Q4 of 2017 is impacted by the complete outfitting of two labs, so that caused a bit of a revenue bump. I'm wondering if any of these sort of sales were included in Q3 or if you've been getting any traction for Q4 on this kind of sales?

Thank you. That's a good question. That's one of the reasons why I had mentioned that Q4 last year was in fact a really strong quarter for us so. It did have a balance because the third-party equipment particularly [ph] full labs (00:22:21) typically a lower margin, so we had about. 200 basis points lower margin than you might have saw us report last quarter. So long story short. No, there were [ph] no full lab (00:22:31) set ups in Q3 of this year, unclear, but unlikely that we would have the [ph] full lab (00:22:38) set up in Q4. We pretty well have to know about that at this point and it's not on the docket. We certainly see a number of opportunities looking into next year but I don't see that impacting either – having impacted Q3 or likely impact Q4.

Perfect. Thank you. And then you also mentioned continuing to invest in your direct sales team in both the U.S. and Europe. Did you add any new salespeople or is this just increased marketing expenses as a result of an increased presence with ESHRE?

So in terms of maybe [indiscernible] (00:23:19). So in terms of when we talked about continued investment that is basically continuing to make the investment in the commitments we've already made in terms of increases that were currently in the marketing side ESHRE as being one example. So we did not add any new salespeople in this quarter. Don't expect us to only adding them in Q4; potentially in Q1 or Q2 of next year, we might look at one more person.

Okay, perfect. And then lastly, could you give us any more color on how the launch of Gynemed consumables is progressing in the U.S.? Namely, where there any new product lines launched in the U.S. during Q3? And apart from the culture media line, do you expect any material launches over the next six months, let's say?

Sure. So the Gynemed consumables that we have in the market today are same as we've had pretty much since the beginning of the year when we first launched them which is the line of glass pipettes, or micro tools that are used for micromanipulation, primarily of all sides in embryos but sperm to some degree.

We actually have seen advances in that in Q3 moving to a number of – increased number of clinics that are ordering and reordering from us. Again, this is a long kind of slow start, long tail kind of activity where as you add new clinics, you get more repeat business and that kind of has this recurring revenue, it takes time to ramp up, and it obviously should last for a long time.

In terms of new product introductions going forward, the cell culture media is the area of primary focus for us, the constraint being for the U.S. marketing, right, being FDA clearance. So we're focused on working through the final parts of the FDA clearance on that product line and being able to launch in Q2. We are looking at another line of soft denudation pipettes that Gynemed offers, just introduced in Europe in Q3 of this year, so in this quarter, in Q2, Q3, and bringing those into the States sometime during next year. But that will be – again that requires regulatory approval and just in terms of our staging and priorities that will be likely to occur after the media products.

Perfect. That's great. Thank you very much. That is all for me.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, David. Just on the macro environment, there's been a couple of interesting articles recently one entitled remarkable decline in fertility rates across the world over the past number of years. It's at an all-time low now. And then Michelle Obama and her book talked about how her kids were from IVF. What do you think the impact of these kind of things will be particularly maybe in the U.S. in terms of clinical openings in driving the macro environment?

So, I think you're talking about specific examples of the trends that we have observed and have been talking about for some time. As you know, in general, fertility is declining worldwide. Sizes of families are declining worldwide. Families are waiting longer to have children, so starting later which has a significant impact on primarily female fertility but also male fertility. So we can see those trends as all positive and accelerating.

I think in terms of the U.S., couple of specific things that are going on that are driving more than those macro trends in some ways that are going to drive more opportunity is the increase in egg banking. So egg banking which was a experimental procedure in, [indiscernible] (00:27:42) 2012 or 2013 in the U.S. when the ASRM, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, gave it clearance as an accepted procedure has gone up almost tenfold in usage from 4,000 to 5,000 a year to 40,000 to 50,000 a year. So that's creating a lot of new opportunity.

In addition, and they are somewhat related, in the U.S., we're seeing that private companies are beginning to offer supplemental benefits to their employees where in many of the states, nearly all of the states where there's no IVF coverage, to provide a certain level of IVF coverage whether it's egg banking or full IVF treatments. Primarily, this is happening in large tech companies like Google and Facebook where they have a lot of knowledge workers. But we're seeing it also in law firms, consulting firms, universities, anywhere where you've got a young workforce that – where there's good reason to want to both incent people, recruit and retain those people through their prime years. So that level of funding has certainly started to – and over the next few years will continue to increase the use of IVF.

In terms of new clinic openings, we're seeing a trend as much towards expanding the size of existing clinics which is still an opportunity for us obviously because part of our business is a consumables business which is kind of close naturally through increase in activity. On the equipment side, obviously, when you open a brand new lab, there's more opportunity because you have to outfit the entire lab. But even as volume increases, if you're out bidding another workstation, which can still be significant opportunity for us.

Can you just maybe just remind us how many clinics there are now in the U.S. and how many you're servicing?

Yeah. So there are about just under 470 clinics that report through [ph] SAR (00:29:56) which is the kind of the reporting agency, all the large clinics reporting, nearly all small clinics. So people tend to talk about just under 500 clinics in the U.S. We have some product or service certainly into at least half of those. Generally speaking, we tend to and not surprisingly tend to focus on and tend to add products and services that are more conducive to the larger clinics and some of the very small clinics maybe have less penetration.

So when you come with the culture media product, you're targeting new clinics or upselling the existing clients or a bit of both?

Certainly for consumables the vast majority of the opportunity is clearly in existing clinics. For equipment, the opportunity is in both.

Great. Okay, great. That's it for me. Thank you. Thank you.

Well, thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time.

All right. Well, I would like to thank everybody for joining us on this call. We certainly look forward to as I said completing a strong fourth quarter, and we'll be back in the spring to report our results.

And this does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.