Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Vice President-Finance & Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Tania Gonsalves — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Chelsea Stellick — Analyst, iA Capital Markets
Devin Schilling — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Stefan Alexander Quenneville — Director of Life Sciences & Biotech Research, Echelon Wealth Partners, Inc.
Matt Buckles — Analyst, Stifel GMP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information. Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve but are not limited to comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions.

This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risk or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by security laws applicable to the company. Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including without limitation, the company's management discussion and analysis for the quarter-ended March 31, 2021, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to Hamilton Thorne's CEO, David Wolf.

Good morning, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. I'd like to introduce myself. I'm David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer. This call will have the following format. First, I'll provide a summary of operational and financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 with a focus on our sales, markets, and operational performance. Michael will follow with a more detailed discussion of our financial results for the periods, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the balance of 2021. And then, we will open the line up for questions. I'd remind all participants we do not provide financial guidance, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to either the historical periods or general trends in the business.

I'll begin with our sales results, okay. I'm extremely pleased to report the first quarter of 2021 was a solid quarter for us as the majority of our customer base returned to more normalized operations. We achieved $11.5 million in sales, 11% growth over the prior year with improved gross profit margins and profitability.

So let me give some of the highlights from our performance. As I mentioned, sales in US dollars increased 11% over the prior year to $11.5 million. As we had no acquisitions during this quarter, organic growth up 11% as well. The gross profit increased 14% year-over-year to $5.9 million. Net income increased 495% to $866,000. Adjusted EBITDA increased 27% year-over-year to $2.3 million.

As the contract sales increased 5% in constant currency and, again, organic growth, the same, 5%. Cash flow from operations was $1.5 million for the quarter up 111%. And total cash at the end of the quarter was $21.4 million. From a mix perspective, sales of consumables and services, which closely correlate to increased activity of our customers, augmented by our market share gains, we're up over 33% this quarter. As expected, equipment sales were down somewhat, partially as a result of significant forward buying in the EU in the fourth quarter to take advantage of expiring tax incentives as well as reduced third-party equipment sales as we had no large planned build-outs in the quarter.

Looking at fields of use, sales into the human clinical market were up substantially driven by strong demand for consumables and services. Sales into the cell biology research market also boost substantially, albeit off a much smaller base, while sales into the animal breeding market were down.

Our gross profit margins were up 80 basis points at 51%, primarily due to product mix. Operating expenses were generally in line with expectations with reduced trade – travel and trade show expenses, offset by increased personnel costs associated with maintaining the investments we have committed to in sales and support personnel as well as some G&A associated with being a public company. We were pleased to see our adjusted EBITDA rebound to 20.1% in the quarter versus just under 18% in the prior year quarter.

I'll now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. I will briefly highlight the first quarter P&L performance as well as the cash flow and liquidity of the company as of March 31. Hamilton Thorne revenues increased 11% to $11.5 million, an increase of $1.1 million from the prior-year quarter as David outlined. Sales of consumables and services increased 33% to $7.4 million, reflecting the continued recovery from the pandemic.

Total equipment sales, as expected, decreased 16% to $4.1 million for all the reasons noted in our press release. We had no large lab build-outs in the quarter which are lumpy in nature, and as such do not occur every quarter, although we have several in our 2021 pipeline. As a result, consumables and services increased to represent 65% of HTL's total enterprise sales, up from 54% in the prior year. Equipment sales comprised 35% of sales in 2021, down from 41% in the prior year. Gross profit for the year increased 13% or $652,000 to $5.9 million due to both sales growth and improved margin rate. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 51.0% for the quarter versus 50.2% last year, attributable to both product and channel mix.

Operating expenses increased 8.6%, which included $130,000 of acquisition-related expenses. Excluding those acquisition costs, comparable quarter-to-quarter expenses increased 5.6% representing continued investments in sales and support resources and somewhat offset by reduced travel and trade show spending. Net interest expense actually decreased 64% or $163,000 primarily due to the reductions in outstanding convertible debentures after the final April 2020 conversion to equity.

Income tax expense increased $96,000, up 47%, due entirely to the substantial increase in income before taxes. Current expense is applicable to various states in the US as well as Germany and the UK. The 2021 deferred tax expense is primarily applicable to US federal tax and as a deferred noncash expense due to the continuing utilization of prior years' net operating losses in the US.

In 2017, as most investors might recall, the company recorded a substantial deferred tax assets related to the previously unused US federal tax carryforward losses or NOLs as well as other temporary differences.

Net income increased 495% to $866,000 primarily attributable to increased revenues and profitability, lower interest costs and the elimination of the prior year loss on fair value of the derivative. Adjusted EBITDA which we consider an important metric of our financial performance increased 27% to $2.3 million versus $1.83 million in the prior year, attributable to overall revenue and gross profit growth and disciplined expense controls. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-IFRS measure. Please see the reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income for the quarter in our MD&A report filed today on SEDAR and also available on our website as well as our expanded definitions of adjusted EBITDA, organic revenue and constant currency, other non-IFRS measures.

During the first quarter of 2001 we have revised the company definition of adjusted EBITDA to include acquisition expenses directly attributable to acquisition efforts in progress, not just to completed transactions. These expenses totaled $129,500 in Q1. The revised definition also adds integration, restructuring costs, impairment of intangibles and other exceptional non-recurring or non-operational charges, expenses, gain, or income. There are no additional expenses related to these categories in Q1 of 2021 and we will carefully evaluate future activity and fully disclose in expenses which meets these criteria. Once again, we believe this adjusted EBITDA metric is important to help our investors understand and measure our results.

Turning now to the company's cash flow and balance sheet. The company generated cash from operations of $1.3 million in the first quarter, an increase of over 111% compared to last year's $709,000. This increased cash flow is attributable to substantial revenue and gross profit growth, as well as the gradual return of the company's inventory levels to more normalized operations as we emerge from the pandemic.

Cash used in investing activities was $732,000 for ongoing investments and capitalized intangible development costs by our R&D teams, for next-generation and new product development, as well as CapEx for equipment and demonstration units for our sales teams. Cash used in financing activities was $1.2 million for scheduled term loan and lease obligations, as well as measured reductions in the company's line of credit. Company's resolving cash balance at March 31, 2021 decreased slightly to $21.4 million. Working capital increased to $22.9 million for the period ending March 31.

In addition, we have $5 million of availability in the acquisition line of credit, as well as another $3 million of availability in our revolving line of credit. This $8 million of bank lending activity is an important additional resource in our ability to complete acquisitions in relatively lower cost of capital. This availability combined with our cash on hand of $21.4 million makes us well-positioned to support our operations in the coming months, including continuing our acquisition program and financing further growth as the business climate continues to improve.

Now let me turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. Looking forward into 2021, we are clearly on the path to more normalized activity in the US and at a slower pace in many of our other major markets. Unfortunately, other large markets such as India struggle with the worst impacts of the pandemic. With these exceptions, ART clinics are largely open and the consensus is that on a worldwide basis, they're operating at roughly 90% of capacity. Many clinics report, and I should state, that this is more anecdotal information than a full-market survey, that they are as busy as they have ever been serving pent-up patient demand.

This trend is positive for our services and consumables business. On the other hand, we see somewhat conflicting market signals in the capital equipment side of our business with continued caution on capital expenditures and many customers. While we also have a record number of new lab builds in our pipeline. Based on these positive industry trends, we are planning to continue to make investments in personnel, R&D programs and systems to support our growth with an eye to balancing top line growth with sustained EBITDA performance in the midterm and EBITDA expansion over the longer term.

Since our last call, one area that has come into greater focus are certain supply chain issues. We, like many other businesses, are beginning to experience shortages and longer lead times in some finished goods that we resell, as well as some key electronic components and parts that are incorporated into the instruments that we manufacture. I believe that we are managing through these disruptions and as of today, do not expect this to have a material impact on results. However, we are mindful that as this is a rapidly evolving situation, we may see an impact on sales in the second quarter and that this could continue for some period of time that is obviously very difficult to predict.

Finally, following the end of the quarter, we closed on the acquisition of Tek-Event based just outside of Sydney, Australia. Tek-Event is the manufacturer of the Cell-Tek Microscope Chamber. It's a specialized product for controlling temperature, air flow, humidification, humidification of the air quality, that's used in ART and laboratory markets. It is also a value-added reseller of the select range of capital equipment and consumables in Australia, including those manufactured by Hamilton Thorne. Even today Tek-Event serves about 90% of the IVF clinics in Australia. And, I should say, while this was a relatively small transaction, it was somewhat strategic in adding new product lines as well as a base of operations in Australia for direct sales and accretive from a financial perspective.

In addition to this transaction, we have an active pipeline and we're actively working on multiple opportunities. And as Michael mentioned, we have $21.4 million in cash and $8 million available under our lines of credit. We're well-positioned to execute on acquisition opportunities.

We will now turn the line open for questions. Operator, can you please queue up the first call – our first question? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from David Martin with Bloom Burton. Your line is open.

Good morning, David and Michael. First question, last year I believe you said towards the end of Q1, you were starting to see some of the effects of COVID-19 at some of your customers. I'm wondering would you say the negative effect of COVID is more or less negatively impactful this Q1 versus last Q1.

That's an interesting philosophical question. You're asking sort of what would have happened if COVID hadn't been there in two different periods. So I'm not sure exactly how to answer that in some ways. So I would say that – I would say – maybe I can answer it better by attitude, by numbers. So attitudinally, as we were coming into COVID a year ago and it was becoming much – into much sharper focus, we were doing our best to try to quantify it. I guess today as we are seem to be, hopefully maybe an [indiscernible] (15:58) overoptimistic exiting COVID as having a significant impacts on our business, we are more looking forward.

So I guess maybe I filibustered enough. I'm not sure I can answer that question is what it really comes down to.

Okay. Next question. So the 33% growth in consumables and services. That's quite good growth. How much of that would be Gynemed in sales in the US with the launch of those products and is there anything onetime-ish about that jumping consumables?

So let me answer the second question first. Not that we know of on the one-time this side, I mean certainly again as clinics open up and our expander activity maybe they bulk up a little bit to kind of refresh their inventories and then buy it at somewhat higher level, but I don't consider that to be something that is really material.

On the Gynemed consumable side, certainly it was additive, still a very small number. And I should add we're also having success with rolling out Gynemed consumables in the UK. So if you look at them together, a nice number. But as we've tried to caution everybody in the past, it's going to take a while for that to become a real material part of our business.

Okay. And my last question and then I'll get back in queue. You mentioned you had a record number of large lab build outs in your pipeline. I'm wondering what is the conversion rate of your pipeline to revenues, and can you quantify what the pipeline is right now.

So, we can't quantify the pipeline. I'm not – we won't quantify the pipeline would be the better answer for that. Yeah. When we consider the pipeline, which I'm willing to talk about, it's business that is actually sold or that we have a high confidence level of being sold versus say something that we might be bidding on the same as we do our competition achievement after the same as everybody else. So, we have a meaningful number of – a good-size of book build-outs, not quite as large as some we've had in the past, which is good in some ways – you won't see this huge lumpiness – but including some that have been delivered in Q2.

So, when you say record number, is a record number or record dollar value or both?

So, it's definitely what I was thinking about is the number of discrete clinics. In terms of record dollar value, probably will turn – should turn out that way, but that would require some math.

Okay. Okay. Thanks I'll get back in the queue.

Yeah. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Tania Gonsalves with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my questions. And so, first from me here, I think you mentioned that some of your customers are seeing pent-up demand come in. I'm wondering if you can – do you have an idea of how much of that pent-up demand were through and we've worked through in the US so far? And I asked that because I think Vitrolife on its call mentioned that it doesn't think the US growth is so much due to the pent-up demand but more so due to remote work making it easier to communicate with customers. Could you talk to that at all?

That's an interesting distinction. because I think you have to have demand for people to want to work remotely. But in any event, ardent to be patients remotely. But in terms of the first question, which is how much we are through that, that's really hard to predict, I think. And as I mentioned, the reports we're getting of these clinics that are 10%, 15%, 20% above last year are anecdotal information at best. There's just reporting, a very strong growth. So we haven't done a full market survey.

In terms of some countries, we're not really seeing pent-up demand to any great degree. And others where particularly, those that have started medical tourism, I don't even think we've started the whole process. So, I think it's going to go on for some period of time. But certainly, I don't say that's – in a particular quarter, we can have a nice impact on our business. But I don't think it's – you should look at – let's put it this way, we're not expecting 30% growth to continue for enormous periods of time.

Got it. Okay. That makes sense. And then, I guess, continuing on your comment on medical tourism, I know we're seeing India struggle a lot with numbers, but it's – we're seeing similar numbers too in Southeast-Asia like Thailand, Malaysia, and Vietnam are all struggling well. Could you...

Yeah.

...provide any color on what you're seeing from these markets and how substantial are they as a proportion of your revenue? I think in 2020, Asia-Pac was about 19% or so of your revenue. Is it kind of similar still? Yeah.

Yeah. I think we actually disclosed in our quarterlies this year, I think I want to say was 18% or Michael might have a – at this quarter, so very similar types of numbers and the – we're seeing impacts on that. So certainly Thailand, which you mentioned, and Vietnam to a certain degree are big in medical tourism. India has some medical tourism, but also is a big domestic market, they're just having a huge population. Those are all coming from a clinical activity perspective, it's certainly somewhat down. Most of our business in Asia-Pac, I would say, is, if you want to say a top five in the order, somewhat differentiates from time-to-time would be China, Japan, India, Thailand, and Australia.

So, some of those are really largely unaffected like China and Japan. So, Japan's back in the state of emergency. But I think that's – the clinical side seems to be doing okay. And some of those, as you say, are very effective. So I think we're still in an area of, I think I'd use the word not a term, large choppiness in market performance. And we're fortunate that we had good results in Q1. And hopefully we'll call to get good results from Q2.

And I will add that Asia-Pacific was 18% in Q1 of this year, and I believe 19% last year, so relatively consistent.

Perfect. Okay. Thank you for that color. And then just last one for me here. Could you maybe – in terms of the shortages and longer lead times that you're seeing in some finished goods and from the inputs in your own manufacturing products, could you talk to exactly which products are being impacted by this? Is it is it across the board, everything is? And will this weigh just on sales or also on gross profit margin potentially in Q2?

Yeah. So, in terms of products and stuff like – first of all, it's not across the board. This is – and it really depends on certain – in the finished goods side, we seem to be having more issues with products other than the ones that rely specifically on the same kind of electronic components if we're having trouble on our manufacturing, but are products that are more general laboratory products which aren't a huge part of our business but things that might be used in the IVF lab but would also might be used in a testing lab or used in vaccinations, so things like syringes, [ph] a pipe cutting (24:08), not the kinds that are used for microsurgical procedures but kinds that are used to measure liquids. Those kinds of things, they're just getting a little harder to find them longer lead time, so we've been managing that. You might see our inventories which is kept more of these go up a little bit.

On the instrument side, it's longer lead times again, which you always hear about our electronics. But it can be everything from electronics to cardboard. And it's just a question of managing through that buying ahead if you can and buying larger stocks. So, again I suspect it will have some impact in Q2 and going forward, and we'll do our best to quantify it and report on that. But as we sit here today, it doesn't look like it's going to be a material number.

In terms of prices, we certainly are seeing pricing going up on certain components and certain hard-to-find materials. We haven't yet done this, but certainly we're looking at whether we should be increasing our prices as well. We typically do it once a year at the end of the year, but this is an unusual year. So, I think it will have an impact on – could have an impact on margins I think at some level – well, that definitely will have an impact on margins. The question is whether it would be meaningful or not.

Understood. Okay. I'll get back in queue. Thank you very much, David.

Our next question comes from Chelsea Stellick with iA Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning. I just have one quick question. I know that we're seeing a return to normal activity in the US and then sort of trending towards operation about 100%. In terms of European activity with all the news flow on reduced IVF activity there or sperm shortages, et cetera, what are you seeing in terms of a reversion back to the mean, what do you anticipate I guess timeline wise for your European clinics to return to pre-pandemic activity levels and do you think that they're going to be met with a pent-up demand similar to what we are seeing here in North America? And – yeah.

Yeah, so I think Europe, as we all know, it's one word but it's still 20-plus different countries with different behaviors, regulatory schema, reimbursements and the like. So, I think we see a lot of variation among clinics. So, the ones that we know best are Germany, UK and France where we do direct sales, so we're really in touch with the clinics. Germany is pretty much back to normal and whilst for most of last year, we actually saw demand go up in Germany last year. So, IVF was up more than it had been in many prior years. It was up 9% in the back half of the year, which is more than anybody was expecting. So, I think perhaps that pent-up demand, if there was any, it's already been got through, but activity is still seeing strong. UK, there's a lot of demand and but the clinics are not – are kind of in some cases, slowing things down because they've got additional safety protocols in place.

UK is one of the [indiscernible] (27:36) most highly regulated IVF markets in the world from kind of a very, very solid regulatory regimen. And so they're doing things that perhaps other labs don't find necessary. So we're seeing good solid demand there. France has a mixed bag. It's a combination of public and private clinics, public and private hospitals and still a fair amount of caution.

So those are the ones I know about. And then we mentioned the areas that are very strong in medical tourism like Spain. Spain have been a down year. We're certainly expecting that to be up substantially over this year.

I was going to – like my next question on that was like you mentioned that Germany is doing well but countries like Spain and Italy, they're lagging behind also Sweden. What in your opinion do you think other than medical tourism is impacting those countries compared to say the UK and Germany?

So, I'm not sure it's measuring period when you think about there's been – Italy, certainly last year was subject to really significant prolonged shutdowns since Sweden took an entirely different approach and didn't really shut down at all to like, had really serious problems at the end of the year. So it's really, I think that frankly is, requires a lot of speculation [indiscernible] (29:02) in the individual market, in many individual patients.

I think the trends that we are seeing are – what we have been recording on that it's a little bit of a mixed bag and some places are going great guns and well above and some aren't. And we do believe in reversion to the mean. But I think the areas that are dealing with huge pent-up demand eventually revert to the mean. And the ones that are behind will revert to mean, and then you get back to the what is called long-term growth of our field, which I think – we think is in the range of 7%-plus and still a healthy business to be in.

Okay. Thank you. I guess last question from me. Just quickly, how much direct sales force increases were the reason for margin improvements and sort of how that is trending?

So, we did – so, it's a good question. Our direct sales as a percent, we don't want to break this out every quarter. But direct sales as a percentage of sales was up for the quarter. So it had an impact. I won't to get too – it's an 80 basis point increase in margins, which is good. We'll take that. But I think it's slicing the salami a little too thin if you try to say how much was attributed to direct sales, how much it was attributed to product mix, how much it was attributed to a particular new customer, so a lot of different things.

Okay. Thank you. I will jump back in the queue.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Devin Schilling with PI Financial. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning and congrats on a strong quarter here. Just following up on record number of new labs in your pipeline here, do you guys see this backlog largely deferral projects that resulted due to [indiscernible] (31:01) with the strong industry fundamentals, I guess, driving clinics to expand at a more rapid pace?

Yeah. So, I think it's a combination of two or three things back to the pent-up demand, some deferred projects, some strong industry fundamentals, people just needing to – needing more space. And again, the question of lab build-out can be, one of semantics would be if we add another workstation in the lab, we don't call that a full lab build out. But if somebody let's say has a lab and wants to do a major expansion of that, we would consider that a lab build out. So you could argue – that's a point you could argue.

And then there are back to your point of industry fundamentals, there's people that are opening greenfields, completely new clinics in completely new cities because they see strong demand or that they have a different approach or whatever reasons they believe they're going to be successful. So it's a combination of all of those. We are seeing, just to be clear, more of that in the US. The US has been very dynamic, looks to be very dynamic this year versus let's say last year when not much was going on. And the every quarter was very dynamic as well, so back to our lumpiness, they do come and go.

Okay. No, that's great. I guess with this pipeline as well, is there any I guess travel restrictions that could leave any of these labs at risk of being completed or just the timing of completion?

So I would say across the board, we are seeing a lot of these, missed their completion dates. And it's combination of travel restrictions, to a certain extent on our part, supply shortages as some – as people have said that we're supposed to have a eight-week lead time, suddenly now it's a 12-week lead time. But that's not always us. It could be the same – if you're building a new lab there's a lot of multiple contractors you have to get in place [indiscernible] (32:59) you're putting in mechanicals, gas, and all the other products that are used in the IVF clinics, [indiscernible] (33:06) the procedure rooms and other areas that we may not sell. So I would say anybody who's been involved in the new construction probably knows the delay is part of the game. I wouldn't attribute it to travel restrictions as being the primary cause, but it's like several things going on. It's one of the contributory causes.

Okay. Great. I'll jump back in the queue for now. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Stefan Quenneville with Echelon Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Most of my questions have been answered, but maybe I'll just ask you a bit about what your M&A pipeline is looking like, obviously, a small deal in Australia. Is there may be a focus for you to keep looking in certain geographical areas? I mean, obviously, you have more direct footprint in Australia. Are you looking to maybe do something with more of an Asian footprint going forward?

So, there's sort of two different questions here. But the first one, which is what does the pipeline look like, I tried to answer this exactly the same way every time it's asked but we don't give anything away because it's not really the things we should be doing. But clearly, we are very active on the M&A front in terms of looking at finding, nurturing and moving opportunities through to potential completion. It's very hard to predict in some cases the progress of these. A lot of the businesses we are looking at buying are typically small, either family or entrepreneur-owned businesses which have a different dynamic and a different cadence of deal development than, let's say if you're buying a division from a large corporation that was [ph] hiving it off (35:01) for some reason or another.

So, I'd say we're active. I think the key message is the fact that we did this relatively small deal has not slowed us down on the other activities that we have or is not – should, will not slow us down in the other activities. There's a lot of other activity going on. But I don't want to get ahead of myselves and make promises as to where, what or finding.

In terms of your second question, I'll kind of answer it obliquely. So I don't think that the fact that we did a deal in Australia has affected this. We've always been pretty clear that we – and Asia-Pac is kind of round numbers, rounding up a little bit, 20% of our business is going to see a lot of strong growth over a long period of time and is an area where we put a lot of focus on in terms of everything that makes our business successful, finding and nurturing fantastic distributors, maybe adding some direct sales in certain areas and potentially doing acquisitions. So, again the fact that we just did something on the other side of the world doesn't make that more or less likely, but it's still an area that we spend time on.

Great. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Matthew Buckles with Stifel GMP. Your line is open.

Thanks. Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my call. I just had two really quick questions. Maybe first just following up on the last on M&A, I wanted to ask just what's on the top of priority list in terms of some of the products you're looking to acquire? And then secondly, given some of the supply chain, I guess concerns in the near-term, wondering if that factors into M&A here.

Yeah. So in terms of the priority list, again we try not to talk too much about that because obviously we don't show our hand too much. But also we – while we have – I think you know the nature of our field. There are round numbers 160 potential targets, 150, 160 potential targets. About half of them are targets that we've identified as businesses that could be interesting to us and we put as higher priority. So while it's a large enough number that if you're working that pipeline, if you have confidence, you can attain a deal. It's not so large that if you start saying we're only focusing on this geography, only focusing on this product line this, frankly in some cases is not even enough to work on.

So a little bit is a combination of where we're pushing everything through and then being opportunistic. Obviously, we got to this point where we had two transactions that are completely, everything else being equal, equal size, equal profitability, but one have maybe more attractive product than we would make different decisions. But today, we really focus on either moving each of the pipeline. And so far we haven't had those – we had some of those kind of conflicts, and we've just managed through with openness and sometimes just pushing things off a little bit.

In terms of supply chain, it's an interesting question. So we clearly are doing more due diligence around supply chain if that answers your question. I don't know that we have given thought to whether we should change our targeting based on supply chain considerations. I think, in general, given – then thinking – just answering it extemporaneously I think given that on the finished goods side, most of the issues we've had are with more generic lab products, probably not an area of focus for ours. So again, we would be opportunistic there. And then on the component side, we're not going to buy a cheaper foundry or other kinds of things that are causing those kinds of delays. So I think it's probably impactful, but it's not going to drive us to do deals in a different direction.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. I guess my second question again sort of related to M&A. I'm wondering like COVID we're seeing improvements, but with some M&A that's in your pipeline do you see some of the lingering effects in some of these markets impacting your ability to do due diligence and close some of these deals? And I guess maybe a last piggyback question to that is, was there any delays with the most recent acquisition due to COVID?

So, yeah, so COVID has a couple of impacts. One is purely on the financial side. So nearly every business, I'm sure there's some exceptions [indiscernible] (39:49) some exceptions, but nearly every business had a variable performance last year. And it requires us to do a lot more due diligence around how do you normalize, what activity is likely to be going forward because business is down.

You just blame it on COVID, but you could find that somebody lost a large customer and that there's been a big regulatory change that has affected them. So it's required us to do a lot more. We do that due diligence anyway, but it required us to really dig maybe that second or third layer deep in the onion where if everybody is growing at a nice rate and everything appears in order, you don't need to find that second or third dimensional potential issue. Valuation, obviously that's become a more interesting question. So thinking a lot that which deal we did, we structured it with a combination of cash up front based on historical performance and that we have to include some of that historical performance kind of pre-COVID is to normalize that.

But an earn-out based on the to be proven, return to more typical performance metrics and then on the due diligence side in terms of just the consumer mechanics, it makes things more challenging when there are travel restrictions. Again, the most recent deal is a little bit easier, because we know the company very well. They've been a customer of ours, not a huge customer but a customer of ours for some period of time, but I should say, just for select products. So, there's more opportunity [indiscernible] (41:35) a different point. Know the people well and we're able to – so, we didn't – our team did not do a physical visit as part of this. We had local – essentially, partners to do physical things that needed to be on on-site. But if we came across a business that are – that we didn't know quite as well, didn't know all the players, had never really been there, that would be more challenging. But hopefully...

Got it. Okay.

...I think that's opening up and becoming less and less of a concern over time.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, just one last question just revisiting some the – some of the questions on the Equipment segment and the implied backlog. Just curious like, if there is one particular reason that, that comes up for why some of these labs are being so cautious in allocating capital, considering the capacity utilizations apparently 90%. So, I'm wondering is there – what specifically is causing the caution in the short-term?

Yeah. I think just in general, again we're talking at a worldwide basis. So, when we mention for example in the US, where we're seeing maybe a little less caution, where the people are building – adding to laboratories because of an increased capacity and opening greenfields operations. But if you'd look at some other countries where there's still particularly some parts of Europe and Asia, which we talked about earlier, where there are still lockdowns potentially in place or being re-imposed and lower – much lower vaccination rates and a lot more worry, I think I can understand that caution. And the reality is even at 90%, you can probably get by with equipment that you have.

If you need equipment, buying is needs based, either you need new technology because it offers something exceptional, which we hope we do, but sometimes people stick with what they have because they're not ready to [indiscernible] (43:45) something great and you just have to replace it or you're just – and then the third which is probably driving as much and more of our activity in general is as utilization increases, their labs get overcrowded or there's contention for use of equipment. So they need to buy more equipment to – whether it's an incubator to house embryos or a microscope and a laser to perform microsurgery.

So [indiscernible] (44:16) we were not in the growth business and the – then that we would be serving largely the replacement market as opposed to a growth market. So I think the growth is what it is which we're still not completely seeing in every market as it has been what's driving that caution, in some cases lack of growth.

Great. Okay. That's really helpful. Appreciate it. And I'll hop back in queue.

All right.

Our next question comes from David Martin with Bloom Burton. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my follow-ups. You mentioned travel expenses and conference attendance expenses down which is obvious. I think you also mentioned general expense control probably outside of those two areas. I'm wondering coming out of COVID, do you expect things to fully bounce back on the expense front to where they were, or is there – are there sustainable expense controls that you put in place that you believe will continue?

So, I'll respond on the sales and marketing side, then I'll ask Michael to maybe amplify on the other expense controls. In general, we are seeing – as we said, reduced travel and reduced trade shows. Reduced travel, we're going to – we expect potentially to continue – it's going to be more travel expense and there was certainly Q2, Q3 of last year. But we – people clearly are finding Zoom to be and other – and webinars and other things to be effective ways to meet and present market products.

So, we proved it. We did a lot of business during periods when you couldn't really travel and travel around much at all. So, I think it's not unlike your business on the – certainly on the banker side. You've got to face-to-face. Because face-to-face is critical when you're talking about new relationships and it's critical in certain areas, a lot of things that have historically – it's really hard when it is done face-to-face, turned out that they don't need to be.

So, we certainly would have hoped to see some continued restraint on the travel side. And on the trade shows, we're still expecting not much to be happening in Q2. And right now, there are actual exhibitions and conferences scheduled in Q3 that – both in Europe and the US that we are hopeful will actually come off. But on the other hand, you could also imagined further delays, so there might be some constraint on that. And that's going to be a really interesting question to see whether those come back as dynamic and as well attended as they were historically which recently we go to those, we spent a lot of money, or if people for various reasons either exercise caution or just aren't as interested in going to conferences. And those become a diminishing part of our field, which would come back in a kind of [indiscernible] (47:29) and amplify, we need to do more digital marketing and content communication. So I would say that's how I look on the – those two pieces of it.

Michael, I don't know if you have any comments on general expenses?

So, yes. A good question, David. I would say in very general terms, we would expect our own internal planning – budget planning for 2021 as some general return to the prudent and reasonable levels of expenses by category by percent to revenue. So we're in a growing industry, a growing macroeconomic industry. And we certainly are growing up and have our goals to grow more than the industry norm. So we are investing in that as we say every quarter.

So we are – I want to say expense controls, we look at it prudently. We plan a budget on an operation-by-operation basis. And we look for a significant impact from our operation management teams. So that's the sort of background for control. I would say that that's in terms of prudence and reasonableness. But at the same time, we are looking for opportunities to invest, looking for opportunities to find ways within our operating plans to expand products by category and, in very general from a sort of organic basis within our enterprise. And so we are – we don't have any artificial limits or controls on those, and we look at all reasonable opportunities and reasonable new ideas by the operations teams. And we largely say yes. So, I think in general, we would see some return to more normalized expense levels to go with the revenue growth that we are looking to achieve in 2021.

Okay. Thanks. Last question, what would you estimate is the global market size for microscope enclosure? So the market opportunity for a Tek-Event?

Yes. So that's a difficult number to answer. There's not a lot of great market-sizing data. I would say we kind of think of it as like small, medium, and large. So, today, it's a niche market. So relatively small from an overall market size view, then by being part of a larger business with more sales and marketing left behind us, you can put more emphasis and education around these products and get greater adoption. That's where the room for growth is going to be – is going to come from.

Okay. Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to David Wolf for closing remarks.

All right. Well, thank you very much. I want to thank everyone for joining our call this morning. And as always, we encourage you to go to our website, www.hamiltonthorne.ltd which is our investor website

for more information on the company and products and services and further investor information. And we look forward to speaking with everybody in the mid-August timeframe.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.