Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Wolf — Chief Executive Officer and President, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Andrew Hood — Analyst, M Partners, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne's Ltd. 2019 Second Quarter Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded that our standard public company's policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve but are not limited to comments related to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements; scientific advances, or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully, and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements, unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company.

Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators, including without limitation the company's management's discussed and analyses for the quarter and year-to-date end June 30, 2019, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

David and Michael, you may begin your conference.

David, are you there? Sorry, operator, we might have a bit of a technical difficulty here. I'm not sure whether David too lost his signal and needs to redial in. If we could hold one minute, that would be appreciated. Operator, do you have David calling back in?

Not as of yet, but I do see his line has disconnected.

All right. My apologies for the timing. Let's wait one more minute if we could. My apologies to all those on the call. And David must have a cell phone signal problem and should be dialing right back in.

Well, perhaps in the interest of everybody's time this morning, let me go ahead and start with David's remarks and then actually let me flip over to the results of operations and I'll begin with my remarks. And then David will be dialing back in in just a minute.

As everyone knows, I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. And the results of operations for the second quarter and the year-to-date, the company's total sales increased 10% to $8.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2019, an increase of $704,000 from the $7.3 million during the previous year. Six months year-to-date sales for 2009 (sic) [2019] (00:04:44) increased 9% to $15.6 million over the same period in 2018. Total equipment sales increased 8% in the quarter compared to a very strong prior year Q2 and 9.5% for the year. Consumables and services increased 10.7% in the quarter and 9.3% year-to-date.

Gross profit increased 1% to $4.2 million in the quarter compared to $4.1 million in the previous year and increased 1% to $8.2 million for the comparable six month period. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was consistent with Q1 at 52.2% for the quarter and 52.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus 56.7% and 56.5% for the comparable periods of 2018. Primarily attributable to product mix, increased sales of products or distribution channels, volume discounting and certain supplier price increases all partially offset by increases in direct sales of higher margin branded consumables and quality control testing services.

Operating expenses increased 14% for the quarter and 8% for the six months ended June 30 to $3.6 million and $6.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30 versus $3.1 million and $6.1 million for the comparable periods during the previous year, primarily due to the addition of acquisition expenses $315,000 incurred in the second quarter relating to the Planer acquisition, increased G&A expenses and marketing expenses. Excluding acquisition related expenses, all other operating expenses increased 4% and 3% respectively for the three and six month periods.

Research and development expenses increased slightly to $409,000 for the quarter and $851,000 for the six month period primarily due to increased personnel cost and significantly offset by increased cost incurred in the development of new products which the company capitalizes. Largest expenditures this quarter were for the push to launch our next generation LYKOS DTS movable laser.

Sales and marketing expenses increased to $1.8 million for the quarter to $3.4 million for the six month period due to the large part to the timing of our large international trade show in Europe, which occurred in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter in the prior year as well as continued investment in direct sales support and marketing resources.

General administrative expenses increased to $1.4 million which was $1.1 million excluding the acquisition expenses for the quarter. Six months year-to-date G&A increased to $2.3 million which was $2.0 million when excluding acquisition expenses.

Net interest expense increased slightly to $300,000 for the quarter and $631,000 for the six month period versus the prior year primarily due to increased interest expense related to the reclassification of a portion of rental expense pursuant to IFRS 16 and partially offset by a reduction in the company's other term loans and revolving line of credit borrowings. Income tax expense decreased somewhat to $183,000 for the quarter and $435,000 for the year-to-date, primarily to lower taxable income attributable to acquisition expenses.

The deferred tax expense remains a noncash expense which is offset against the deferred tax asset. Net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased from a net loss of $133,000 in the prior-year quarter to net income of $100,000, primarily due to increased gross profit and partially offset by the $315,000 of acquisition expenses incurred this year in Q2.

Year-to-date after the Q2 net income of $133,000, the net loss of $464,000 is entirely attributable to the $1.0 million Q1 noncash expense related to the change in the fair value of the convertible debentures issued in connection with the 2017 Gynemed acquisition. As we have discussed in many of our quarterly earnings calls, the variables in this required quarterly Black-Scholes valuation model are dynamic and substantial variations occurred each quarter in 2018 and in 2019 Q1 as well.

The June 2019 conversion of 45% of these debentures reduces future exposure to this fair value measurement. Adjusted EBITDA, one of our key metrics in measuring our business increased 3% to $1.6 million for the quarter, and 2%, $ 3.1 million for the six months year-to-date, attributable to revenue and gross profit growth and partially offset by planned increases in operating expenses in the periods.

Turning now to the company's balance sheet and cash flow for the first six months of the year cash generated by operations was again positive for the quarter and the six months which ended year-to-date increased 18% to $2.0 million, compared to $1.7 million in the prior year first half.

We invested over $600,000 in inventory growth year-to-date to continue to facilitate our expanded product offerings primarily in the Americas and to enhance production efficiency in the U.S. and provide the industry's best fulfillment turnaround in Germany and the EU in our Gynemed operations.

We continue to review and manage our inventory to optimize new and existing opportunities. Cash used in investing activities was $469,000 for Q2 and $751,000 year-to-date, primarily for ongoing investments and intangible development costs by our R&D teams related to the LYKOS DTS laser.

Cash utilized by financing activities was $922,000, primarily for scheduled acquisition term loan debt and lease obligations, and partially offset by $150,000 drawdown to our revolving line of credit. Our cash position of $14 million at June 30 was subsequently reduced in August to approximately $9 million after the Planer acquisition.

In addition, we have an additional $1.5 million of availability in our $2.5 million total revolver, and we are replacing – replenishing our $3 million of availability in the acquisition line of credit which we utilized in the Planer acquisition, which is an important resource in our ability to complete acquisitions at a relatively low-cost cost of capital.

And now, as you know, on August 13 we announced the acquisition of Planer Limited. David will talk more in his closing remarks about the strategic benefits of this acquisition, but I thought I would take a minute or two to discuss the financial side. Planer acquisition will be immediately accretive to both revenues and earnings, [indiscernible] (00:11:35) $6 million of revenues after eliminating intercompany sales and nearly $1 million of EBITDA on an annual pro forma basis.

From a structure perspective, we acquired three distinct assets. Please note that for purposes of clarity today I will discuss the transaction strictly in U.S. dollar terms although the transaction documents in the press release address the British pound sterling amounts as well. First and foremost, we paid $7.3 million for the enterprise value of the Planer business based on a 7.5 times targeted Planer EBITDA as of May 31, 2019 of approximately $975,000. In addition, we paid $1.2 million for the acquired cash and working capital, including excess capital typical operating needs and $2.1 million for the value of promissory notes from certain of the sellers and Planer Associates Limited, their affiliated real estate company, to the acquired holding company, Sunbury.

On closing, Hamilton Thorne paid aggregate consideration of approximately $10.7 million, consisting of the $7.3 million in cash, the issuance of an aggregate of 1.4 million common shares of HTL, which was at an issuance price of a moving average of CAD 1.13 per share and was valued at $1.2 million, and the issuance of a promissory note in the physical – in the principal amount of $2.1 million, which was immediately retired in exchange for the seller notes received as assets in the acquired holding company.

As security, 74% of the shares issued to the sellers will be subject to a two-year escrow pending final calculation of any closing adjustments and to satisfy any possible indemnity claims that might arise. The total cash paid of $7.3 million was financed with the company's cash on hand and a drawdown of $3 million from our acquisition line of credit facility with our senior lender, Middlesex Savings Bank. Line of credit drawdown automatically converted to a secured term loan of $3 million, which now bears interest at the rate of 4.45% per annum, amortizes over the life of the loan and matures five years from the closing date.

Now I'd like to thank you all for your attendance. David has dialed back in. I'd like to turn it back over to David.

Thank you, Michael and I apologize to all for the technical difficulties. I'm not sure if you started with my part of the discussion or you just jumped into the financials. So, I should decide where I should start.

...just jumped into financials, so you should begin with your introduction.

I will. I'll start at the beginning. So, first of all, obviously, Michael has talked about some of the sales results and you've had the opportunity to read our press release, but I'd like to provide some commentary. So I'm pleased to report that we did have a strong start to the year in Q1 which has continued into the second quarter. Sales increased 10% year-over-year to $8 million for the quarter and were up 9% to $15.6 million for the six month period.

Currency fluctuations continue to impact our reported results in U.S. dollars, but we were pleased to report that we achieved constant currency growth of 12% for the quarter and 13% for the six month period. Sales into the clinical market continue to grow substantially for the three and six month periods, driven by strong demand for Gynemed products worldwide, increased direct sales of equipment in the EMEA regions and in the U.S., and increases in quality control testing service sales.

Sales into the animal breeding market were down for the quarter, but slightly up for the six month period, while sales into the research market were down for both periods, again, reflecting our continued focus and emphasis on the ART business.

We also continue to make substantial progress in several of our business goals, including completing our first two lab build-outs in the U.S. and substantially increasing cell culture media sales in our established markets worldwide.

We also successfully launched our much anticipated next-generation LYKOS DTS moveable laser and have received positive feedback from our customers. Laser sales, which were down slightly in the first quarter, rebounded in the second quarter, albeit somewhat below the prior year's total which was a record laser sales quarter for the quarter for the company.

Gross profit margins were 52.2% for the quarter and 52.1% for the six months, primarily due to the factors that Michael discussed in his comments. Organic growth in U.S. dollars was 8% for the quarter and 10% in constant currency; 7% in U.S. dollars and also 10% in constant currency for the six month period, essentially on target with our expectations.

For the quarter, we had net income of $100,000, while we had net loss of $464,000 for the six month period, largely attributable to the approximately $1 million of non-cash adjustments in the valuation of derivatives relating to the outstanding debentures in Q1, which again, Michael discussed. Net income was also negatively impacted in the second quarter by over $300,000 expenses incurred in the quarter leading to the acquisition of Planer Limited.

Adjusted EBITDA, which among other things eliminates the change in value to the derivative and the acquisition expenses and let's say for one of the key metrics we use to measure our progress, was up 3% for the quarter and 2% for the first half, and $1.6 million for the quarter and $3.1 million for the second half.

I'd like to talk a little bit now about the Planer acquisition and our outlook. So, looking forward to the balance of 2019, we expect to see enhanced growth driven by continued growth in the U.S. based business, augmented by strong performance of our equipment, services and consumables brand, as well as our most recent acquisition.

As we discussed earlier, in the third quarter we completed the acquisition of Planer Limited. Planer is a leading worldwide provider of incubators, control rate freezers and monitoring equipment. With manufacturing, sales and support operations in the UK, this acquisition enhances our product solutions in incubation, cryopreservation and lab monitoring solutions, as well as providing us a direct sales and support platform for our entire Hamilton Thorne portfolio of products in an additional major market, ART market in the UK.

While in the short-term, enhancing our direct sales and support capabilities in UK will require an investment in marketing and sales personnel, over the long-term we would expect to see increased sales and profitability from the sale of our products through direct channels as well as closer customer relationships.

Gross profit margins were down from last year, but roughly the same as the first quarter as we saw significant contribution from third-party equipment, products and increased distribution in sales and volume – and a little – some volume discounting primarily in Europe.

The Planer business which historically has had somewhat lower gross profit margin and EBITDA margin than our existing business, based somewhat on product mix, but primarily it has historically sold its products through distribution channels. While this will dampen our efforts to increase margins in the short-term, however, and as previously discussed, over a longer period we look to see enhanced margins through direct sales of Planer products in the markets where we have direct sales coverage. We also expect to continue to make investments in personnel, R&D, programs and systems to support our growth with an eye to balancing our top line growth and overall sustained EBITDA expansion.

I'd like to add a few comments on our media business. In the second quarter, we achieved significant growth of our Gynemed-branded media despite continued delays in getting FDA clearance for our sales of media in the U.S. We remain confident that clearance is imminent, however realistically we will see minimum sales impact in the second half of this year.

On the other hand, as our media products as well as all the other Gynemed-branded consumables are CE marked, we will be able to sell them immediately in the UK, although we should remember it will take a little time for this business to ramp up.

In closing, with continued EBITDA growth, strong cash flows, and a healthy cash balance of over $9 million following the Planer acquisition, we believe we are well positioned to continue our acquisition strategy to complement organic growth.

I'd now like to open the line up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Good morning. I've got a few questions. First one is the industry appears to be growing at least in the upper-single digit range, which is already pretty respectable. But given the multiple big demographic drivers, do you see a potential inflection point coming where the industry growth is going to take a material jump to even higher rates?

Thank you for the question. So the growth rates, as you can imagine, are a blend of growth rates of various countries. Historically, in the U.S., growth rates have actually been fairly modest with the expansion of egg freezing, which is a significant growth area. That has the potential to grow because of some secular activities that are going on in the U.S. primarily relating to additional funding. I think we've discussed this in past that we see additional funding both for employer-provided – as an employer-provided benefits, so large primarily technology companies are offering IVF funding as a separate additional benefit beyond what their health plans mandate.

In addition, we've seen two states even in the past six months add mandates, New York added a mandate for large employer plans, and New Hampshire which is obviously not a large demographic, has also added a mandate. So we expect to see continued growth in IVF and therefore an acceleration of growth in IVF because the availability of third-party funding.

In Europe where there's already strong third-party funding, but generally stable population growth despite the need, we expect that market to continue to grow a little faster than U.S. has historically grown, but not quite as fast as the Asia-Pacific region and some other developing economies where, again, we would expect to see significant growth.

As to the question of whether that inflection point will occur in, let's say, the Asia-Pacific region, which could cause significant growth well over the 6% to 8% that most industry analysts believe is, you know, calls for little more crystal balling and I'm ready to do.

Okay. Second question, Vitrolife recently reported 18% organic growth in 2Q. What do you see as the differences, the main differences between your businesses that account for the different organic growth rates and what can you do to get up to that type of organic growth rate?

Yeah. So, I think you have to look at things over a maybe a somewhat longer period. I think if you look at Vitrolife's Q1, their organic growth was low-single digits, I think it was in the 3% or 4% range. So, if you average constant currency organic growth, we're pretty – frankly, pretty similar over the first six-month period. That being said, the Vitrolife business is primarily a consumables business and of that primarily a media business, that has good growth opportunities and perhaps something specific happened in that one quarter. They also announced a significant sale of some equipment, which was not really a major part of their business in China. But I think we'll have to wait and see whether that's the new normal for that company or frankly likely a good solid quarter, but maybe an aberration.

Okay. I've got one more question and then I'll get back in the queue. You mentioned the delays in FDA clearance for the Gynemed cell culture media. What's the nature of the delays? I mean, is it something that could prevent you from getting the products to the market or is it just a matter of time?

So, I would say maybe editorially, this has been one of the more frustrating regulatory experiences in my career. Though frankly I find it hard to criticize the FDA. They're just literally doing their job of crossing every I and dotting – crossing every T and dotting every I.

So the issues that we have been having have been largely relating to kind of, I would say stability testing as it relates to labeling. So I would think – I'm told we are very much in the endgame and that we should be seeing clearances for the products that we've originally applied for imminently and to be followed on ideally very closely by a wider range of products. I think when we get that – start to get those clearances, we'll be able to announce little more detail on that.

So, the short answer is, I would be I don't see any reason, but you never know that there's any fatal problem. I think it's literally just delay as the FDA does its job, thoroughly does its job.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning everyone. Just want to focus on the Planer acquisition. I think was originally announced the company was doing $6.7 million in trailing revenue, and then you just noted that $6 million-plus, was that the intercompany sales?

Yeah. Exactly. So both, and this is one of the things by the way that has made us comfortable with this acquisition. So both in the U.S. and in Germany, our direct sales team have been selling Planer products. And – but we don't want to give the exact number in terms so there's some obviously duplication of that, you eliminate that in consolidation.

So it's certainly over $6 million of revenues that will be added. And I think the good news is that it will be more profitable revenue, at least high gross profit percentage because while you eliminate some of that revenue and consolidation, you actually take [indiscernible] (00:26:54) margin.

Right. Is this going to be classified as equipment sales?

So the business is a combination of equipment, consumables and services. Equipment is the most significant portion of the business, and followed by services and then consumables. Obviously, one of our goals is to use this platform in the UK to begin to sell additional consumables primarily, obviously the Gynemed consumables.

So the gross – you'd mentioned gross profit was a little less than – excuse me, the rest of the consolidated business. Can you give us an idea what that is? I guess if we did $1 million off of 6-plus, it's kind of a 15% or 16% EBITDA business, but what's gross margin?

So the gross margins for their last audited financials which are available at Companies House were in the mid-40s – mid-ish-40s, so a little over 46%, 47%. That's certainly something we would hope to grow over time.

Okay. And you indicated that you were selling some of their products in Europe and in the U.S. But is the majority of their product sales in the UK at this point in time?

No, no, this is a worldwide business. The majority of the sales are certainly outside the UK. So...

Okay.

...U.S., Europe, China, Japan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Australia, the markets that we all sell into.

Okay. And just to the nature of the incubator business, is this mostly for lab setups or how do you see the selling cycle for such a product?

So one of the things I like a lot about the incubator business is obviously when you equip a new lab, you have to buy incubators, it's table stakes where there are other products that we sell, while they have good, tremendous benefits are things that you may decide you don't need or you defer the expense particularly if you're building a very small lab where incubators are not optional. Also, incubator usage, unlike a lot of equipment, scales fairly linearly with a number of cycles. If you have a typical incubator, we have relatively – these are relatively small benchtop incubators depending how people load them. Could have just two patients in them or as many as eight or 10 per chamber. And when your incubator is full, you need to buy another incubator.

Correct.

And that will [indiscernible] (00:29:34) and then of course it's a step function. You don't need to buy another incubator till that incubator is full again. So it's one of the few pieces of equipment that does scale. So we see the growth prospects of this are going to not be exactly similar to the consumables business, but more similar to consumables business where growth will be again scalable to these.

So it's not a – is it a I was going to say lumpy business, but is it sort of less lumpy because of that growth in the number of cycles for the clinics?

So it's been a fairly consistent business over the years in terms of I'll call it pre-quarter lumpiness. I think, again, I mean we've talked about the lumpiness in U.S. business, particularly had more to do with significant lab sales, where you might have a $200,000 to $500,000 or more sale made in one quarter, which obviously can have a significant difference. The incubator sales I would say are generally more of a steady business.

Okay. And I guess you had mentioned incubators for a while as sort of on your wish list. Now that you have one, what is the focus of the acquisition pipeline now?

So the focus in the acquisition pipeline continues to be the kinds of things we've always been looking for. The Planer acquisition provides us with a much stronger offering in incubators and good offering in cryopreservation that covers a piece of the waterfront, but not the complete piece of the waterfront. So one of the areas we continue to focus on is cryopreservation devices which are the disposables and reusables that are used in [indiscernible] (00:31:23) cryopreserving samples, so that the freezing devices themselves as well as the straws in which things are stored in.

On the equipment side, we still do not have our own workstations and flow hoods. So that's an area that we're looking at. And then I think one of the areas we [indiscernible] (00:31:44) pay a little more attention to is software, both lab management software and quality control software, which I think both which can fit very nicely with our product offerings.

Okay. So this is basically almost 2.5 years since the last major one [ph] which I'll call (00:32:01) Gynemed. Do you think that the next one will be quicker? Like, how long will it take to integrate the Planer and how quickly can you be ready to do one if it comes to you?

Yeah. So I think the readiness is pretty high. The integrate – as you know, we do our integration planning in a fairly good detail before we close. Also since we are, as we said in our press release, continuing to retain both the physical plant, the manufacturing and the personnel in place, that we're not really doing and because we've already sold Planer products in other areas, a lot of the kind of mechanics of – part of the mechanics of integration are relatively straightforward. And the things that we will be adding, which is new sales and support capabilities, in the UK and the ability to import both U.S.-based and the German-based products into the UK really – obviously our significant level of work for the Planer team, for the UK team, but don't really require a level of sort of organizational investment [indiscernible] (00:33:16), but organizational investment in time and resources.

So I would say on the readiness side we are fairly ready. We have been working on this acquisition for quite some time. So, I – they all take time. So I'm not – I don't know if this one took particularly long. But I would say this could have been close maybe even a year ago, and we'd be sitting here without asking – without maybe asking that question.

We have also added resources to our M&A team. We've just hired a Director of Corporate Development, who will help both with some of the integration and management activities, but obviously significantly accelerate our M&A activities.

Okay. And final question for me, and Michael said in the MD&A, the shares outstanding as of June 30, 123.7 million basic. I'm assuming the Planer acquisition shares will be not included in that number. So, the basic share count now roughly 125.5 million, is that correct?

That's exactly right. Yes.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Hood. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning. Most of my questions have been answered now, but I'll just go into a little bit more detail on Planer. I'm wondering, is there any number for synergies or cost savings you're expecting there?

So, I think, and we talked about this in the past, so we do not anticipate any meaningful cost savings off the numbers that we have been talking about. The adjusted EBITDA, the kind of pro forma adjusted EBITDA that we've discussed reflects the elimination of certain costs that were related to essentially the ownership group of the company that will not be continuing with the business. And that's the primary area of cost savings as well as couple of smaller areas of cost savings.

In terms of – in fact, as I mentioned in the short term you may even see additional expenses as we continue to invest in growing the business on the sales and marketing side.

Okay. Do you have any idea what that number could be or how many – you're hiring new people, is that what you're insinuating?

Yeah, yeah. So we will be adding sales staff in the UK devoted to direct sales. Obviously, since geographically it's a much smaller country than say the U.S. where we added three salespeople and a couple of support people to do this, in the UK we're talking about initially one additional salesperson and maybe half of full-time equivalent on the support side. So not trivial numbers, but not really significant numbers, in that [ph] 100,000 pound-ish range, so $120,000 per year (00:36:32).

Okay. So for those Planer's markets, I'm wondering about cryopreservation in particular and you know what the market size is in your geographies for cryopreservation?

So cryopreservation is a, I would say, is an umbrella term for a wide range of approaches. So if you think of all the cryopreservation activities that are done, let's say, in IVF, and then I'll talk a little bit about Planer's target markets for cryopreservation as well, it's certainly well over CAD 100 million a year of annual spend of the roughly CAD 1.1 billion to CAD 1.2 billion of annual spend on products that are used in the IVF lab.

The Planer business though is frankly more of a niche business, where we focus on selling control rate freezers which are used in IVF, but not in all markets and frankly have been replaced in large part by vitrification in the number of markets and are also used in IVF for a lot – but are used primarily for larger sample. So they're making a comeback a little bit an IVF for freezing of tissue – ovarian tissue as an example, and certainly used in general lab use.

So, in terms of the specific products that we sell, the overall businesses would be measured I would say in tens of millions versus hundreds of millions. But importantly, this provides us with significantly more technical expertise, so that as we both assess some of the other products that we might see if we're thinking of acquisition or want to do our own product development, we have a much stronger base of both scientific and engineering knowledge to build on.

Okay. Good. So, for the other – your other products that you're getting from Planer, so in the past you were selling those third-party I believe. Are you not going to sell those third party at all anymore? You are completely replacing them with these first party products or you're going to continue selling those?

So, it's a little bit of a mixed bag on the lab monitoring equipments, which is just to make sure we can describe what that is, so that's a typically a computer system hooked up to sensors and communications devices that are placed throughout the lab to measure temperature, gases, humidity and other environmental factors, so you can make sure that the lab is operating properly and that the, say, storage devices are properly maintained and maintaining temperature.

There may have been some small ones around the edges, but on those, we primarily only sold the Planer products over the last couple of years. So there – we would obviously put more – continue our emphasis on those. I don't see that we would had any meaningful third-party products.

On the incubation side, as I mentioned, we've sold both Planer products and other products. We would continue to sell some of the other products primarily based on form factor. So the Planer products have very specific form factors on bench top. There are other so-called large format incubators that are big box incubators that we sell provided by others that we don't make to Planer and they probably wouldn't make those. They're relatively I would say, their commodity products, but they're less technically complex.

And certainly time lapse incubation which we sell in Germany, we don't have a time lapse incubator through at Planer. And again, I don't want to make any promises on this, but this certainly also provides us with the basis for technical expertise that should we decide to do the – to develop a time lapse incubator, we would have a much quicker time to market on that.

Okay. Good. One thing I noticed, you stated that your sales to research labs was down for both the first two quarters. How much of your sales are from research labs now?

Low-single-digits. And I think historically been in the 5%-ish range, so it's dropped a couple of points off that. I will add and I should have, and so thank you for reminding me of this, the Planer business is a little bit different than the – certainly the overall Hamilton Thorne business in that it is primarily selling products into human IVF, very small amount into the animal world but a meaningful amount of their business is sold into research labs and other general biology labs.

So I think you'll see that number begin to come up and frankly we may even change the categorization there from research to general laboratory because a lot of these customers may be using the products for things like blood-banking or stem cell tissue preservation, which is sometimes in the research side and sometimes more in the, I will call it the production side.

Okay. My final question, I also noticed you stated that your first two lab build-outs in the U.S., both the lab build-outs was substantially completed. I'm just wondering does that mean are you recognizing any more revenue from that or it's just in terms of getting it installed or getting both uninstalled?

Yeah, so they were completed and installed. There's probably continued – well, hopefully there will be substantial continued revenue coming largely from consumables. But there's always going to be a little bit more equipment business. In fact one of these labs is having their open house shortly. So they'll be up and running in quick order.

Okay. So just as a quick follow-up before I jump out of the queue here. So in relation to those then are they part of a larger network of clinics? Could you get follow on orders from those?

So, I don't want to get too much into the details of follow-on orders because that relates little bit to their strategic plans. But one of them is part of a larger network and one of them is a start-up.

Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Just want to follow up on that last question. You said completed and installed in second quarter. So there are revenues associated with the build-out itself. I am not considering the go forward consumable revenues that you'll get. Were all of those revenues booked in Q1 or were any of your Q2 revenues due to these large lab build outs?

No, they were booked in the combination of Q1 and Q2.

And Q2. Okay.

I think what I would refer to is there is no more leftover or nothing meaningful leftover that will roll into Q3.

Okay. For Q3, are there any new large lab build outs that you're...

We have a couple of good sized projects, some workstations and I think then we've talked about kind of these large labs, kind of small labs and workstations and workstations can be certainly well over $100,000 in orders. So, I think you'll see measurable revenues from labs in Q3, but not the same kind of – I think use Doug's term lumpiness that you might have seen in Q1 and Q2.

Okay. And the workstations, do they involve just your proprietary instrumentation or is there also third party in their like the fuller large lab build outs?

So a combination. So a typical workstation that we would sell would be a so-called ICSI station where one uses an inverted microscope, laser, micro manipulators and maybe an anti-vibration table. It might be inside of a hood or not. So depending on how one sets that up and which micro manipulation set they choose, it could be substantially our products or it could be well always the combination because obviously we don't make our own microscopes or it could be a higher percentage of third-party products.

Okay. You mentioned vitrification as an alternative to cryopreservation freezers. Do you have vitrification products?

Yes. So we through our Gynemed subsidiary we sell vitrification media products, but we still have – market share on that is fairly low. So I think that's one of the areas we want to focus on. But there are still some disposable devices and storage devices that we don't sell, that we don't sell under our own manufacturer that would complete our product portfolio.

Okay. The $975 million of target EBITDA for Planer, does that include your increase in expenses to grow their sales force or is that a pro-forma number of those expenses or should we take those expenses out of the $975 million?

Get them out of the $975 million. So that was based on the historical through May 31, 2019 adjusted EBITDA number of the business that we bought. What we decide to do with it is on us.

Okay. And last question acquisition expenses for Planer, you're selling to 2Q should there be a similar amount in Q3?

I'll let Michael answer that.

So that was incurred through June 30th and we worked very hard to have the acquisition done, then a few sort of natural legal timing delays stretched that out into Q3. So we will have, additional closing costs probably will not reach the same amount as Q2, but we will have meaningful closing – final closing costs in Q3 for Planer, yes.

Okay. Sorry, I do have one more question. You mentioned the rebound on laser sales from Q1 of this year, but it was below last year's total. You mentioned 2Q last year was particularly strong. Why was 2Q so strong last year?

I would love to be able to give you the exact answer because then we would work hard to repeat it but I think sometimes it may be back to my Vitrolife comments, sometimes it's just luck of the draw in a particular quarter.

Okay. Was part of the year over debt – year-over-year debt because the next gen products weren't launched until May 1 and going forward, should we see a full recovery in quarters going forward or is demand slow?

Yeah. So I hesitate to use the word – to make any guarantees. But certainly, we would work hard and would hope to see not only a full recovery but increase in sales because of the increased demand for this innovative product. As you know, I try not to make too many forward-looking promises so I would say that's our objective and we'll report on it as we go along.

Okay. And what proportion of the new buyers of the LYKOS new system are new customers versus labs that are existing customers and are upgrading?

That's actually a very good question. So most of our sales of these because of for regulatory and other reasons were in markets certainly outside the U.S. and through distribution. So it's sold in Asia and Europe, primarily because we do C mark for it and regulatory clearance in certain Asian countries or can sell in the countries that don't require regulatory clearance.

With distribution sales, we don't always have full transparency to essentially answer that question because we don't know – yeah, we'll find out who the buyer was, but we don't know which lab it went to. But we don't necessarily know exactly what they have installed in their location. And that is one of the reasons we are interested in and willing to make investments in greater direct sales because we think having closer relationships with the end user will give us not only that kind of market intelligence, but also give the ability to just provide better service and therefore be more [indiscernible] (00:50:13) labs.

Okay. Just to clarify, did you say the new lasers aren't yet cleared in the U.S. or they are?

That's correct, they are not.

They are not. When do you expect that clearance?

Again, I'm skeptical – I'm not making any promises with regard to FDA clearance, but certainly we would hope by the end of this year.

And are U.S. customers holding off for the new lasers like they did in the other markets?

Hard to say. There is a fair amount of geographic difference in demand for certain products. So one of the features that we've added to this product which is the movable laser is something that for whatever reason has not been exceptionally highly demanded in the U.S. as it as it has been in other markets. So I don't think it's going to materially affect sales in the U.S. but certainly I would expect to see some of that.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

All right. Well, I would like to thank everybody for joining our conference call this morning. We encourage you to go to our website for more information on our products, initiatives and further investor information and look forward to speaking to you again in November. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.