Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — CFO, Vice President & Investor Relations Contact, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited First Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information. Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve but are not limited to comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions.

This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by Securities Laws applicable to the company. Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in the filings by the company with the Canadian Security Regulators. Including without limitation, the company's management, discussion and analysis for the three months ended March 31, 2017, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael

Good morning and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited Q1 2017 earnings conference call. I would like to introduce myself. I am David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. And alongside today, is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call will have the following format. First, I'll provide a summary of operational, financial results for the first quarter. Michael, will follow with a more detailed discussion of our financial results for the quarter, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as of the end of the quarter. I will return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the coming year, including a short discussion on our most recent acquisition. We will then open the line up for questions.

I would caution all participants, that we are not providing financial projections or forecasts, so I'd ask you to limit to questions to either historical results or general trends in our business. With that being said, I will start my comments.

First of all, 2016 was a transformational year for Hamilton Thorne, as we completed a significant expansion of both our financial profile and business capabilities when we acquired Embryotech Laboratories in September. We began to see the fruits of this acquisition in the fourth quarter and particularly in the first quarter of this year, as the acquisition materially contributed to both our sales and profitability.

Sales increased 62% to $3.28 million for the quarter, led by the contribution from our Embryotech business, as well as strong growth in our sale of clinical lasers and increased revenue from after sales services. We saw some softening in our imaging system sales, although sales of our higher end toxicology testing systems were exceptionally strong.

Net income for the quarter was significantly improved to $408,000 (sic) [$405,000] (03:54) versus $23,000 in the prior quarter. EBITDA grew over 400% for the quarter to $635,000 versus $116,000 last year. Cash flow from operations was strong at $1.3 million and total cash at the quarter-end was $2.2 million. We saw solid growth in our instrument business as a result of the significant investments in the resources and market development funding made over the past 6 to 12 months.

Sales for the Embryotech business were roughly flat in the two sequential quarters under our ownership. We did see growth in the sales of consumables. I'm happy to say that sales into our core in vitro fertilization clinical market led our growth driven by the contribution of a whole quarter of Embryotech sales plus a substantial increase in the sales of our clinical laser systems.

Our research business was strong led by the toxicology system sales I've already mentioned. Our animal business was off this quarter, but we expect to see a return in the coming quarters. Margins were up at 68% versus 63.7% for the prior year quarter due to product mix and the impact of our higher Embryotech margins.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. And I'd like to welcome you all to the call today as well. For the quarter, as you've seen in our press release earlier today, total sales increased 62% to $3.29 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, an increase of $1.26 million from the $2.03 million during the previous year.

As David mentioned, the increase was due primarily to the contribution of a full quarter of our Embryotech testing services and consumable sales. Gross profit increased by 73% to $2.2 million in the quarter compared to $1.29 million in the prior year quarter. Gross profit as a percentage of sales improved to 68% versus 63.7%. again primarily due to the contribution from increased sales of higher-margin ELI services and consumables.

Operating expenses were $1.7 million, up 43% or $527,000 from the $1.2 million in the prior year quarter. These increases were primarily attributable to the addition of a full quarter of the ELI operating expenses, continued strategic investments in our research and development as well as sales and marketing resources, and also initial new Gynemed acquisition expenses of $55,000. All these increased expenses were partially offset by reductions in other categories due to our continued expense controls.

Research and development expenses increased 8% to $278,000 due to staffing compensation and new product amortization expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased 24% to $758,000 due to the addition of normal ELI expenses, new amortization of intangibles related to the ELI acquisition and increased staffing and trade show spending. General and administrative expenses increased to $708,000 primarily due to the addition of the standard ELI quarterly expenses, spending on new acquisition costs and amortization of intangibles acquired with the ELI acquisition.

Net interest expense increased to $81,000, up 59% which was attributable into the increased borrowing to finance the ELI acquisition and partially offset by a reduction in revolving line of credit borrowings. Net income for the quarter was $405,000 versus the net of $23,000 in last year's first quarter. EBITDA for the quarter increased to $635,000 which is up over 400% versus the $116,000 achieved in the prior quarter of 2016, and again due primarily to the incremental ELI contributions.

Turning just a bit to liquidity and cash flow. The HT balance and cash at March 31, 2017 is $2.29 million and that's up from $1.8 million at December 31 or end of year, an increase of $391,000 again bolstered by the first quarter of our ELI results. Increase was primarily due as well to increases in receivable collections, a very consistent level of inventory and some reductions in payables and accrued expenses.

Cash generated by operations was $1.29 million for the first quarter compared to $351,000 in the prior year primarily due to, again, to the increased income for the quarter, the presence of the ELI results, and those favorable receivable collections. Cash used in investing activities was $26,000 for equipment and $103,000 for our continuing investment in product development primarily in our core HT business versus $37,000 and $121,000 for intangibles in the prior year quarter.

Cash used in financing was actually up to $774,000 versus $26,000 in the prior year primarily attributable to the standard cash management utilization of the favorable cash we generated in order to reduce our revolving line of credit, as well as our scheduled new term loan and other debt payments. Revolving line of credit was reduced $525,000 with available cash to $1.050 million for the quarter ended March 31 and we had our standard amortization of ELI term loan payments as well. Post Gynemed acquisition that David is going to talk a little more about, cash on hand as of April 28 after the acquisition increased to $5.2 million as of April 28.

With that review, I'd like it to turn back over to David and he's going to comment on the HT outlook.

Thank you, Michael. Pleased to talk a little bit about our outlook. I'd like to say first of all that we continued to be optimistic about the basic growth drivers in our business. The demographic trends driving demand in the human fertility market coupled with our focus on organic growth, new product, and service innovation, and expanding the breadth of products and services that we offer through a strategy of selective acquisitions, complementary products and companies, I believe will serve us well for many years to come.

As an example, we have begun to see some marketing synergies between our instrument business and the Embryotech toxicology testing assay business. This has begun to bear fruit in the form of greater exposure, cost savings, and most importantly new business opportunities. In fact, one of the historical Hamilton Thorne European distributors just placed a meaningful order for Embryotech products.

We continue to make progress on our active acquisition program. Following the quarter-end we completed the acquisition of Gynemed GmbH & Co. KG, which for sake of simplicity I will call Gynemed in the future, a leading manufacturer and distributor of consumables and equipment for the IVF clinic and laboratory markets in the well established and large European ART market.

In 2016, Gynemed has generated revenues of $9.6 million, net income of approximately $2.4 million, and a normalized EBITDA of approximately $2.3 million. This transaction adds a portfolio of premium products that are highly complementary to our existing products and service offerings, and provides us with a profitable base of operations in Germany. We expect this transaction to be materially accretive to revenue and EBITDA, and look forward to the opportunity to expand Gynemed product offerings into additional, international markets, the Americas, and to increase European sales of existing Hamilton Thorne products.

We simultaneously raised approximately CAD 12.5 million or $9.2 million in an equity financing and expanded our senior credit facility with additional $4 million term loan which was used to partly finance the acquisition. With continued positive cash flow from operations enhanced by April 2017 equity financing we improved our $1.8 million yearend cash position again to approximately $5.2 million and are well positioned to continue investing for growth through the acceleration of our acquisition program.

We will now open up the line for questions. Operator, please present the first caller from our call queue. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from [ph] Anita Dushyanth from Dinox Research (13:11). Your line is open.

Thank you, [ph] Anita (13:18). Please go ahead.

Hi. So, I have couple of questions. First of all congratulations on the quarter. And the first thing is could you explain a little bit about the margin of Gynemed products? Because we saw the impact of ELI's products on first quarter revenue. And the second is could you elaborate a little bit on your expansion strategy of Gynemed products in an expansion market?

Sure. Let me talk briefly about the margin. I'm might ask Michael to chime in if he has any specific comments to add and then talk about our expansion strategy.

So, first of all, the Gynemed product line generally consists of products that are manufactured by Gynemed, been branded to Gynemed, which have margins that are very consistent and in some cases, higher than the margins that we have on a blended basis. Also, there are products that are manufactured as [indiscernible] (14:16) products, which are consistent and perhaps in some cases a little bit lower than the margins that you've historically seen from Hamilton Thorne as well as distributed products.

So blend it together and you'll see this when we file our business acquisition report. The gross profit margins of Gynemed are certainly a little bit lower than the historical Hamilton Thorne products. Over time, we expect to emphasize in part through our expansion strategy, the sales of Gynemed branded products, which I think will in fact enhance overall margins so that we will be – what we look as a goal of certainly keeping our blended margins in the 60% range.

In terms of our expansion strategy, clearly, Gynemed products have a tremendous opportunity to be sold successfully as they have been in the European market, and historically in selected Asian markets. Given the Hamilton Thorne broad distribution that we have in Asia as well as the distribution and direct sales that we do in the Americas, we have the opportunity subject to various regulatory and other restrictions in setting up the right contracts, to be able to some either directly import and sell these products into the Americas, indirectly sell these products through our distribution network, and to the extent it makes sense for those products to continue to be sold directly by Gynemed, but perhaps to distributors that we have historically established to be able to establish and smooth those relationships. So I'm very confident that over time, so do not expect to see a hockey stick on this, but over time, we will be able to expand the sales of the Gynemed-branded products which will in fact enhance both top line revenues and gross profit margins.

Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from [ph] Cal Ray (16:25), private investor. Your line is open.

Good morning, David. Congratulations again on a great job with the acquisition. Quick question for you. With the acquisition of Gynemed, I guess you've blended almost for a month now. How's the transition been going and have you seen any low-hanging fruits or growth? And my second question would be, your last news release, the distribution deal that you did with Blood Cell Storage, is that a new strategy for the U.S.? Thanks.

Sure. Thank you very much, [ph] Cal (17:01). I appreciate the kind words. So in terms of Gynemed, yes, a month is both a short time and a long time in some respects. So I should like to maybe amplify and talk a little bit about our integration plan from a very high perspective and where we're focusing our efforts. So the Gynemed business, in some ways very similarly to the Embryotech business, is very similar to ours in the markets that we serve in a high level but has a significant level of differentiation in terms of the specific product lines and geography. So there's very little direct overlap that would require us to do a – I would – pay sort of a hard integration. So, in general, our integration activities are focused on financial integration, making sure that we understand the financials, control the treasury function, manage the numbers and are able to both capture and report on the numbers on an appropriate basis, and to maximize the marketing synergies that I talked about in connection with let's say our expansion strategy.

I would say, it is a little early to get even the low hanging fruit, though, there appears to in fact be the opportunity very easily to begin to sell some of the Gynemed products into certain markets in South America where we have – where the regulatory path is much easier than in the U.S. And we have in fact gotten very strong indications that there's business to be had. I don't know if we actually received our first order yet. It's some sort of a day-by-day thing. But again, I don't think you're going to see that to be a meaningful number in the short-term, so do not look for the floodgates to open.

In terms of the BCSI distribution, I think that is reflective of a continuation of our strategy in the U.S. as we begin to add direct sales resources to also expand the opportunity – the product lines that we carry effectively, put more products in the bags of the sales personnel to maximize the impact that they can make per call. And we expect to do that both through the addition of products that are under our umbrella, our own products with manufacturer branded to us such as the Gynemed products as well as selective distributed products. So, I think you will see in fact in the Americas more and more over time distributed products being sold through the Hamilton's foreign sales force. Operator?

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back to the presenter

All right. Well, thank you very much. We want to thank everybody for joining what has in fact been our inaugural conference call. We encourage you to go to our website for more information on Hamilton Thorne's products initiatives and further investor information. We will in fact be updating our standard investor presentation in the next day or so and that will be available on our website as well. And we look forward to speaking with all of you for our Q2 conference call. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.