Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Director, President & Chief Executive Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Tania Gonsalves — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Andrew Hood — Analyst, M Partners, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited 2019 First Quarter Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve but not limited to comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements; scientific advances, or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully, and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements, unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company.

Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators, including without limitation the company's management's discussions and analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Good morning and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited Q1 2019 earnings conference call. I'd like to introduce myself. I am David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. And as the operator mentioned on the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call will have the following format. First, I will provide a summary of operational and financial results from 2019 Q1 with a focus on our sales, markets and operational performance. Michael will follow with more detailed analysis of our financial results for the periods, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as at the end of the quarter. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the remainder of 2019. We will then follow up with some questions. I'd like to remind all participants that we are not providing financial guidance, so I would ask you to limit your questions to either historical periods or general trends in the business.

I'll begin with our sales results. The first quarter represented a strong start to the year for Hamilton Thorne. Sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased 9% to $7.6 million, up 13% on a constant currency basis. I'm happy to say that we continue to make substantial progress on several of our business goals. This quarter, we participated in our first two large lab buildouts in the U.S. We did not necessarily win all of the business in each of these labs, but these were substantial sales and will go a long way to establishing our credibility in this area and positioning us for future instrument and consumable sales.

In addition, we substantially increased our cell culture media sales in our established markets worldwide. We also had strong growth in our image analysis product line, our branded pipettes, and our toxicology testing consumables. Sales of our laser products declined in the first quarter, partially as a result of the introduction of our next generation LYKOS DTS product.

Overall, sales into the human clinical market were flat, primarily driven by a reduction in equipment sales in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, offset by the significant increase in equipment sales in the U.S., as well as increases in consumables sales worldwide. Sales into the animal breeding market grew substantially, while sales into the research markets were somewhat down, reflecting our continued focus on Assisted Reproductive Technologies.

Gross profit margins were 52.1% due to the increased contribution of third-party equipment related to the large laboratory sales I mentioned earlier, as well as the mix of our own branded products. Organic growth was 6% for the quarter, 10% in constant currency. As we discussed in our last earnings call, the euro dropped approximately 8% versus the dollar from Q1 2018 to Q1 of this year. Assuming the euro stabilizes at the current levels, we will see a reduced but meaningful impact in Q2 with the declining impact for the balance of the year.

For the quarter, we had a net loss of $564,000 largely attributable to the approximately $1 million non-cash adjustment in the valuation of derivatives relating to outstanding convertible debentures. To put that into context, in the prior year's quarter, we recorded a positive adjustment of approximately $400,000 so a total swing of approximately $1.4 million. Michael will add additional detail in his comments.

Adjusted EBITDA, which among other things eliminates the effect of this change in the value of derivatives, is one of the key metrics used to measure our progress. It was rough up – roughly flat at $1.5 million for the quarter ended 2019 – March 31, 2019. I will note in our press release, we mentioned that adjusted EBITDA was up 4% on a constant currency basis. While we don't expect to comment on this metric each quarter, we thought it useful in this period to further illustrate the significance of currency fluctuations in our reported results.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone. I am Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. Hamilton Thorne, as David reported, increased 9% to $7.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $635,000 from the $7.0 million during the prior year's quarter.

As David noted, we had increases in clinical market sale – well, clinical market was essentially flat and also reported on our activity in Asia and the EMEA regions and the increase in consumable sales worldwide. While sales of the company's laser products declined in the first quarter due in part to the introduction of our next generation LYKOS DTS product, overall, equipment sales increased 11% to $3.0 million, an increase of $300,000; and consumables and services increased 8% to $4.6 million.

As David said, gross profit increased 1% to $3.98 million for the quarter ended March 31, compared to $3.94 million in the previous year quarter, primarily as a function of sales growth. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 52.1% for the quarter, versus 56.2% in the prior-year quarter, primarily due to product mix, particularly the planned increase in sales of somewhat lower-margin third-party products in the U.S. associated with the two large laboratory setups and workstation sales.

Net margin impact was partially offset by increases in direct sales of our higher-margin branded consumables and quality control testing services. With the sales increase of 9%, operating expenses increased only 1% or $36,000 to $2.96 million for the quarter. And that's attributable to continued planned investment in sales and marketing resources, and partially offset by reductions in other categories due to continued expense controls as we work to leverage all of our resources.

Research and development expenses increased 1.3% to $441,000, primarily due to increased personnel and new product amortization expenses, and partially offset by expenses relating to the development of those new products, which the company capitalizes.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $113,000 or 7.6% due to the continued investment in direct sales and marketing resources in the Americas, including increased commission expense directly attributable to that sales growth.

G&A expenses actually decreased $82,000 or 8.2%, primarily due to reduced share-based non-cash compensation expense of prior-year option grants, as well as some additional expense reductions.

Net interest expense increased $51,000 to $331,000 for the quarter due to non-cash accretion on the outstanding convertible debentures and offset by reduced interest payments on the company's bank debt due to principal reductions.

Income tax expense increased modestly to $252,000, compared to $239,000 in the prior quarter. Biggest share of that is our deferred income tax expense of $190,000, compared to $158,000 in the prior quarter, which is the non-cash offset against the corporation's substantial deferred tax assets, which were recognized in 2017 and 2018, all attributable to several years prior net operating losses.

Net income actually decreased to a loss of $564,000 in the first quarter, versus net income of $893,000 for the prior quarter, a decrease of $1.4 million, which is due entirely to the change in the fair value of the convertible debentures issued in connection with the Gynemed acquisition.

As we have discussed in many of our quarterly earnings updates, the variables of this required quarterly Black-Scholes valuation model are dynamic and substantial variations occurred each quarter in 2018 and will occur in 2019 as well. Actually, two quarters in 2018 were gains to the value based on the fluctuations in currency and the share price.

To put that instrument in perspective, despite the quarter-to-quarter swings of as much as $1 million, the net change in the value of the derivative since its issuance in April of 2017 has been less than $300,000. The primary variable in the valuation is the share price. The derivative will remain in place until the debentures are converted to equity or mature in April of 2020.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter ended March 31 increased 1% to $1.505 million, versus $1.496 million in the prior year's quarter due to revenue and gross profit growth offset by increased operating expenses.

In Q1, we were able to generate a flat EBITDA performance by leveraging our expense levels in a quarter where our sales successes with our expanding portfolio of products actually produced anticipated margin pressure from relatively lower-margin third-party products. With those sales, we were still able to achieve over $1.5 million of adjusted EBITDA. Expenses will continue to increase selectively during the year, but we have demonstrated significant financial leverage in our performance in Q1

Now, on the liquidity side, turning now to the company's balance sheet and cash flow. Cash generated by operations increased 94% to $1.5 million, compared to $748,000 in the prior-year Q1. We invested over $500,000 in inventory growth in the quarter to continue to facilitate expanded product offerings primarily in the Americas, to enhance production efficiency in the U.S., and to provide the industry's best fulfillment turnaround in Germany and the EU. We continue to review and manage our inventory to optimize our new and existing opportunities.

Cash utilized in investing activities was $300,000, primarily for the ongoing investments in the intangible development costs by our R&D teams. Cash utilized by financing activities was $380,000, primarily for our scheduled term loan debt payments on our acquisition debt. In addition to our cash position of $14.4 million at March 31, we have an additional $1.7 million of availability in our $2.5 million total revolving line of credit, and we have a new $3 million of availability in a new acquisition line of credit, which we negotiated in November of 2018, which was an important resource in our ability to complete the acquisitions with a relatively lower cost of capital and in a rapid turnaround.

Now I'd like to turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. Looking forward into the balance of 2019, we expect to see continued growth driven by substantial growth in our U.S.-based equipment business, the strong performance of our equipment, services and consumables brands worldwide. As we discussed in our last conference call and we certainly saw in Q1, with two large dollar, but somewhat lower-margin lab sales coming in the same quarter, we will have some variability in gross profit margins from quarter-to-quarter.

assuming we don't see a repeated concentration that of Q1's third party equipment sales in subsequent quarters, we still expect gross profit margins for the remainder of the year to normalize around the mid-50s level we saw in 2018 as we manage product mix between our own high-margin products and our third-party products.

We are also excited about the introduction of a new LYKOS DTS laser system and expect to see laser sales continue to grow, particularly in the second half with the adoption of this new product as well as the positive dynamics for laser sales in the overall industry continue to increase sales demand. We will also continue to make investments in personnel R&D programs and to support our growth an eye to balancing our top line with sustained EBITDA expansion and growth over the long term.

Finally, as our acquisition program continues to be an important element in our growth plans, we have begun to devote additional resources to this area as well. We continue to maintain ongoing discussions with several targets and expect that we will see accelerated activity in this area. With continued earnings growth, strong cash flow from operations, a cash balance of $14.4 million and increased borrowing availability, we believe we are well-positioned to execute on our acquisition program as well as support our organic growth.

We will now open line up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Martin from Bloom. Your line is open.

Good morning. I've got a couple of questions. First is, can you explain the comment, sales of lasers declined as a result of the introduction of the next generation LYKOS product? Was it a matter of customer's new – the new product was going to be launched in May and so they held off in Q1?

Yeah. So, as you can imagine as much as we want to keep product introductions a secret as possible and bring them out when they come out, both our desire to have direct feedback from customers as well as medical regulations, which require us to use those – that equipment in lab settings prior to release, compel us to present the systems to customers. Those customers are under NDA, but as one can imagine, there's certainly some possibility of discussion.

We also have a number of stocking distributors that buy our products on either quarterly or sometimes semiannual basis. And for these and frankly other reasons as well we discovered at least some of them, particularly one from taking large order in Q1 because we didn't want to have a situation where we saw a large set of systems and then have a disgruntled distributor looking to potentially either return them or exchange them in a later quarter.

Okay. On the flip side of things, you've mentioned notable sales increases in the image analysis products, cell culture media, animal breeding market and U.S. equipment and I would imagine the U.S. equipment was because of the large lab installs, but what about the other three product lines where you noted sales increases. What drove that and are they expected to be transient or sustainable factors?

So, I think it's slightly different things for different areas, for cell culture media and the toxicology testing consumables, we've put significant effort into – and it varies a little bit for each of those and I don't want to get too much into our go-to-market strategies, but we've put significant effort into expanding our marketing for those products and expanding our distribution channels, including outside the U.S. So those are – both have been successful, and I see no reason why they shouldn't continue to be sustained with the various ups and downs one sees potentially from quarter to quarter, but on a sustainable upward track for a meaningful period of time.

Image analysis sales like all equipment businesses tends to have a little bit of lumpiness to it. So in this case, we had a number of systems that we sold, fulfilling a very large product that we – actually project that we actually started in Q1 and also had good across the board demand. That one project we thought was actually finished, so we got a couple more orders in Q2 for that, so – but will tail off, but the underlying solid demand we would expect to see continue and certainly solid demand for at least one particular product line seems to be increasing.

Okay. And then the third question is, what factors drove the reduction in equipment sales for EMEA and Asia? Was it waiting for the next generation LYKOS system, or were there other factors?

Yeah. Let me talk about that because I think I might have misspoke in my comments because I think I might have said a significant reduction in those areas, which was not the case, but we did in fact have a reduction. It was a little bit different in each area in Asia-Pac, where some of the features that we've offered in our new laser system and where we tend to have stocking dealers, it was in large part related to the – I'm sorry, I had another call come in. I apologize. So hopefully you didn't hear that.

So in Asia-Pac, it was mostly relying – relating to the new laser system in Europe to some extent related to that, but actually largely related to reduced sales of third-party products in our German platform where we had significantly reduced sales, obviously, offset to some degree by the increasing third-party products in the Americas.

Great. And why in Germany? Is that expected to continue?

The German business is, I would say, more mature. The German market is more mature than the U.S. market in many ways in terms of IVF. I think we've talked about in the past that there were significant, both funding improvements in IVF in the U.S. as well as changes in behavior particularly around egg banking that is increasing demand and therefore increasing the need for new labs in the U.S. So we see overall, generally, more equipment demand in the U.S. and continuing for a longer period of time.

Okay. And one other quick one. Are any of your project or product subject to tariffs in China?

So certainly, as of today, it does not appear so. I'm not sure we know exactly what is happening with the retaliatory tariffs that were proposed, but have not come into place yet. I suppose in the short-term we might see very large order from China in Q2, if that were the case. But in the long-term, if we ended up being subject to tariffs, that would obviously have a negative on our business.

Okay. I'll get back in the queue. Thanks.

Thank you, Dave.

Your next question comes from Tania Gonsalves from Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. So a couple from me as well. I'm wondering how I'm misreading this, but you mentioned that sales into the human clinical markets were flat. And considering this make up 90% of – or around 90% of your total sales, what is it that drove this 9% year-over-year growth in revenue? Did that all come from animal breeding? That seems a little too good to be true.

Yes. So I'd have to actually do the analysis [indiscernible] (00:22:15) and, Michael, maybe you can think about it while I ramble for a second. But when we look at the percentages of where our business comes from in the chart that you referenced, the 90%, we base that solely on constant currency. So we look at what's happening in local currencies and local markets. In the reported results – obviously, it would be based on reported results.

So, clearly, I want to verify this, but clearly sales into the human clinical market would be up in constant currency by the 3% or 4% that you saw, let's say, our EBITDA was up and our constant currency versus reported results were up. There may be some other factors, I know, in this particular quarter and we try not to get too hung up on quarter-to-quarter variability. The animal business was up substantially, so it was a little bit more than – so, therefore, for this quarter, our human business was a little bit below the 90%. So I would say it was a combination of both of those things.

Understood. Okay, perfect. And then secondly on the new LYKOS DTS system, we haven't talked about exactly what the system is. I'm wondering is it a full replacement of the laser itself or is this an added software feature that can simply be added on to older models?

So, no, it's a new platform for the laser itself, which is again one of the reasons why people need to take some time to think about, are they going to convert and particularly, again, both our customers and our stocking distributors which one they want to stock. The new system will have all of the features of the old system, but the old system cannot be upgraded. We will have a trade-in program, but cannot just be upgraded to the new system.

Understood. Okay, perfect. And then as well I'm wondering, if a number of customers postpone orders or you didn't make as big a sales to the stocking customers, should we see that bump coming in Q2 specifically to the stockers, I suppose, or will it be more spread out through the year?

So I would say it will be more spread out through the year. We've already seen a small number, but the number of orders coming through our channels. And we expect to see more, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region have good indications. If we get too many orders in Q2, frankly, we'll have probably some production constraints in Q2 as we bring up the production of this. But by Q3 and Q4, I think that will have worked its way through the system and we'll see, again, a more normal, both demand and supply pattern.

Excellent. Okay. And I know you can't speak too much on this, so I'll just focus on what is actually mentioned in the MD&A just referencing some hardware and software enhancements to the CASA product line. Should we look for those maybe this year potentially having the same effect as the new laser disc?

So, on the software side, most of the enhancements that we make in our CASA Systems historically have been on the software side and those unlike the LYKOS laser are, for the most part, backwards compatible. In some cases, particularly if we change something like a camera resolution, somebody might have to upgrade a camera. But generally speaking, those have historically been backwards compatible. We'll have to see if there are other products in the pipeline that wouldn't behave like that.

Okay, excellent. That's all for me. Thank you very much, David.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Andrew Hood from M Partners. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. So my first question...

Hi, Andrew.

Good morning. I have a series of questions in relation to the two lab orders in the U.S. So I'm not sure if you would share this, but first of all, could you illustrate sort of what proportion of sales in the U.S. was represented by these two orders?

So we don't want to break down it to that level of detail, but it was obviously – I guess, everybody is looking at what is substantial, but it was obviously a substantial percentage of U.S. sales. The orders were each several hundred thousand dollars in size. So you can probably do the math yourself.

Okay. So again, on that, so did you provide substantially all of the equipment that was used in the lab, or is there a big gap where you could be providing certain equipment that you're not?

So in one lab we provided substantially all the equipment. There was one particular product set that we did not provide. In the other lab, I believe we tried it almost everything. They're a little bit different in that one was a brand-new lab built from scratch, and the other was more of addition to an existing laboratory, so kind of creating an additional lab space within an existing laboratory.

Okay. And again, on those labs again, I know partly have hurt your margins because some of the products were third party. So what proportion was third party versus your own branded product?

I'd rather not get into too much detail on that, but it was a mix.

Okay. Okay. Now moving on, just to your sales network in general, what proportion is direct sales now versus third party in total?

So, again, we don't break out that number, though I think we've been asked enough that we're keeping close...

Okay. Okay.

... [indiscernible] (00:28:17) that we started to thinking about doing that. But it's certainly well more than half and well, well more than half is direct sales.

Okay. Now moving on to that derivative liability, obviously, it was the biggest impact on the loss on an accounting basis. So I'm just wondering, I was looking at how it's set up. It looks like there's a three-year conversion schedule that's optional that was on the anniversary of closing. So 20% and 25% within the first two years could be converted. I'm wondering if you could tell us if any investment converted so far.

So none of that has been converted so far.

Okay.

If it were – if and when it is, it would obviously have a reduced impact on the – it would be reduced impact...

Right.

...on that derivative.

Right.

I think we're just looking forward to April of 2020 when it just kind of works its way through the system.

Yeah. But I guess to some shareholders or holders of these convertibles, if they were to convert it, it's at a discount to the current share price, right, at $0.63?

Yes. The euro equivalent at closing of $0.63. That's close.

Yeah.

So they're early in the money. There should be an incentive to convert. We may see some conversions.

Okay. I'm wondering if you could comment about the competitive landscape. I know in the last call you mentioned that depending on who the estimates you look at, the market's growing 5% to 10%. And last quarter Vitrolife – or I guess, last year, Vitrolife was up about 4% organic growth. So where do you think you kind of are at in the industry in terms of growth rate? Do you think you're one of the fastest-growing players?

So I think we're growing very well, yes. So on an – certainly on an organic basis and acquisition can obviously tend to skew that. I think, again, for the sizable businesses, I think we're clearly one of the faster growing of those sizable businesses. A smaller business could conceivably have faster growth rates because it's easier to grow off smaller base, particularly if they have some new innovative product. Those tend to be nichey products and reach a ceiling at some point.

Okay. And so I would expect that maybe the types of companies you're looking at to acquire are the faster-growing niche players. Would that be a fair way to...

Ideally. Ideally and then...

Okay.

...then bring their products into a broader range of both customers and territories.

Okay. All right. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Tania Gonsalves from Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Sorry, just one more for me that I forgot to ask.

It's always nice to hear from you again.

In the press release you'd mentioned that you did the first two large lab buildouts in the U.S., is that – and can you just...

Yeah.

Is that in reference to the first ones of this year or are those actually the first ones in U.S. geography?

It's the first ones we've done in the U.S. geography. Prior to, really, last year, we didn't even focus on this. We focused on providing our specialized solutions primarily sold through distributions to others who are doing these larger lab buildouts. So, again, as I think we've mentioned in prior calls, we now have a greater attach rate to both our existing systems if we sell a full workstation or significantly greater revenues by selling full labs. So these are the first two that we've sold in our history in the U.S. In the German business, again, we've sold this – there's some ups and downs kind of like one to two year on a pretty fairly consistent basis over the past few years.

Okay, understood. Then I can assume the past large lab installs that we've talked about were all in EU?

Yes.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much. That's it.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from David Martin from Bloom. Your line is open.

Hi. Back to my first question, you explained some of the growth drivers of parts of the business. The animal breeding business you said was up as well. What was the reason for that? Is that sustainable and how big is that business?

So, for us, I think we've said it's been roughly 5% of our business. Again, this particular quarter, it was larger because we had some good solid growth in that. It was driven by two things. One very large project that spend – we're spending two quarters now. We're now spending three quarters. I don't want to break out exactly how much, but that project will clearly wind down. So that particular project is not, in your word, sustainable, but who knows? There are clearly other projects behind that that we bid on from time to time.

In terms of the – I mean, but that's sort of additive to our business. So that's probably what brought it from the 5% or – the 4% to 6%. It usually is up to a more meaningful number. But the underlying sort of base busy day-to-day business is very sustainable. That's been a very nice sustainable area for us. We put meaningful effort into it. It is under the animal business, we should say. Even though it's not human clinical, it is Assisted Reproductive Technologies. And very complementary both in terms of the products that we sell and in some cases in terms of the research we perform and others perform and the feedback that we get for new product development. So it's very complementary to our clinical business.

Okay. Next question, on the foreign exchange front, you mentioned the weakening of the euro. A, how much of the natural hedge do you have for your margins, like a third of your sales are from Europe, is a third of your cost base also in the Europe? If not, what are the proportions? And then in Asia – do you have active hedges against Asian currency fluctuations? How do they impact your revenues?

So for the most part – and again if I get into deeper waters maybe I'll ask Michael to comment – we bill only in U.S. dollars and in euro. So we don't bill in Asian currencies, which are obviously – have seen some volatility in the – euros are even more volatile. We do have issues from time to time where if a currency has a dramatic decrease or even a sustained decrease, where the local distributor who we're billing in U.S. dollars, come to us for either further discounting or some other concessions, we sometimes provide marketing support and other things. But we don't really do any active hedging on that.

In terms of European market, I would say of what we bill in euros, nearly all of that is sourced in euros. So I think this is kind of maybe as you alluded to the sort of natural hedge in that. And what we bill in U.S. dollars, probably more of that is sourced in euros than – a small percentage is sourced in euros, but more than is sort of the reverse that we bill in euros that is sourced in dollars.

Okay.

That was clear. I think I kind of confused myself even by that answer, but hopefully I didn't confuse you.

No, no, I got that. Last question. Are there any other high probability large build, lab buildouts on your radar this year?

So we certainly have a couple in the pipeline both in the fulfillment stage and the bidding stage. Again, I think for competitive reasons, as you can understand, we don't want to get too deeply into that discussion.

So we should probably expect your gross margins to be a little lower than last year?

I would think so. Well, certainly Q1 – if you look at it on an annual basis, Q1 was lower and I don't believe that we're going to have a quarter with a substantially higher margin that will just completely flatten that out. So on a year-to-year basis, the margins will be lower. On a quarter-to-quarter basis, I think we would try to get very close to the kind of margins that we had last year.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions in the queue. I now turn the call back to the presenters.

Okay. Well, thank you very much. As always, I am very appreciative for the support that we get from our shareholders and the good questions that we get from the analysts who participate in this call. And we look forward to having our next call in the August timeframe. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.