Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of Audit Committee, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Paul Andreola — Editor and Publisher, SmallCap Discoveries

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Ltd. 2018 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reason why actual results could differ from those reflected in forward-looking statements unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company. Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including, without limitation, the company's management's discussions and analysis for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Thank you very much. Good morning, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited first quarter 2018 earnings conference call. I would like to introduce myself. I am David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call will have the following format. First, I will provide a brief summary of financial results for the quarter with focus on sales, markets, and operational performance. Michael will follow with a more detailed discussion of our financial results for the period, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity at the end of March. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the coming year. We will then open up the line for questions. I would like to remind all participants that we are not providing financial guidance, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to either historical periods or general trends in the business.

I'll begin with our sales results. This was a great start to the year for Hamilton Thorne. Sales for the quarter grew 113% to $7 million, primarily driven by our sales into the human clinical market which grew substantially, largely due to the contribution from the Gynemed acquisition, but augmented by strong increases in the sales of our clinical instruments and quality control testing services. Sales into the animal breeding market also grew substantially, while sales into the research markets were somewhat down.

Organic growth was 18% for the quarter, led by a very strong showing for our image analysis systems and LYKOS laser with continued positive performance in our quality control testing services business. Gross profit increased 76% year-over-year to $3.9 million. As we expected, margins were over 56% as a result of the mix of our high-margin branded products and services as well as third-party products.

Net income increased 120% year-over-year to just under $900,000. Adjusted EBITDA, which is one of the key metrics we use internally to measure our progress, increased 99% to $1.5 million for the quarter versus $750,000 in the prior year. Operating expenses were generally in line with our expectations.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. As David indicated, Hamilton Thorne sales increased to 113% to $7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $3.7 million over the first quarter of the prior year, again, driven primarily by the contribution from the Gynemed acquisition.

The other primary driver of the Q1 success, again, is organic growth which 18% in instruments and quality control testing services. Our gross profit for the quarter increased 76% to $3.9 million. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 56.2% for the quarter versus 68% for the prior year, primarily due to our product mix, and particularly the expected increase in sales of our somewhat lower margin third-party products in our Gynemed distribution model, and partially offset by increases in higher margin branded instruments and quality control testing services sales. 56.2% represents an improvement over Q4, and up approximately 170 basis points, and it was generally in line with our plan.

While sales increased 113%, the requisite operating expenses increased 68% to $2.9 million for the quarter due to the addition of the acquired Gynemed operations, and the resulting significant increases in amortization of acquisition-related intangibles.

As you'll note in our financials, non-cash amortization of acquired customer list, brands, and other assets totaled $311,000 for the quarter. Operating expenses were also impacted by continuing strategic investments in research and development, in sales and marketing resources, as well as non-cash share-based compensation expense, and all partially offset by reductions in other categories due to our continued expense controls.

Research and development expenses increased $158,000 or 57% for the quarter, primarily due to the acquisition of Gynemed's R&D expense levels as well as investments in our teams of professionals at both HTI and ELI working on next-generation products and services.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $723,000 or 95% for the quarter, reflecting our substantial added investments in the expanded direct sales team in the Americas, which we initiated last September. This change from our previous distribution model of the direct sales model in the U.S. is a primary driver of our organic sales growth where we carefully recruited veteran sales professionals in the IVF industry to add incremental sales as quickly as possible. Expense increases are also obviously attributable to the addition of the Gynemed expenses post-closing and the amortization of the aforementioned intangibles related to the Gynemed acquisitions.

General and administrative expenses increased 42% to $1 million for the quarter attributable to the full Gynemed operations and increased share-based comp.

Net interest expense increased $200,000 for the quarter, reflecting increased borrowing to partially finance the Gynemed acquisition. The change in the fair value of the acquisition-related derivative added $398,000 of non-cash income to the results for the first quarter. The derivative, as you know in our financial statements, relates to the convertible debentures issued in the Gynemed acquisition and is evaluated on a quarterly basis and reflects the changes of the foreign currency value of the euro among other variable factors.

Income tax expense increased to $239,000 compared to only $4,000 in the prior quarter. In our departure for prior years, we now recognize income tax expense due to the Q4 recognition of $4.3 million of deferred tax assets. These assets, of course, stemmed from the accumulated net operating losses of prior years, which were evaluated and determined to be realizable due to the increased scale and profitability of Hamilton Thorne.

Income tax expense increased – current income tax, rather, increased to $80,000 for the quarter due to German taxes on Gynemed's income for the period and to certain U.S. state income taxes as the net operating loss carry-forwards relating to state income taxes have also expired. Deferred income tax expense was $159,000 for the quarter, attributable to the U.S. federal tax and offset by NOLs.

Net income increased to 120% to $893,000 for the quarter versus net income of $405,000 for the prior quarter, an increase of $488,000 due to the increased revenues and profitability, changes in the fair value of the Gynemed derivative, and offset by our continued strategic investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and the expenses associated with our acquisition.

Other comprehensive income for the quarter was $489,000 compared to nil in the prior year due to foreign currency translation gains by the parent company from the foreign operations of our subsidiaries primarily in Europe. The result in total comprehensive income for the quarter, $1.48 million (sic) [$1.38 million] versus comprehensive income of $405,000 for the prior year.

Adjusted EBITDA, as David indicated, a very important metric that we use to measure our business for the quarter ended March 31 increased almost 100% to $1.49 million versus $751,000 for the prior-year quarter due to revenue and gross profit growth and offset by increased operating expenses post-acquisition. Please refer to our management discussion and analysis report on file for detailed reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income.

Turning now to the company's balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $5.86 million and compared that to $5.74 million as of the end of December, an increase of $116,000. Working capital increased to $5.8 million at March 31, an increase of $1.2 million. The increases in cash balances and working capital were primarily due to increased net income and changes in receivables, payables and inventory associated with the overall growth to our business and offset by our principal repayments on our bank term notes.

Cash generated by operations was $749,000 for the quarter compared to $1.3 million in the prior year. This quarter, we invested over $600,000 in inventory growth in Q1, increasing our operating levels from our seasonally low levels in December as well as our expanded profit offerings primarily in the Americas. We continue to review and manage our inventory to optimize our new and existing opportunities.

Cash used in investing activities was $216,000 in the quarter primarily for investments in our intangible development costs and for new laboratory equipment versus $128,000 in the prior year. Cash used by financing activities was $416,000 for the quarter attributable to our scheduled acquisition-related term loan debt payments.

At March 31, our revolving line of credit was $1.2 million and we have an additional $1.3 million of availability in the total $2.5 million revolver as we continue to sync and evaluate further acquisition and other growth opportunities in the global ART markets.

I'd like to thank you for your time and interest in HTL today, and I'd like to turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. Given that we had our last earnings call less than a month ago, frankly, not a whole lot has changed in terms of our outlook for the balance of the year. We continue to be positive about the markets that we serve, optimistic about our prospects, and believe we can make progress in our key focus areas for the year which are increasing our organic growth, continuing with our innovation initiatives, and continued execution of our acquisition strategy.

We are pleased with the progress we are making in expanding our sales and marketing footprint including the expansion of our U.S. sales team as well as additional cross-selling and marketing synergies between our North American and European-based businesses. Looking forward into the balance of the year, we expect to see continued growth in our worldwide business driven by strong performance of our services, instruments, and consumables brands, augmented by substantial growth in the U.S. as our new direct sales team performs to expectations.

On the innovation front, we released the update – we announced the release of updated software for our laser systems in early May and have seen positive response from the marketplace. We continue to have a number of new product and product enhancements under development at this time that we will roll out over the coming months.

Regarding our M&A activities, we have a disciplined sourcing and screening program that has included identification of well over 150 possible targets and direct contacts with over 80 companies – different companies on our target list with a number of active discussions under way. With continued earnings growth, strong cash flow from operations, our positive cash balance of $5.9 million and availability in our credit line, we believe we are well-positioned to continue our acquisition program.

We will now open the line up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Doug Cooper with Beacon Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Congratulations on a great quarter. First of all, a couple of things, can you just remind us the seasonality in the business? What is Q1 typically the seasonality aspect of the business?

Sure. Well, our seasonality has changed from our historical norms. Prior to the Gynemed and really even prior to the Embryotech acquisition, we had significant seasonality with Q4 being, by far, our strongest quarter and Q1 generally, seasonally, relatively weak quarter. With the acquisition of these two businesses, they have much more of a recurring revenue model based on the underlying activity of our customers which doesn't have the seasonality that the capital equipment business tended to have, we're going to see, I believe, a little less seasonality in our business going forward.

Just as a reminder, Q4 of 2017 did show a significant jump in sales largely attributable to two large lab installs in Europe, which we may or may not see in 2018 Q4. So again, I think you're going to see a little more measured stability in the business and little less seasonality going forward.

Okay. I guess it sort of goes into my next point that you just mentioned those two lab setups in Q4, was there anything what you would deem unusual items in this quarter?

No. This quarter was actually I would say – again, as we had mentioned, they were – we have typically two to three or four of those a year. This quarter, there happened to be no lab, full lab setups. There were some meaningful sales of larger equipment installations either, let's say, for workstations or small additions to labs. But I think that's really frankly kind of a steady state of our business.

So to answer, no, there was nothing particularly unusual in the numbers in kind of a positive or negative respect other than the points that we've made regarding organic growth [indiscernible] (00:16:24).

Okay. Yeah. And moving on to the organic growth, obviously 18% would be much above the industry growth rate. I think Vitrolife was 8% in the same quarter. To what do you attribute that such strong growth?

So I think it's a combination of the factors that we discussed in our sort of just analysis on the sales and marketing activities we're beginning to see. So there's no one sort of silver bullet. That's a combination of beginning to see more positive effects from some of the direct sales activities that we have in the Americas, more positive effects from some cross-selling activities, good solid demand to the market for our products, and I guess I would suggest solid execution.

I will point out that because I don't want people to get too carried away with that number that within a – looking at our organic growth which excludes all the Gynemed sales, the denominator is roughly in the $4 million range. So even a couple of instrument sales can have a pretty big swing given the price of our instruments can have a pretty big swing in the percentage points. So we look at both quarter-to-quarter because, obviously, we need to report on it, but we actually kind of tend to pay a little more attention to trailing 12 months and compare it to the quarter so that we can make sure we don't get too far ahead of ourselves on [ph] turns (18:00).

And maybe just on the – you mentioned geographic – the same stores or the – sorry the organic growth rate, how was that split between, say, Asia, Europe, and the U.S.? And maybe you can just touch on how the rollout of the direct sales force in the U.S. is going, how many people you have there now and sort of how that's building.

Yeah. There's really been no change since our last call. We added two new people in the last half of last year in the instrument business, which effectively doubled the number, the size of that team that has any focus on the U.S. We did that, of course, in the Embryotech business in Q1. So that's what's really our U.S. base increasing our direct sales team where we didn't have a designated person doing, that was done by the present business as part of these many activities.

So we're seeing good solid performance there. I would say, again, given the numbers that we have, I don't want to get too carried away with quarter-quarter variations. We did have a very strong sales in the Americas and in Europe in this quarter. I would say Asia Pacific was decent as well, but didn't have quite the growth perspectives. But that, again, could be a function of more focus clearly in the Americas and just in a way how the chips fall when the orders come in.

Okay. And my final question, I know it's not in the numbers in terms of your organic growth, but can you comment on what Gynemed's organic growth rate was?

So we don't break that out. But Gynemed's organic growth was maybe a little bit below the historical norms which we've described as the industry average. They had an extremely strong – we had an extremely strong Q1 last year. So, again, sometimes, it's a comparison of year-over-year. So, Gynemed organic growth was less than 18%.

Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from David Martin with Bloom Burton. Your line is open.

Good morning. A couple of questions. On your fourth quarter call, you mentioned the lease on re-registration of products in China. I'm wondering if you have an update on that process and are there any products that you could give may not be able to re-register?

Yeah. So, again, it was only 30 days ago. We have continued to work that process, are in the middle of doing some of the basic electrical testing and tooling together all the applications. So, frankly, no news either positively or negatively to report.

Okay. What about progress in bringing Gynemed products to the U.S.? I know you've got the pipettes that you're selling. How successful was that and what are the plans for bringing the media over?

Sure. So, on the pipettes side, again, where I would say the numbers today do not reach any level of materiality. But because it's a consumables business where the goal is to capture customer, get their repeat business, capture new customer, and over time build almost an annuity. We are heartened that we're seeing both initial sales and reorders. I think I'd mentioned in the last call we had a couple of supply chain issues which seem to have been resolved. So, we're seeing momentum in that business. And as soon as it becomes really meaningful part of the business, we might talk a little bit more actually about the numbers.

On the media side, we did our first submission to the FDA for one part of the media line in the April timeframe. Our strategy has not – has been to or is to look at all the different elements of the Gynemed cell culture media line which includes things like oocyte and sperm preparation products. The sperm washes, embryo culture media, and other more generic products like mineral oils and those sorts of things, bundle them into families and apply for each family or make submissions for each family over time.

We've gotten back the first set of questions from the FDA which we responded to. Nothing in there looks to me like showstopper. So, we continue to be basically on the same path that we talked about in the last call which is if we are fortunate, we'll see the first clearances, first sales in the – inside of six months of submission, so inside of this year. I think a more measured approach might be to look at being more like 12 months.

And our plan is to apply or make submissions for the balance of family of products over the course of the summer. So that again by optimistically first quarter of next year but certainly by the end of next year, we should be in a position to market the entire family.

Okay. So, the two large lab equipment installations that you had in Europe last year that bumped up revenues but lower margins, at the same time, you're expecting your margins, I think, to be pushed up by the fact that you're selling more products directly in Europe and more products directly in the U.S. Is that positive impact fully in the numbers now, or is that taking longer to realize?

So, I'm not sure – I guess it's kind of – how should I say this? So, it's not wholly in the numbers, but it's not yet taking longer to realize either. I think just adding new direct sales teams and creating cross-selling opportunities does in fact take time to come to fruition. I think we're generally pretty pleased with the timeline we're on.

I think there is more upside in the selling of direct products and, therefore, getting the full margin where perhaps we shared some of that with a distributor, but that will be – could be tempered in the future either by lab – full lab installs or also the increased efforts we're putting particularly in the U.S. to add more third-party products to our lines so we have a more comprehensive approach.

So, overall, we're trying to manage that mix, if we can, with the goal of keeping our margins kind of in the range that they are today, hopefully improving them if we can – if and as we can. And then over the long term, as we do more acquisitions, particularly some of those that might be vertically integrating some of the suppliers that we have and those that generally increase our scale, we would expect to see margins over the longer term increase because of these more kind of corporate development kind of initiatives rather than direct sales initiatives.

Got it. The big lab installs, what is the typical revenue amount for one of those contracts?

I would say €200,000 to €300,000 be pretty typical.

Okay.

Same in dollars. We haven't done any full lab installs in the U.S., but if we were, I would say we'd be looking at $200,000 to $300,000 to $400,000.

Okay. Next question has been answered. Oh, that's it. Thank you.

All right. Well, thank you very much. Chris, any other questions?

We do. We have a question from [ph] Andrew McDonald with Aaron Industries (00:26:16). Your line is open.

Morning, David. Congratulations on an excellent quarter. I just had one question and that was with regards to the company's efforts to expand the sales force and you referred to the maturation of that and that process. I was wondering if you could just maybe comment on where you would say you're at in terms of that maturity cycle. In other words, it's pretty early days from what I can tell yet the results are starting to show. So how far along are we and do you see the scope for potentially augmenting what you've already done in terms of bolstering the sales force?

Yeah. So a number of sort of questions and sub questions in there. So I would say your assessment is pretty accurate. This is early days. As Michael pointed out in his narrative, we made a decision to hire a very experienced people to reduce the learning curve, so people will [indiscernible] (00:27:24) market and could hit the ground running, but it still takes time to the new marketplace that are now an alternative source of both our own products, which had historically been sold through distribution and other third-party products to work and build that pipeline, and to develop these marketing programs that will give support for those direct-selling efforts. So I think we're still at early days, and you would be able to see more contribution from that group going forward.

So I think, this growth from the performance of the individuals that we have today they can still be realized. In terms of growth of the sales team, today, we have pretty solid bicoastal coverage in the Southeast. And I would say if we would add another person, we would look at a Midwest person probably towards the end of this year, early next year depending on how things develop and to perhaps rejigger some sales territories, but get us better coverage.

And then, I'm not sure we have really specific plans to add significant numbers of people. The U.S. market is between 460 to 500 clinics. Given the kinds of products that we sell and the kinds of call ratios that we have given large clinics, the medium-sized and small clinics, I think a coverage ratio of 70 or 80 clinics to one person is pretty manageable so that can kind of give you a sense of where ultimately we may get to.

Okay. Okay. That's terrific. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you, [ph] Andy (00:29:16).

We have a question from Paul Andreola with SmallCap Discoveries. Your line is open.

Hi, David. Congratulations on another solid quarter. Two questions. Most everything else has been answered in the past questions. But as far as your direct sales team on a sort of percentage basis, do you expect much more investment required to build out what you need, or are you close, or how much further do you think you have to go to as far as spend to get to where you want to be?

So yes, it will – as I kind of mentioned in my answer to [ph] Andrew (00:29:56), I think there will be continued investments in that group, but they'll be a little more measured. We made a pretty big significant – a pretty significant investment over the past six months adding two people on the U.S.-based equipment business first in Embryotech and I didn't mention it. We also added a person in Germany. So that is a more significant – that's only a handful of people. Given our sales and marketing spend, it's still a more significant investment in terms of percentages that I would expect to see in the future. I think you'll see us adding kind of one person every quarter or two over the next couple of years until it makes us two years to add the same number of people we've added in the last six months.

Just as a follow up, it may give you a little view of how we think about things. If you look at percentage of sales that we have on our areas that we break out which is R&D, sales and marketing and G&A and our percentages of growth, we're pretty happy with how we have been going with sales again largely due to the Gynemed addition, up 100% but G&A and R&D up, I think, kind of mid or low-40s and mid-50s, respectively. Sales was up much more significantly and that reflects the area that we think we should continue to invest in to drive the top-line growth and drive organic growth.

Perfect. And then the last question, really in regards to your U.S. domicile company trading at a small Canadian exchange, any more thoughts or chatter around going to a U.S. listing or maybe the TSX? Any thoughts there?

So, I would say that is something that we continue to look at. We always – always is maybe too strong. Our present thinking is that, at some point, we should be in a position to migrate to a U.S. exchange and that a way station along the way to the whole TSX doesn't make a lot of sense to us. I've had some discussions with some people lately who are trying to persuade me otherwise. So we'll see how that that turns out.

But either way, I guess either of them will be largely dictated particularly moving to Nasdaq or another U.S. exchange will be largely dictated by growth in our market cap or enterprise value. I think you just need to have a minimum enterprise value of $150 million to $200 million before you can get through the screens and actually enjoy the liquidity that is available on those larger exchanges. Direct TSX listing is – Uplisting is probably more about doable in the short run and I think we could probably get some – potentially get some advantages from that but that has not been in our radar at least up to this date.

Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot, David. That's all I've got.

Thank you.

And at this time, there are no more questions in queue.

All right. Well, we'd like to thank everybody for participating in our first quarter call. As I mentioned, we're very excited about the results that we have and continue to be very optimistic about the prospects. And we thank everybody on the call for your support.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.