Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — President, Chief Executive Officer & Investor Relations Contact, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer & Investor Relations Contact, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Anita Dushyanth — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]

Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information. Certain information represented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances or future actions.

This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainties materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by securities laws applicable to the company. Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in the filings by the company with the Canadian securities regulators including, without limitation, the company's management's discussion and analysis for the six months ended June 30, 2017, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Thank you very much and good morning all. Welcome to Hamilton Thorne's second quarter 2017 earnings conference call. I'd like to introduce myself, I'm David Wolf, President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call will have the following format. First, I will provide a summary of operational and financial results for the first and second quarter. Michael will provide a more detailed discussion of our financial results for the periods, as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as of the end of last quarter. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our look for the coming year. And we will then open the line up to questions. I would caution all participants that we are not providing financial projections or forecast, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to either historical periods or general trends of business.

First of all, I would like to briefly address the short delay on our filing of financial statements and holding this call today versus our original schedule. Simply put, given the amount of work required to prepare consolidated financials with our now three operating companies, plus some of the work associated with the accounting for the Gynemed acquisition, for example, valuation of assets, we decided it was a better idea to take one extra day to get the financial statements prepared, formatted and reviewed.

I would like to emphasize there were no last-minute surprises or issues with gathering and verifying the financial information and statements. The delay was largely a resource issue for our growing business and we have already begun addressing this resource issue by adding both internal and contract resources to assist us with a smooth closing. Michael is also looking at ways to streamline the consolidation and reporting process going forward.

Moving on to the quarter, as I mentioned in our last call, 2016 was a transformational year for Hamilton Thorne as we complete the significant expansion of both our financial and business capabilities when we acquired Embryotech Laboratories in September. This transformation continued this year with the acquisition in April of Gynemed GmbH, a leading manufacturer and distributor of consumables and equipment for the IVF clinic and laboratory markets in the well-established European Assisted Reproductive Technologies market.

As a result of these acquisitions, we now have a very different profile than we did even a year ago. Our instruments and software product lines include precision laser devices which attach to standard inverted microscopes and operate as micro-surgical devices, enabling a wide array of scientific applications and in vitro fertilization procedures; image analysis systems, which are designed to bring quality, efficiency and reliability to studies of reproductive cells in the human fertility, animal sciences and reproductive toxicology fields; and our newly introduced TrakJector Micromanipulator System targeted to assist the embryologist in performing critical procedures in the IVF lab with high level of precision and reliability.

Our consumables and service offerings have expanded to cover a wider range of customer needs and accounted for approximately 55% of our sales in the second quarter. Adding to our long-standing consumables product lines, we now offer our GM501 family of products providing the IVF lab with a comprehensive cell culture media solution, including oocyte handling, sperm processing, embryo culture and cryopreservation. Our quality controlled assays are used in the IVF lab for testing environmental conditions and material toxicology to ensure the safest environment for successful embryo development.

Our services have expanded from equipment service contracts and maintenance programs to include quality control testing services to manufacturers of medical devices, culture media, consumables used in the IVF labs and even full laboratory design and installation services. We expect to introduce additional branded consumables and service offerings over the coming months.

The products that we distribute from third-party manufacturers have a wide range of specialized equipment, software, accessories and consumables utilized by our IVF clinic in operating and research customers including microscopes, workstations, incubators, monitoring solutions, pipettes, dishes and slides.

We have seen the results from these offerings lead to strong financial results. Sales increased 135% to $5.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 and just over 100% to $8.9 million for the full six-month period. Net income for the quarter decreased just over $30,000, largely due to the negative effect of $560,000 of Gynemed-related acquisition expenses in the quarter, but increased 200% to $435,000 for the six-month period even after taking into account over $615,000 of these onetime acquisition expenses directly related to Gynemed acquisition.

Adjusted EBITDA increased 377% to $1.4 million and 425% (sic) [358%] to $.2 million for the three- and six-month periods. The cash flow from operations is strong at $295,000. And importantly, total cash at the end of the quarter was $5.3 million.

Sales into the in vitro fertilization clinic market continue to grow, primarily driven by contribution from our new quality control services and assay business and two months of Gynemed revenues. Sales for the animal breeding and research markets also increased for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. Our margins were off slightly versus prior-year periods due to product mix, particularly the increase in somewhat lower margin distributed products, partially offset by increases in higher margin consumables and services sales.

I'll now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for joining the call today. As David said, I will outline the financials. The company's total sales did increase 135% to $5.6 million for the quarter, and the six months sales actually doubled, up 101% to $8.9 million. As David mentioned, the increases were due primarily to the contribution of a full quarter of Embryotech and two months of our newest acquisition, the Gynemed Group, headquartered in Germany.

Gross profit as a percentage of sales was somewhat lower than our historical results at 60.5% for the quarter and 63.3% for the six months ended June 30, compared to 63.4% and 63.5, respectively, for the prior year.

As we continue to scale our business by adding profitable products and services in a distribution model, the very high instrument margins of the historic HTI legacy business will tend to trend down a bit on a consolidated basis. We are aggressively managing margins on many levels, including branded consumables n the new Gynemed business as well as expanding our higher margin service products for a blended result.

Operating expenses increased 122% for the quarter and 85% for the six months ended June 30 as expected after adding two significant operations in the past year. Operating expenses were $2.9 million and $4.7 million for the three and six months period, up from $1.3 million and $2.5 million for the comparable periods. Again, due to the addition of Embryotech and Gynemed expenses post closing.

Acquisition expenses required to be expensed as incurred by IFRS totaled $560,000 for the quarter and $615,000 for the six months ended June 30, and they are directly related to the Gynemed transaction. Our accretive acquisitions also generated significant increases in amortization of intangible assets of those businesses, which are recognized for valuation purposes.

Operating expenses also increased due to our continued strategic investments in research and development, and sales and marketing resources, whilst the significant increase in non-cash share-based payments expense resulting from stock option grants, all partially offset by reductions in other categories due to continued expense controls. Excluding the transactions related Gynemed acquisition expenses, overall operating expenses increased 80% and 60% for the three and six months ended June 30 on related sales increases of 135% and 101%.

Net interest expense increased to $194,000 for the quarter and increased to $275,000 for the six-month period versus the prior year, primarily due to increased borrowing partially finance both the Embryotech and the Gynemed acquisitions, and all of which is partially offset by a bit of reduction in the company's revolving line of credit borrowings for the six-month period.

An added expense with the Gynemed acquisition is the change in value of the financial derivative required to be recognized as a portion of the April purchase price consideration. The financial derivative is a portion of the $3.5 million in convertible debentures and the change in value is a non-cash expense valued with the standard option valuation model. The expense will fluctuate up and down with the primary variables being share price volatility and the market price of HTL stock.

Income tax expense was $52,000 for the quarter and $57,000 for the six-month period versus $3,000 and $5,000 for the prior periods as the company is now subject to German taxes on the Gynemed income for the two-month period. A portion of the increase is also attributable to state taxes on U.S.-based operations as the result of the expiration of certain state net operating loss carry-forwards and U.S. federal alternative minimum tax. The company's U.S.-based federal taxable income continues to be offset for U.S. income tax purposes by the utilization of substantial federal net operating losses, which totaled over $25 million as of December 31, 2016. All of those net operating losses, of course, incurred in prior years.

Net income for the quarter decreased 75% to $30,000 and increased 200% to $436,000 for the six months year-to-date, attributable to contributions from the Gynemed and Embryotech revenues and profitability for both periods and offset by the substantial acquisition transactional expenses as well as increased operating expenses from acquired operations, the non-cash change in the fair value of the acquisition-related derivative, increased amortization of intangibles and increased interest expense.

Other comprehensive income for the quarter and sixth-month ended June 30 was $21,000 and $426,000 compared to $122,000 and $145,000 in the prior years with the separate component represents foreign currency translation losses by the parent company for the foreign operations of its subsidiaries, which totaled $10,000 for both the quarter and the year-to-date.

Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter increased 377% to $1.4 million and 358% to $2.2 million for the three- and six-month periods versus $296,000 and $472,000, respectively, in the prior year, and that is due to the revenue and gross profit offset by increased operating expenses.

The adjusted EBITDA is an additional measure of the business we have incorporated into company's reporting for the first time and going forward here in Q2. As we all know, it is a non-IFRS measure that is described and qualified in our MD&A disclosures. However, we'd leave it as an important measure of our business for now and going forward given the substantial acquisition-related expenses incurred both transactionally at the time of the purchase and subsequently due to amortization and derivative valuations in addition to tax and interest expenses. The requisite reconciliation table to define adjusted EBITDA and list each of the components that make up the calculation is referenced in our earnings release and found in the MD&A.

Now, I'd like to move over to the balance sheet and the company's liquidity. The cash balance at June 30, 2017, as David mentioned, was $5.3 million, which is up $3.3 million from the $1.8 million on hand at December 31. The substantial increase is attributable throughout the increased scale of the business from a cash from operations standpoint as well as the proceeds from the company's April 2007 private placement in support of the acquisition of Gynemed.

Cash generated by operations was $1.6 million for the six months ended June 30 compared to $471,000 for the comparable period, an improvement of $1.1 million, primarily due to increased net income and non-cash expenses from acquisitions, tempered by initial acquisition-related expenses, as well as managed changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued expenses.

Cash used in investing activities for the first six months was $9.9 million, primarily the $9.5 million cash portion of the Gynemed acquisition, as well as $100,000 for equipment and $233,000 for the ongoing capitalization of our intangible development cost.

Cash generated by financing activities totaled $11.7 million consisting of the $8.5 million of net proceeds from the acquisition and related equity private placement and the new bank term loan initiated to partially finance the Gynemed acquisition, all of which was partially offset by scheduled new term loan debt payments.

Now, let me turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. I want to start by saying we continue to be optimistic that the growth drivers in our business, the demographic trends that are driving demand in the human fertility market coupled with our focus on organic growth, new product and service innovation, and expanding the breadth of our products and services that we offer through a strategy of selective acquisitions of complementary products and companies will serve us well for many years to come.

Overall awareness and recognition of the value of Assisted Reproductive Technologies continue to grow. In fact, two articles about the field about [ph] wide coverage (16:25) in the popular press over the past few months. In one case, the study of over 40,000 men highlighted 50% sperm production in Western countries over the past four decades with headlines like, Sperm Counts Plummet in Western Men. In other news, scientists were able to successfully modify DNA in human embryos in a controversial procedure that could be used depending on your point of view to eradicate certain hereditary disease or create designer babies.

Regardless of your perspective, it is clear that the ART field is vibrant and growing. And as we diversify our mix of products and services, increase our customer intimacy through our expanded direct selling and marketing efforts, we have improved our ability to continue in this changing landscape.

Finally, we're extremely pleased with the progress we're making on our acquisition program. We are already seeing the positive results from planned sales, marketing and product synergies from the Gynemed acquisition as we work on expanding the Gynemed product offerings into international markets including United States and increasing European sales of existing Hamilton Thorne products.

With continued positive cash flow from operations enhanced by our April 2017 equity financings we had discussed, we improved our $1.8 million year-end cash position to approximately $5.3 million and therefore well positioned to continue investing for growth through our acquisition program.

We'll now turn the line open for questions. If there are any questions, please let us know, Dan. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question today comes from the line of Anita Dushyanth. Please go ahead.

Hi. Congratulations on the quarter and thank you for taking my call. My first question will be, did you say that the Gynemed sales was about 55% for the quarter, the contribution?

No, let me clarify. I mentioned that the combination of our total consumables and services sales was 55% for the quarter versus 45% being equipment sales. Both the consumables and services sales and the equipment sales each include contribution from, what you might think of as, the historical Hamilton Thorne business, Embryotech sales and Gynemed sales.

Would you also be able to tell me if the contribution from Gynemed – was that a good mix of the high- and low-margin product or was there kind of more of high-margin sales?

I would say the mix of product sales was pretty consistent with the past history and [ph] I did a bunch of graphs, (19:35) go look at the business acquisition report which shows you a little bit of more detail of the historical Gynemed margins so you can sort of figure out for your model how to blend those in. But in general, yes, it's a mix of very high margins in consumable sales and some of the distributed product sales.

I'd like to add perhaps editorially that in our world when we distribute third-party product, because we are in such a specialized business with customers requiring both complex products in some cases and customers requiring high touch, even the distributed products tend to be relatively high-margin product sales. It's not unusual for distributed products to get 40% or even 50%-plus margins.

So I would distinguish that from what you might think of when you think about more commodity-oriented distribution businesses. So while it has a dampening – certainly as those kind of products have a dampening effect on margins, I don't think you should expect them to significantly decline over continuing periods.

Okay. And how do you plan to increase the sales in Europe? Is it by having more salesperson? Like do you have any number that you're thinking of, like how many people you might add?

Sure. I'll talk to that as well. So our sales probably to Europe is actually very strong. In terms of combined operations, I would say the initial area where we have the most impact is by adding additional product lines from primarily those manufactured under the Hamilton Thorne brand into the Gynemed product mix.

We've actually seen the results of that. In fact, we have sold our first – the Gynemed team sold first clinical laser that we have sold into Switzerland for quite some time in just the short four months it's been under common ownership.

Where I think you'll see both more investment in direct sales team and ultimately the results in both increased sales and higher margins is in the U.S. where we are, in fact, adding additional direct sales resources to augment the distribution coverage that we have today.

Okay. And the last question is how does the TrakJector compare to its competitors? Like what would be its differentiating factor to choose that over the TransferMan perhaps?

Yeah. Sure. So the TrakJector has several unique features and attributes that I think are beneficial to customers. First of all, there is a different user interface. If you need to sound like you [indiscernible] (22:36) micromanipulation world, most micromanipulators are used – or hands will be potentially a joystick.

The TrakJector has a trackball to allow the very, very fine level of movements and a very intuitive user interface. Also, because while you're using a trackball with toggling your couple of buttons, you can move the injectors and actually control the injectors. You can have full one-hand operation.

Finally, because of the manufacturing process, it has a higher level of precision [ph] to reach the ability (23:19) and lower drift than any of the other micromanipulators on the market while being cost-competitive.

Okay.

I hope that wasn't too technical for the rest of the group who probably aren't this interested in the fine points of what goes on in the laboratory.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions in the queue at this time.

Well, Dan, thank you very much for moderating the call. I'd like to thank everybody who joined our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in late November when we do our third quarter call.

Thank you everyone for attending today. This will conclude today's conference call and you may now disconnect.