Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Wolf — President, Chief Executive Officer & Investor Relations Contact, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
Michael W. Bruns — Chief Financial Officer & Investor Relations Contact, Hamilton Thorne Ltd.
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Anita Dushyanth — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Before turning the call over to your host today, please be reminded of our standard public company policy on forward-looking information.

Certain information presented or otherwise discussed on this call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements may involve but are not limited to, comments relating to strategies, expectations, planned operations, product announcements, scientific advances, or future actions. This information is based on current expectations that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Should one or more risks or uncertainty materialize or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements could vary materially from those expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements.

These factors should be considered carefully and prospective investors and other parties should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements unless and until required by security law applicable to the company. Additional information identifying risks and uncertainties is contained in filings by the company with the Canadian Securities Regulators including, without limitations, the company's management discussion and analysis for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, which filings are available under the company's profile at www.sedar.com.

Now, let me turn the call over to David and Michael.

Good morning, and welcome to the Hamilton Thorne Limited Q3 2017 earnings conference call. I would like to introduce myself. I'm David Wolf. I'm the President and CEO of Hamilton Thorne. On the call with me today is Michael Bruns, our Chief Financial Officer. Similar to our prior calls, this morning's call will have the following format. First, I will provide a summary of operations and financial results for the third quarter and year to date. Michael will follow with a more detailed discussion of our financial results for the period as well as a review of our financial position and liquidity as of the end of the quarter. I will then return for a few minutes to provide some information on our outlook for the balance of the year and into the future, and we will then open up the line for questions.

I would like to remind all participants that we are not providing financial projections or forecasts, so I'd ask you to limit your questions to the historical periods or general trends in the business. I would also like to thank all the participants in this call for taking the time to join us this morning. And for our U.S. shareholders for whom this might be the last working event before our long Thanksgiving weekend, I want to wish the best to you and your families.

So jumping right into the numbers, overall, we were pleased with the results for the quarter. Sales increased 147% to just over $6 million for the quarter and 117% to just under $15 million for the full nine months. As this is the first full quarter with both the Embryotech and Gynemed results included in our sales, I think these numbers both contributed to our growth and are more representative of what you might see of the business moving forward despite the seasonality which affected sales as the summer months particularly in Europe.

Sales into the In Vitro Fertilization or IVF clinic market continue to grow, primarily driven by the contribution from the addition of the Embryotech and Gynemed revenues. We also saw good growth in our clinical laser business. Sales into the animal breeding research markets both increased for the three and nine months ended June 30.

We are also pleased to see that recurring revenues that we generate from our consumable and service offerings, which have expanded to cover a much wider range of customer needs, accounted for over 60% of our sales in the third quarter, which is in line with where we would see generally of those consumables and services sales to be. We would expect to see our consumable sales into the Americas grow as we have introduced the Gynemed-branded micropipettes to the U.S. market. We are also optimistic that our expanded equipment offering including our innovative TrakJector micromanipulation system will lead to solid sales increases.

Net income for the third quarter increased to over $600,000 versus $26,000 for the prior period and for the nine months, increased over 500% to just over $1 million despite being negatively affected for that period by $600,000 of acquisition expense for the Gynemed acquisition. Adjusted EBITDA also increased significantly over 270% to $1.4 million for the quarter and this was relatively flat versus the second quarter, reflecting the additional costs from a full quarter of the Gynemed expenses and particularly our investments in additional tradeshow, set direct sales and support resources and other expenses that just were clustered in the third quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the nine-month period increased over 300% to $3.6 million.

I will now turn the call over to Michael to provide a more detailed discussion on the numbers.

Good morning, everyone. I'm Michael Bruns, the CFO of Hamilton Thorne. I too would like to thank you for investing some time in joining us today. The company's total sales increased 147% to $6.05 million for the third quarter ended September 30, an increase of $3.6 million. This follows the Q2 results of a 135% increase to $5.6 million in Q2, illustrating the favorable impact of our acquisition strategy. Year-to-date 2017 sales again doubled, up 117% to $14.9 million, as we now have five full months of Gynemed sales and profitability post-acquisition.

Gross profit increased to $3.6 million for the quarter, up 131% and year-to-date gross profit increased to 111% to $9.3 million. Gross profit as a percentage of sales remained strong at 60.1% for the quarter and 62.0% year-to-date.

As discussed last quarter, our post-acquisition margins will be somewhat lower than our historical results comparing to prior year's year-to-date of 63.9% as we continue to scale up our business by adding profitable products and services in a distribution business model. We are aggressively managing margins on many levels including branded consumables in the new Gynemed business, as well as expanding our higher-margin service products.

Operating expenses as planned increased 84% for both the quarter and the nine-month periods after adding two significant operations to our consolidated results. Operating expenses were $2.7 million and $7.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, up from $1.5 million and $4.0 million for the comparable periods last year and this is primarily due to the addition of both the Embryotech and the Gynemed expenses post-closing.

Operating expenses also increased due to our ongoing investments in research and development, expansion of our sales staffing and seasonal trade show costs in the third quarter. Year-to-date spending includes acquisition expenses incurred in Q1 and Q2 totaling $615,000 in 2017 versus $165,000 incurred in Q3 of 2016 for the last year's Embryotech acquisition. As a reminder, IFRS differs from U.S. GAAP in requiring expenses as incurred versus capitalization for all acquisition expenses. Our accretive acquisitions also generated significant increases in non-cash amortization of intangible assets of those businesses recognized for valuation purposes.

As mentioned in our earnings release, we began expanding our U.S. sales force in Q3 and we have also incurred increased non-cash share-based payments expense attributable to stock option grants, all of which was partially offset by reductions in other expense categories due to continued expense controls. Excluding the transaction-related acquisition expenses in both years, year-to-date operating expenses increased 76% and sales increases of 117%.

Net interest expense increased to $256,000 for the quarter and increased to $521,000 for the nine-month period, which is attributable to increased borrowings to partially finance both the Embryotech and the Gynemed acquisitions, all partially offset by a reduction in the company's revolving line of credit borrowings for the nine-month period.

The change in value of the derivative was a small gain of $26,000 in the third quarter, partially offsetting the Q2 expense, non-cash of $170,000. The financial derivative is a portion of the $3.5 million value of the convertible debentures issued for the Gynemed acquisition and the quarterly change as the non-cash expense valued with a standard option valuation model as required by IFRS. The resultant computed expense or gain will fluctuate up and down quarterly with the primary variables being share price volatility and the market price of the HTL stock.

Income tax expense was $91,000 for the third quarter and $147,000 for the nine-month year-to-date, versus $3,000 and $8,000, respectively, in the prior year periods as the company is now subject to German taxes on the Gynemed income. The company's U.S.-based federal and state taxable income continues to be offset for U.S. income tax purposes by the utilization of substantial federal and state net operating losses incurred in prior years.

Net income for the quarter increased substantially to $631,000 versus $26,000 and for the nine months increased over 500% to $1.05 million versus $171,000 in the prior year, which is attributable to the contributions from Embryotech and Gynemed's revenues and profitability for both periods, offset by the substantial acquisition transaction expenses year-to-date, as well as increased operating expense from acquired operations, amortization of intangibles, and interest expense.

Other comprehensive income for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30th is attributable to a net foreign currency translation gain of $110,000, representing foreign currency gains by the parent company from the foreign operations of its subsidiaries. Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter increased 273% to $1.4 million and increased 320% to $3.6 million for the nine-month period and that is due to the significant revenue and gross profit growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses in the periods. This financial leverage increases adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue to 24% versus the prior year's 12.4%.

As initially presented last quarter, adjusted EBITDA is an additional measure of the business incorporated into the company's reporting. As we know, it is a non-IFRS measure that is described and detailed in our management discussion and analysis disclosures. However, we believe it is an important measure of our business for now and going forward, given the substantial acquisition-related expenses incurred both transactionally at the time of purchase and subsequently due to non-cash amortization of intangible assets, derivative valuation, in addition to tax and interest expenses. The reconciliation table to define adjusted EBITDA and list each component of the calculation is referenced in our earnings release and found in the MD&A.

Moving on to liquidity on the balance sheet and the company's overall liquidity, the cash balance at September 30, 2017 was $5.3 million, up $3.5 million from the $1.8 million on hand at December 31. The substantial increase is attributable to both the increased scale of business, as well as the proceeds from the company's April 2017 private placement to support the acquisition of Gynemed.

Cash generated from operations was $655,000 for the quarter and $2.02 million for the nine months ended September 30, an improvement of $1.3 million year-to-date, which is attributable to increased net income and non-cash expenses from acquisitions, and tempered by initial acquisition-related expenses, as well as managed changes in receivables, accounts payable, and accrued expenses, as well as a seasonal increase in inventories.

The $655,000 of cash from operations and the bottom line $45,000 net cash flow for Q3 were both somewhat lower than we would expect from a normalized quarter due to seasonal expansion of inventories, and a large reduction of payables required in the normal course of operations, as well as a somewhat higher CapEx amount for the third quarter.

Cash used in investing activities for the first nine months was $10 million, primarily the $9.5 million cash portion of the Gynemed acquisition, as well as $253,000 for equipment, and $342,000 for ongoing capitalization of intangible development costs for new and enhanced products. Cash generated by financing activities totaled $11.5 million, consisting of the $8.5 million of net proceeds from the acquisition-related private placement and $4 million in new bank term loan partially offset by scheduled new and existing term loan payments, now approximately $400,000 per quarter. Availability on our revolving line of credit exceeded $600,000 at the end of Q3, further enhancing our cash on hand of $5.35 million.

Now, let me turn the call back over to David to comment on the HTL outlook.

Thank you, Michael. We are looking forward to a successful fourth quarter across our entire business, across marketing and selling of the Gynemed sourced and branded products in the Americas, and the Hamilton Thorne products in Europe is yielding tangible results and small, yet growing increases to revenues. In October, we announced that we have substantially increased our direct sales and support teams in North America, and they're augmenting our own branded product offerings with a selection of best-in-class equipment and consumables in order to provide a more complete solution and enable standardization of best practices in the labs that we serve. We expect that these investments will bring us closer to our customers and increase sales of our own branded products as well as the new products that we'll be offering.

As Michael had mentioned, our margins were somewhat lower in Q3 due to product mix, particularly the increase in the somewhat lower branded distributed product sales and partially offset by the increases in our higher margin branded consumables and services. It will be important for us to actively manage the product mix between our own branded high-margin products and some of the distributed products that we sell in order that we maintain healthy gross profit contribution and EBITDA margins as we grow this line of our business.

We ended the quarter with cash on hand of over $5.35 million versus $1.8 million at December 31, 2006 (sic) [2016] (16:00) augmented by availability of our line of credit. So this leaves us well-positioned to continue to invest in the growth of our business, whether it be organic growth, growth through product and services organization or the continuation of our acquisition program.

With that, I'd like to thank everybody for joining and open up the line for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Martin. Your line is open.

Hi. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. The first one, regarding the new products that you'll be offering, some are Hamilton Thorne's own products and some you'll be distributing for other manufacturers. Do those other manufacturers already directly sell the products to IVF labs or will your reps be competing against their reps or do other IVF lab suppliers sell the same equipment?

So, that's a mixed bag because we've talked about adding a wide range of products. But generally speaking, we are looking to be the exclusive provider of these products in the labs. I don't feel comfortable telling you exactly which of those that we've talked about where we have exclusive relationships, but that is certainly our goal. But what we really bring to the table even if a team perhaps or a manufacturer perhaps has its own sales reps, is they are generally horizontally focused on a wide range of potential customers including research institutions, hospitals, other medical facilities where with our, if you'll forgive the pun, laser focus on the IVF lab, we really bring a much more dedicated sales activity. So, for those reasons, we believe that we will be more successful than again general sales force and that's what's allowed us to earn in some cases and perhaps many cases, an exclusive relationship.

Okay. And which product area – sorry, which markets are the products going to be introduced then? For instance, the base microscopes and the incubators, is that going to be North America and Europe or just North America at this point?

So, the focus now is on the Americas. And again, these are products that we will be focusing on the Americas in the IVF lab. There may be some, again, sales around the edges either into research or into other geographies, but the real focus on the direct sales team and the addition of these new distributed products will be in the Americas.

I would add parenthetically that our Gynemed operation has historically been a very similarly, a provider of a wider range of products, some again, own branded products now adding on the Hamilton Thorne branded products and distributed products. So, it is in fact a successful business model, one we know and understand and can manage over time worldwide, but initially clearly into the markets where we have direct sales teams.

Okay. So, your equipment sales grew about 7.5% year-over-year. I'm wondering how much of that was organic and how much was new products, new markets?

Well, as we've discussed in the past, it's very hard to determine what in fact is organic growth, because we, for example, in that quarter, included sales of Hamilton Thorne-branded products that were sold by Gynemed. So, one could have a discussion of whether that is, in fact, organic growth or additional growth. But in general, I would say that our largest equipment product, which is, as you know, is our laser. Laser had sold into the clinical market, grew well very much in that range you're talking about. But beyond that, I don't really think we want to break down the specific numbers.

Okay. I'll ask one more question and get back into queue.

Thank you.

With you adding two reps to your U.S. sales force in early September, was the impact on third quarter sales and marketing expense limited to only one month or were they activated in September but actually you're paying salaries for the entire quarter, should we expect sales and marketing expense to be flat with the third quarter or to bump up as you get a full quarter impact with those reps?

Good question, David. There will be an additional bump up as they fully ramp-up and are on for the full-time period. Most of that expense activity began on September 1. So, effectively, there was only one month of additional staffing and additional staff support expenses for that.

Okay, great. And I'll get back into the queue unless there are no other questions.

Very good. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Anita Dushyanth. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, Michael and David. Congratulations on the quarter and I have a couple of questions also regarding the sales team. Could you elaborate whether you will be increasing the team in 2018 and if so, would that be more like territorial or would be in the number of people? Like, can you throw some light on that?

Yeah. So, today we have a sales team that is territorially focused. We have people in the Northeast, one in the Southeast and one in the West Coast. We would see the possibility. We'll have to see how results work out of adding perhaps one more person territorially focused in the Midwest. And then I think, we can have pretty strong territorial coverage for the U.S.

So I would say you might see an addition of one, perhaps two people max in 2018. Conversely, I don't think you will see significant scale up of a giant direct sales team. We focus on a large but niche market. There are roughly speaking 450 clinics and divided amongst three people, it's a fairly large coverage model. As we move to four or five people, it becomes very normalized coverage for all.

Great. Thank you. And the other thing is the Embryotech acquisition actually brought in a lot of testing, quality control testing services to your business. Are you looking at adding more testing services into your business and going forward?

Yes. So one of the areas where there's possibility for growth of the Embryotech business is to expand beyond its historical [ph] Mouse Embryo Assay (23:50) business which is the gold standard for the assay that it's used for the embryo lab – for the IVF lab to include other test, one which we've been offering for some time but we're seeing the growth in this market is endotoxin testing. So, one of the areas that I would say we would expand is, you would expect to see additional endotoxin testing both with our existing customers or potentially new customers. And we're always looking for new potential assays and tests that we can add to our suite of testing services.

Okay. Thank you. And my last question would be, are we to expect to see transition-related expenses with respect to Gynemed in Q4 as well?

So, that would be a function of the currency movements quarter-to-quarter. It is an evaluation that will be made and booked every quarter, but it depends solely on the movement of the euro relative to U.S. dollars.

Okay. That was great. All right. Thank you so much.

Certainly.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Cal Ray (25:14). Your line is open.

Good morning, David and Michael. Congrats on another consistent quarter. I have a couple of questions. My first one is around the cell culture media product line, the GM501, I guess. Can you tell us what stage the paperwork is for approval into the Americas and then also I guess China and India would be a longer strategy for that?

Sure. So, we have been focused – we somewhat switched ground our priorities on the regulatory side and have been focused more on the products that we can introduce into the markets earlier. As I believe, I mentioned in an earlier call, one of the reasons we are focusing on the pipette product is that the U.S. is the regulatory pathway for introduction of the pipettes into the U.S. market by eliminating the requirement for a full 510(k).

Nevertheless, there is the requirement to comply, bring these into our quality system, register them with the FDA, and do a variety of, I guess, you may call it a pile of paperwork to allow us to sell these products. So, we decided to reprioritize to the products that we can get into the market more quickly.

So, to specifically answer your question, in terms of the cell culture media, we have not yet begun the filing with the FDA for bringing the cell culture media into the U.S. China is also a situation where it would be a long, long pathway. We have not started there in either India, I believe actually this product is non-regulated product in India and we do, in fact, have sales in India already.

Okay. Perfect. And my second question is around the acquisition strategy. Were there any cost in Q3 for acquisitions and also can you update us on whether you are closer or anything – any acquisition compared to say three months ago?

So, with the risk of jumping into an accounting question, I'll answer that and then Michael can correct if I misstate. So, the way we account for our acquisition cost is we only book costs related to completed acquisitions. So, we clearly are spending money on acquisitions during Q3, but we don't either – we just expense them in an ordinary course, we don't break them out in any particular way in either our numbers or in calculating adjusted EBITDA, nor do we break out or adjust EBITDA for ongoing acquisition integration costs or other things that you might see. We've really done it on a very kind of concrete basis. So, you wouldn't, for example, see any additional costs relating to a completed acquisition at this point.

In terms of acquisition activity, as you know, we are constantly looking at potential acquisitions. We certainly feel comfortable that we can complete a successful acquisition every 12 to 18 months, but beyond that, we can't really comment much on timing.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Tom Burke (28:27). Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Congratulations on a great quarter. I just wanted to talk about the Asian strategy as well, very interested, obviously, that is a high growth market for you. And I can't remember specifically if Gynemed had a footprint or presence in Asia. Can you expand on that sort of long-term strategy as well and how that works out in the merger with Gynemed?

Sure. So, as you point out, sales into Asia is an important part of our growth strategy and an important market for us. Today, roughly speaking, the Asian market is in the 20% range of our overall business. Most of that business is in the – well, it's actually spread pretty nicely across all the activities that we do. On the equipment side, we have established distribution and successful sales into most major Asian markets. So, China, India, Japan, Korea, Thailand, if you count Asia-Pacific as well, Australia, and a variety of other markets. So, that's been a long-term and successfully implemented strategy.

Additionally, the Embryotech business provides testing services for Asian manufacturers as well, primarily manufacturers in Japan that sell their markets, both to the Japanese market and for the export market. So, while it's not in any way as, on a percentage basis as significant as the equipment business, still is a meaningful number that does add to the total.

And on the Gynemed side, Gynemed has also launched an Asia strategy and has been selling successfully media products as well as some of the pipette products and up in, to a lesser extent, some of the others into certain Asian markets. The markets that we've been most successful with are some of the tertiary markets, so Thailand and Vietnam are strong markets for us. And Japan and India are coming on as we speak. China, as I mentioned, because of a very different and frankly somewhat restrictive regulatory approach, has a longer timeframe associated with it.

And so, China is kind of early days. Are you – what type of sort of presence and footprint do you have in kind of China, just to sort of get an idea how that works, or how you'll expect that to evolve, say, over a one or two-year period?

So, again on the equipment sales side, we have significant established distribution relationships in China. We don't have our own direct personnel in China as you may imagine. We have multiple distributors that address both product line and geographic diversity of the significantly large China market, which in this case, I'm kind of including Hong Kong and Taiwan underneath that umbrella. And I think that's been a successfully implemented strategy over a period of years and when – if you look back into our history when we were primarily reporting on the Hamilton Thorne equipment business, was as much as 35% to 40% of our overall business.

So the consumables business that is being run under the Gynemed brand is still at relatively earlier stages. So again, measurable and meaningful numbers, but nothing like the kind of mid-ish double digits that I was talking about previously.

Okay. Great. And just one kind of philosophical question about M&A strategy and stuff, when you think about moving forward and you put time lines on. Are things driven more kind of opportunistically like you have to jump into action to see some opportunity? Is it more a function of that or is it like, this most recent acquisition is obviously a big thing to digest and it's so important that you execute properly, get everything really running the whole template, just thoroughly well-oiled. Is it a function of being ready to make the next move or do you – is it sometimes out of your control to be much more opportunistic that we've been? How does that work or how do you think about that?

Well, thank you. I think that's an interesting question. So, specifically, on the acquisition front, it is a combination of both directed activity and intention and being opportunistic. If you look at our overall business – this may be more background than people are looking at – but the way we think about the business is our addressable market is the – the provision of precision instruments and equipment, software services and consumables for the IVF clinics. That's, roughly speaking, a little less than a $1 billion addressable market. We've identified on an active basis, by looking at each individual player, right around 170 participants in that market. So, while it is a large enough market or large enough target base if you want to think of it, that we have an active approach to identify contact, maintain contact and move through effectively a pipeline each of those potential targets, it is not so large to pay a base that you can be immune to the kind of opportunistic things that come up from time to time. So, it's a combination.

Obviously, from an acquisition perspective, we're in some ways better off if we can identify, catalyze and negotiate an acquisition where we are the only participant versus let's say, some of the opportunistic ones are [indiscernible] (34:50) transactions which is more of an auction situation. So, we try to keep all of those factors in mind as we look at ultimately what really matters how this potential acquisition fit with our strategy of increasing the scale of our business, broadening our product line, at least maintaining if not improving our percentage of recurring revenues and balancing that against both of our costs as we're very conscientious in making sure that we have a transaction that make sense from a cost perspective and risk, understanding the potential both integration and market risk by going in various directions.

Great. And do you find now that you're kind of getting more into the sort of third-party distribution, does that represent a backdoor way of cultivating relationships potentially to get sort of more, for lack of a better word, a more intimate relationship with them?

Oh, absolutely. I think that's a good point that the people tend to do business with people they are doing business with and by over time developing strong trusted relationships on one dynamic of the business, it may lead to another dynamic of the business. But I wouldn't say that's the motivation behind the strategy of broadening our product lines. I think, that's just a nice side benefit.

Great. Okay, guys. Thanks. That's it for me.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of David Martin. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my follow-ups. I'm wondering do you any holes in your product offering remaining after you've taken on these new product lines? Is there anything that you feel you still need to compete against the leaders in the sector?

Yeah. So I would say we're always looking to be more and more complete and that may be either in specific offerings that we have or perhaps new technologies that develop in the market. I would also point out that we are focusing on these best-of-class distributed products in the markets where we have direct sales team which is largely in Central Europe and in the Americas. And we have a slightly different product mix in each of those markets. So, I don't want – I can generalize some areas where we're looking to add products, but it varies a little bit by market. But in general, I think we would like to be stronger in embryo and – well, it's embryo oocyte and sperm preservation. So cryopreservation is an area where I think there's opportunity for us to improve our products availability and market share. Embryo culture is another area which includes some incubation products. We've added incubation, but also flow hoods and other kind of workstations to make sure that embryos culture and manage properly. So those are two areas that we're looking at on the hardware side.

On the consumable side, I think, we have a good broad range of products. So, I think, the issues are more around getting regulatory clearances and developing broader markets for the – and market penetration for the products, though there clearly are some consumables that we could add. And then there's a whole area that we kind of talked about when we define our target markets which is the software area, which is very interesting area for us, both lab management software and some of the specialized software that is used in an IVF lab to ensure quality performance and traceability. So, those are some of the areas where I think we still have the opportunity to add interesting acquisitions to accomplish our objectives of broadening our product line, expanding the scope of the business and bringing return revenues into the business.

Okay. You mentioned that you have reprioritized media versus the pipettes. The pipettes were easier to get into new markets. When should we expect you to start to focus on the media and applying for approvals in new markets and when should those approvals start to come through?

So, I would expect that that's an activity that will begin in the first quarter, but be well into in the first half of 2018. And the regulatory clearances and approvals can take kind of 6 to 18 months on the short end if in certain markets, other markets that are be looking at potentially either more challenging. From a regulatory perspective, it can be two to three years.

So, I think it's a – but it's part of our long-term project to add these media products to our product mix across certainly the areas that we sell direct.

Will China be as important as the U.S. or will you prioritize the U.S. then?

China will be most likely a longer time line. But it's obviously an important priority for us.

Okay.

Because of the size of the market and the growth of the market.

Okay. One last question. So, the new products that you're adding, how should we think about those as contributing to revenues in Q4 and then next year, and what should we expect as far as the impact on gross margins?

Sure. Let me talk about the revenues and I'll ask Michael to amplify on the margin side. And so, I'll talk philosophically and Michael can try to perhaps do a little quantification. So, as you can imagine, as we talked about the specific products that we've added, are largely focused on the Americas and are being brought to market by a very experienced sales team, who have experience in the markets that we serve and, in some cases, with some of the products, or certainly like products in these markets, but nevertheless brand-new sales team. So, if you think about how long it takes to get people active, I think we actually did see some incremental benefit in Q3. As we're about halfway into Q4, we're seeing more and more significant benefit, but I would expect to see on a revenue side, it'd really be kind of starting in Q1 and then accelerating through Q2 before it becomes sort of normalized, a pretty meaningful addition to sales of those products into the Americas.

In terms of margins, I'd just like to remind people that the kinds of products that we sell and the kinds of customers that we serve and maybe, as we said, the products that we selected, while we talk about them as being distributed products, they are not the kind of commodity products that you might think of and garnering the kind of commodity margins that you might think of from a classic distribution channel. In fact, when, certainly on the equipment side when we provide a suite of products and services, we're acting more as a system integrator, providing a number of different products, putting them together into perhaps a complete workstation. So, for example, a microscope, a TrakJector micromanipulator, and our laser into what becomes a workstation for an embryologist in an IVF lab.

So, the kinds of margins that we can achieve can be very healthy on those kinds of products. And at the end of the day, we obviously care about gross profit margins, but contribution margin, the EBITDA margin which you actually end up with that you deposit in the bank is really the measure of success.

So, I think, in terms of quantifying that that's a future-looking scenario, our goal is to expand our product mix and be able to provide a lot more products from whatever source to our customers around the world. So, it will be an evolving process. We look to manage those very, very substantially, and to actually look at how that future mix is going to develop. But in terms of specific quantification, I think it's both a little early and a little premature to try to do that in terms of quantification of that right now, David. But we'll – stay tuned, and we're continuing to work on that.

Things like incubators, is the long-term goal eventually to have Hamilton Thorne incubators or is that not something that's part of your long-term plans?

Again, I don't think it pays for us to be too specific about exactly what we're looking at, but an incubator is certainly a must-have product in every single lab. And as you can see, we've added distribution of two different incubators in our most recent announcement. They each serve slightly different – I wouldn't say slightly different markets, maybe slightly different philosophies of lab directors because they differ in terms of form factor, capacity, cost, and I think, there's something we will learn from this over the next few months and maybe next, next few years. And I wouldn't be surprised, but I wouldn't say that incubators is necessarily our top priority.

Got it. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Well, thank you very much. Again, I would like to thank everyone for joining our conference call this morning. We encourage you to go to our website for more information about our products, our initiatives, as well as additional investor information, and again, for our American participants, wish everybody a happy and healthy Thanksgiving, and thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call, you may now disconnect.