Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alanna James — Managing Director-Ohana by Hawaiian, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Peter R. Ingram — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Brent A. Overbeek — Senior Vice President-Revenue Management & Network Planning, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Shannon L. Okinaka — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Susan Donofrio — Analyst, Macquarie Group
Kevin Crissey — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Hunter Keay — Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC
Catherine O'Brien — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Joseph William DeNardi — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Matt Fallon — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Rajeev Lalwani — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Daniel J. McKenzie — Analyst, The Buckingham Research Group, Inc.
Helane Becker — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings. Welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings, Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2019 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to your host, Alanna James, Managing Director-Investor Relations. Ms. James, you may begin.

Thank you, Omar. Hello, everyone, and welcome to Hawaiian Holdings Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Call. I am Alanna James, Managing Director of Investor Relations. Here with me in Honolulu are Peter Ingram, President and Chief Executive Officer; Shannon Okinaka, Chief Financial Officer; and Brent Overbeek, Senior Vice President of Revenue Management and Network Planning. Peter will open the call with an overview of the business. Next, Brent will share an update on our revenue performance and outlook. Shannon will then discuss our cost performance and outlook. We will then open up the call for questions and Peter will end with some closing remarks.

By now, everyone should have access to the press release that went out at about 4:00, Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations page of our website, hawaiianairlines.com.

During our call today, we will refer at times to adjusted or non-GAAP numbers and metrics. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP numbers and metrics can be found at the end of today's press release posted on the Investor Relations page of our website.

As a reminder, the following prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements, including statements about our future plans and potential future financial and operating performance. Management may also make additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and do not guarantee future performance, and therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them. We refer you to Hawaiian Holdings' recent filings with the SEC for a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. This includes the most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K as well as reports filed on Form 10-Q and 8-K.

I will now turn the call over to Peter.

Mahalo, Alanna. Aloha, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.

As we begin, I'd like to publicly welcome Alanna James to the Investor Relations team. Alanna has been with Hawaiian in various positions for the past eight years, most recently, at the helm of our Ohana by Hawaiian turbo prop operation. We're excited to have Alanna join her first earnings call, and I know she looks forward to meeting all of you on the other end of the line.

As you have seen in our press release today, we reported solid results in the context of an evolving competitive environment. For each of PRASM, CASM ex fuel and fuel consumption, we were not only within but at the better end of the ranges that we guided to during our last earnings call. As a result, we posted adjusted EPS of $1.23 per share and adjusted net income of $59 million which surpassed the latest Street expectations.

For the quarter, our adjusted pre-tax margin was 11.4% which brings us to an adjusted pre-tax margin of 9.1% (sic) [9.2%] (03:34) for the first six months of the year. This result leaves us solidly in the competitive mix with our U.S. peers which is a creditable outcome in light of some of the unique competitive dynamics ongoing throughout our network. But it's below where we were a couple of years ago, and we're focused on executing on several important initiatives to move us back towards the top of our peer set.

There is no denying that the competitive environment and industry capacity here in Hawaii is more active than it was a couple of years ago. But our ability to continue to execute well, both financially and operationally, demonstrates that Hawaiian is built to compete and win. For this, I have 7,300 fantastic colleagues to thank for taking care of our guests and running the best operation in the business.

Let me spend a few moments on the competitive changes and Hawaiian's relative position. During the second quarter, Southwest ramped up to the schedule it announced earlier this year and ANA launched A380 service to Hawaii. All of this has been foreshadowed for many months. We remain extremely well positioned in the North America to Hawaii, Japan to Hawaii, and Neighbor Island markets even considering these developments. In North America, we continue to maintain an impressive revenue premium and our A321neos are delivering the network advantages we have talked about for several years.

On our Neighbor Island routes, we have the best schedule breadth, the right fleet and importantly, the best cost structure. And in Hawaii – or in Japan, we have established a strong brand with a product suited to the market and a deepening partnership with Japan Airlines. I wouldn't change places with any of our competitors in any of these geographies. We have faced competitive challenges in the past and focused on making our business stronger, and our approach is no different today. And while others are looking at opportunities in Hawaii, we see opportunity too.

In the second quarter, we launched A321neo service between Sacramento and Maui, growing our West Coast to Maui network to eight routes. We also launched service to Boston from Honolulu, complementing our established service in New York with a new East Coast route. Both of these new routes are attracting robust demand and are off to great starts. On the international front, we announced new service to Fukuoka in Japan and have been tentatively awarded a new daily frequency between Tokyo, Haneda, and Honolulu starting in March of next year.

This new flight is intended to give us a new time channel for Tokyo service to optimize connections with our partner JAL which will allow us to access guests in parts of Japan without convenient service to Hawaii today. Japan is the largest source of international travelers to Hawaii by far. And the affinity Japanese visitors have for Hawaii is unparalleled. We are ideally positioned to capitalize on this affinity as the only airline that can truly deliver authentic Hawaiian hospitality.

These upcoming services demonstrate our enthusiasm for the growth potential of our Japan franchise, which will be further bolstered by the implementation of our proposed joint venture with Japan Airlines, which is in the final stages of DOT review. We expect to hear a determination from the DOT on this by the end of the third quarter. All told, the strongest network to and from Hawaii is getting stronger with each of these developments.

Serving this expanding network is a fleet of aircraft tailored to each of our missions. We took delivery of one A321neo in the second quarter and remain on schedule to receive four more before the year is up. And by this time next year, we'll have our 18th A321neo, the final aircraft in our current A321neo order book on hand. The operating cost efficiency of this aircraft is remarkable, perhaps best illustrated by the noticeable deviation between our capacity and our fuel consumption in the first half of the year. To wit, our capacity measured by ASMs is up 2.6% year-to-date compared with the first half of 2018. At the same time, our fuel consumption is down 1.6%.

If our fuel consumption had grown at the same pace as available seat miles, our economic fuel costs in the first half of 2019 would have been over $10 million higher. That, of course, was a defining feature of the business case for the A321neos and the new fleet is delivering the benefits we expected. We continue to invest in making travel effortless, one of the 2019 strategic priorities I've spoken about since our last Investor Day, and these investments are paying off.

Since we last spoke, we rolled out a new and refreshed lobby at our Maui Hub in Kahului. Together with the new mobile app that we rolled out at the end of the first quarter, we're improving our guest experience on the day of travel with more to come in the periods ahead. And these improvements are resonating with our guests as evidenced by improving customer NPS scores during the period.

The competitive advantages and accomplishments I just spoke to are rooted in a strategy that aims to serve the needs of the Hawaii traveler better than anyone. It's what's brought us success to-date. It's what's keeping us a step ahead of our rivals now as we face competitive incursions on multiple fronts, and it's what will drive our continued success over the long term.

I'll now turn the call over to Brent to talk about our revenue performance in more detail.

Thank you, Peter, and aloha, everyone. Our revenue results were largely in line with expectations in the second quarter. Operating revenue was roughly flat on capacity growth of 2.7% resulting in a RASM decline of 3.1% year-over-year. This included 1-percentage-point benefit from the Easter holiday shift and offset a marginal headwind of less than 0.5 point from fuel surcharges and foreign currency in the quarter.

Industry capacity growth and pricing pressure materialized as expected in our North America and Neighbor Island geographies in the quarter. North America industry capacity growth accelerated in the second quarter, a trend that we expect will continue in the third and fourth quarters, setting up the full year for growth in the mid-single digit range. It wasn't that long ago we were talking about double-digit industry capacity growth from North America in 2018.

In fact, when factoring in current schedules on top of the 2018 base, we see full year 2019 industry capacity between North America and Hawaii that is nearly 17% higher than it was in 2017, the same year we were producing record unit revenue results in the geography. It's not surprising then that the industry pricing between North American and Hawaii remains below the levels we observed in 2016 and 2017 and has remained as such since the end of the third quarter of 2018.

Having said that, our average fares held up well and were in line with expectations in the second quarter. Our Neighbor Island route saw a material increase in industry capacity in the second quarter. Similar to North America, we expect that trend to continue in the third and fourth quarters. Lower promotional fares continue on a couple of important routes. And while no other airline can compete with our robust Inter-Island schedule, the persistence of these promotional fares is pressuring Neighbor Island yields in the short-term.

North America, Neighbor Island PRASM each declined in the mid-single digit range year-over-year in the second quarter which led to a decline in overall domestic PRASM of about 7%. The domestic PRASM result is roughly 2 points lower than each of the sub entities due to our growing average domestic stage length which increased more than 8% year-over-year on an ASM-weighted basis.

Offsetting some of the domestic pressure was continued strength in our international geography. International PRASM was up nearly 6% year-over-year in the second quarter. Premium Cabin PRASM on international routes posted near double-digit growth with year-over-year improvements in both load factor and yield as we continued to monetize the investments we've made in the Premium Cabin on our A330 fleet. We continue to perform well in Japan buoyed by our JAL relationship. Notable in this period was improved performance in Sapporo, Osaka, and Tokyo to Kona markets.

Our value-added revenue streams also continued to show meaningful growth. Value-added revenue per passenger was up 15% year-over-year in the second quarter. Extra Comfort and Preferred Seat revenue performance continues to set records and we are on track to comfortably surpass the $100 million mark for 2019. Similarly, revenue from the sale of HawaiianMiles set a new quarterly record and helped contribute to the record value-added revenue per passenger result in the second quarter.

Finally, consistent with the rest of the industry, our cargo business faced difficult macro conditions that continued to pressure cargo volumes especially out of Asia. As a result, cargo revenue declined 12% year-over-year in the second quarter. We expect pressure to continue in the coming months as uncertainty in trade and the global economy persists.

Looking ahead to the third quarter, we expect third quarter RASM to be down between 1.5% to 4.5% year-over-year and our capacity to be up between 0.5% to down 1.5% year over year.

The third quarter year-over-year capacity comparison is lower than our second quarter and what we anticipate our fourth quarter growth will be. This is largely a function of the timing of deliveries of A321neos in both 2018 and 2019 as well as the timing of maintenance events this year.

With over half the year behind us, we are now forecasting that our 2019 capacity growth will be up between 1.5% to 2.5% year over year. This is 1 point lower at the midpoint than our initial guidance as we adjust for A321neo delivery delays and some modest trimming of capacity in shorter term underperforming portions of our network.

Looking past the near-term unit revenue pressures, the commercial team remains focused on building the strength of our underlying business. First, our North America summer bookings are on track with where we'd expect them to be at this point in the year. While average fares remain below the level we've seen the last few summers, the trends are consistent with what we've seen in recent quarters.

Next, our A321neos are performing to plan. The introduction of the A320neo has allowed us to grow and transform our North America network. We've launched seven new routes with year-round service in the past 18 months, so just under a third of our North America routes are still relatively new and developing as expected with encouraging unit revenue performance trends.

Still on the topic of our North America network, we maintained our double digit PRASM premium between the U.S. West Coast and Hawaii for the year ending the first quarter of 2019, the latest timeframe we have data from the DOT. This is especially notable given double-digit industry capacity growth and the industry pricing levels below historical ranges over that timeframe.

On the product front, we're on track to launch our Main Cabin Basic product on our North America routes in the fourth quarter. Given our product segmentation success to-date, we're confident that this new offering will more effectively tap an important segment of potential Hawaii travelers and alleviate some of the downward pressure we've seen on our Main Cabin yields.

Beyond North America, our partnership with Japan Airlines continues to strengthen. Codeshare and airline traffic are performing very well in absolute terms and on a relative basis compared to our previous partner. We look forward to deepening our relationship with JAL to deliver additional benefits to our customers, the communities we serve, and our two companies in the quarters ahead.

Finally, as Peter mentioned, we're excited to further expand our footprint in Japan with Fukuoka joining our network in November. All of this is to say we're executing to our plan and competing effectively in all of our geographies. We're optimizing and growing our U.S. network while expanding our opportunities internationally with aircraft that are tailored for each of their unique missions. We're investing in products our guests value by delivering authentic Hawaiian hospitality, something that none of our competitors can claim.

As we've seen over the better part of the last decade, we've built a competitive position that allows us to win in various market environments, which sets us up well for success in the long term. With that, I'll turn the call over to Shannon.

Thanks Brent. Hi everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll start with a brief recap of our second quarter results. Today we reported second quarter adjusted net income of $59 million or $1.23 per share, an adjusted pre-tax margin of 11.4%. We're delivering strong financial results despite the challenging competitive landscape.

In the second quarter, CASM ex-fuel and items increased 0.3% year-over-year or a little more than 0.5% better than guidance. The favorability was due to labor efficiencies from initiatives that are delivering value earlier than expected, improved rates from our ongoing emphasis on stronger vendor management and an unforecasted onetime maintenance credit we received in the quarter.

Year-to-date, CASM ex-fuel is up just under 1% year-over-year which puts us squarely in line to post full-year CASM ex-fuel growth between 1% and 2.5% year-over-year. This is especially encouraging given our new full-year capacity guidance is 100 basis points lower at the midpoint from the original range that we set at the beginning of the year. CASM ex-fuel increases due to lower capacity growth are offset by cost reduction initiatives that are delivering benefits earlier than expected as evidenced in the second quarter. This underscores the confidence that we have in achieving our full-year 2019 CASM ex-fuel target as well as our long-term cost reduction goals.

In the third quarter, we expect CASM ex-fuel and items to be up between 3.5% to 6.5% compared to last year, which includes the following headwinds: a year-over-year increase in aircraft maintenance events, totaling a little more than 1.5 points; the various rate increases, including contractual labor and rent of about 1.5 points, and higher ownership and operating costs related to our changing fleet mix as we transitioned out of B767s last year totaling 1 point. I'll underscore that the third quarter stands out as an anomaly in terms of year-over-year performance as a result of a number of unique factors in this year's and last year's results. As evidenced by the full year estimate of low-single digit non-fuel unit cost growth, the third quarter growth is not a continuing trend. Not included in our CASM ex-fuel ranges are any assumptions relating to the amendable contract with our flight attendants' union which is in mediation. We're eager to bring this negotiation to a conclusion. And when we do, our next contract to become amendable will not do so until early 2021.

Staying on the topic of costs, we're making important progress against our goal of reducing structural costs. We're on track to implement initiatives by the end of 2019 that amount to a little more than $25 million of annualized savings. Beyond 2019, we currently have line of sight to initiatives worth about $50 million in annualized savings. We continue to build and stage a pipeline of initiatives that will increase labor productivity, reduce rates, and improve terms throughout our supply chain, and reduce our fleet and fuel costs among others.

In the pursuit of transformational expense reduction, we've established a dozen cross-functional working teams to thoroughly examine every significant aspect of our cost structure and challenge long-held paradigms in a way that the annual planning process doesn't always accomplish. I'd like to personally thank our teams that have been working tirelessly on not only achieving our $100 million cost reduction target, but for promoting and strengthening cost discipline across the entire company.

In closing, I want to underscore Peter's confidence in our future. Competitive interest in Hawaii ebbs and flows, what remains constant is our focus on Hawaii and the Hawaii traveler. Simply put, we have the best formula to serve our markets, and we look forward to continuing to demonstrate why we are the carrier of choice to Hawaii.

This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll now turn the call back over to Alanna.

Thank you, Peter, Shannon and Brent. We would like to thank all of you for joining us today and for your continued interest in Hawaiian Holdings. We are now ready for questions from the analysts. As a reminder, please limit yourself to one question and, if needed, one follow-up question. Omar, please open the lines for questions.

At this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Susan Donofrio, Macquarie Group. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Hi, everyone. Question on your CASM guide. It's a pretty wide range for next quarter. Can you just go over a little bit on the puts and takes that are going into it just to give us some sense?

Sure. Hi, Susan. It's Shannon.

Hi, Shannon.

We usually give a 3-point range for the quarter. So that's what we've done. And we've got a bit of puts and takes here, you're right. We've got about 1.5 points from aircraft maintenance events in the quarter and it's just volume, more aircraft maintenance events this quarter versus last year. We've got about 1.5 points related to just various rate increases, some being just contractual labor increases, and we've got some rent increases.

And about 1 point of just ownership and maintenance cost relating to our changing fleet. As you recall we were – about this time last year, we were exiting our B767s, and now we're bringing in A321neos and as we were at the end of life on some B767s and adjusted our plans with delays on the A321neo timing, it just changed the natural ownership and operating cost with the B767 fleet.

Okay, great.

And...

And just – go ahead.

Susan, maybe just one thing that I'll add to that on the – our capacity growth in this quarter is lower than it is in the other three quarters of this year. And again that is a function, as Brent said in his comments of the timing of deliveries this year and last year. It's also a function of the fact that last year when we were suffering from some A321neo delivery delays, we were flying bigger airplanes with which produced more ASMs on some of our routes in North America. And so, it's – there's a little bit of an anomaly in there that is driving the denominator in that CASM calculation a little bit this year.

Okay, great. That's helpful. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Kevin Crissey, Citigroup. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, thank you so much for the time. Can you talk about the importance of frequency in the Inter-Island market? You talked about having that advantage. Can you talk about how that plays out?

Yeah. Maybe I'll start and then turn it over to Brent to see if he has anything to add to that, Kevin. I think it helps in a couple of ways. One, we have a lot of frequent customers who are local customers who travel to the islands for business or personal reasons, and they have different – they value the ability to choose different flight times and to – if for some reason their schedule gets delayed, maybe push their flight back a couple of hours, and so it's valuable in that regard in terms of providing utility to people who travel regularly.

The other thing that I would say is important about it is as we connect to our longer haul trips and to -including our international trips and also other airlines, longer haul trips, that gives us the ability to access connecting traffic at different time channels for arrivals from the long haul trips into Honolulu. So, that's a couple of the big important things. Brent, anything you want to add to that?

Yeah. I think Peter covered the highlights, so the only thing I would add a little bit is around kind of our customer segment difference here in Hawaii versus some of the mainland markets. And that we start our schedule at 5:00 AM in the morning and it's not unusual to have people going to render medical service or construction workers who are looking for that kind of time of day coverage. That's really kind of unparalleled in terms of what we offer. And so having a bunch of unique products or customer bases that we serve here in the islands is really important to have that breadth of schedule.

Terrific. Thanks. And maybe on the capacity topic, again, can you talk about and remind us what your structural thoughts are on that for 2020 and beyond?

Sorry, Kevin. You're sort of wondering what we're thinking about capacity-wise for next year?

Yeah. I'm not looking for a specific number. I'm talking not necessarily just next year, but generally, are you a 4-ish, 3% to 5%? Is there a range that you think of is appropriate given your maturity of your network or so, et cetera?

Yeah. Let me let Brent start on that one.

Kevin, we've talked about in the past that kind of our intent is to grow kind of mid-single digits kind of over time. That growth is important in terms of our economic model here. This year, over the last couple years, it's been a bit more fluid given transition of fleet. And next year, while we don't have a specific number to guide to, we will have a little bit more long haul flying. As Peter mentioned, we'll have the additional Haneda frequency that we intend on flying, beginning in late March of next year, we'll have the annualization of Fukuoka in there for most of the year. And so while we're not ready to guide to a specific number next year, I think it's fair to say that we'll have a bit more international growth next year.

Yeah. And that's also a function of having some of the deliveries packed at the end of this year which gives us growth into next year.

Terrific. Thanks for the time.

Our next question comes from Hunter Keay, Wolfe Research. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Hey, everybody. So you've been scaling back some Neighbor Island capacity now for a few months, but just over the weekend you added some back. I was wondering, what changed? Did you maybe cut too deep or is there a little bit of a demand rebound, or is this maybe in response to some of the changes in the competitive landscape?

Hunter, some of it was just kind of typical Neighbor Island cleanup. We had some stuff that we trimmed out in a few select markets and I think what we brought in back over the week was a combination of really of several things. One was some frequency on high demand days in Maui. We had some adds that we put in for the state paddling championships where over the next little while, where demand has been exceptionally strong and we wanted to be able to meet the need of groups wanting to go over and travel for that. And then there was a bit of kind of day of week frequency adds later in the quarter. So, nothing kind of material in there. A bunch of little things and tweaks that we were making similar to tweaks that we were making a little earlier in the quarter on the other side.

Okay. And then I'd love to get – I don't know if it's a question for Peter or whoever, but I'd love to get the corporate view of the effort to take control of the airports away from the State DOT and establish an independent airport corporation. And can you talk about the risks and opportunities for you guys if that happens? I mean, I'm thinking maybe nicer facilities but maybe with some higher costs. Let me know what the puts and takes are on this, not necessarily whether or not you think it happens but maybe the risks and opportunities in the event that it does. Thanks.

Yeah. For the benefit of those who may not know as much about this as Hunter does, Hawaii is one of three states in the United States where the airport is not controlled by an airport authority or some sort of an airport corporation. The State of Hawaii airports are managed as a department of the State Department of Transportation. And we have – we and the other members of a group called the ACH which is the Airline Committee of Hawaii which is all the airlines that operate into Hawaii have supported for the past several years the establishment of an airport corporation or an airport authority to give us more consistent management of the airport and [audio gap] (31:29-31:41) in session throughout the year if we have capital projects that need to be approved or modified. We don't have the ability today to do that throughout the year. It has to be done – those changes have to be done when the legislature is in session. When we have a change of administration, we are susceptible to capital projects that are in the planning phase being replanned and re-guided to match the whims of a changing political environment. And we're also subject to a fairly prescriptive and restrictive procurement code that isn't always the sort of flexible procurement rules that you would like to have for a business where you are willing to trade off sometimes a little bit of cost for quality and for reliability and dependability, particularly when we're talking about expensive long-term construction projects.

So, we've advocated for that for – I think going on four sessions now. We have been hopeful at various times that that would be passed. Most recently, there was a bill in place during the legislative session this year, but that bill unfortunately died before the end and we didn't – we weren't successful and it's not clear whether a bill will be introduced in the next legislative session which starts in January of next year.

I should point out that we have in the past attributed some of the challenges with the oversight of the airports to some of the delays in construction projects. And a famous one was our maintenance hangar that we moved into a couple of years ago which was several years late.

Importantly, I should point out that we're – even though we haven't been successful in getting a change to establish an airport corporation, we're working very closely with the Department of Transportation and the administration to make sure that the big construction project that is ongoing at the airport right now which is a creation of a new Mauka Concourse which is a real positive development in terms of giving more gate capability. And the state is tracking and that project is in fact on track and construction is going well and we're optimistic that that will be ready to move into in 2021.

Peter, thanks a lot.

Yeah. Thanks, Hunter.

Our next question is from Catherine O'Brien, Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

Good afternoon, everyone. So Shannon, maybe one for you first. So the $25 million that you have in projected cost savings this year and then I think you said you had line of sight on another $50 million going forward. Is this still part of the $100 million cost program you guys introduced last year at Investor Day? And I guess can you help us bridge kind of the $25 million to $50 million to $100 million, over what time period should we be looking for that? Thanks.

Right. Thanks, Cathy. Yes this is all part of the $100 million program that we have. So we didn't start the program with a bunch of ideas in the bank and we didn't know that we already had 80% of it identified. We really did truly start on this this year. So for 2019, the projects and the initiatives that we will be able to execute will result in a $25 million annualized savings run rate.

We also have line of sight to another $25 million worth of projects that we haven't quite initiated yet, but we know how we'll execute and we just have to get through those projects. So, that gets us to about half of our total project. And just as we're speaking, we have about a dozen working groups just looking at all different types of cost areas in the company to find the other $50 million. So, the target is to identify and execute on $100 million annualized run rate by the end of 2021.

Okay, great. And then maybe just one clean-up modeling question for Shannon, and then one for the group. Shannon, in the June quarter you said you had a one-time maintenance credit that was unexpected. Could you help us just size the impact, so we can think about that modeling going forward?

Yeah. I think that was about 0.3 percentage – year-over-year percentage points.

Okay, great. And then maybe just you spoke to some of the trends in international, it sounds like PRASM has been strong there. Have you seen any discernible change in the fare environment since ANA rolled out its latest [ph] upstaging (36:41) efforts starting this month? Thank you.

Yeah. So, for those of you who aren't as intimately familiar with the ANA schedule, they started service with the A380 in around Memorial Day and then have been upgrading service. I think they're at 10 a week now and will their way to double daily. It really hasn't had that much of an impact in terms of market performance. There was some initial pricing activity. It was a bit more stimulative in nature. That seems to have dissipated and somewhat offsetting some of the ANA adds has been some OA capacity decreases in those markets as well. And so, certainly there was a lot of press around the ANA A380 entry into service. But overall, we're really encouraged with the performance we're seeing in Japan in total but certainly in Tokyo as well.

Thanks very much.

Our next question comes from Joseph DeNardi, Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Hey. Good afternoon, everybody. Brent, I'll have to adjust my model for the state paddling competition. When you look at PRASM by route, are you seeing – just on the North America side, are you seeing kind of PRASM pressure across the board or is it isolated at this point just to the routes where you're seeing the increase in capacity?

No. It is – Joe, it is really kind of a route-by-route impact and some of it is capacity-driven, some of it is industry pricing-driven. And I wouldn't – I would say in general there's a degree of conformity around performance with some of the markets where we were a new entrant. Last year, we were just ramping up service. We've seen more improvement in some of those markets and getting the right size gauged airplane on there in terms of A321s. So it's really kind of a mixed bag and frankly, it's a bit of a difficult comp given some of the scheduled turmoil we had both last year and this year as we were working through some of the A321neo delivery issues.

Got it. And then maybe one for you Peter, I mean you guys are on track for a few hundred basis points or so in margin compression in 2019. And just based on what the new competitor there said last week about some new route announcements coming, it seems like maybe a similar capacity environment next year, at least, on the North America and Neighbor Island side.

Can you just talk about what initiatives you guys think you have to offset another year of margin compression or is that just kind of what we should expect until, I don't know, supply and demand reach an equilibrium. Thank you.

Yeah. So, a couple of thoughts on that. One, a little early to talk about all the impacts on 2020 capacity. Certainly, as you pointed out, one of our competitors has indicated that they planned to make some announcements and that is as foreshadowed as some of the announcements that they made earlier this year. So we've been expecting that. But there may be some other capacity changes as well so it's a little early to say exactly how the 2019 competitive landscape plays out.

In terms of initiatives, I'll highlight a couple of big ones that are going to be coming in late this year or early next year that I think are important in terms of swinging our revenue performance. And one is Main Cabin Basic that we've been talking about for a while and as Brent said in his comments, we're expecting to have that roll out as we've been talking about for a while in the back half of this year and be flying Main Cabin Basic passengers before the end of the year.

And then the Japan joint business with JAL is another very important one that we're rolling out and that will help us take advantage of some of the new capacity we're putting in Japan which is in a different geography but obviously that helps boost our numbers. So those are a couple of the key things that we have going in addition to the new routes that we talked about in my comments with Fukuoka and the new Haneda route.

Thanks, Peter.

Hey, Joe, two other things that I should mention. One, obviously the cost transformation initiative is another piece, so in addition to doing what we can to turn around the revenue environment, the important initiatives that Shannon mentioned, having $25 million of run rate doesn't mean there's $25 million in this year's numbers, so we'll realize all of that and then some of the $50 million run rate that we've identified and maybe some more as the teams identify more. So that helps.

And then one, just one little bit of modeling help to your earlier comment about the state paddling championship. Next year it's going to be in Oahu so there's fewer teams that will be traveling. So you should factor that into you detail in August for next year.

Very helpful. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Michael Linenberg, Deutsche Bank. Please proceed you're your question.

Yeah, this is actually Matt Fallon on for Mike. So how much of the capacity reduction in the new 2019 guide was due to A321neo delays and how much was trimming?

I don't have the specific number in front of me but it was a bit of Neighbor Island trimming particularly in the front part of the year, most noticeably in kind of 1Q and a little bit of 2Q on Big Island in terms of responding to softening demand that we had seen earlier in the year there.

We trimmed a bit of Australia off-peak capacity and so that's probably in the couple of tenths percentage-wise in some of the off-peak periods as there's a bit of – has been a bit of currency pressure. And then the vast majority of it then has really been A321neo delays as things have really just gotten pushed to the right. And so some of our initial plans, for example, we're going to start up a second San Francisco-Honolulu in later this year. That was originally – in our original plans was within the second quarter and now that's going to be actually in the fourth quarter. So things like that where we've had to slide some of our growth out to the right. We've had to rejigger some of our maintenance planning to accommodate that. It has been a little bit more challenging, but the vast majority of it has been A321neo delays. But again, like I said, a bit of puts and takes in some other markets as well.

Just as a quick follow-up. If you don't really see yields or recover to where you are comfortable with, do you think there can be more cuts in the margin, maybe like Q4 2019 or even into early 2020? Thanks for taking my questions.

At this point, I think we're pretty comfortable with our capacity position. We are producing above average. I mean, we've got a nice revenue premium relative to our competitors in North America. We're encouraged with our performance on a relative basis there even while the macro environment remains off of its historic highs in 2017 and 2018. And we're certainly focused on delivering kind of a breadth and depth of schedule in Neighbor Island that our customers have come to expect from us. And so, I mean at this point, I don't think we see any material changes to that going forward.

Our next question comes from Rajeev Lalwani, Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, thanks for the time. Shannon, first, a question for you. You highlighted a handful of cost initiatives ahead. What's the overarching goal? Are you trying to get back to that sort of flat to down CASM trend? I think that's what you were previously guiding to. So, just some color there would be helpful.

Yeah. Hi, Rajeev. This cost exercise that we're doing is less about 2019, more about long-term structural costs. Sometimes when we focus on the current year or even in the budget process when we're focused on the next year, we're really limited to what we can do in the short term. And then you start playing with timing things and things like that and that doesn't really help our underlying business.

We're not doing this cost exercise because we're at the point of bankruptcy and we really need to save on cash. It really is to allow us to grow more efficient [audio gap] (46:12-46:25) range at this point of 1 to 2.5 points. And the cost initiative definitely feeds into that. We've incorporated the benefits that we believe we'll achieve in 2019 but really on the big $100 million cost initiative is really more about long-term run rate savings.

Okay. Great. And then a revenue question for Brent, Peter. As it relates to competitive capacity that you've seen come into the market, how quickly has pricing in some of those markets improved? Have you seen sort of rapid maturity and a lot of that discounting going away quick and is there any difference between what you've observed on the Inter-Island side versus the North America side? Hello?

Rajeev, you broke up there real quick at the end. Can you repeat like the last 10 seconds of your question? Sorry.

Yeah. I'm not sure I know what the last 10 seconds of my question was but just generally in terms of as you've seen competitive capacity growth come through, how quickly have the markets matured? Has pricing rebounded at all? And is there any difference, I think maybe this was what you're referring to, between the Inter-Island side and the North American side as far as resilience and rebounding in pricing if there is any?

Yeah, I would say there was certainly – when we got on and talked last quarter about the North America pricing environment, there was a lot of discussion or a lot of focus on some promotional activity that had been put into the marketplace by some of our competitors. That wasn't really that reflective in what actually selling fares were and in large part in North America.

Our view has been that promotional pricing is – we've really just seeing pricing kind of continue off the trends we had seen in 1Q and 4Q of last year. So nothing kind of material in terms of step changes there.

On the Neighbor Island side, we have seen a fair amount of activity and promotional activity across a couple of our markets. And while that has seen probably sequential improvement over the course of the quarter, those are kind of incremental steps in terms of either day of week changes in terms of applicability or nominal increases in fare amounts.

Thank you, guys.

Our next question is from Dan McKenzie, Buckingham Research Group. Please proceed with your question.

Oh, hey, thanks for the time, guys. Going back to more international growth next year, can you just remind us how these routes typically spool up? Should we think about this growth as being margin additive or dilutive upfront? And what would be driving the kind of the one or the other, the revenue side or on the cost side?

Sorry, Dan. You broke out again. So which routes were you referring to? Were you talking about the new Japan routes?

Yeah, the international growth next year. I mean, just wondering if you can remind us how these routes typically spool up. Should we think of the growth as being margin additive or margin dilutive upfront?

So, in terms of the big international routes that we've got adding next year, adding a frequency into Haneda, we've got a well-known brand there going into the preferred downtown airport. We're going to open up some new markets in terms of domestic connectivity into more secondary cities into Japan. And so, we're really excited about that. And while it's additional capacity, I think our view is between that and the JAL relationship that's going to hit the ground running.

In terms of Fukuoka, I think it is a well-established market. It is one where we think we've got the right formula to succeed, again, the benefits of the JAL partnership are going to be there. And we've got the right level of frequency. Having a Premium Cabin and Extra Comfort, there will be – inevitably, there will be a bit of a ramp-up period. But my view is that this will be relatively shorter compared to other international markets.

Yeah. And I would echo that. We've talked about maturity of international routes before, but they're really – they're not all created equal. And certainly, the maturity of Japanese travel to Hawaii is different from anything else international into Hawaii. And Tokyo, in particular, is the most mature city of the most mature country in terms of how it develops. And that's been our track record since we've been serving Japan for over – about a decade now.

I see. As a second question here, just regarding the new law restricting Airbnbs in Oahu, I'm just wondering what your initial thoughts are around how that might impact demand to Hawaii. How are you guys thinking about that?

Yes. Thanks, Dan. It's an interesting one and we don't have a real precise assessment to be able to give you in terms of what the impact is going to be. We do expect that there will be some curtailing of the availability of vacation rental accommodations in the coming months. That will either make it potentially more expensive or more difficult for people who want to have those sort of accommodation experiences and that may manifest itself in some pressure on demand from North America. It's really hard for us because this is a fairly opaque market to understand exactly how big that is. But I think we're optimistic that based on our strong position in the market and our revenue premium and the breadth of our service and how strong our brand is, that we will be able to withstand any of that pressure better than any one of our competitors.

Understood. If I could maybe squeeze one more here. I was just looking at the 10-Q as you guys were kind of going through your script and the one thing that struck me was the stock buyback in the quarter seemed like it was a little light just given where the stock is. And I guess I'm wondering why not be a little bit more aggressive and perhaps signal a little bit more confidence in the outlook here.

Dan, I don't know that I'd agree with your characterization of it being a little light. I think we bought back a little bit more in the second quarter than we did in the first quarter. We've got a buyback program that we have executed against over a period of time and we've had – in addition to the capital we're returning to investors in the form of dividends which we have been declaring quarterly. So we're going to continue to be opportunistic about how we buy back. We think there's tremendous value in doing that right now when we balance that with our other capital needs as we always do.

Understood. Thanks a lot. I appreciate the time.

Thanks, Dan.

Our next question comes from Helane Becker, Cowen. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks very much, operator. Hi, everybody. Thank you for squeezing me in towards the end here. I just have a few questions. One, as you think about market opportunities and growth over the next few years, how do you think about the difference between like domestic and international, A; and B, as you think about adding international capacity, how do you think about markets like Japan? I think you served Fukuoka at one point in the past and you're going back, but there are other markets that you've been in and out of. Is there a time when it makes sense to go back to some of those markets? Thanks.

So in terms of kind of – one of the things that we've established over time is really a balanced network and the flexibility to be able to grow and react to market demand, whether it be on the international side, the West Coast or even deeper into the Mainland. So, we've got a flexible view of how we can adapt and change to changing market conditions there.

In terms of the international side, I think – I'll take on Fukuoka specifically. It is a much different market than when we previously served it. Industry capacity is going to be down north of 60% from when we previously served it. If I look at our ability in terms of commercial execution, having the right airplane with a lie-flat product, our ability to put Extra Comfort in and monetize that, our relationship with JAL and what that brings both today in terms of just their presence and down the road in anticipation of getting ATI, I think it is a comparison of two very different things. And so I think as we look at the market now, we expect very different results from where we were before.

Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you.

We have reached the end of the question-and-answer session. And I will now turn the call back over to Peter Ingram for closing remarks.

All right. Thank you, Omar. Mahalo again to everyone for joining us today. We appreciate your interest and we look forward to talking to you again in a few months.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.