corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Hawaiian


Holdings Incorporated First Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are


in a listen-only mode. Later, we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be


given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this call is being recorded today,


Tuesday, April 28, 2009.


Now, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Matt Bernier, Senior Director of Finance.


Please go ahead.


Matt Bernier, Senior Director


Thank you, Patty. Well, welcome everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian


Holdings’ first quarter 2009 financial results. On the call from the company are Mark Dunkerley,


President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have access to the press release, which went out at about 4 o’clock


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-looking


statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your


questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore undue reliance


should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Matt, and thank you everyone for joining us today on the call. As stated in our press


release, our first quarter financial performance improved considerably year-over-year. As usual, the


results reflect some positives and negatives in the macro environment, the net of which balanced in


our favor during the most recent period.


First, let me briefly review the numbers at a high level. Our net income for the first quarter was


$23.5 million or $0.46 per share. And this compares to a loss of 19.9 million or a loss of $0.42 per


share in the same period last year. Revenue improved 14.9% to 288.6 million, largely driven by the


expansion of our interisland operation in the second quarter of ‘08.


Passenger revenue per seat mile improved 4.8% and total revenue per seat mile improved 9.5%


during the period. The relative strength in the latter number reflects year-over-year increases in


ancillary revenue and improvement in frequent flyer mile pricing related primarily to our affinity


credit card program.


Operating expenses decreased by 20.5 million despite our increased operations as we realized the


benefits of lower fuel prices. Operating income was 35.9 million, reversing an operating loss of 22
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


million last year, while our pre-tax income of 29.6 million compared to a pre-tax loss of 19.9 million


in ‘08.


These results are good and are notably better than those posted by our competitors. They are the


product of a significant reduction in the price of fuel and several years of cost cutting at the


company, which combined to more than offset the weaker demand for Hawaii vacations.


Looking ahead, the most important question is whether demand for Hawaii vacations has stabilized.


In terms of the number of travelers, our forward bookings for the next few weeks remain robust.


Fare levels, however, have declined over the course of the last couple of months, suggesting that


others have some concern for the level of future demand.


As we stated previously, customers are making bookings much closer in to the date of travel than


before and this is limiting our forward view. Peter is going to have some further guidance in his


section of the call.


As we discuss the outlook, we’d like to caution that we are entering a period where care needs to


be taken in making comparisons to our performance in prior periods. It was one year ago Aloha and


ATA collapsed, changing our business overnight. So year-over-year comparisons will change


accordingly.


Second, our business remains very dynamic and there are market conditions prevailing in the


second quarter that are different from those which prevailed in the first. We’ll endeavor to make


clear when we are making year-over-year comparisons and when – where we are making the


sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons. But please ask us if you’re unclear when we get to the


question-and-answer portion of this call.


With that, let’s get into the meat of the presentation. The lower price of fuel was the dominant story


of the quarter. On a GAAP basis, our fuel price per gallon declined 48% to $1.48 and our fuel


expense declined by about 41 million compared to the first quarter of ‘08. On an economic fuel cost


basis, which takes into account the settlement of fuel hedges during the quarter, our cost per gallon


declined by 33.2% from $2.71 per gallon to $1.81 per gallon.


I’d like to take a couple of minutes to review the market dynamics in each of our major segments,


starting with the interisland business. We estimate the total industry interisland traffic declined by


about 20% year-over-year in the first quarter. Although the interisland business is generally less


cyclical than our transpacific business, the ongoing economic malaise and general decline in the


number of tourists arriving in Hawaii are clearly affecting traffic. At the same time, the arrival of a


new entrant late in ‘08 and its challenges in establishing a base of traffic have precipitated a return


of unsustainable pricing to the market.


As many of you know, Mokulele Airlines expanded from its Cessna Caravan operation in November


with the initiation of regional jet service to Lihue and Kona in partnership with Republic Airways.


Republic provided the aircraft, flight crews and financing for the operation.


In the ensuing weeks Mokulele, by most accounts, struggled to build a passenger base, and


apparently burned through its initial capital. As a result, in March, Republic assumed control of the


company and took over day-to-day management. By the beginning of May, Mokulele will have


added service to all four of our primary interisland destinations and will be adding a third aircraft. As


they struggle to gain a foothold, they’ve discounted interisland fares to as low as $28 in some


instances.


It’s difficult at this point to be sure when more sustainable pricing will return. In the interim, the


combination of lower year-over-year traffic and discounted fares will tend to suppress the financial


performance of our intersland business. However, we enjoy a strong position with intersland