raw transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 01, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Lawana, and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I want to welcome everyone to the Hawaiian Holdings Third Quarter 2006 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Allyson Pooley of Integrated Corporate Relations.


Please go ahead, ma'am.


Allyson Pooley, Integrated Corporate Relations


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian Holdings third


quarter 2006 earnings results. On the call today from the Company are Mark Dunkerley, President


and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer. By now, everyone should


have access to the press release, which went out at 1 Pacific, 4 Eastern Time. If you do not have


the release, it is available on the Investor Relations portion of Hawaiian's website at


www.hawaiianairlines.com.


Before we begin today, we would like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statement under the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-


looking statements, and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response


to your questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore undue


reliance should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings recent filings


with the SEC, including its most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, its recent quarterly


reports filed on Form 10-Q, as well as recent reports filed on Form 8-K.


As a point of clarification, at various points during the call, reference will be made to results for both


Hawaiian Holdings, also known as Holdings, and Hawaiian Airlines, known as Hawaiian, it's sole


operating subsidiary. From April 1st 2003, following Hawaiian's bankruptcy filings through June 1st


2005 the day prior to Hawaiian's emergence from bankruptcy, Holdings deconsolidated Hawaiian


and accounted for its interests using cost method accounting.


As a result, the financial results of Holdings during that period do not include Hawaiian's financial


results. For comparative purposes, reference will therefore be made to the combined results of


Holdings and Hawaiian for the period prior to Hawaiian Airlines emerging from bankruptcy last year,


when the Airlines results were then consolidated into Holdings.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Allyson, and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I am going to start by


giving the highlights of the quarter, and then address the two key issues that we continue to face in


our markets today, and that's of course, intense competition and high fuel costs. Also going to


discuss some of the cost control efforts we have made, as well as provide an update on the aircraft


that we purchased earlier in the year. Peter is then going to discuss our third quarter financial


results in greater detail, then of course, we are going to open up the call to your questions.
raw transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 01, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The third quarter was the first full quarter of the new interisland competition, and it was also a


quarter in which there was excess trans-Pacific capacity, both leading to frenetics from promotions


and deep discounting in both of our major markets. Despite this difficult environment, we posted an


operating profit of approximately $13 million in our third quarter, versus an operating profit of


approximately $18 million last year, and net income was flat year-over-year at 8 million.


Thanks to the hard work of our dedicated employees, we have also maintained our industry leading


rankings, in terms of on time performance, baggage handling, and the avoidance of cancellations.


Baggage handling ranking is particularly significant these days, given the more stringent security


requirements, which are resulting in increase in checked luggage across the industry.


Our customers have recognized our dedication to service with the readers of both Conde Nast


Traveler and Travel + Leisure magazines, voting Hawaiian as the best airline serving Hawaii, based


on cabin comfort, food, in-flight service, customer service, and value. We believe strongly that our


superior service helps us consistently fill our planes fuller than any of our competitors. For the third


quarter our load factor was 86.2%. While this was about 4 points lower than our results of a year


ago, it remains today at the top of the industry.


Yield Improved to 12 cents versus 11.38 cents a year ago, resulting in a RASM increase of almost


2%. Though other airlines have posted more substantial improvements in RASM, they have done


so in the face of a benign capacity environment, which contrasts with our experience, both


interisland and across the Pacific. The effects of the increased capacity in our markets is


particularly noticeable in the shoulder and off-peak months of travel.


In the trans-PAC market, which accounts for over 60% of our passenger revenues, capacity


continues to rise, albeit at a somewhat slower pace than it has in recent years. For the first three


quarters of the year, we have seen a cumulative 2.4% increase. Admittedly with the expansion of


San Diego/Maui service to year round in September, we at Hawaiian are responsible for part of the


increase, and our schedule will increase further in the fourth quarter, as the other aircraft we have


purchased earlier this air come into service.


To refresh your memory, we purchased 4 previously owned 767-300 aircraft in the first quarter.


These aircraft had been operating in Delta's fleet prior to their bankruptcy. Other the past several


months, we have put these aircraft through an extensive overhaul and modification program, in


order to prepare them for ETOP, which is Extended over water Operations.


This project has required a massive effort led by our maintenance and engineering team, who


performed admirably in keeping the process moving forward. Our efforts have been complicated in


recent weeks by delays in achieving FAA certification of certain cabin interior items. In light of these


circumstances, we entered the first aircraft into service without the full interior modification, which is


a contingency that was always part of our original plan. We have had to slightly delay the expected


in service dates for the remaining three aircraft. We still expect to have all of the aircraft in service


before the end of the fourth quarter, and we have been able to juggle our schedule to minimize the


impact of these delays.


Our interisland business, which generates slightly under 30% of our passenger revenue, has of


course been negatively affected by increased capacity and rampant discounting since Mesa's entry


into Hawaii in June. Until June, the interisland market was served primarily by us, Aloha Island Air,


and a couple of other smaller carriers.


Since the year 2000 the market has experienced a decline in passenger levels, attributable to both


the increased direct service from the mainland to outer islands, and also to the expansion of


infrastructure on the neighbor islands, which reduces the need for some travel to Honolulu by


Hawaii residents. Despite this trend, the interisland market remains a core element of our business,