corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings Third Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Shannon Okinaka, Senior Director of Hawaiian


Holdings. Ms. Okinaka, you may now begin.


Shannon Okinaka, Senior Director


Thank you, Shea. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian


Holdings’ third quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Mark Dunkerley,


President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have access to the press release, which went out at about 4 o’clock,


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone that the following prepared remarks contain forward-


looking statements and Management may make additional forward-looking statements in response


to your questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore, undue


reliance should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Shannon, and thank you to everyone for joining us on today’s call. Well, we’re pleased


to announce our tenth consecutive quarter of profitability. Our results reflect continuing recovery in


visitor arrivals to Hawaii, strong performance on our interisland routes, and solid gains from our


burgeoning international network.


Competition remains robust across our key transpacific routes, but we are encouraged to report


that increased industry capacity has met improved demand as the U.S. economy slowly recovers


from recession.


In June, our first two A330s entered service, and during the third quarter, these new aircraft flew a


full schedule with twice-daily service between L.A. and Honolulu during July and August. With the


transition to our fall schedule in September, we are currently operating a single A330 round trip on


each of our Honolulu-Los Angeles and Honolulu-Las Vegas routes.


Operationally the aircraft have performed every bit to our expectations, and more importantly,


customer reaction to the new airplanes has been excellent, cementing our reputation of providing


the best product and service between the western U.S. and Hawaii.
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


As we move toward the end of 2010, our preparations for new service to Japan and Korea are


continuing on schedule, and we are preparing for the arrival of our third A330 in November.


Before I provide more commentary on our recent performance and discuss our outlook, I’ll turn the


call over to Peter to review the numbers for the quarter in a bit more detail.


Peter R. Ingram, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Mark. In the third quarter, we reported GAAP net income of $30.5 million, or $0.59 per


share, compared to $30.7 million, or $0.58 per share, during the same period last year. Our results


during the period benefited from a discrete tax item related to the release of reserves for uncertain


tax position, the result of which was a credit to our tax provision of $5.7 million.


The EPS impact of this adjustment is about $0.14 in the quarter, which also includes the associated


impact of a credit to interest expense that had been previously accrued on this tax reserve. In last


year’s third quarter, our tax provision was even less intuitive when we recorded a $20 million


adjustment to our tax line.


As is our custom, we provided non-GAAP adjusted results in our earnings release, which reflect our


economic fuel costs for the quarter, which includes only those fuel hedge gains and losses that


settled in the quarter. On this adjusted basis, our net income for the quarter was $28.5 million, or


$0.55 per share, compared to earnings of 34.7 million, or $0.66 per share, in the prior year period.


Combining both the economic fuel cost adjustment and excluding the tax items, our diluted EPS in


the just finished quarter would have been $0.41. On a pre-tax basis, the year-over-year comparison


on an economic fuel cost basis was $38.9 million of pre-tax income compared to $21 million last


year, reflecting steady improvement in revenue and a good quarter from a cost perspective.


Operating revenue during the quarter was $352 million, up $46 million, or 15% year-over-year, on


an 8.9% increase in capacity. Passenger revenue per ASM came in 6% higher than the third


quarter of 2009 with load factor for the quarter improving 2 percentage points to 86.9%, while yields


improved 3.6%. The capacity increase reflects increased flying this summer as we took delivery of


our two A330s before the peak summer season and were able to schedule some additional


seasonal flying between Oakland and Maui and San Diego and Maui.


Our non-passenger revenue grew at about the same pace as passenger revenue. The biggest


positive contributor was increased returns from baggage fees during the quarter, which are


responsible for much of the increase in our cargo line. We continue to see the year-over-year


benefit of changes to our bag fees in the latter part of 2009, as well as the benefits of higher


passenger levels, particularly on our transpacific flying.


Consistent with the first half of the year, other revenue was lower year-over-year in the quarter,


primarily attributable to two components of this line. First, the marketing component of our frequent


flyer mile sales to third parties are lower in 2010, as a result of a shift of a proportion of these sales


that we recognize in the current period relative to what we defer at sale and recognize over the


period when travel occurs. The other drag on other revenue is cancellation fees. And as we’ve


discussed, we shifted our cancellation fees over the past year to the industry standard process of


charging lower fees while collecting a fare difference on itinerary changes. And partially offsetting


these decreases was an improvement in our charter revenue as a result of our NFL charter


operations.


Moving on to the expense lines, our biggest variance continues to be fuel, although the year-over-


year increases were smaller in the most recent period than we saw in the first half. On the


operating line, we saw an increase of $16 million in fuel expenses. Our fuel consumption was about