corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-


answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr. Matt Bernier, Senior Director of Finance of


Hawaiian Holdings. Thank you. Mr. Bernier, you may begin.


Matt Bernier, Senior Director, Investor Relations


Thanks, Manny. Welcome everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian


Holdings’ fourth quarter and full year 2009 financial results. On the call with me today from the


company are Mark Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief


Financial Officer.


By now everyone should have accessed to the press release, which went out at about 4 o’clock


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor Statements under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-looking


statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your


questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and therefore, undue reliance


should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Matt. As you’ve already seen in today’s press release we posted good results in the


seasonally weak fourth quarter rounding out a year. We’ve saw Hawaiian earn a pre-tax margin of


8.2%. Our higher margin by a considerable distance than those posted by any of our competitors,


this is the second year in a row that Hawaiian has recorded pre-tax profits and the fifth time in the


last seven years.


Our experience has been all together different than that of our competitors as the industry has


struggled to cope first with record fuel prices and then with the effects of a global recession.


During the fourth quarter, we earned net income of 35 million or $0.66 per diluted share, compared


to a net loss of 11.9 million or $0.23 per share in the fourth quarter of 2008. On the pre-tax basis,


earnings were 13.3 million in the quarter compared to pre-tax earnings of 4.2 million a year ago.


As was the case in the third quarter, we posted an unusual tax provision in the fourth quarter


recording a credit of 21.7 million despite generating pre-tax earnings during the period. Peter is


going to discuss this in more detail a bit later in today’s call, but the brief explanation is that as a
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


result of our profitability in recent periods, we deemed it appropriate at this time to partially reduce


what have been a 100% evaluation allowance on the company’s deferred tax assets.


For the full year the company earned pre-tax income just shy of a $100 million at 97.2 million, a net


income of 116.7 million and that’s all on revenue of 1.2 billion. It should be append to everyone


who follows our company that our ability to consistently outperform the financial and operational


results of our competitors rests in very large part on the tireless dedication of my coworkers


throughout our company.


In a tough and exacting business, it is the contributions of each and every employee that counts,


and from the front line to the boardroom I have the privilege of working with immensely dedicated


people. Viewed with tremendous enthusiasm and sense of caring for our customers, together they


deliver a level of customer service that we are proud to call our hallmark.


2009 was a remarkable year; like everywhere else, Hawaii suffered the effects of the global


economic downturn with visitor arrivals to the island’s falling by 16% from that peak level in 2007.


Our revenue was lower in 2009 as a result, but we were encouraged by gradual strengthening in


demand as the year progressed with December being the strongest month since the recovery


began.


We still got our ways to go before matching the heavy level of visitor arrivals Hawaii experienced in


2007. So, we don’t feel that demand for the Hawaii vacation has in any sense chopped out.


Seeking closer to home, our interisland route this year exhibited the effects of slower demand and


the attentions of a new entrant keen to secure a foothold. This picture changed at yearend when


the second and third largest interisland carriers Go and Mokulele respectively announced the


pooling of their resources under the brand name “Go!-Mokulele”.


The story on expenses in 2009 was the big cost savings resulting from lower fuel prices, though


this great advantage that we enjoyed for much of the year ebbed away at year’s end, leaving us


looking at fuel prices that were actually higher than 12 months prior.


Before I dwelled into some specifics about our financial performance in the fourth quarter, I would


like to take a moment to update you on the status of our labor negotiations.


During December, we reached a tentative agreement with the IAM covering about 1200 of our


employees. Most of these employees work at our airports and agent and ramp rolls. The four year


agreement was ratified on January 18 and we are pleased to have this group under a new contract.


We remain in negotiations with IAM with respect to finalizing the contract extension for our 600


mechanics and related employees. The most recent round of negotiations occurred in January,


and it’s our clear desire to conclude an agreement for this group in early 2010. Also during


December, we agreed on a 68-month contract extension with ALPA – the union representing our


pilots. Like the IAM contract, this agreement was ratified in mid January.


Earlier in 2009, we had agreed to new contracts covering our flight attendant and dispatch


employees. So, we’ve made tremendous amount of progress on the labor relations front in 2009


towards securing a more certain and stable labor outlook as we entered 2010. All of the new


contracts provide the compensation increases, and they also provide management with more


flexibility as we seek to improve the company’s profitability and competitiveness going forward.


Each of the new contracts provides for profit sharing, and the IAM flight attendant and dispatcher


contracts include participation in the same incentive compensation plan that covers management


and non-contract employees at Hawaiian.


Now let me turn your attention to our financial performance in the fourth quarter. Operating


revenue during the quarter was 297 million. That’s down 3.5 million year-over-year, which is a


much shallower decline than we recorded over the past two quarters. Passenger revenue per ASM