corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings First Quarter 2010 Conference Call.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Matt Bernier, Senior Director of Finance of Hawaiian


Holdings. Thank you. You may begin.


Matt Bernier, Senior Director, Investor Relations


Thanks, Joe. Welcome everyone, and thanks for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian Holdings’


first quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Mark Dunkerley, President and


Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now everyone should have accessed to the press release, which went out at about 4 o’clock


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone that the following prepared remarks contain forward-


looking statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response


to your questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore, undue


reliance should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Matt, and thank you everyone for joining us on today’s call. As you’ve already seen in


today’s press release, we posted essentially break-even results for the first quarter of 2010.


Seasonally, the first quarter is typically the weakest of the year for our company and while for a


variety of reasons this was not the case in 2009, we expected 2010 may shape up as a more


normal year in terms of seasonality. So while our modest profit looks impressive when compared


to the prevailing losses at many of our competitors, it is overshadowed by the extraordinarily


favorable results posted in the first quarter of 2009. Nonetheless, we saw some positive trends this


past quarter and the numbers were generally in line with what we expected when the year began.


On the positive side of the ledger, our interisland routes performance rebounded solidly from what


we experienced through much of the prior year. As we discussed during our last call, 2009 surplus


capacity disappeared and pricing returned to more rational levels. All in all, I describe the current


market condition as representing a reasonable balance between supply and demand.


On our transpacific routes, we didn’t see unit revenues rise as quickly as it occurred in the U.S.


industry as a whole, but this was not unexpected given that we did not experience as precipitous


decline in 2009 as most of the carriers. Those of you who have followed our business for a while


will recall that in the first quarter of 2009, we posted year-over-year improvements in revenue per


ASM at a time when much of our industry was in revenue free fall. As such, our modest year-over-
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


year improvements in the first quarter of 2010 are relative to a much more difficult comp than has


been the case for our competitors.


Fuel prices continued to escalate during the first quarter further taxing our business, particularly our


long-haul operations. Overall, our fuel build rose over $20 million year-over-year in the first quarter


explaining the lion’s share of increase in our operating expenses.


Aside from fuel, certain other operating costs were higher in the first quarter consistent with our


expectations. As we projected in our last conference call, we expect that CASM ex-fuel increase


that we experienced in the first quarter will be the largest of any quarter in 2010 by a considerable


margin. The biggest drivers of this increase were in our maintenance and selling expense line and


the details of which are going to be reviewed a little later in the call.


I’m going to turn the call over to Peter in a moment to review the numbers from the quarter in more


detail, but before I do, I’d like to comment on a few other notable items from the year so far.


First, many of you would have seen two weeks ago that Hawaiian was named the number one


carrier for overall quality in the annual Airline Quality Rating Survey. The AQR report is regarded


as the single most comprehensive study of airline performance and we are proud to be named the


number one carrier in each of the three years that we have been included in the analysis. Credit for


this achievement goes to our terrific employees who continued to set the standard for others to


emulate. I cannot overemphasize how much confidence our employees’ efforts give us in


management as we embark on the initiatives to better position the company competitively. It’s,


therefore, especially gratifying that their efforts on behalf of customers are recognized broadly.


In speaking of our employees, earlier this week, we completed a new collective bargaining


agreement with the union representing on mechanic and related employees. With this agreement


in place, all of the company’s labor groups are now working under new agreements.


During the quarter, we announced the purchase of an additional Airbus A330-200 scheduled for


delivery in the second quarter of 2011. With this announcement, we are now acquiring a total of 10


new A330s over the coming five-year period, with purchase price available for five additional


aircraft. Many of you are already aware that we’ve been actively seeking an additional wide-body


aircraft for delivery during 2011. With this addition to our fleets, we will now be introducing a total of


four A330s during 2010 and 2011. Well, at the same time, we will be returning two leased 767s.


Net-net, our fleet count will rise by one aircraft for each of 2010 and 2011.


Our ability to seize the opportunity to add this incremental airplane in 2011 on relatively short notice


is a testament to our improved financial condition and the strengthening of our balance sheet over


the last few tumultuous years. As a result, we’re going to be able to grow our airline at a


responsible pace over the next two years and take advantage of the opportunity to deliver our


award-winning service to even more customers.


With that, let me turn it over to Peter to run through the financial results before I come back to


provide a bit more commentary on the current operating environment in the period ahead.


Peter R. Ingram, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Mark. During the first quarter, we earned net income of $216,000 or break-even on a


per diluted share basis, compared to a net income of 23.5 million or $0.46 per share in the first


quarter of 2009. On a pre-tax earnings basis, earnings were 369,000 in the quarter, compared to


pre-tax earnings of 29.6 million a year ago.