corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Hawaiian Holdings Inc. Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s


presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will


be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded today,


Monday, July 27th of 2009.


I will now like to turn the conference over to Matt Bernier, Senior Director of Finance. Please go


ahead, sir.


Matt Bernier, Senior Director, Finance


Thank you, Mary. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian


Holdings’ second quarter 2009 financial results. On the call with me today from the company are


Mark Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have access to the press release, which went out at about four o’clock


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-looking


statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your


questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and, therefore, undue reliance


should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Matt, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today on the call. The second quarter


financial results we released today reflect another period of good financial performance for our


Company in what remains a challenging macroenvironment. While the core influences on our


financial performance are the same as those facing our competitors, that’s much lower fuel prices


than last year offset by much lower demand resulting from our present economic woes, the big


distinction is that, in our case, we’ve been able to strengthen our balance sheet and add cash. With


the credit markets in turmoil, and recognizing that we have a number of substantial outlays in the


next few years, this comparative strength is of tremendous importance.


The price of fuel and the state of the economy dominate conversation about airlines these days. So


in our call, I’d like to veer from this formula by first highlighting the contributions of our employees to


Hawaiian’s success.


Hawaiian’s employees, both in the front line and in support roles, deliver a level of service to our


customers that is the envy of the industry. Everything we do in management to position Hawaiian


well is for naught without the support of our employees. The dedication of our employees to our
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


business is an inspiration to those of us in management, and it gives us great confidence that,


together, we can meet the challenges that lie ahead.


Let me briefly run through the numbers for the quarter. Our net income for the second quarter was


$27.5 million, or $0.53 per share. And that compares to a profit of $54.3 million, or $1.09 per diluted


share a year earlier. Last year’s results, of course, were dominated by a $52.5 million litigation


settlement. Throughout the remainder of today’s call, as we compare our financial performance,


including unit cost performance, to the second quarter of 2008, we will generally compare on a


basis that excludes last year’s litigation settlement.


Income before taxes was $37.3 million this year, compared to $1.8 million last year. And our


operating income was 31.7 million in the current year period, compared to an operating loss of four


million last year. Total revenue declined 8.5% to 292 million, despite a 1.8% increase in capacity,


reflecting persistent pressure on passenger yield throughout the operation. Passenger revenue per


seat mile declined by 14.7%, while total revenue per seat mile declined a lesser 10.2% during the


period. The relative strength in the latter number reflects a continuation of year-over-year increases


in ancillary revenue.


Operating expenses decreased by 62.9 million, as we realized the benefits of lower fuel prices.


Excluding fuel and the litigation settlement, our CASM increased by 1.1%, the result of our


continued discipline on the cost side of the equation. As I said, at the start of the call, we are


reasonably pleased with these results, especially against the backdrop of such a difficult


macroeconomic environment. We do recognize, however, that it was the huge year-over-year


decline in fuel prices that reduced our unit costs, which, in turn, generated a relatively good


financial result at a time when our results, and those of many other airlines, would otherwise have


been unimaginably dire.


Between mid-March and the end of the second quarter, we saw the price of jet fuel spike by more


than 50%, to remind us all that we are posting a – what we are posting is a tremendous benefit


year-over-year could become considerably less beneficial in the periods ahead. Of course, the


price of fuel could stay where it is, or it could even retreat from here. The experience of the last


year teaches us only that it is unpredictable. There is little to cheer on our revenue lines. Like all


airlines, we are seeing very substantial reductions in ticket prices. Indeed, though ticket prices


stabilized during the second quarter, this actually represents a further decline when the impact of


seasonality is taken into account.


Peter will share the details of our third quarter outlook later on the call, but I would add my caution


to that of every other executive commenting publicly at the moment, that we live in uncertain times,


and the future cannot be predicted with our accustomed level of confidence. With that said, let me


cover in a bit more detail our results and the conditions we see in the marketplace. Our fuel bill for


the second quarter declined $68.7 million, or 55.7%, despite a small increase in the level of our


client activity. Excluding the impact of fuel hedging, our fuel expense per gallon declined 56.1%, to


$1.59 a gallon. On an economic fuel cost basis, which takes into account the settlement of fuel


hedges during the quarter, our cost per gallon declined by 52.7%. from $3.38 per gallon to $1.60


per gallon.


Looking at our other operating expenses, CASM, excluding fuel, was held relatively in check during


the period. Increases in other rentals and landing fees that we have encountered over the past


several periods, and some increases in our aircraft rent expenses, were offset, in part, by


reductions in some of our revenue related costs, like credit card processing fees. Peter’s going to


cover these in greater detail in just a moment. Cost control remains a central tenet of our approach.


With so many of the elements that impact our business beyond management’s control, we’d better


be focused on those that we can influence.