Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Ashlee Kishimoto — Senior Director-Investor Relations, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Mark B. Dunkerley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
Peter R. Ingram — Chief Commercial Officer & Executive VP, Hawaiian Airlines, Inc.
Scott E. Topping — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
John D. Godyn — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Hunter K. Keay — Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC
Michael J. Linenberg — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Helane R. Becker — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Joseph DeNardi — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Stephen O’Hara — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Glenn D. Engel — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Kevin Crissey — Analyst, Skyline Research
Michael Derchin — Managing Director, CRT Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Ashlee Kishimoto, Senior Director of Investor Relations for Hawaiian Holdings. Thank you, Ms. Kishimoto. You may begin.

Thank you, operator. Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian Holdings' financial results for the first quarter of 2014.

On the call with me today are Mark Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer; Peter Ingram, Chief Commercial Officer; and Scott Topping, Chief Financial Officer. Mark will begin with some overview comments. Next, Peter will take us through the revenue results, network and capacity. Scott will follow with a discussion on cost, balance sheet, and guidance. We will then open the call up for questions and then Mark will make a few closing remarks.

By now, everyone should have access to the press release that went out at about 4:00 Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations page of our website, hawaiianairlines.com. During the course of our call today, we will refer to adjusted or non-GAAP numbers and metrics. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP numbers and metrics can be found in our press release.

Before we begin, we'd like to remind everyone that the following prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements, and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and, therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them.

For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings' recent filings with the SEC, including the most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.

And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark.

Thank you, Ashlee, and thank you all for joining us today. As you can see from the press release we issued a short while ago, we recorded an adjusted net loss of $0.02 per share for the first quarter. The result was ahead of last year's and the consensus estimates. Coming in the weakest quarter of the year, they represent a further strengthening of our business and an encouraging start to 2014.

The main drivers of our business remain as before. Continued good cost control, while on the revenue side recovery in our domestic markets offset to some degree by the twin impacts of unfavorable exchange rates in the relative infancy of a clutch of new international routes. These two impacts should become progressively less meaningful as the year wears on.

The first quarter impact of Easter falling earlier last year than this was noticeable but small. April revenue is strong suggesting that what little was lost in the first quarter will come to us in the second. Ahead, other drivers of our results are also set to improve. So caveating for the unforeseen and a novel potential impact of the price of fuel, exchange rates and competitive behavior, 2014 continued to look like a year of better results.

The highlight of the quarter was the start of operations by 'Ohana by Hawaiian from Honolulu to Moloka'i and Lana'i where we enjoyed heartfelt warm receptions from these two communities. We also made or announced a number of adjustments to our network since our last call. Thrice-weekly Honolulu-Beijing service started last week. We announced the suspension of services to Taipei and Fukuoka, as these two routes were underperforming.

We used the aircraft time freed up from these changes to enable us to put our larger A330 into Incheon five times a week to better match supply with a very peaky nature of demand on this particular route. Lastly, we increased our frequency to Brisbane by adding a fourth weekly flight.

Since our last call, we've also announced changes to our domestic network. These include a bolstering of our year-round LA-Maui service, with the addition of a second daily flight during the peak summer. And to take advantage of improving Bay area trends, we are bringing back daily San Jose-Honolulu, which we dropped at the beginning of the year.

As ever, my colleagues from end-to-end in our company have done a terrific job. Our operational preeminence in the industry remains intact, while the level of service that they deliver to our guest on board and on the ground is second to none among our competitors. Thanking them is a task of which I never tire.

Peter is going to delve into our revenue performance next, while a little later, Scott's going to analyze our cost. But before I hand the call over to them, I better mention the extraordinary story involving us which unfolded over the weekend.

As you will have seen a teenager stowed away in the wheel well of one of our aircraft flying between San Jose and Maui. Beyond the basic facts already in the public domain, we don't intend to use the scarce time on this call to delve further into this matter.

It leaves me only to express the sentiment shared throughout our company, that we are thankful to hear that the boy is well following this dangerous escapade. Peter?

Thanks, Mark. Operating revenue for the first quarter was $525 million, a 6.9% increase year-over-year, while passenger revenue increased 6.4%. Load factor in the quarter was 80%, a one percentage point decrease year-over-year, while yield increased 5.7%. Combined, this resulted in an improvement in RASM and PRASM of 5% and 4.4% year-over-year, respectively, which was at the better end of the revised expectations we said at the beginning of March.

I'll go through the results by geography, starting with North America, which provided 47% of our passenger revenue and posted another quarter of good results. PRASM was up 11.3% despite a 1.6 percentage point decrease in load factor, continuing the better trends we've seen over the past three quarters.

Industry capacity declined by 0.5% in this quarter, and looking ahead, it's expected to be up a modest 2% in the second quarter and slightly more at 6% in the seasonal peak third quarter. Based on current bookings, we expect the trend of strong yield performance to continue into the second quarter with demand strength sufficient to absorb the increase in supply.

Our neighbor island routes, which accounted for 25% of passenger revenue this quarter, also continued to post good results. We recorded our fifth quarter in a row of year-over-year PRASM increases in this area of the business; specifically, PRASM was up 8.5% on a 0.7 percentage point decrease in load factor.

Mesa's Go! operation, which is competed for neighbor island business since 2006, ceased operations at the beginning of April. Go! had reduced its operations to two 50-seat RJs in recent periods, while our other main competitor has expanded service on a couple of the neighbor island routes. The net result of these adjustments is a trimming of industry capacity to the neighbor island routes of 3% and 2% over each of the next two quarters respectively.

Demand for local travel remains strong and we have the flexibility, if appropriate, to increase capacity. Also as Mark mentioned earlier, we successfully launched our 'Ohana by Hawaiian turboprop operations welcoming back Moloka'i and Lana'i to our network. 'Ohana by Hawaiian represents less than 5% of our total neighbor island capacity, so the overall financial impact on our business will be small. This service is important as it rounds up what is by far the most comprehensive network portfolio of any airline serving Hawaii.

Our international routes contributed 28% to our passenger revenue and continued to be negatively impacted by a number of new routes still in their infancy. This resulted in a PRASM decrease of 7.1% on a 0.2 percentage point decrease in load factor.

Foreign currency headwinds totaled approximately $9 million net of hedges, absent currency effects, including the offsetting hedge benefits, PRASM would have been down approximately 1% year-over-year in this area of our business.

Looking ahead, the year-over-year effect of currency impacts will ease, absent a further deterioration of the yen and Australian dollar. Combined with the maturity of recently added services and the network adjustments Mark mentioned earlier, we expect PRASM decline to ease in the period ahead and turn positive as we progress throughout the year.

Also, I wanted to remind you of several commercial initiatives that we discussed at our Investor Day back in October. First our cargo business continues to perform well with revenues up $2.8 million year-over-year, or 20% this quarter. Future increases will be challenged by a slower growing network and our international network changes, since Taipei was a solid contributor on the cargo side and our opportunity in Incheon, another strong source of cargo will be moderated by the reduction in frequencies.

We remain encouraged, however, by our ability to build cargo operations into a more substantial contributor to our business over the past few years and continue to seek opportunities throughout the network.

Second, our preferred seat revenue, which is recorded in the passenger revenue line, is on track to exceed the goal we shared at Investor Day of doubling the run rate of preferred seat revenue by the end of 2014, relative to the $6.6 million we brought in for the 12-month period ending September 30.

Third, in January, we successfully launched our new co-brand credit card that is expected to improve our third-party sales of HawaiianMiles in upcoming periods. Since about two-thirds of this is recorded as deferred revenue on the balance sheet and amortized into the income statement through passenger revenue over time, the EPS benefit of this tends to be lagged, but we're nonetheless thrilled to have a great new card product available to our loyalty program members and expect to build on this launch throughout the year.

In summary, our domestic business, North America and neighbor island continues to post strong financial performance. Our international business is on an improving track, a process which will be bolstered by our network changes and the continued maturing of our new routes.

With that, I will turn the call over to Scott to discuss our cost performance, balance sheet and provide an insight into the second quarter of 2014.

Thank you, Peter. As mentioned earlier and to recap the quarter, the company reported an adjusted net loss of $0.9 million or $0.02 per share. This compares with an adjusted net loss of $14.8 million or $0.29 per share for the same period last year.

Our return on invested capital for the trailing 12 months ended the first quarter was 13.4% before tax and 8% on an after tax basis.

First quarter total operating expenses, excluding fuel, increased $15.5 million, resulting in a 2.8% increase in CASM ex-fuel year-over-year. These results were $3 million better than the midpoint of the revised guidance range we issued at the beginning of March and to further break this down, $2 million is rolling into the second quarter due to timing and $1 million represents permanent savings.

As a reminder, our costs were elevated in the first quarter due to several projects and one-off items. Together, these items totaling approximately $9 million or 2.6 percentage points explain nearly all of the year-over-year increase in CASM ex-fuel this quarter.

From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the quarter with $479 million in unrestricted cash, cash equivalent and short-term investments and $70 million available under our undrawn revolving credit facility.

Our CapEx in the quarter was approximately $170 million, which included $160 million related to payments for upcoming aircraft and engine deliveries. Also during the quarter, we contributed $3 million to our other post-retirement plans.

Let me switch gears and move to our outlook for the second quarter and full year. Year-over-year, ASMs are expected to be up 0.5% to up 2.5% in the second quarter and remain at up 1% to up 4% for the full year. Recall that our full year ASMs were revised downward in early March and reflect the network changes mentioned earlier. By replacing long haul flying with shorter flying to the West Coast, we've only marginally decreased our still very good wide body utilization.

Let me remind you of our fleet delivery schedule for 2014, where we are effectively up just one incremental aircraft for the year. We took delivery of two A330 this quarter that essentially replaced two aircraft that left our fleet in late 2013. In the second quarter, we will take delivery of two A330s and retire one 767. There are no deliveries or retirements in the third quarter, and finally, in the fourth quarter, we take delivery of one A330 and retire one 767.

In terms of financing, we have prefunded all of the remaining A330s this year through EETCs which were issued in May of last year. The A330 remains an asset in high demand among the different sources of capital giving us an attractive range of options as we look to fund our last three A330s next year.

Turning for the top-line for the second quarter, our revenues are expected to increase year-over-year with RASM expected to increase between 4.5% and 7.5% and PRASM expected to increase between 3% and 6%.

On the cost side, we expect CASM ex-fuel to be up 4% to up 7% in the second quarter. As we mentioned, our costs would be inflated in the first half due to a number of one-off items in projects before receding in the second half of the year.

Those one-off items included startup costs for 'Ohana by Hawaiian, our new turboprop operation, maintenance related costs due to cabin modifications for extra comfort economy product, 717 painting costs and additional labor costs related to FAR 117 [ph] flight (15:51) time and duty rules for pilots.

Together, these one-off items totaled approximately $9 million or 2.5 percentage points of the year-over-year CASM ex-fuel increase in the second quarter. A lot of this one-off activity comes to an end this summer leading to much better cost performance in the second half into such a degree that we are improving our full year cost guidance. For the full year, we now expect our CASM ex-fuel to be up 2% to up 5%.

We continue to expect our 2014 full year effective tax rate to be in the 38% to 40% range and we do not expect to pay material cash taxes until 2016. Sticking with our normal practice, we are not going to give fuel price guidance at this time, but we expect our fuel consumption to be flat to up 2% year-over-year for the second quarter.

We continue to expect our full year CapEx to be in the range of $465 million to $475 million. As mentioned, we have financings in place for all of our A330 deliveries in 2014 totaling approximately $370 million.

That's the end of our prepared remarks. With that, I will turn the call back to Ashlee.

Thank you, Mark, Peter, and Scott. Also thanks to all of you for joining us today and for your continued interest in Hawaiian Holdings. We are now ready for questions from the analysts. As a reminder, please limit yourself to one question, and if needed, one follow-up question. Operator, please open the line up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, thanks for taking my questions.

Hi, John.

I wanted to follow up a little bit about the cost guidance here. You mentioned a few good guys in the first quarter. You mentioned some favorable trends in the second quarter. We saw the reduction of full year guidance, but the range hasn't narrowed for full year guidance even though we now have what seems like more confidence on cost and two quarters of visibility. It seems like when we put all this together, you should be on the favorable end of cost guidance for the full year even though the range hasn't narrowed. But am I interpreting kind of what I'm hearing the right way?

Yeah. John, I think it's still moving around a little bit. We are very confident with the things that we've given ticking it down slightly. We have lowered the full year guidance if you go back and look at what we said in early March by 0.5%. So we have trimmed that and that's a reflection of our increased confidence in being able to get there.

I guess what I'm getting at is just what are the scenarios that takes you to the top end of the unfavorable end of cost guidance, let's put it that way, given all of the favorable trends we've seen and the increased confidence that we now have?

I think, John, in a business like ours, there are some maintenance related issues that whose timing is always uncertain. We have some engines that we expense when they need to be maintained and the amount of time that they operate before being maintained is variable. We have a plan and an assumption there, but we – often find the bits of maintenance move quite a bit and in a business our size, a little bit of maintenance moving around can make a big difference.

So that's item number one. Item number two is for the reminder of the year, we have, as we always do, some sort of projects in mind, initiatives that we want to commence, just the cadence of getting through them and getting them started, and when the expenses related to those projects hit can be variable and that's the reason why we continue to give a three-point range. Clearly, as we get closer towards the end of the year, our confidence builds and that range will come down.

So when you see a shift in the range down by 0.5 point, but not a narrowing of the range, essentially, what we're saying is there are some expenses that we had previously foreseen going throughout the year, which we now believe, we won't be absorbing. That allows for the shift, but we still have the variability out there which explains the three-point spread.

Okay, thanks. And as we think about the de-risking story here, as the percentage of capacity allocated to new routes continues to fall and the margin bump that comes from that, it seems increasingly likely that the stock sort of stays up at these levels or perhaps even moves higher, I was just hoping that you could speak to the confer as well as some of the share dilution around that and thoughts around that, as you guys – as the management team sort of tackles this issue?

Yeah, John, we have certainly been focused on the convertible notes, kind of in the context of our balance sheet and liquidity. I think the basic question for us to answer and it's something we're working on is what are the merits of purchasing some of the notes in the open market versus our other potential uses of cash and so that's the context that we'll look at that debt versus any other debt if we have opportunities to manage that.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research. Please proceed with your question.

Hi everybody, thank you very much. So I guess I'm kind of curious what your plans are going to be for the A350 if Airbus walked away from -800 model, I guess it's a multi-part question. Has Airbus asked you to consider the 900 and would you consider that? And if not, would you be comfortable walking away from the A350 order altogether, if you feel like the 900 isn't a variant that could serve your needs?

Hunter, there's sort of a lot of chit-chatting around about the A350-800 at the moment. It's still a live program over at Airbus. We are, as we would have always been, in conversations with Airbus about future delivery streams including the A321 and the A350, and beyond saying that we are having discussions with Airbus, we're just not in a position to comment on that right now.

Okay, that's fine, Mark. When you bought the plane, where did you envision flying it? Is it something that you're going to fly into Asia or is it just going to be like East Coast U.S. and where was the original plan for that plane?

The airplane has two attributes which would be of use to us. Potentially, one is that it is slightly larger than the A330-200, and therefore, represents a step change in capacity for routes that operates, for example, a single-daily service. The next improvements of capacity, if you have to fly with a wide body, it would be a 100% increase in capacity on the extra days that we double-up frequencies.

If you have a slightly larger airplane, you can actually increase capacity, while keeping a lot of your costs relatively fixed. So it has that attribute [indiscernible] (24:25) and it has range to allow us to exploit deeper into Asia than we'd be able to do with the A330-200.

Okay. That's helpful, Mark, thanks. And on some of the new service to LA-Maui and San Jose-Honolulu, can you help us think about the thought process that went into adding service back to those. They both already have two competitors on it who are pricing that route pretty aggressively from what I can tell. And I know it was a function of the routes where those planes were originally allocated not really working, but what conclusion should – why should we not assume that those routes are not just least worse options than the routes where the airplanes were previously deployed as opposed to good options?

Hunter, this is Peter. Look, we think both of the routes are good options. We've flown LA-Maui seasonally. It's actually a very significant O&D in terms of the overall market size, ranks in the top four or five, I think of all the O&Ds between the U.S. mainland and Hawaii. LA is a place where we've got a strong loyalty base. We've been carrying passengers on our Honolulu flight for a long time.

And based on the strength of that seasonal route has done, we've been looking for an opportunity to add that route year-round, and in fact, with LA-Maui, we're going to double it up seasonally in the peak summer period.

San Jose is a case where we've also seen strong demand throughout the Bay area. We've got a good position at all three of the airports with San Jose, Oakland, and San Francisco, and we've seen improving revenue trends in that market and really saw an opportunity here to solidify our service by having the Honolulu as well as the Maui.

Thanks, Peter.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mike Linenberg with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Oh yeah. Hey, good afternoon or good morning, everyone. I guess just a couple...

Hi Mike.

Hey. Scott, you had mentioned about that Hawaiian was not expected to be a cash taxpayer, I think, until about 2016. How much of that – is that just a function of past NOLs or is some of that just reflect the investment that you've made in the business and so you're benefiting from some of the timing differences there? What's driving that?

It is mainly the NOLs, Mike. That's the lion's share of it.

Okay, very good. And then just a question, and maybe this is for Mark or Peter. We look at how the Honolulu-Fukuoka situation played out and look, we applaud you for making the right decision, where you've taken the aircraft out of that market. I mean just it was underperforming and there's obviously markets elsewhere where you can generate better returns.

I look at a market like Honolulu-Brisbane and my sense is that that's not a big market and maybe it's sort of Honolulu-Fukuoka-esque. And we see now Qantas Jetstar, they've announced that they're going to go into that market. Any thoughts on just that market size and maybe its ability to support two carriers and maybe point-of-sale strength. Is more of the flow coming from Hawaii down or vice versa or can you get flow traffic over Honolulu from the mainland U.S.? I mean is there a potential risk that Honolulu-Brisbane maybe becomes another Honolulu-Fukuoka. What – any thoughts on that?

Well, I don't think we're concerned about that. Brisbane has been a very successful market for us. We've been very sort of surprised and impressed with the size of the market and its robustness. So we start from the position of being very, very happy on that route.

Secondly, we think our competitive strength in the marketplace is unmatched. We've got the right product, we've got a good cost base and we have many more years of experience in the distribution channels in Australia than we have in some of these other countries that are newly launched for us. So for a combination of reasons, we think that Brisbane would be quite different. Of course, anytime you're in a market and capacity increases are going to be likely to be impacted by the rough and tumble of our game, but the kind of the landscape in Brisbane is very, very different than we have in Fukuoka.

And Mike, I'd just add to that that this obviously isn't the first time we will have competed with Jetstar. And I think there are different strengths and weaknesses each of us bring and we're pretty comfortable with our competitive situation vis-à-vis Jetstar.

Okay, great. Thanks. And just if I can squeeze it one last one, as I recall, the American agreement with their pilots, I think the initial agreement, that they signed back before the merger, there was the carve-out for Alaska, Hawaii and then, code-sharing with an East Coast carrier. And then I think it was revised and you can correct me if I'm wrong that the East Coast, I think they lost the option to do as much code-sharing with an East Coast carrier, but I think it's still preserved an opportunity to do a lot more code-sharing with an Alaskan and a Hawaiian carrier. Is there anything on that front with respect to you and American? Is there anything that we should anticipate? Is it something we should stay tuned on or is it something that's more for the back burner, any thoughts on that?

So what I would say is that, first of all, we're not entirely up to speed on the intricacies of that pilot contract. We have a good commercial relationship with American Airlines. Obviously, there have been some massive changes over at American. We very much hope to be able to continue that relationship. Unsurprisingly, they will have some rather bigger agenda items on their plate at the moment perhaps than us, but we would very much hope to continue the cooperation that we've had, and if there's interest from both carriers to expand that, and of course, in the interest of our shareholders, we'd be open to this of course.

Great. Thanks, Mark. Appreciate it.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Helane Becker with Cowen & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks very much. Hi, guys. Thanks for the time. I just have a couple of questions here. Just in the press release, where you specifically talk about the $34 million outstanding under the floating rate notes for the two 767s. So are those planes slated to be returned or retired at some point and what happens to those notes?

Yeah, they're to be returned. The notes will be – the plan would just be to pay those off at the maturity.

Helane, those are aircraft we own. So they're in our fleet plan for a while. We assume they are going to be with us in the fleet through the end of the decade, but obviously, they're in owned asset and so that is up to us to change that plan over time.

Got you. Okay. And then my other question is with respect to commissions and other selling expenses, they were down 7.3% or a couple of million dollars in the quarter. Is that – I mean why is that? Is that because you're not doing as much as Japan or – and is that a new run rate that we should think about?

We had some favorability in Australia and then the other piece of that is frequent flyers.

Helane, there's a couple of things there. One, the commissions – we've got a couple of different elements to commissions in some of the different countries we serve. And there're some incentive commissions that take a certain quarterly timing basis and can give us some favorability, so that will move us around a little bit. The frequent flyer, which has to do with the valuation of the frequent flyer liability on the balance sheet, a lot of which is related to the price of fuel, and so that gives you a little wiggle in that line sometimes. It's not necessarily a trend you can count on. We actually like some of that fee – commissions cost to go up which will be a sign that our revenue was improving.

Right, okay, okay. And then just on other revenue, I'm thinking that that is where the co-branded revenue comes in. Can you say how much of that increase is the credit card versus ancillaries?

There's a couple of things in there. There is a portion of the revenue from the co-brand credit card goes in there. We actually, under our accounting policies, we end up bifurcating that between other revenue that we recognize immediately and another piece that we differ and recognize in passenger revenue over up to 22 months. You've also got cargo in there which I pointed out as one of the elements of improvement and you've got some of the other travel products, things like vacation packages and rental cars and hotels. So there's a number of different pieces. The credit card is certainly a piece of the improving story there.

Okay. But you can't say how much is the credit card specifically versus the other stuff?

We haven't split it out in that detail; we don't go into a line item detail through that typically.

Okay. And then my last question if I can. As I saw that Delta announced they were going to fly from JFK to Honolulu, it looks like just in December for the holiday using a 767, so a) did you guys see that and b) what do you think about that? Thanks.

Yeah, we did see it and we wait to see how the competitive dynamic changes. I mean at the moment, it's for, as you rightly pointed out, only a couple of weeks in December, and we'll see if they determine to make it permanent or not. Again, there are – the market flying from the East Coast to Hawaii is huge. I mean it is second only to the West Coast market to Hawaii and even behind the East Coast is Japan, just to give you a sense of the context of the size.

There are many, many, many ways of getting to Hawaii from the East Coast, typically involving connections in between. So it's hard to look at the non-stop capacity in that one city pair without taking a broader view as to the amount of connecting capacity to Hawaii, in general. So by itself, it's not particularly meaningful. It really does depend on whether airlines are going to be more or less liberal in their inventory on their segment in the lower 48 to get people to gateways to fly to Hawaii.

Got you. Okay, great. Thanks very much for your help.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe DeNardi with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah, thanks. A question for Mark or Peter on the Taipei decision. It seems like you pulled the plug there a little bit quicker, more quickly than you normally would less than a year old too. So can you just help me understand I guess what drove the urgency? Did you want that capacity elsewhere in the network or should we think about this as you guys are kind of changing your threshold for how long you're going to give a route to ramp up?

Yeah, Joe, I don't think it's either one of those things, in the sense that, let me take those in the reverse order. I mean I think we're always looking at the routes in determining amongst the underperformers whether there is a pathway to success. And so long as there is one that we believe and that we think it's worth investing in, we will keep operating and like any investment, some of them will work out and some of them perhaps won't.

In the case of Taipei, the issue was pretty stark. In every other market that we had gone into shortly following the accession of that country citizens to the U.S. Visa Waiver Program, we've seen something in the order of a 50% to 100% increase in the amount of O&D traffic from that country. You go back to Korea, which got visa waiver access in the middle of the global financial crisis, year-over-year, we saw a 100% increase in visitors to Hawaii following that and it was against those sorts of expectations that we launched service to Taipei after they became eligible for U.S. Visa Waiver.

In fact, it ended up stimulating the market to about 20%, which was far lower than we'd anticipated and made the service infeasible. At the same time, I think one of the lessons learned was that the level of recognition of Hawaii as a tourism destination in Taiwan was less than in other Asian markets and that is something we'll be more watchful of before we go in again. I think Taipei – Taiwan will eventually grow to be a significant market. We just didn't feel that the costs of flying to Taiwan in the interim justified the returns we get from that route, so we made a straightforward business decision.

Okay. And then another question on the A350, I know there's a lot of uncertainty there with what Airbus is going to do, as Hunter alluded to, but what gives you the confidence that that type of investment is going to pay off. Because if you look at 2016, it looks like the cash flow is going to improve, but based on the delivery plan you guys have right now, it's going to turn around pretty quickly in 2017. So can you just help me understand what gives you the confidence that you need to make that big of a bet on growth?

Well, if you look at a couple of things, one is it's a much more fuel efficient aircraft than the aircraft we currently have in our fleets and we believe the returns from operating it essentially would justify the capital expense of getting into those aircraft, that is an experience that we've seen borne out in terms of the re-fleeting that we've done so far and so that clearly gives us some confidence going forward.

Okay thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steve O'Hara with Sidoti & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, Steve.

I was just curious in terms of the demand environment and maybe what you're seeing is that where the yen is now versus where it was. Just have you seen any – I mean it sounds like demand from your comment is still pretty good from Japan and just maybe you could add a little more color there.

Sure yeah, demand is still pretty good from Japan. There's a lot of moving parts in our numbers that makes the exact parsing of them out a little bit difficult. The kind of influences we have in there at the moment are as follows.

We've got the exchange year-over-year, changes in exchange rate. We've got – the fact that we are in a seasonally – right now, seasonally very low period in the months before golden week which is a very high period, people [ph] tend to (41:51) travel very much. We've got the much reported change in sales tax in Japan, which likely front-loaded a lot of household expenditure on expensive domestic consumables before the tax went into effect.

The tax is not interestingly enough to apply to travel overseas. So it doesn't affect us directly. It's more how people spent money. And we've got in a number in some markets some changes in capacity. So we've got a lot going on that makes it a pretty muddy picture, but the underlying level of demand, our perception and experience in what we're seeing in terms of the foot traffic through the door continues to be pretty encouraging.

Okay. And then I was just curious, in terms of the issues with Taipei, whose responsibilities is to kind of spread the word in terms of the Hawaii vacation and were there any missteps in that area? And then, finally, what other areas are being, let's say, ceded right now that you think might be good potential opportunities down the road?

Yeah, I mean, in fact, I think we've all got responsibility, all of us in the Hawaii tourism community for not having prepared that groundwork well enough. And it's – I think you've got to be pretty open and reflective about these things in order to learn from them and not to repeat those issues going forward.

It was disappointing to us and something we absolutely want to rectify going forward. Going forward, what we're doing is we're sort of targeting other countries; of course, China is the huge new development for us and we are going to be reorienting some of our promotional activity to be less directly focused on why fly Hawaiian Airlines and more focused on why Hawaii is the destination that you want to visit.

We, for sure, are going to be encouraging our community partners here in Hawaii to redirect their resources in a way that it represents the potential of the future rather than history of the past. And that's a process that involves some discussion and negotiation here in the state.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Glenn Engel with Bank of America. Please proceed with your question.

Just on the difference between RASM and PRASM in the first quarter, RASM was about 0.5 point better than PRASM, in the second quarter, you're saying it's going to be 1.5 point better, that seems at odds with your comments about cargo offering less of the contribution [indiscernible] (45:08) much.

Yeah, I think some of what you're going to see there in the second quarter, Glenn, is a continued building of the momentum with the new credit card program and comparing it against a period in the prior year when we were winding down the marketing of the credit card with our previous partner. So this year, we're moving into a period of strength and growth than last year we were in a bit of a slowdown period in terms of the credit card activity.

Question on margins. A few years ago, I would have pointed to the international's being the highest margins in the system. Is there much difference in the margins among the three regions you have now and who is the leader and who is the laggard?

I'd say the margins are roughly comparable. What you have in international is a much wider distribution of margins between the good and the developing routes. That's to be expected. What I was signaling here is not underperformance, but signaling that the message that we've been sending that we hope fairly consistently which is when you launch a bunch of new routes, it takes a while for them to mature. So just hoping for long-term, the international probably has the long-term prospects, we've got to mature some routes and for the time being, I think the things are roughly balanced.

And final question I have is on fleets for 2015, I believe there's three A330s coming in. Is there still plan to be an equal number leaving or will it be a net addition in 2015 as well?

Look, we go up a little bit in 2015, Glenn, we've got some retirements coming in 2016 and we're still working through the specifics of how we're going to manage the capacity over that two-year period.

Okay, so 2015 more coming in than coming out, okay. Thanks.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Crissey with Skyline Research. Please proceed with your question.

Hey Kevin. Kevin?

Yes, sorry. Can you hear me now?

Yeah, we can hear you.

Sorry about that. Thanks for taking the call. On cargo, can you remind us the source? Are you sourcing that freight primarily from forwarders? Do you have any hopes that you could source that freight yourself?

It is primarily through freight forwarders.

Okay. And can you talk again – I've asked you in the past I believe on hotel sales and I know there're some international markets. There're some packages and so forth that make it may be trickier. Can you talk about where you are for selling other things other than maybe just in a broader context, things other than the flight and cargo as part of your mix? Thanks.

Yeah, we do have the vacation package business and we've partnered with Orbitz on that for fulfillment. A lot of that is based on our domestic network and that is primarily a result of it being through our direct channels and being able to source that through the website. So that business is growing and doing well. We've got hotels and rental cars and trip insurance that are smaller in overall size. They're not vacation package piece, but still good contributors.

Obviously, preferred seats, which rolls up into passenger revenue, has been a big growth area for us and a good incremental source of revenue. And we've made a number of changes over the past six months to eight months to really build on that and we have our Extra Comfort product coming online towards the end of the third quarter, which will be positive for that.

And I would just say one of the catalysts we're working on that we talked about again at Investor Day was the investments we're making in our website which is going to make us that much better in terms of being able to market and promote and present these opportunities to our guests. So we see a lot of opportunity here and really would like to have a good pipeline of other new products to come forward as we get the new website online.

Thanks. Do you see very different buying behavior country-by-country in terms of your kind of preferred seating or better class of seating? Is that something you see that varies by country or is it – are not so much?

I don't know so much, but it is, it is different buying behavior. We right now perform better on those products in the North America geography. But I don't think that it's so much a case of demand as it is we've got a much greater proportion of direct sales and electronic check-in. And so, as we are able to present those offers more effectively to our international guests, we're seeing more uptake on them. But it's really for us to be able to figure out the best way to present them when people aren't coming to us through exactly the same channels we get domestically.

Understood, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Derchin with CRT Capital Group. Please proceed with your question.

Well, hi everybody.

Hey Mike.

I want to get some idea of how large a market do you think ultimately Mainland China will be, you just started Beijing services recently. And also, how dependent upon is that on bilaterals and the ability to get routes and kind of just what the process is?

Well, the market is of such massive potential, it always defines our ability to calculate it. It is a market which, if you take by comparison the number, they're roughly today, I believe, something in the order of 18 daily flights from Japan to Honolulu. That is on a obviously wealthy country with about 150 million inhabitants. There are already about 150 million of China's over 1 billion in citizens who have roughly the same level of wealth as the Japanese average.

So, that alone, without even sort of stretching, gets you from a place where today there are nine flights a week to an environment where you could foresee 20 or more flights a day into the state of Hawaii. So the real issue is that it is a developing market in a sense that current travel, patterns of travel, the distribution system in China are not as well-worn and solid as they are in other markets, but as that process kind of gels, there's essentially almost no limit to the amount of demand that China could spare for travel to Hawaii.

And the bilateral, what is that situation?

Yeah. The bilaterals, at the moment, would represent a limitation and as much as I think there's something in the order of about 14 unused frequencies something in that order of magnitude. So there is room for as much growth in the immediate future as we could potentially foresee, but over time, it would be important to see those limitations relaxed.

Thanks very much.

You bet.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there're no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mark Dunkerley for closing comments.

Okay, thank you, operator. Thanks everybody again for joining us today. We're starting the year as we had expected, that's with a continuation of improving trends throughout the business. We appreciate your continued interest and support as we work toward further improvements throughout the remainder of 2014. So mahalo and thank you and good bye.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.