corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Hawaiian Holdings Second Quarter 2010 Conference


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Shannon Okinaka. Thank you, Ms. Okinaka. You may


begin.


Shannon Okinaka, Investor Relations


Thank you, George . Welcome everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian


Holdings’ second quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Mark Dunkerley,


President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have accessed to the press release, which went out at about 4 o’clock,


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone that the following prepared remarks contain forward-


looking statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response


to your question. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and therefore, undue


reliance should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Shannon, and thank you to everyone for joining us on today’s call. As reflected in


today’s press release, we ended the second quarter with our ninth consecutive quarterly profit. Our


bottom-line results were in line with what we had expected entering the quarter albeit based on a


slightly better cost performance and a slightly weaker revenue results.


The second quarter was an eventful period, as we have successfully introduced our first and


second A330s into revenue service in June. This is the first step in a transformation of our long haul


fleet that will further our product advantage, relative to our competitors and reduce our operating


costs. The early indications from the operation of the new aircraft are that both of these areas, the


A330 is exceeding our expectations.


Since, we told you last quarter, we announced our intention to begin serving South Korea with four


days a week service to Incheon, Seoul starting early next year. And we also received final approval


from the US DOT for service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport.


The combination of a highly competitive route-case, in which many handicappers doubted


Hawaiian’s ability to win an award. The new service will start from the fourth quarter of this year. I’ll


speak in a little more depth about these developments a little later on, but in the meantime, they


both represent exciting and valuable opportunities that we are looking-forward to.
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I’m going to turn the call over to Peter now to take through the numbers, after which, I’m going to


provide a bit more commentary on our performance in the market during the second quarter and


our outlook going-forward.


Peter R. Ingram, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Mark. In the second quarter, we earned a net income of $9 million or $0.17 per share,


compared to 27.5 million or $0.53 per share during the same period last year. As was the case in


the first quarter, our results if you are fully taxed on a book basis, with a 43% effective tax rate


whereas in 2009, we’ve booked a lower effective tax rate of 26%. GAAP results were also


negatively affected in the current period by a reduction in the fair value of our fuel hedge position as


crude oil prices decreased from about $84 per barrel at the beginning of the quarter to $76 per


barrel on June 30. This resulted in a non-operating fuel hedge loss of 4.8 million in the second


quarter, compared to a gain of 6.5 million in the second quarter of 2009, quarter on which the price


of crude oil rose from $47 to about 70.


Said another away, about half of the change in our pre-tax earnings year-over-year is attributable to


gains on our fuel hedge book in a rising fuel price environment in 2009, being replaced by losses in


the fuel hedge book on a falling fuel price environment in 2Q 2010.


Looking at the quarter on an economic fuel cost basis, that is including only the fuel hedge impacts


related to contracts that’s settled during the period, we earned an adjusted net income of $12.6


million or $0.24 per share in the just completed quarter, compared to 20.8 million or $0.40 per


share in the prior-year period. On a pre-tax basis, the year-over-year comparison on an economic


fuel cost basis was 19.5 million in earning in the quarter of this year, compared to 30.6 million last


year.


Operating revenue during the quarter was $316 million, up $24 million or 8.2% year-over-year, on a


1.1% increase in ASMs. Passenger revenue per ASM came in 7% higher in the second quarter of


2009, with load factor for the quarter improving 1.4 percentage points to 85.6%, while yields


improved 5.3%.


Our non-passenger revenue grew at about the same pace as passenger revenue during the


periods. The biggest positive contributor with increased returns from baggage fees during the


quarter, which are responsible for much of the increase in our cargo line. Also in the first quarter –


other – as in the first quarter, other revenue was lower year-over-year, primarily attributable to two


components of this line.


The first is the marketing component of our frequent flyer mile sales to third parties that are lower in


2010. We explained in our first quarter call that we changed the proportion of these sales that we


recognized in the current period relative to what we defer at sale and recognize over the period


when travel occurs. Our actual sales of frequent flyer miles increased in the quarter, compared to


last year, primarily due to increases in the price per mile received.


The other smaller drag on other revenue was cancellation fees, as we’ve reduced cancelation fees


as a result of shifting over the past year to the industry standard process of charging lower change


fees while collecting a fair difference on itinerary changes.


Moving on to the expense lines, our biggest variance is fuel, where the first half featured some


pretty tough year-over-year fuel price costs. On the operating line, we saw an increase of $24


million in fuel expenses. Our fuel consumption was about 34.3 million gallons, which is flat with last


year, while our price per gallon at $2.29 was about 44% higher than last year’s $1.59. As we look


forward to the second half of the year, the forward curve suggests a somewhat narrower year-over-


year price difference from the $1.93 and $2.08 per gallon that we paid in 3Q ‘09 and 4Q ‘09


respectively.