corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Hawaiian


Holdings Incorporated. Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation,


all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened


for questions. [Operator Instructions]. This conference call is being recorded today, Tuesday the


20th of October 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Bernier, Senior Director of Finance. Please go


ahead.


Matt Bernier, Senior Director, Investor Relations


Thank you. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Hawaiian Holdings’


third quarter 2009 financial results. On the call with me today from the company are Mark


Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Peter Ingram, Chief Financial Officer.


By now, everyone should have access to the press release, which went out at about four o’clock


Eastern Time today. If you have not received the release, it is available on the Investor Relations


page of Hawaiian’s website.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-looking


statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your


questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and, therefore, undue reliance


should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Hawaiian Holdings’ recent filings


with the SEC, including the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports


filed on Form 10-Q, as well as reports filed on Form 8-K.


And with that, I will turn the call over to Mark.


Mark B. Dunkerley, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Matt, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today on the call. As you’ve likely already


seen in the press release that we issued at the top of the hour, Hawaiian posted a quarterly profit in


the third quarter. Net income was 30.7 million or $0.58 per diluted share that compares to a net


income of 6 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the same period of last year.


As usual the bottom line numbers don’t tell the whole story. So, I’ll spend sometime on the call


today addressing some of the more unusual variances in the numbers. Peter is then going to take


you through the expense lines and our balance sheet in greater detail a little later on in the call.


The first and most glaring thing to draw everyone’s attention to is a $20 million favorable


adjustment to income taxes. Absent this adjustment, our third quarter net income would have been


10.7 million and our diluted EPS would have been $0.20. I’ll defer the pleasure of making sense of


this to Peter in his section of the call.


Turning to the operating numbers, our revenue declined by 34 million to 305.6 million year-over-


year, which was in-line with the positive end of the guidance we provided at the end of the second


quarter and the updated guidance we issued in September. Passenger revenue per ASM declined
corrected transcript


Hawaiian Holdings, Inc.
 
HA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


16.2% year-over-year on the load factor improvement of 4.6 percentage points and a yield decline


of 20.7%.


Total RASM declined a lesser 12.4% year-over-year as our other revenue lines continue to post


improvement based on higher revenue both from the sale of frequent flyer miles and from other


ancillary items. As we anticipated in our third quarter outlook, cost per ASM excluding fuel


increased by 14.5% compared to the third quarter of last year. Compared to the second quarter of


2009, CASM ex fuel increased less than 1%.


As we outlined during our last earnings call an increase in CASM excluding fuel was anticipated,


although it merits further discussion. The most noticeable of the drivers of our CASM result in the


quarter was an increase in our maintenance expense. Within this area, there were some items that


are timing-related and others, which were caused by unusual events.


Peter is going to help parse this line of our expenses in his section, but regardless of the reasons,


the level of expense during the third quarter was high. Wages and benefits expense increased


primarily as a result of higher pension and other benefits costs. We also benefited last year from a


one-time adjustment in our frequent flyer liabilities that had the effect of lowering expenses in the


third quarter of last year.


Offsetting these cost challenges was the fact that fuel prices remained far lower in the third quarter


of ‘09 than they were in ‘08. Although fuel prices have been on the rise since very early this year,


it’s almost shocking to remember that they were essentially twice as high in the third quarter of ‘08


than they were in the period that we’ve just completed. For us the net result is that our GAAP fuel


expenses declined 62.8 million year-over-year in the third quarter and 64 million on an economic


fuel cost basis.


With that as an overview, let me delve a bit deeper into the current competitive outlook starting with


the interisland business. As most of you probably already know, the competitive environment


changed in the past week with the announcement of the merger of go! and Mokulele. The merger


didn’t affect our results for the third quarter. So, let me just mention that during the period, we saw


low fares and a better competitive environment as our two primary interisland competitors jockeyed


for position.


During the quarter, our interisland passenger revenue per seat mile declined about 30%, with a


yield decline of over 26% and a load factor decline of about 4 percentage points. Notably, we


recorded a year-over-year load factor improvement during September, marking a change relative to


what we’ve seen throughout ‘09.


Undoubtedly however, most of you are probably more interested in our thoughts about the future.


Now the go! wholly-owned by Mesa and Mokulele and by Republic have formed a JV. I’ll start by


saying that much about the JV remains shrouded in the confusion of the press release. So, we may


have things a little raw. But, from what we can gleam, Republic has removed the Embraer 170s


from the islands, thereby reducing the number of competitor daily frequencies by 40. While Mesa,


the surviving operator, has increased it’s flying by a total of 12 daily frequencies. The seat count is


down a little more since Republic aeroplanes were at 70 seats and the Mesa airplanes are 50


seaters.


As we talk to you today, the prevailing fare structure that existed before the announcement remains


in place and the lowest available fare in the market is $49. For our part, we recently completed an


assessment of our capacity in light of ongoing demand weakness and other factors as well and we


are paring our interisland capacity by 5 to 8% beginning in November.


All in all, interisland capacity is set to be down 12% to 15% by year’s end, which is much more in-


line with the underlying demand than it is today. So, what does this mean for the forward outlook?