corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HYNI
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Haynes International Third Quarter 2007 Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Marcel Martin, CFO; Ms. Stacy


Kilian, General Counsel; Mr. Dan Maudlin, Chief Accounting Officer; and Mr. Francis Petro,


President and CEO for Haynes International. Thank you Mr. Petro. You may begin.


Francis J. Petro, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, and thank you all for joining us this morning. I am going to discuss the third


quarter and nine months. I’ll focus mainly and the aspects of the business from CapEx to


operational issues to our markets and then Marcel Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, will


summarize the financial results, and then we’ll make sure that we leave sufficient time for questions


because we anticipate with the volatile markets and the price of nickel going up and down and


changing rapidly that there will probably be several questions from all of you and we want to make


sure that we have an opportunity to answer as many of those questions as possible.


First of all, I am pleased that we continue our path of consistent positive progress, which is where


we have always been and always are focused. We successfully completed our negotiations with


the United Steelworkers of America and we are very pleased with that. We have a very responsible


union and work force and we were glad that we finally reached that agreement. Part of that


agreement closes off the defined pension plan, which we had already done for salaried people, and


that was something that was high up on our list to start to limit and fix our liabilities as we go


forward.


I was also pleased that the markets continued to be strong. A lot of people watched the price of


nickel and they think that it’s a reflection of the market, well, that’s half true. It’s a reflection of the


stainless steel market mainly. If you remember, high-performance alloys are six-tenths of one


percent of the world metal production. The vast majority of where nickel is consumed and what


drives the demand that drives the price of nickel is stainless steel and not nickel alloy or super-alloy


or high-performance alloys.


Our aerospace market, land-based gas turbine, and chemical markets remain very good. In


addition to that, our other markets are – we are starting to see some growth in our FGD, certainly


Europe is performing very well, China continues to expand, India expands rapidly, and the new light


on the horizon is Russia. We have seen in the last couple of months more activity and request for


quotations and involvement in Russia than we have seen in the last ten years. Russia is in the


process of rapidly changing their aerospace and land-based gas turbine and in some cases their


chemical business to Western specifications. And consequently there is a tremendous amount of


activity there and we are participating in that in all aspects of the market.


We continue to make progress with our CapEx projects. As you know, from day one when we


started and we came out of our reorganization that we had a substantial amount of not only


recapitalization, but recapitalization with the understanding that we would do everything we could in


order to improve the quality, the capacity, the efficiency of our equipment. We have successfully


now completed the ESRs and the second phase of the MKW-100. We have now – we are in the


process of completing the Drever furnace; we took that down about six weeks ago. It will come


back online at the end of this month. In the mean time, we are operating with the electric furnace.


When the Drever comes back online then we go onto the expense of rebuild of the electric furnace.


Both of these projects then tie exactly in with our flat roll capability and the expanded capacity and


improved capacity of our MKW-100, and they are going to allow us to continue to expand our
corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HYNI
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


volumes. Our volumes do continue to expand our backlog; if you look at our order backlog it’s very


good and very strong. And if you remember, if you look at our backlog it generally it takes – our


backlog represents about four to six months of what we will ship. So, it’s fairly easy to predict


what’s going to happen in the next three months.


The other aspect of our business, which I was very pleased, is our safety performance year-to-date


continues to be improved over last year and last year’s safety performance was a record for our


company. So, the reason I mentioned --because certainly I mentioned it because safety is


extremely important, but I also mention it because it’s important that during a period of contract


negotiation and everything else and revitalizing equipment and working around all the things that


we are doing and simultaneously conducting negotiations that our employees, in spite of all that


stuff going on around them, stay clearly, clearly focused on how safely and effectively we run our


operations. And I think that speaks highly that people can have the anxiety which there always is


when you negotiate a contract and all these things that are going on, and yet people continue to


stay very, very focused and perform extremely well.


So, in summary our markets remain good. We continue our planning for how we are going to


handle the growth in India. We continue to look at expanding our value-added operations in our


service centers. That continues to grow and is becoming a very substantial part of our business


particularly the core of our business, which is our flat products, which make up 70 to 75% of


everything we do.


So, at this point in time I’d like to turn the discussion over to Marcel Martin and have him walk you


through the financial results and then as I promised we’ll reserve time for your questions. Thank


you.


Marcel Martin, Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Good. Thank you, Francis. Good morning everyone. First thing I’d like to do is just reflect a little bit


or comment on our 10-Q that we’ve just published. One of the things that we have done in


response to questions and requests by our constituencies is to add some additional information in


the Q. We have done that as I said by the additional information related to backlog primarily the


information related to our markets, again people looking for an opportunity to establish – an ability


to measure trend and that’s what we wanted to provide particularly where markets influence


revenues, pound and average selling prices, and so I think it will help people. It’s an education


process, we are relatively new at this and, you know, we are endeavoring to make sure that we


continue the education process so that people can get a good sense of what the business is all


about. Again, so that those are the issues that we’ve dealt with relative to that, just added some


additional information.


The first thing I would like to just comment on, on the balance sheet is the inventory. We have had


a substantial increase in inventory from the beginning of the year, almost $100 million, and from the


end of last quarter to the end of this quarter approximately $50 million. If you go back to the


beginning of the year, it’s approximately a 58% increase in inventory, really broken down between a


volume increase of approximately 10% and a raw material increase of approximately 43%. Again


the increase in volumes are associated with the selling at a higher level and safety stock that we’ve


had to put on the ground in order to work through some of these planned outages. The primary


increase though is that the raw materials primarily nickel. If you look at the LME and use that as a


benchmark, the nickel cost from the end of September to the end of June has gone up


approximately 40% and then also we’d had chrome volume – cobalt increased during this time


period. And in particularly when you look at from the end of the March to the end of June,


inventories went up $50 million, approximately 21%. And that was essentially all cost primarily


related to nickel just in that second quarter – our second quarter compared to our third quarter,