Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Sean Van Bibber — Controller & Chief Accounting Officer, Haynes International, Inc.
Michael L. Shor — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Haynes International, Inc.
Daniel W. Maudlin — Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Haynes International, Inc.
Stephen O'Hara — Analyst, Sidoti & Company, LLC
Chris D. Olin — Analyst, Tier4 Research
Michael Leshock — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, everyone and thank you for joining us today for this Haynes' International, Inc. Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. As a reminder, all phone lines are in a listen-only mode, but after today's prepared remarks, you will have the opportunity to ask questions. To get us started today with opening remarks and introductions, I am pleased to yield the floor to Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, Mr. David Van Bibber. Good morning, sir. [audio gap]

(00:29-00:44)

This call contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, anticipate, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe our plans, intentions, and expectations, regarding are suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and we can provide no assurances such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved.

Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular, Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. With that let me turn the call over to Mike.

Thanks, Dave. Good morning, everyone. As our team leads our company through the impact of the pandemic, I thought I would start this call by highlighting some of the positives from this past quarter. While this has been a difficult period, we have executed well and I'm proud of our team's accomplishments.

First, starting in late March, we prioritized cash generation. After generating $13.1 million in cash in our third quarter, we generated an additional $11.7 million in Q4, for a total of $24.8 million in the second half of our fiscal year. We've also developed plans for positive cash generation to continue through our fiscal 2021.

Next, we have strong liquidity, no debt, and $47.2 million in cash on our balance sheet. Due to our high level of confidence in operating cash in fiscal 2021, we paid off the $30 million precautionary draw on our revolver in September 2020. Many years of tightly managing our balance sheet have set us up well to manage our way through the pandemic.

In addition, our team is strategically positioning our company to exit this downturn with a competitive advantage by leveraging our mill direct and service center routes to market. We're building flexible intermediate inventory in the mill to allow for consistently shorter lead times in the future for our high volume alloys, while our service centers are targeting stock for even shorter lead time requirements and small order quantities.

We also plan to continue to invest in value-added cutting capacity to provide high value differentiated products and therefore build additional competitive advantage. Throughout this pandemic, we have stayed in close contact with our customers, continuing to provide what they need, when they need it, and to gain their insight into current business conditions and future demand requirements.

Next, we are pursuing market share gains and have moved from talking about it to achieving it in our industrial gas turbine market segment, where we began shipping increased volume to a new customer in Q4. In addition, we continue to focus on our value-based pricing for our high-value differentiated products, while at the same time seeking to be competitive on the commodity alloy portion of our CPI mix in order to drive volume. Our average selling price, both sequentially and year-on-year, has held up well despite the drop in volume. Our entire team continues to emphasize the value that we provide via our unique proprietary alloys, our quality, our technical and sales service, and our just-in-time inventory.

Next, we reacted swiftly after the pandemic began in the US to take costs out of the organization with salary reductions, unpaid furloughs, head count reductions, and other actions to reduce our costs, as we managed through the pandemic. While, it's difficult to reduce cost in full proportion to our volume reductions, because of the many – many of our costs are fixed, we analyze all discretionary spending and made very difficult but necessary decisions.

Although the work on SG&A and volume-related cost reductions is very important, also important for the long-term health of our business, is the ongoing work to improve yields and lower manufacturing costs. Our costs and yield initiatives in Q4 are expected to further benefit us as our volume comes back. After the pandemic, these actions should keep us on track to improve our gross margin percent, which reached 18% in the two months prior to the pandemic.

In addition, sequentially, our gross margin improved in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter, going from 3.3% to 4.9%, in spite of volume and revenue decline. This shows our ongoing commitment to reducing costs in this low volume environment. Dan will have additional details on this in his financial update.

A couple more positives. Our alloy and application work continue to provide high-value opportunities for us in unique applications. We're currently working on opportunities involving both new alloys and new applications for existing alloys. I continue to believe that innovation is a core strength for our company and the foundation of Haynes.

Our safety rate has continued to improve throughout the year. Our process improvement initiatives keep safety front of mind for everyone in our company. I'd like to take a moment to congratulate our Arcadia, Louisiana 2 facility which completed a full year without a recordable incident in September. I'm very proud of our team. This has been a difficult eight months for everybody. We've continued to effectively focus on the health and safety of our team, while also dealing with the significant business implications of the virus. Our team has continued to show focus, determination, and leadership.

Now, a few final summary comments from me on revenue cost reduction and cash generation before I hand it over to Dan. Our very low business levels in the second half of 2020, fiscal 2020, were challenging and resulted in an unprecedented step-down in revenue levels. We continue to monitor their respective markets and look for favorable signs of the recovery. I'll point out that our order entry has begun to improve and move in the right direction from the very low levels we saw in May and June, to a slightly higher level in Q4. While we have a long way to go, it is certainly a step in the right direction.

On the cost to margin side, our past price and variable cost work led to significant gains in year-on-year gross margin percent in Q1 and Q2, and a reduction in our breakeven point from the much talked about 5 million pounds a quarter to less than 4 million pounds a quarter. Our January and February gross margins of 18% show what we are capable of. However, with our Q4 sales volume being just 2.9 million pounds, we are incurring losses, the majority of which can be attributed to the unfavorable fixed cost absorption resulting in direct charges.

In addition to the significant reductions in pounds sold from lower demand, we also reduced inventory levels by another 1.1 million pounds in the fourth quarter. This combination of lower sales levels and inventory reduction, led to a sizeable reduction in pounds produced in our Kokomo Mill in the fourth quarter. That reduction was 49% year-on-year. We simply cannot spread the fixed costs we have over 50% less-produced pounds.

As discussed, we have successfully increased our cash balance since we pivoted to a cash generation focus as the pandemic began to impact all of us. I'd like to talk about the fact that our inventory reductions were done responsibly, meaning that we have our customers' needs as our priority even as we reduce inventory.

As an example, despite reducing inventory by 2.8 million pounds in Q3 and Q4 combined, we actually built modest amount of strategic work-in-process inventory in our high volume alloys, allowing for lead time to be reduced to more quickly support our customers, when business levels do improve.

And I'll now turn it over to Dan, who will provide more details in our specific markets and on our financial results.

Thank you, Mike. Let me start with a look back at our quarterly volumes. At the end of last year, fiscal 2019, our fourth quarter volume was 5.4 million pounds, which was the company's highest quarterly volume in four-and-a-half years. Moving into fiscal year 2020, the first half was impacted by the grounding and production halt of the Boeing 737, Max lowering aerospace volumes, combined with weak oil prices, which lowered volumes in our chemical processing market.

Volumes in the first and second quarters were 4.2 million and 4.3 million pounds, respectively. The second half of fiscal 2020 was then significantly impacted by the COVID-19 global pandemic, which lowered volumes in Q3 and Q4 to 3.2 million pounds and 2.9 million pounds, respectively. The fourth quarter volume of 2.9 million pounds represents a 46% reduction from the 5.4 million pounds in last year's fourth quarter.

Net sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 was $79.9 million. Looking at each of our major markets for the fourth quarter, sales to the aerospace market accounted for 42% of our revenue at $33.6 million. This is a decrease of roughly 17% sequentially from Q3 and a decrease of 51% from the same period last year. The pandemic has had significant effects across the aerospace industry, with announced reductions in commercial aerospace build schedules, combined with reductions in repair and maintenance and overhaul activity.

Complicating the demand situation, continues to be the elevated amount of inventory throughout the aerospace supply chain. Destocking is expected to continue in fiscal year 2020. Backlog dollars in aerospace decreased sequentially from Q3 to Q4 by 16% and down 46% year-over-year.

Fourth quarter sales to the chemical processing market accounted for 23% of our revenue at $18.5 million. This is an increase of 52% sequentially from Q3, but a decrease of 33% from the same period last year. The sequential increase from a very low level relates to a pickup of shipments into Asia. It is also reflective of our approach to seek higher volumes from commodity CPI transactional business with more competitive pricing. This market will continue to be impacted by COVID-19 and an environment of low oil prices causing chemical companies to delay their CapEx spending. Backlog dollars and the CPI were flat sequentially from Q3 to Q4, but down 13% year-over-year.

Fourth quarter sales into the industrial gas turbine market accounted for 16% of our revenue at $12.4 million. This is a decrease of 9% sequentially from Q3 and a decrease of 21% from the same period last year. Shipments into this market can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter. The decrease is attributable to conservative purchasing methods due to COVID-19, combined with small and medium frame engine builds slowing down due to the weakness in the oil industry. Our share gain initiative continues. However, given the current economic conditions, the shipments are not yet consistent quarter-to-quarter. Backlog dollars in industrial gas turbines decreased sequentially from Q3 to Q4 by 15%, however, are up 11% year-over-year.

Fourth quarter sales in other markets accounted for 12% of our revenue at $9.2 million. This is a decrease of 17% sequentially from Q3 and a decrease of 16% from the same period last year. Again, demand was impacted from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Decreases were largest in the flue-gas desulfurization, automotive and oil and gas markets. Backlog dollars in other markets increased slightly from Q3 to Q4 by 2% and 1% year-over-year.

Fourth quarter other revenue accounted for 18% of our revenue at $6.2 million. This is a solid increase of 94% sequentially from Q3, but a decrease of 8% from the same period last year. Solid total conversion sales drove the sequential increase, both on our four-high rolling mill but also conversion work in our melt shop. Overall, fourth quarter volume was 2.9 million pounds. While this low volume compressed gross margin significantly this quarter, the compression alleviated somewhat from the third quarter by 160 basis points.

Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 4.9% compared sequentially to the third quarter's 3.3%. This margin expansion occurred even though volumes declined. The amount of fixed overhead costs that we charge directly to cost of goods sold as opposed to capitalizing in the inventory, as our plant capacity was underutilized, decreased this quarter compared sequentially to last quarter. Last quarter's direct charge was $5.9 million in Q3, but favorably declined in Q4 to $4 million. We are continually and diligently striving to reduce our costs to better align our cost structure to these new lower volume levels.

This quarter was also challenged with heavy costs in three different categories. First, increases in inventory reserves of 1.5 million, which is about 500,000 higher than Q3 and about 1.1 million higher than last year's fourth quarter. Second, costs of roughly $250,000 to $300,000 of COVID-related costs, such as for staggered shifts, quarantine pay, cleaning tasks and cleaning supplies. And third, additional severance-related cost of approximately $300,000 in the fourth quarter.

In total, we have reduced head count by roughly 183 as of October 31, 2020, or 15% of our global workforce. This equates to approximately $14 million in annualized salaries, wages and fringes. In addition, during the fourth quarter, the executive team and the board of directors continued the 10% pay reduction and salaried employees continued their one-week unpaid furloughs.

SG&A including research and technical expense was $9.1 million in the fourth quarter. SG&A was reduced this quarter due to the reversal of incentive compensation accruals of $1.2 million, which was accrued in prior quarters but fully reversed in the fourth quarter. Excluding this reduction, SG&A was $10.3 million as compared to last year's fourth quarter of $12.5 million or a reduction of 18%.

Three additional points to finish out the P&L. First, non-operating retirement benefit expense on the P&L was $1.7 million, which nearly doubled compared to last year's numbers as we had talked about previously. So, we have some good news for fiscal 2021.

In a moment, I will further discuss our new valuation and next year's expense. The second item to finish out the P&L, interest expense in the fourth quarter, was slightly lower as we repaid the precautionary draw on the revolver, which occurred mid-March. And third, our effective tax rate was adjusted lower this quarter to 21.2% as we finalized our year-in-tax provision.

All of that resulted in a net loss for the quarter of $5.7 million, which sequentially improved by $2.4 million.

Let me circle back to the topic of our recent valuation at September 30, 2020 of our pension and retiree medical plans. The actuarial valuation was favorable, although the valuation included a reduction of the discount rate used to measure the plan liabilities which was unfavorable, it was offset by favorable items including higher than expected return on plan assets for the pension plan and favorable retiree healthcare spending as we have been actively managing our retiree healthcare costs.

This is expected to significantly reduce non-cash expense in fiscal 2021 by $2.2 million for the pension plan and $3.4 million for the retiree healthcare plan. This combined, $5.6 million will be reflected primarily as a reduction of non-operating retirement benefit expense in the P&L in FY 2021.

Moving to backlog, while we have experienced low order entry levels, primarily due to the pandemic, order entry rate slightly increased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the third quarter, but still below shipment rates. Backlog was $153.3 million at September 30, 2020, a decrease of $21.3 million, or 12%, from the $174.6 million at June 30. For the full fiscal year, backlog decreased $81.9 million, or 35%, from the $235.2 million at September 30, 2019.

Capital spending was $9.4 million in fiscal 2020, and the forecast for capital spending in fiscal 2021 is $10 million, which continues to represent a level well below our depreciation levels.

Liquidity. The company had cash of $47.2 million and zero borrowings against the credit facility as of September 30, 2020. The company repaid the $30 million precautionary draw on the revolver in September, due in part to generating $24.8 million in cash in the last six months of the fiscal year, primarily from inventory reductions and the company's confidence and its ability to generate future cash and its overall liquidity position.

In addition, subsequent to year-end, in October of 2020, the company replaced the $120 million credit facility set to expire in July of 2021 with a new $100 million credit facility expiring in three years. The new credit facility contains an accordion feature that permits an increase up to $170 million at the request of the borrower if certain conditions are met. You can find the details of our new credit facility in our filings with the SEC.

Outlook for next quarter. We continue to experience market uncertainty, driven by the COVID-19 global pandemic. We expect revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 to be lower than the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 due to the ongoing impact of the pandemic, as well as the typical end-of-year holiday-related business slowdown, maintenance schedules and customers managing their calendar year and balance sheets.

Earnings for the first quarter cannot be estimated during this time of unprecedented market and economic conditions, low volumes and unfavorable fixed cost absorption. We expect to continue to generate cash from inventory reduction in fiscal 2021 and we continue to position the company favorably for the recovery.

In conclusion, looking forward, we continue to see significant demand challenges ahead. Despite these challenges, we continue to feel that we are well-positioned to weather this period, driven by our ongoing efforts to align our cost structure and inventory levels to current demand levels. With inventory levels at $246 million in September 30, 2020, which is 65% of FY 2020 sales, we believe additional inventory reduction is achievable. The strategy is expected to yield an increasing cash balance over fiscal year 2021.

Mike, with that, I will now turn the discussion back over to you.

Thanks, Dan. This has been a stressful time, obviously for the world, our country, our families and our businesses. I again want to thank our employees. They all continue to push forward, initially to protect the health of our employees and obviously that's ongoing, and then to jointly lead Haynes through these turbulent times by pivoting the cash generation, focusing on what differentiates us from the competition and implementing the actions required, related to our key metrics for success.

With that, Jim, let's open the call for questions.

Gentlemen, thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Steve O'Hara with Sidoti.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

Good morning.

Thanks for taking the questions. I guess, if you look at – you mentioned the inventory levels and where they are right now in the channel, can you just talk about have they improved at all or are they still kind of high? And do you need kind of a real pickup in demand for that to improve? Or are things kind of maybe progressing where inventories are getting cleaned up a little bit, here and there, as we progress?

Okay, Steve. Sure. We obviously spend a lot of time talking about just both internally and getting insight from our customers. We believe that inventory reductions throughout the supply chain are going to go on for another few quarters. Said another way, based on a lot of customer feedback, there's still probably 6 to 12 months of inventory in many areas of the supply chain. Obviously, there's going to be exceptions to this, we're seeing some exceptions. So, we could see a modest uptick in 2021, but that will just be the first step, in our opinion, to the recovery.

Our view and I really think a great way to look at this is to look at the LEAP engine, because I think what happens with the LEAP engines tells us what's going to happen with the aerospace industry. You all know the story, 1,736 engines in 2019, initial forecast at 2,300 in 2020, down to 800 this year and somewhere between 800 and 1,000 next year. So, what we're still dealing with is inventory in the supply chain to make over 2,300 engines initially projected in 2020 and that dropped to 800. So, still inventory out there. It's a good news for us. Projections are for the LEAP for back to over 2,000 a year as people start flying again, starting in 2023, meaning that we believe the supply chains will be cleaned out and metal will start to flow in large quantities to support this late 2021 or early 2022. Makes sense?

Yeah. That's very helpful. Thank you. And then, maybe just on the cost cuts, I think, you've mentioned kind of $14 million annualized cost savings. Is that something that is kind of a true pickup in starting in 2021? And maybe, how much of that kind of is incremental in 2021, maybe? And then is the $5.6 million that you mentioned, I think, on the pension, is that included in that $14 million?

Okay. I'll let Dan address the pension after I talk about the costs. I think, when we look at costs, you have to look at it from three points of view. First is the SG&A and salary cost reduction that we went through. Those obviously, were very difficult to implement, not something that any of us looked forward to, but they're certainly there and will move throughout our upcoming fiscal year. At some point, obviously, when business returns we're going to have to bring some of that back. But given the pain we went through to get to these levels, it'll take some time.

On the variable cost side, there's really a couple of ways to look at this. First, what we have done to get to our high point pre-pandemic of 18% was not only price increase, but significant variable cost reduction. And that work continues, both on yield improvement and overall variable cost reduction. I'm very proud of those efforts. One of the things that happens though, if you reduce cost on a per pound basis, you don't get as much cost reduction with 2.9 million pounds as you did with 5.4 million pounds, obviously. So that are – so, as we move forward, some of our past cost reduction is muted until our volume comes back. But also on the variable side, we continue to focus on all of our facilities in driving cost down.

Dan, you want to cover the $5.6 million Steve asked about?

Sure. Yeah. The pension reduction and the retiree health care reduction really is not part of that $14 million that I referenced. That was only related to the permanent reductions that had occurred over the course – that occurred somewhat mostly in 2020. A little bit spilled into 2021, because I mentioned to you the October number, but that was – majority of that number has already been realized. And some of the numbers we're seeing through the fourth quarter and even a little bit in the third quarter of FY 2020, but unrelated to the pension. And I will say this too, it's also unrelated to other cost reduction measures that we've taken, like the unpaid furloughs, is not part of that $14 million number. The 10% reduction in the executive staff salaries is not part of that as well. That's just one piece of a bigger cost reduction strategy. Did that help?

Yes. Very helpful. Thank you. And then, maybe last one, you noted the CPI remains, I think, kind of low given the economy, et cetera. I mean, what are the biggest markets there? I mean, it seems like although that tends to be one of the bigger drivers of chemical and then auto seems to be the other big one, are there other markets that we should think about in terms of getting that market back to maybe improvement other than just general GDP?

Yeah. The oil prices have a significant impact. So, when oil prices are down, there's less spending in the CPI market. So that's a significant large pipeline projects are not out there. In general, we are seeing many chemical processing projects on hold, specifically related to COVID and everyone being a bit conservative with their spending. So that's one side.

The other side is our special projects side of it. We actually finished our fiscal year 2020 in a pretty good spot related to year-on-year, staying plus or minus about even on our revenues on CPI. We're actually going to – on special projects within CPI, we'll see that drop somewhat because there's very few projects being let. But I would say, in addition to what you said, its oil price, its large pipeline projects in general and it's our special projects.

Okay. Thank you very much. I'll jump back in queue.

Thank you, Steve.

Our next question will come from Chris Olin at Tier4 Research.

Hey. Good morning.

Hey, Chris.

Good morning, Chris.

Hey, Mike. You referred to order rate improvements, although they were from a low level. I was curious if there was a specific end market that was driving that or was it a broad-based improvement?

Yeah. Let me get some facts here, Chris. The best way that I like to look at this is our book-to-bill. And it's kind of interesting, when you look at pounds on what we book versus what we build. In Q1, obviously, pre-pandemic, it was at 1.0 million pounds. I'll get to the markets in a second. Q2 was 0.7 million, Q3 was 0.6 million, Q4 bounced back a little, which obviously, gives us some hope, it was at 0.9 million. And to specifically answer your question on the book-to-bill, aero was still down, it was at 0.7 million pounds book-to-bill for the quarter. But CPI was slightly over 1 million pounds, IGT was slightly under 1 million pounds, and other was over 1 million pounds. So, it's – Aero was lagging as we would expect as we talked about with inventory. But the others are coming back again. We've got a long, long way to go. We say we're on the road to recovery, but it's from very low levels, Chris.

Interesting. Okay. And then just want to make sure I understood what you said there on the special projects pipeline or revenues. What was the actual number? I wasn't sure I caught that. And then I was just curious, did you talk about the pipeline, like any prospects in terms of what it could look like for the next fiscal year?

Yeah. The special projects were approximately $25 million in fiscal 2019. We're probably plus or minus $1 million over that in fiscal year 2020, because the lead times on these very complex products are very long. So, a lot of what we had in there were things that's been ordered before the pandemic hit us. I'd expect a drop in our – of our current – now current fiscal year, don't know the level of that. We have some numbers, but we're always pushing for more. So, I would say, year-on-year, that's going to be down. But what we like is where the margin is and what's coming in, and it's been a fairly rich mix over the past year plus or minus.

Dan, anything you want to add to that?

No. I think you nailed it. Just give me a specific number, in FY 2020, special projects $26.3 million, where in FY 2019, $25.5 million. So, you were right on in your numbers, Mike.

See that, Chris, I'm generalizing in the incomes and cleaned it up, gave the actual numbers. Thank you, Dan.

Perfect. You guys have done a great job on the cost reduction side. I'm just trying to think about the normalization of value and when we start looking out to like 2022 and such. When you think about the 183 positions that were removed, would a lot of those jobs need to come back to increase production, or is there a way to think about how much the cost reductions would stick going forward?

I think, it was obviously very painful to remove people both on the production side and through the salary side of our business. I think, it was also fairly expensive for a company to do that. So, certainly as volume comes back, there will be a lag, but there will be a need to bring back some of our production workforce in our facilities, but we will do that very slowly. And on the salaried side, we're going to have to be very careful after spending money to have to remove them to bring them back. Certainly, there will be some that have to come back, but it will be a very slow process to bring them back.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you, Chris. [Operator Instructions]

Next, we'll hear from Michael Leshock at KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Hey, Mike and Dan. Good morning.

Good morning, Mike.

Good morning.

So, first, just on your internal inventory destocking, I know you said you are looking to destock more inventory into 2022. But looking at the fiscal 1Q, how should we expect the magnitude of the destock to be versus the sequential change that we saw this quarter?

We've seen, while in the second half of last year we aggressively removed about 2.8 million pounds of inventory. This is a real balancing act for us, because we have to keep some metal flowing through our plant. Obviously, our shipment level was not as high as it's been in the past, so – and Q1, by the way, is typically a tough quarter for us to reduce inventory. So, I don't know, to be honest with you, the spread across the year, but we do expect to continue incrementally quarter after quarter to find ways to reduce inventory. Dan?

Yeah. I think that's a good way to look at it. I mean, obviously, when we reduced inventory originally in FY 2020, just volume itself going down, is going to reduce what's in work-in-process, what additional raw materials you're buying. So that's a bit of a somewhat natural reduction with volumes overall going down. I think, as we get into FY 2021, it shifts a little in that the pace may not be quite as strong and it'll shift a bit more to the – maybe the finished good side of it where we're reducing more out of the finished goods side rather than with and raw materials.

But we're looking at really every pocket of inventory. Looking for any kind of stranded inventory you might say, in work-in-process and trying to clean it up as best we can. We have an inventory steering committee that studies this quite heavily and we report to senior staff inventory levels at least weekly, if not more often than that. So it's a big push for FY 2021. We're confident we can continue to reduce inventory as I mentioned in my prepared remarks. Our inventory level as compared to sales is still quite high. Our turns could certainly go up. So, I think, we still have a lot of room to improve. And that'll generate cash.

Got it. That makes sense. And then, on the 737 MAX, given the recent news that we've heard there. I know that's about 8% of normalized volumes for you. How is the supply chain gearing up for the return to service. I know, you mentioned the LEAP engines, but any other color you could add there on the Max?

I think, when you look at best estimates out there for MAX production in 2021, actual planes built, it's only probably 120 planes to be built. So, I still believe there is significant inventory out there. Obviously, went from the high levels in the 50s down to 0 and now probably plus or minus at the current time for a month. So, there are still significant inventory out there. So, I think, a return and a bounce back in demand will be very gradual. We're looking hopefully at 31 a month starting in 2022 and as they begin to need material for that is when I think we'll begin to see it full.

And then, just lastly from me. You mentioned the new IGT customer, anything you can tell us in terms of the magnitude, how we should think about that customer and then your expectations for more share gains in the near term? Thanks.

Sure. I don't think I want to get into the actual volume for us, in a company that only shipped 2.9 million pounds last quarter. It is certainly significant volume. It's a key piece in our puzzle. It's something we targeted and went after. And we feel really good about that.

By the way, on IGT, the other thing that we really like about this market is we're finally seeing the supply chain at steady state. So, instead of talking about all the inventory in the IGT supply chain, which we've been talking about forever, there's no more of inventory reduction. When there's demand, we're seeing a pull forward. So, we feel good about that in general and what's happening with that specific customer and for us, it is significant.

As far as other share gain, I believe the value that we provide with our service centers, with our just-in-time inventory, with our technical service, with our alloy development, I think, there's opportunities everywhere in which we can find ways to out-service others out there. And that's what we're focused on doing. This is a one that has happened, so it's good to talk about. But we're certainly focused on others, whether it's here, aerospace, other areas.

Got it. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

And gentlemen, we do have a follow up coming in from Chris Olin, once again at Tier4.

Hey. Sorry. I had a couple more. I thought I'd just knock through that here.. Wanted to ask you about Arcadia for two reasons. One, I know there's been a little bit of disruption in the titanium supply situation. I was wondering, [audio gap] (39:39-39:46).

Chris, we may have lost you.

We lost you, Chris.

We can't hear Chris.

Mr. Olin, are you reconnected, sir?

Hello?

Gentlemen, I believe I got cut-off, my ... [indiscernible]

(39:57)

I do apologize.

Okay. To be clear, I'm online, right?

Yes, you are.

You are.

We hear you.

Okay. Yeah. Not sure where I got knocked out there. I wanted to ask about Arcadia. There had been some changes in the titanium supply situation here over the past few months, I was wondering if that was an issue for that business on the quarter, as well as the issue with COVID and how Louisiana getting hit. Just kind of maybe give me an update there.

Sure. As far as the starting stock for Arcadia for titanium tube supply, not an issue at all. It's a very controlled process in which if processes change incoming, we are deeply involved in our end use customer, is deeply involved with that. So, we don't see anything there. It'll be a very controlled change over, our people and our supplier are all over that one. So no issue at all.

COVID, significant issue, Chris, not only in Arcadia, but in all our facilities. We're doing everything we can, social distancing, staggered shifts, ending shifts early, whatever we need to do to try to protect our people. But it's very difficult. So, yes, we have significant issues in Arcadia. Our team is doing a great job of keeping things going. And I could say that about every facility we have, our offices, the plant in Kokomo going through similar items. It's not just what happens in the plant obviously, it's what happens when people go out in public or with families who are worried about what happens over Thanksgiving. But, so far, our team has done one heck of a job in keeping things going while working to protect all our employees.

Okay. And, Dan, you mentioned the COVID-related cost, does that continue into the next year? Did you mention that?

Yeah. I think those would. I said, $250,000 to $300,000 that's related to staggered shifts and teams cleaning different areas, as Mike was just kind of referencing there. I think that costs would continue as we continue to try to keep everyone safe and keep everyone separated, and anything we can do to help and protect their health, we're trying to do. So, that will have a cost to it, but pretty manageable.

Okay. And then, the last question I had was, I thought I recalled GE talking about increasing production of the turbines or maybe the outlook getting less negative. Has that helped your business there? Are you thinking about that might get any different at all?

On power generation?

Yeah.

I'd say, on the mid- and small-sized turbines, as Dan said in his prepared remarks, a lot of that's going into oil and gas. So that's certainly down. We finally see nice projections for the large frame engines. And our alloy content in those is good and continues to grow, especially on the proprietary side. So that's good. So, we will see that coming. And as I noted, I think, in one of my responses along here, we no longer see supply chain full of inventory there. So, when they start to build, we will feel it. Has it come yet? Not necessarily. But we do believe it will come, not certainly in in huge quantities, not to where it was when we peaked in this market many years ago, but it certainly will begin to improve.

Thanks again.

Thank you, Chris.

And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our Q&A session for today's conference. I'm happy to turn the floor back to Mr. Mike Shor for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thanks, everybody. We appreciate everyone's time. Thank you for your interest and support. Please be safe. Our thoughts are with you and your family in this incredibly unusual time we live in. Look forward to talking to you again next quarter. Thanks, everyone.