Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Sean Van Bibber — Chief Accounting Officer & Controller, Haynes International, Inc.
Mark M. Comerford — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Haynes International, Inc.
Daniel W. Maudlin — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Vice President-Finance, Haynes International, Inc.
Edward Marshall — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Tyler Lange Kenyon — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Chris Olin — Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Haynes International Third Quarter Fiscal 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David Van Bibber, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you very much for joining us today. With me today are, Mark Comerford, President and CEO of Haynes International; and Dan Maudlin, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to read a brief cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. This conference call contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The words, believe, anticipate, plan, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Although we believe our plans, intentions and expectations regarded or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurance that such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

With that, let me turn the call over to Mark.

Thank you, Dave. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Hopefully, you've all seen the press release and had a chance to review it. We'll follow our standard agenda in today's call. I'll open with comments about the business and our end markets, and then, Dan will give you greater detail on the financial results.

As we mentioned in the press release, in the third quarter, we saw stability and even some increases in the nickel market, along with pretty solid shipments of specialty applications. Specialty application shipments, combined with good aerospace market and good tolling activity, albeit both well last year's level, lifted margins and profitability.

The stability in the nickel market should help us close out a mismatch of nickel in cost of goods sold compared to market nickel levels as we get deeper into the fourth quarter. If you think about it, this will be, I believe, the first quarter in about a year-and-a-half, in which we'll see we'll be adjusting prices upwards based on changes in the nickel market. Again, Dan will give you more detail and color on the nickel impacts, he'll also give you more color on the imports of our specialty application wins and profitability.

That being said, industrial markets like our base chemical processing and land-based gas turbine markets are still very slow. Welding, especially that related to oil and gas, heat treating, pollution controls and consumer devices are also still very weak. This resulted in much lower overall volume levels than a year ago. We don't expect to rebound in these markets until we start to see a stronger global economic environment. I think the bright spots right now are the new application wins we've seen, especially in our chemical process area along with the base aerospace market.

Interestingly, in areas where we haven't yet seen the market rebound, we've won a number of new applications, especially in land-based gas turbines and in some renewable energy applications. As the broader economy recovers, I think we'll see the benefits of these wins. Just as we're seeing the benefits of the specialty application wins, we started working on over the past five years or so in the chemical processing area.

I'll cite a few of these examples as we move in the buy market overview. As for the quarter, net revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 was $101.3 million, down 16.5% from last year's net revenue of $121.3 million. Net income in the quarter was $2.8 million, down 57.7% from last year's $6.6 million. Shipments in the quarter totaled 4.4 million pounds, down about 8.5% from last year's 4.8 million pounds. Average selling prices, inclusive of other revenue, which is primarily our tolling business, were down over 8.7% to $23.12 per pound from last year's $25.34 per pound.

Moving to our key markets, net revenue in the aerospace market for the quarter was $47 million, down roughly 17% from last year's $56.5 million. The volume shipped into aerospace was just over 2 million pounds in the quarter, also down roughly 17% from last year's 2.4 million pounds. Average selling price of $23.04 per pound was relatively flat with last year's $23.16 per pound.

Backlog fell slightly in the quarter about 2%, and this is due to timing of orders and some customers adjusting their inventory levels as our supply reliability improves. As we discussed last time, with our upgraded tubular products capability is now operational, some customers have adjusted their international safety stock levels. We've also adjusted how far out into the future we're booking some of these orders, allowing these key customers greater flexibility in managing their demand.

Business remains strong in aerospace. Backlogs in Airbus and Boeing are in excess of seven years and deeper into the supply chain, the new engine platforms are booking well, and we're seeing the early stages of the ramp-up.

Customer readiness audits are largely complete and, by the way, we've received excellent feedback on the upgrades we've done in the flat roll and tubular products areas in preparation for these new platform volumes. In addition to the components we already serve, Haynes' participation via our new proprietary specified materials, like HAYNES 282 and HAYNES 244, is expected to increase our content on the new engine platforms.

Just reminding you or giving example to anyone who is new on the call, HAYNES 282 is used in areas requiring excellent fabrication characteristics and weldability, while having higher temperature capability than HAYNES 718. HAYNES 244 is used in high-pressure, high-temperature applications with excellent thermal expansion characteristics, optimizing the clearance between the static and rotating components. So, it's great product and designs requiring efficient operation.

Finally, as you're aware, we're also increasing our value-added capabilities by expanding our parts participation, by making products nearer to the customer net shape requirements via our distribution system. The addition of LaPorte Custom Metal Processing is a key component in this strategy, allowing us greater internal process control, not only in managing costs, yields and quality, but also on allowing us greater control in our speed-to-market to serve our key accounts.

We're heavily focused on innovation and value in supplying this industry, as we introduce new generation of more efficient engines. We feel very positive about the status of the aerospace market and we feel we've positioned Haynes well with our new materials, new production capabilities and increased value-added distribution services.

In our chemical processing market, net revenue for the quarter was $20.5 million, down about 15% from last year's $24.2 million. Volume in the quarter was 745,000 pounds, down about 12.5% from last year's 852,000 pounds. Average selling price in the quarter was $27.48 per pound, down about 3% from $28.36 per pound last year. Backlog in this area was also down 11% as we shift out some specialty applications that we booked about six months to nine months ago.

The base business in this area, primarily chemical processing plants, remains very slow and competitive. Our specialty application wins have been a big part of backlog growth in this business this year. And just reminding you, between September 30, 2015 and the beginning of the third quarter, we more than doubled our backlog in this area, primarily on the strength of specialty application wins and projects we've been working on for as much as the last five years, and by the way, some as recent as just within the last year. I think most of you know, when the core platform business returns, the repeat business, when that comes back, we will be positioned to get our share of that market. For now, the work we've done over the past five years in developing new applications is paying off with these new strategic project wins.

To give you some flavor, some of our recent application wins in this area have been in renewable energy, chemical purification, natural gas, and waste disposal. These wins are all over the world, not limited to the U.S. In recent history, over the past few years, we've also had these application or project wins, serving the solar industry, specifically supporting concentrated solar power, some areas, even in refining of chemicals for a better [indiscernible] (08:41) and also in areas allowing better chemical [indiscernible] (08:46) is the best way to put it.

We've also had wins in heat exchangers for the oil and gas projects and in production systems for ultra-deep wells, and wins in a myriad of applications requiring high strength and high pressure, in highly corrosive environment.

Some of these projects shown are other markets, but most are in this chemical processing classification. I think our expertise is viewed as a resource to the design community and our development of new materials and fabrication solutions enables us to get into these new applications. The market is slow right now, but we're still winning applications and we're committed to serving this market as we move forward.

Moving to land-based gas turbines, our sales into the land-based gas turbine market totaled $16.1 million in the quarter, down about 8.5% from last year's $17.6 million. Volume shipped into this market was 1.2 million pounds, up roughly 19% from last year's 1 million pounds. Average selling price in the quarter was $13.14 per pound, down about 23% from last year's $17.14 per pound. The higher volume and lower average selling price is reflective of the impact of low raw material prices on the bulk of our higher volume long-term agreement contracts, as well as an increase proportionally of ingot sales volume, as large-frame businesses trended up. I think, we spoke last time about quote activity picking up in large and medium-frame applications. Well, some of those quotes became orders and we managed to turn them around fairly quickly.

It's still a very slow market right now, overall, although GE and Siemens appear to be indicating better activity, possibly indicating a bottom. Our backlog in this area pulled back a bit in the quarter by 11.6% as customers are conserving cash and several have reported that they'll be utilizing the slow summer months for maintenance shutdowns in their operations.

Small frame applications are still experienced a hardest hit in this market, likely related to cutbacks in oil and gas spending. And by the way, the mix shift I alluded to above to the larger frame applications, some of those ingot shipments we saw on the quarter are the first activity we've seen in about a year from some customers. Also just to give you some flavor on application engineering activity, we recently had HAYNES 282 specified into a large-frame application. I think, I mentioned that last time. It's solves the needs in this application for excellent fabrication characteristics and durability at high temperatures, and it's for a major producer of high efficiency power turbines. And just to give you some flavor, about 5% of our sales in the quarter were for this with this new application.

So, as that platform ramps up, we should see the benefits. But right now, business is still well below historical volume levels. And coincidently, that HAYNES 282 is also being considered for some other new and replacement applications in other engines. So, even in a low volume environment, we're seeing good specification activity, which we expect will pay off when this market returns to growth. We have to stay in front of customers. Now – when I talk to the people who's in this building, we talk about now is the timing when you win these applications to lay foundations for the future up-turn.

Finally, our other markets and other revenue accounted for $17.6 million in net revenue, down roughly 23% from last year's $23 million. As you know, we had a record year in tolling revenue last year, and we also had very robust sales into some new oil and gas applications as well as into some new consumer device applications. These applications will cool off this year, but there expected to be ongoing business, and our tolling business, while still good, is operating below last year's record volume levels.

Other markets comprising this area are also struggling as the industrial economy is struggling to find its footing. Those areas are the welding, as I mentioned earlier, some tooling applications, heat treating, brazing, pollution control equipment, all of these markets are operating well below what we've seen historically.

On our operating side, the equipment we installed in our tubing operations is performing well. I think last time when I updated you, we talked about some growing pains we were having with the start-up of the equipment. Those issues have been resolved. In fact, as I mentioned earlier, several of our key accounts have made a point of informing us that our reliability of supply has allowed them to cut their safety stock levels and run their operations leaner. And it's not great for our short-term backlog numbers, but I think it's definitely great long-term for our position in their supply chain.

We've also installed our Dynamics AX system into our Kokomo operations. And similar to what we saw in our tubing operations, the system is up and running with no major issues. Lot of efforts goes into putting in a new IT platform, and I think even more effort goes into doing it without a major business interruption. A lot of our people worked long days to get this up and running. We have most of the major areas installed and running. Our wire operations will be next on the list. And over the next few months, we'll be some more programming and cleaning up the details.

We're also progressing well in our upgrades to our equipment in our sheet, strip, cold-rolling area. We upgraded – we expect the upgraded rolling now to come online in the fourth quarter, and be up and running as we hit the first quarter of next year. Our heat treating upgrades will be completed shortly after that, probably being commissioned in the second quarter. These additions should give us the safety capacity and search capacity we'll need as the aerospace market ramps up and business and industrial areas like chemical processing and land-based gas turbines start to rebound.

With that, let me turn it over to Dan for more details on the financials.

Thank you, Mark. This quarter highlights the favorable impact that higher level of the specialty application projects utilizing our proprietary alloys can have on our financial results. Throughout last year, fiscal 2015, we have high levels of specialty application projects each quarter. As we moved into the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016, specialty application shipments were much lower just due to the timing and customer schedules of the projects. Third quarter specialty application shipments improved, and sequential average selling prices and margins improved. The chemical processing market highlights this impact with the average selling price per pound increased sequentially from $20.20 per pound in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 to $27.48 per pound in the third quarter.

Our overall gross profit margin improved from 8.7% in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 to 13.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Shipments of these specialty application projects are expected to continue in the fourth quarter as well. These high value shipments provide an offset to lower volumes in our commodity base business in certain of our markets due to the global macroeconomic headwinds in the industrial sector. We have experienced increased competition in certain markets as producers are reacting to low mill utilization rates and reduced demand. We expect base commodity volumes and prices to continue to be challenged in the fourth quarter due to reduced demand, the continued strong dollar and uncertainties in the global macroeconomic and political environment.

The market price of nickel slightly increased over the third quarter of fiscal 2016 from $3.95 per pound to $4.04 per pound, after being relatively stable over the second quarter of fiscal 2016. However, the significant decline in market prices over fiscal 2015 and the first quarter of fiscal 2016 continues to have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. The nickel mismatch, where our selling price drops faster than the cost of nickel and our cost of goods sold, creates compression on gross margins in a declining nickel environment.

Compression was significant in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, estimated at approximately $4 million pre-tax similar to Q2 or a compression of nearly 4 margin points. We're expecting to sell-through the remaining high cost nickel in the fourth quarter with a margin compression of about $2 million in the quarter. We expect to be nickel-neutral by the end of the quarter going forward, and the compression eliminated as we move into fiscal 2017, which will be favorable to not have the compression that impacted our gross margins by an estimated total of $13 million over fiscal 2016.

Another item that is weighing on our profitability is pension and retiree healthcare expense, which increased to $14.4 million in the first nine months of this year compared to $9.6 million in the same period of last year, or a $4.8 million increase, $1.6 million for the quarter. For the full year 2016, this expense is expected to be $19.1 million as compared to fiscal 2015 of $12.8 million. This $6.3 million increase, which is reflected in both cost of sales and SG&A, is primarily due to the September 30, 2015 valuation, which required a change in mortality tables and was impacted by a market drop in pension assets at that time.

We're currently funding monthly at an annualized rate of $6 million. If you recall, our pension plan is closed to new participants. And for non-bargaining unit employees, the accruals are frozen. Also, we expect to complete a project in the upcoming fourth quarter of offering lump sum buyouts to certain vested participants that no longer work for the company, but have not yet hit retirement age. This action is being taken to reduce our future PVGC premiums, a small impact, but anything helps.

SG&A costs, combined with research and technical costs, were $10.1 million for the quarter, compared to $13.3 million in the third quarter of last year with the primary difference being favorable changes in foreign currency fluctuations compared to last year, and less incentive compensation this year.

Tax expense benefited from recognizing the research and development tax credit of over $800,000 this quarter. And as a side note, if you recall in the first quarter of this year, we had an unfavorable discrete tax item related to a federal tax law change to bonus depreciation, which impacted our manufacture's deduction by $300,000. On a year-to-date basis, this is more than offset with a favorable R&D tax credit recognized this quarter.

Net income for the third quarter of 2016 was $2.792 million. And net income year-to-date for the nine months was $1.858 million.

Our outlook in the next quarter. We expect revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter to be slightly higher compared to those achieved in the third quarter of fiscal 2016. This outlook is predicated on continued shipments of specialty application projects, together with the assumption of the nickel and our cost of goods sold will become more aligned with the market price of nickel, reducing the compression on margins.

We still expect the base volumes and prices to be difficult in the next quarter due to slower demand, the continued strong dollar, and uncertainties in the global macroeconomic and political environment. Additionally, our volumes are dependent on levels of transactional business in our service centers, and can be impacted by summer shutdowns of our customers.

Backlog was $187.2 million at June 30, 2016, decreasing 3.3% over the quarter. The backlog pounds slightly increased by 0.5 percentage point, but the average selling price per pound decreased 3.8%. This decrease in average selling price per pound reflects the change in product mix in the backlog. And to give you an updated number, the backlog on July 31, 2016 was $178.5 million, a reduction of $8.7 million.

Cash flow and liquidity. Net cash provided by operating activities was $26.3 million for the nine months of 2016, and with $22.1 million of capital expenditures, we generated positive free cash flow of over $4.2 million. Our full year capital expenditures are still expected to be approximately $30 million, which includes $16.7 million on the project to increase our sheet manufacturing capacity of the Kokomo operations, where we're currently constrained in order to keep pace with the current demand and anticipated growth in the aerospace market.

Our cash balance remains strong at $53.6 million, including restricted cash at June 30, 2016, and our revolver balance remains at zero borrowings.

We amended our credit agreement on July 7, 2016 with our banking partners Wells Fargo Capital Finance and JPMorgan Chase. The amendment extended the agreement for five more years, reduced the unused line fees and lowered certain administrative costs. This solidifies our strong balance sheet, positioning us well for future value creation.

In conclusion, given the current market environment, we're staying focused on driving out costs, managing spending levels, adjusting production hours worked to match the backlog in order entry rates and reducing our inventory levels, while at the same time, we're continuing to leverage what we're good at, which is securing specialty applications for our proprietary alloys. This technical expertise is our competitive advantage to grow the value of this business for our shareholders.

Mark, I will now turn the discussion back over to you.

Thanks, Dan. In general, I think it's fair to say, we're very excited about the aerospace market. And as Dan has just mentioned, we've got a lot of going on in the application engineering side of the business, across all of our markets. And historically, we've seen the benefit of those things, when they come through in the upcoming years. Not entirely sure if we're seeing a floor in some of the other markets, land-based gas turbine, chemical process and even some of the smaller markets, we serve in our other markets area. I don't know, if we'll know until we get through the summer months and we start to see what our customers order books look like going into calendar 2017. I think that will be the real proving ground to see where we're heading with the economy.

Overall, our industry looks like it's pointing to a stronger economic environment as we enter 2017, still some clouds lingering over the broader economy. I think most of you know my concerns and I hope you don't mind, if I repeat them. I am concerned about our base chemical process industry business. I'd like to see that come back up. I don't like it went below 1 million pounds in a quarter. Activity is still very slow, especially in China. Nickel prices and commodity prices, they seem to be showing some signs of life in the last quarter. For me, with nickel, I think nickel needs to prove that the gains are sustainable. And they need to prove that they're being driven by demand and not just speculation but lower LME inventory levels. It's kind of a nice to see.

But I think one of the worst things that happened to us was oil bumped over $50, and then dropped back to $40, and I think some customers feel nickel might do the same, and then I don't want to get bitten. Like I said, for a lot of us in this industry, this is the first time in a, say, I don't know, a year and a half, maybe two years that we aren't reducing prices based on nickel levels, with nickel stabilizing in the last quarter.

Strong U.S. dollar is going to make foreign competition very intense, especially in areas where competitors beyond our core U.S. based competitors come into play. At Haynes, this is mainly the chemical processing industry. Our transactional business is still very inconsistent month to month. The bias lately has been to the core side. So we're not seeing a lot of people coming in for emergency buys, it might be the best way to put it. So, I need to see that pick up a little bit. That will be a good indicator that people are busy and they are very, very low on inventory.

Same thing, I haven't seen a real lengthening of lead times in the marketplace and that's very understandable. Right now, with industrial markets, in our case, chemical and land-based gas turbines, operating at such low levels and it's impacting everybody, you're not seeing order books going up and lead times lengthening. So, that gets back to our backlog. I don't know that we're going to see tremendous growth in the backlog, when we have such short lead times out there right now, especially for industrial applications.

In my experience, the things like that are the key factors for a solidly strengthening marketplace. I love seeing lead times expense. It gives everybody a lot more confidence. Don't get me wrong though, I feel a lot better than I did six months or nine months ago, but I'm still in that phase of cautious optimism. It's still a very competitive marketplace. As a result, I think you know our strategy. We're going to stay in front of our customers. We'll keep trying to push new applications across the finish line and help our customers with their designs and figure out a way to get more of these applications and wins, we're good at that. And we'll continue to keep driving waste out of our processes and keep pounding to ensure that Haynes is better position to compete.

With that, let's go ahead and open the call to your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Edward Marshall with Sidoti & Company. Please proceed.

Hey, guys. Good morning.

Good morning, Ed.

Good morning, Ed.

So, I wanted to, kind of, talk about aerospace for a second. We've heard it from a lot of the metal fabricators, there's been a shift in kind of production in the near-term due to the legacy projects kind of rolling off, like some of the wide-body project, and maybe a delay before the new product ramps up. Is that kind of what you're inferring and you're talking about? And maybe as a second portions to that, could you talk about the length of your order book, because I know we – at some points, we were talking out into fiscal 2017? So I just wanted to get kind of some clarity there.

Yeah. Right now, Ed, for most of the product that we supply in the aerospace, lot of the sheet and coil products, we are quoting right now out into 2017. And that's – like I said that's mainly our strip, sheet, coil type of business. We're still pretty heavily backlogged there.

Now, we're bringing on some of the new capabilities. I think you've heard me talk in the past, that [ph] Cabot was displaced (27:47) with a really good boneyard, which means there is a lot of equipment out there, so we don't have to go out and buy new equipment. We just have to go and create some existing equipment, and that's what we are doing. So, with the new rolling mill now coming on shortly, followed then by some of the heat treating capabilities, which will – like I said, it helps us with the surge capacity, more importantly with the growth we expect in the aerospace side, and it'll also help us clear out the weight list, even in the slow times right now.

And this is how hard this kind of economy we're in right now. We're very, very busy in some areas, and very light in some others. So, we're flexing hours in some areas, while doing overtime in others. So, we'll cycle through and work through those situations. But again, we should have better search capacity, better safety stock levels, as we start to move into calendar 2017.

With respect to the aerospace market, I think two things happened. One, I think the sheet and coil or the welded products or [indiscernible] (28:44) products side of the business saw a pretty good spike last year. And I think some of that might have been related. If you remember, we saw a spike in nickel, I want to say it's about two years ago, and we saw the order book pick up, lot of people getting their orders in. And then, I think they had to run off some of that safety stocks. So, that's one side of it. I think there was a lot out of ordering thinking that nickel might be heading north of $9 or even north of $10 two years ago. I think, it's spiked like $8.50, I'm going to say about two years ago. And that really triggered a lot of ordering.

So, we've seen some wear-off on the order book there. People just working through their safety stocks. But you're also seeing as you're saying. You're seeing some of the transition from legacy platforms to the new platforms. There is not a lot of part number changes, not a lot. We picked up a couple of new applications and there are some moderate changes in things like the gauge we'll supply into some components or maybe the cut part geometry a little bit. But for the most part, a lot of the alloys are staying the same, and a lot of the applications are staying very much the same.

But that being said, if you do take a look at the engine backlogs out there, I think it's pretty clear that the transition is occurring, when you look at – I really – the volume is really on the single aisle side. So, I look at single aisle legacy engines. And I want to say that, that number is – mostly the backlog is like 3,500 engines or 4,000 engines. And then, you look at the backlogs for the new engine platforms coming out for single aisle and I want to say the number is up closer to 13,000 engines. I could be wrong on those numbers, I'm trying to do it from memory, but it shows me that we're seeing that transition occurring and, obviously, we're going to have some changes in suppliers and changes in parts. We've got a couple of new parts that are going into the engines and we're real pleased with that.

Does that kind of give you what you're looking for?

Yeah. Just as an add-on to that, I know the aerospace engine OEMs and the supply chain likes to get out in the front, get out in front of the production cycle, so have you began to see that kind of – and I think it's probably mainly just a little premature, but have you seen it yet?

Yeah.

You have? Okay. So...

Yeah. The best example, and I talked about this probably, I usually do it at the year-end, so when we did the 10-K. The big thing for me is tracking the HAYNES 282. HAYNES 282 is really – [ph] since they're (31:03) military applications, but there are some larger applications on the new platforms that are coming out. And that's where we've seen HAYNES 282 pretty much doubled in sales each of the last three years, it might be a good way to put it. So, you can see that continuing ramp-up and demand, which is – and really that is primarily the [indiscernible] (31:25) application that's driving that.

And if you look at the average selling price for aerospace, just sequentially, in the third quarter, it was $23.04 at June 30; in March, it was $22.62. So I think, you're are seeing a small strengthening in the average selling price, due to a little better mix in the aerospace, which is some of the HAYNES 282 that Mark is referring too.

Yeah. And even if you look at year-on-year, the things surprised me is, the aerospace pricing was relatively flat year-on-year, and nickel was anything but flat.

Right.

So, when I look at – when I listened to you, you're kind of increasing the fabrication and so forth, I understand kind of your thought process as far as integrating into the business – your customers businesses and really making it a sticky customer for you.

Yeah.

I'm curious as to the customer reception from that. Have you seen the necessity from the customer level to want to come back and continue to do kind of more fabrication at Haynes from you and your parts, et cetera?

Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, yeah, we've talked about it before, Ed. If we were in the long product side of the business, all those guys tend to be integrating into forging, and I think it's a good move on their part, because it's the next step in getting their customer a little bit closer to the parts they need. You see a lot more in powder as well as people trying to get near net shapes in both land-based gas turbine and aerospace.

If you're on the component side, like we are, the fabricated part side, which is more related to sheet forming and welding, getting them to a cut part instead of a full coil, again, now they don't have to deal with the first step in the process, they don't have to deal with the scrap, they don't have to – it really can get yourself into a situation, where you help them manage their working capital and perhaps more importantly, you help them manage the supply line into their first step in their process, which is what they're looking for.

We've had real good reception on it. And again, that's a big reason our – I think, I said in the past, when I started here, I think, cut parts was less than 20% of what we were supplying into aerospace and cut parts is not now more than 50% of what we supply into aerospace.

That's good to see that you're using a lot less capital to move – to vertically integrate than the long product side did. The tariffs, does that affect you in anyway? I know it doesn't directly affect you, but maybe the kind of the second derivatives impact?

The best thing in the world would be to see some of the big mills get filled with their – the product they need for volume. I think you've always – I mean I always talk about that, again, you have the rising tide lifting all boats. If the big mills can fill up a little bit on some of the products they need to further costs and run their mills more efficiently, yeah, it makes them more competitive, but what is good for the entire North American industry, if those guys can fill up, and that ends up being good for us. So, like you said, it's very indirect. We don't make the low end, we don't make stainless steels or carbon steels or anything like that. We're pretty much 57% nickel or higher, might be the best way to look at it for the most part.

Do you think there is a tertiary impact too on nickel? I mean do you have any insight into maybe what nickel might do? Is – maybe the domestics get a little bit – I mean, I guess, well, demand is not changing, but I'm curious to see your thought.

Yeah. If I know what nickel is doing, I'd be living in New York.

Obviously, I think demand in China for stainless steel is a big impact there. I'm sure you read about the Philippines and they're clamped down a little bit on the environmental side of things, that could restrict supply, that could lift nickel up, but we've also read articles that people think nickel is going to go down. So, who knows where...

Yeah. What bothers me on nickel, Ed, is – we have seen – I mean, we've seen some of the junior miners go out finally. I don't know that I've seen any of the large miners take significant capacity offline. I do like seeing that the LME inventory stocks are going down. That's very pleased to see that, but I'm worried that we've seen a speculative bump in nickel. And to me, it's more important that it'd be sustainable. If you ask me, some customers got burned two years ago, when they kind of came in heavy with their orders, when they thought nickel was growing north of $9. And my opinion is, I don't – I think, that's part of why people haven't really come in heavy with the order book yet. So, I think people are waiting to see. I mean we've done a pretty good jump in nickel. I want to say it was up to $4.80, something like that, the other day?

They're down just a little bit, still high.

Yeah. So, I mean, that's – they we're going to get to the point now, where people are going to start seeing, if they can get ahead of it, if nickel was sustainable at these levels or hopefully it keeps rising. But right now, this spike some people – even Haynes, take a look at our raw materials, and our [ph] whip (36:19) right now. We're kind of watching our nickel buys very closely, when it's over $4.50 a pound, $4.75 a pound as well. So, we too want to see if this is sustainable. I'm hopeful it is, but we want to see it.

Does this Philippine sound more realistic than say what happened with Indonesia a couple of years ago? And remind me how large -I think they're the third largest supplier? I'm just curious.

Yeah. To me, Ed, it's always easy to keep a band in place, when there's no demand.

Right.

Let's see what happens, when nickel demand – if nickel demand starts to pick up like it was in five years ago or something, let's see if the band stay in place then. Right now, I think, it's easy to keep a band in-place, when demand is very low.

Got it. Thanks, guys.

You bet. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Tyler Kenyon with KeyBanc. Please proceed.

Hey. Good morning, Mark and Dan.

Good morning.

I appreciate the great overview, as always. So my questions here are somewhat limited. But just with respect to the customer inventory realignment that you mentioned, Mark, on the aerospace side, I would assume that that's related to the titanium tubular operations. Are you expecting some of those headwinds to abate as we move in here to the fourth quarter? And then, Dan, I know you mentioned that the backlog at July-end versus June, if I recall, I think, was down $8 million to $9 million. So if there's any way that you could provide us just with some of the moving pieces there from a pricing and mix perspective, and just how that shakes out between the end markets?

I'll tell you what, looking year-on-year, if you take a look at our buy customer, and I'm little bit of a control freak, so I actually go customer by customer, each of the key markets and see which customers are up, and which customers are down, and you can imagine that I drive the people in sales and marketing crazy. But if you take a look at it, most of what we've seen as far as the change in demand, I would say, let's take aerospace for instance, has been reductions in sales to people who are reselling. So it's an inventory correction in the supply chain.

We don't do a lot of business into the resell market, but we have some partners that have better access into resale, and a lot of the change we have seen in – again, I'll use aerospace as an example, has been the demand change pattern to people who might rework the material, rerollers, redrawers or resellers of the material have been the biggest changes in demand year-on-year, which says to me, okay, we had a nice buildup in the supply chain a year ago, and okay, now we're seeing some people bleeded off.

I kind of – look, it's tough to make money in this business when you're running at 4.4 million pounds or so in a quarter, but I kind of like it when I see that the drain in the changing demand is that the resell, redraw, reworking area, as opposed to finished use customers, it tells me that, okay, we've got a little bit of a change in the of supply mechanics, but that'll come back.

And your comments on backlog, I mentioned over the quarter that the backlog pounds actually stayed pretty consistent, but the price went down, I mean I think that's pretty reflective of some special projects being shipped, these are high value special projects. So, that kind of shifts the mix of average selling price, when you're looking at the backlog. And I think that occurred as well in Q1 as we continued to shift some specialty application projects that's going to pull those numbers down a bit. Does that help?

It does. Thank you very much. And then, just one other from me. Following what we've seen over in Europe with Brexit, some of the geopolitical instability there, have you seen any impacts or any changes in customer behavior associated with that?

None. In fact, if you ask me right now, our UK facility is extremely busy. And again, as you think about who we are, we're not really a geographic supplier so much as a market supplier. Our UK facility is very heavily land-based gas turbine and aerospace driven, very, very high performance materials and they'll supply all of Europe out of that facility. So, it's – they've been very, very busy. And in fact, when I talked about areas where I feel we're behind on shipments out of our manufacturing facility, I think one of the areas we've starved quite a bit and they've done a real good job of keeping their position with key customers, we've been starving our UK facility a little bit.

Thank you so much.

Okay.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions. I would like to turn the floor – we have one from Chris Olin with Rosenblatt Securities. Please proceed.

Hey. Good morning. Thanks for taking my call.

Hey, Chris.

Good morning, Chris.

Just a question on the new jet engine models. Some of the companies that are also in the specialty materials group have been talking about revenue content per program or like a dollar amount on the next generation aircrafts to kind of give a feel for how the new programs are going to help the business. Have you looked at that in terms of what your revenue dollars for the new jet engine models would look like?

From a point of view of, for instance, some of the new application wins, I do have the marketing guys give me how many input pounds that's going to be per engine, and I know the selling price per pound of those items. So, I do kind of keep an eye on that thing to get a projection, for instance, of what I think we'll do in HAYNES 282 or HAYNES 244. But there is so much in a jet engine where we are competing head-to-head with, for instance, in let's say, seals type applications, we're competing head-to-head with Special Metals and Allegheny and their distribution systems, those types of products. And there are scrum issues all day long on those. So, we kind of have rough averages of what we think for platform, but we don't talk about it publicly.

Okay. Are you seeing anything different going on in terms of aerospace aftermarket demand? Has that started to improve yet?

Again, a lot of our products go into – a lot of it what we supply is both OEM and MRO. We'll supply to a guy who is supplying into both of those. The aftermarket had been very slow, it seemed to pick up a little bit a year ago, but again, I think, we're just starting to see some bleeding of the supply chain before we start to rebuild the supply chain as we get into the new ramp-ups for the new platforms. And that's just – that is just qualitative discussions I've had with customers, that type of [indiscernible] (43:28)

Okay. Last question I had was just on these special projects that you realized in the third quarter, and you will in the next quarter. Does the upward movement in commodity nickel prices pull forward those projects, whereas there'd be less in the backlog for 2017? Is there anywhere we should look at it in terms of the influence from the surge charges, et cetera?

Yeah, I don't think the price of nickel impacts that at all. I mean we were very successful this quarter from a manufacturing point of view, and getting the customer to inspect and approve the material to ship. So we were able to ship quite a bit of specialty application work this quarter that was, at the beginning of the quarter, we would have classified that as pretty challenging. But we did well on that from an execution point of view, and we expect that we'll have some of those same challenges in the fourth quarter, but it looks very good. It will have a good mix of specialty application projects in Q4. I think it's very unrelated to the price of nickel.

Yeah. The best way to think about it, Chris, honestly when you think of these special applications project related, if you think about inherently at the end of the supply chain, a lot of them are driven by big science. So research institutes, universities, governments that are funding these things. The wildcard on getting these things shipped on time is frequently the funding. Where is the funding, when's it coming through, do they have a funding left in this quarter, or do we have to wait next quarter to ship it et cetera. So that's kind of you think of the big science types of projects that we might be doing.

The other side of it is maintenance. We just want an application on the other side of the world for a chemical application for – I think it's for extraction and metallurgy. And that's for a company, it's got to fit in its maintenance schedule, everything is driven by its maintenance schedule. He doesn't care about nickel, he has got a big piece of equipment coming down, in six months and our metal better be to the fabricator in three months so the fabricator can work on it and have it to him in six months. That's kind of how these schedules get driven, either by big sciences largely funding, application wins that are industrial application wins, are driven by the build schedule, either maintenance schedule or the equipment built for a new plant.

Okay. Great. That's all I had. Nice quarter.

Thanks, Chris.

There are no further questions. I would like to turn the floor back over to Mark Comerford for closing comments.

Thank you, Stacy. Thank you for your time today, everybody. I really appreciate it. And thank you very much for your interest and support of Haynes. We'll look forward to updating you again next quarter.

This concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation.