Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Sean Van Bibber — Chief Accounting Officer & Controller, Haynes International, Inc.
Mark M. Comerford — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Haynes International, Inc.
Daniel W. Maudlin — Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Haynes International, Inc.
Chris D. Olin — Analyst, Longbow Research LLC
Edward Marshall — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Philip N. Gibbs — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Jonathan Barry Brolin — Managing Member, Edenbrook Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Haynes International Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Earnings Conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instruction] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. David Van Bibber, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you very much for joining us today. With me today are Mark Comerford, President and Chief Executive Officer of Haynes International; and Dan Maudlin, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before we get started, I would like to read a brief cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.

This conference call contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, anticipate, plan and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe our plans, intentions and expectations regarding or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and we can provide no assurance that such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved.

Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

With that, let me turn the call over to Mark.

Thank you, Dave. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Hopefully, you've all seen the press release and had a chance to review it. We'll follow our standard agenda in today's call. I'll open with comments about the business and our end markets, and then Dan will give you greater detail on the financial results.

As you saw in the release, our third quarter was very disappointing, transactional business we expected to rebound just simply did not occur and in fact it worsened slightly. Aerospace and our other markets performed extremely well, but industrial gas turbine and chemical processing remained very slow. As I've mentioned to you previously in rough numbers, we enter each month expecting transactional business out of our distribution facilities to comprise about 30% of our revenue plan. This quarter in each month we were at about 20%. We mentioned in the last call, that April was off to a very poor start with low invoicing level, but whereas the invoicing level improved over the balance of the quarter, the profitability remained very poor as we continue to flush out some of the lower price levels we have in our backlog.

Without that better transactional activity and specialty projects, we're feeling the full impact of that lower price mix of products, especially in the chemical processing area at this point in time. Overall the news in specialty metals continues to improve. In aerospace, activity appears to be strengthening, [indiscernible] (03:00) products reported excellent activity in their forgings business. We were a little bit off our record run rate on shipments in the quarter, but we had our strongest increase in backlog all year in aerospace. Also, activity at the Paris Air Show was excellent and industry sentiment remains very positive.

In gas turbine, we're starting to see some request for expedites, but there is still no marked improvement in that market as a whole. In chemical process, we saw some volume improvement but still only at the lowest end of the pricing spectrum and activity is still very choppy. Also, we still have not seen any major specialty applications in chemical processing area [ph] get let. (03:41) There are some large projects being quoted, but so far they have not been converted into any large significant orders. In our other products and revenue area, we saw some excellent activity in energy related applications along with solid order patterns in consumer related applications.

In our tolling business, which had its second best quarter every last quarter followed it up with a third best quarter, this quarter. Tolling, as we've discussed previously is usually a leading indicator for us, so whereas we still think we have some difficult periods to fight through, we're optimistic that what we're seeing on a broader scale for the industrial markets.

Let me move to the quarterly results and some more market comments. Net revenue in the third quarter was $98 million, down 3.2% from last year's $101.3 million. Volumes shipped was 4.6 million pounds up 4.5% from last year's 4.4 million pounds. Average selling price, inclusive of our other revenue, which is largely our tolling services, was $21.41 per pound, down 7.4% from last year's $23.12 per pound.

Our net loss for the quarter was $4 million compared to net profit last year of $2.8 million. Looking at our end markets, net revenue in the aerospace market for the quarter was $47 million, roughly flat with last year and aerospace represented about 48% of our net revenues. Volume in this market increased 8.1% to 2.2 million pounds compared to last year, but pricing was off about 7.8% primarily due to a lower value product mix and some competition. After shipping 2.3 million pounds in the second quarter which is equivalent to our record run rate of 9.2 million pounds in a year, I was pleased to see ship another 2.2 million pounds in the third quarter, essentially there was no letup.

Customers are telling us that they're – we're starting to see the new engine platforms kick in. Internally, we're getting our new annealing line up and running, so we expect to be well positioned as we enter calendar 2018 to take advantage of the aerospace demand. And we're looking to get our lead times down to a level that will benefit our customers greatly.

Also on top of the last two solid shipping quarters, the backlog in our aerospace business increased during the quarter by 9.4% which is our largest increase in that backlog this year. I think, there'll be some ups and downs, as the new engine platforms ramp-up, especially as things get lumpy through the supply chain, but we feel very strong about our position to serve this market as we move into 2018. I think, most of you know, we're also transitioning into our expanded facility in LaPorte where we'll be consolidating our largest North American distribution operations.

We expect to have this completed as we move into 2018 as well, a lot of moving pieces right now, but I think the investments that we've made in upgrading our cold rolling capabilities, our tubular products capabilities, our flat products capabilities, along with the consolidated finishing and service capabilities in LaPorte will further solidify our position in the value added space, supplying into the aerospace market. We're very pleased with what we're seeing in the aerospace market, right now.

In our chemical processing market, net revenue for the quarter was $15 million, down 26.6% from last year's $20.5 million and this market accounted for 15.3% of our revenue in the quarter. Volume shipped was 858,000 pounds, up 15.2% from last year's 745,000 pounds. Average selling price of $17.50 per pound in the quarter was down 36.3% from last year's $27.48 per pound, indicative of higher volume, lower price mix that we're currently booking and the absence of specialty application projects. Backlog fell during the quarter by 12%. I mentioned last time that quote activity is increasing in this area. I think higher oil prices and the increasing rig count will eventually find its way down the supply chain to our chemical business, just as it did when oil collapsed in 2014 above three years ago. And, if you remember back then, Haynes actually held up pretty well through 2014 and 2015, we really didn't feel the collapse of oil and the latent effects into the chemical process market until we get into late 2016 and this year. The conversations I've had with customers indicate that they are busy right now with carbon, stainless and even some lower end nickel alloys.

In summary, they tell me to be patient, because this is how things typically evolve as we come out of these bottoms. I know we lag this market and I think we're feeling the pain that some of our peers who have large oil and gas positions, felt in 2014 onwards, but if I'm going to listen to our customers, I need to be patient.

There has been a lot of increased quote activity on project work and that's a good sign, but so far that's only a sign. We have not converted those quotes into orders, just yet. We're still very scant on the number of specialty product applications that we have right now on our order book. The pipeline and design and quoting is active, but so far, we have not been able to convert these into orders. Also on the specialty projects side, there are some very large pipeline projects being planned and quoted overseas that are similar to one that a couple of our larger peers shared a few years ago. I think these projects, should they be specced into these alloys in the high-end nickel side of the alloy spectrum, will be very helpful in the industry as a whole as far as increasing the level of chemical process volumes.

When we give guidance right now, the lack of clarity in this market is probably the biggest reason for our pessimism. We just do not have the order book right now to say with any confidence that we've seen this market turning around in the short-term. A number of macro indicators like oil prices, chemical investment numbers, the [ph] ISM (09:24) number and more directly the project activity we see on the quote side are very positive, but we just don't have the order book at this point in time for me to say that this has turned positive.

Moving to the industrial gas turbine market. Our sales in the quarter totaled $14.7 million, down 8.6% from last year's $16.1 million and this market totaled roughly 15% of our total revenue Volume was 1 million pounds, down 17.6% from last year's 1.2 million pounds. Average selling price was $14.57 per pound, up 10.9% from last year's $13.14 per pound, indicative of a better mix and raw material pricing. The backlogs fell during the quarter by 4.5%, mainly due to the timing of orders.

Activity is still running well below historical levels, we're running right now at a shipping rate of about 4.5 million pounds per year. And if you recall, our peak volumes in this market were around 6.5 million pounds and I'll say normal volumes are in that 5.5 million pound to 6 million pound level. Medium and large frame applications are slowly increasing in activity, but the activity is very lumpy, as evidenced by the change we saw in volume from second quarter into third quarter.

If you remember, second quarter was up to 1.4 million pounds and here we are in third quarter back at about that 1 million pound level. We've won several new applications on medium and larger platforms as well. Smaller engines are still slow, but again similar to what we talked about in chemicals. We see a sustained strengthening in oil and gas, we would expect to see demand for the smaller engines improve. In fact, we are working with a number of the smaller engine manufacturers and they do seem to believe that things are getting a little bit busier right now. We're constantly in front of these key accounts at the design and fabrication level, so I'm confident that we're very well positioned, but similar to CPI, this market remains very soft and we just don't have any clear indications of a significant strengthening at this point in time.

Finally, our other markets and other revenue accounted for $21.3 million during the quarter, about 22% of our revenue and up 21% from last year. It was our third best quarter since we made the acquisition of the LaPorte operations back in 2015, very solid quarter as backlog also increased, 10.8% in addition to that strong shipping level. We're a pretty small player in oil and gas applications, but this area, oil and gas along with other energy-related applications led the quarter for us. We also had some good activity in consumer electronics, welding and industrial applications on the products side.

On our services side, revenue from tolling was also excellent during the quarter, as we recorded our third highest quarter in tolling, since acquiring LaPorte and remember, our second highest quarter was last quarter, so the services or tolling side, which we view as a leading indicator is doing quite well right now.

On our operating side, I think I pretty much touched on a lot of the key topics. We're getting the new heat treatment line up and running now, we're surveying the furnace temperatures and working out some of the bugs there. We've got most of the mechanicals and synchronization working extremely well.

Our rolling mill upgrade is complete and we're actually producing production material off that rolling mill area, the tubular products work is complete and I think we've mentioned previously that our aero tubing business is one of the brightest spots we have in this tough economy. Corrosion tubing however is still very, very slow.

On our IT project, we're doing a lot of programming work to get better on the reporting side and manage the business better and we're scheduled to install the final leg of the IT project at our Wire operations in October and then we'll have all of our manufacturing sites on the same platform, that's a big difference compared to five years ago when we had multiple platforms for our operating businesses.

Finally, as I mentioned earlier, we're in the process of moving our Lebanon operations into our LaPorte facility, so that we have a more centralized service capability for serving our customers more efficiently and quickly.

We'll have one fewer site in the Haynes Network. I think I've mentioned before, we're constantly looking at the footprint of the business to find better efficiencies for serving our customers and will continue to do so.

With that, let me turn it over to Dan for more details on the financials.

Thank you, Mark. We faced greater headwinds this quarter than we anticipated, resulting in a challenging top line and significant near-term margin pressures. Our revenue at $98 million reflects low specialty application projects this quarter, sluggish transactional business, low nickel prices and a challenging competitive pricing environment. Our average selling price per pound, including conversion was $21.41 per pound as compared to the third quarter last year of $23.12 per pound. This decline is most notable in our chemical processing market.

This quarter, CPI average selling price was $17.50 per pound as compared to $23.45 in the second quarter and $27.48 last year third quarter and was even over $30 in the two quarters in between. This decline is primarily reflective of less of the high value specialty application projects, driving a lower value mix and competitive pricing, both issues that squeeze gross margins. Our gross margin this quarter was significantly lower than we've seen in prior quarters. To provide you some color on this margin compression, let's look at a sequential bridge explaining the $6.1 million decline in gross margin from last quarter Q2 to this quarter Q3 of fiscal 2017.

First, less of the high value specialty application projects, impacted margins negatively by approximately $1.2 million. Second, overall lower base volumes, pounds shipped impacted margin dollars by an estimated $1 million. Third and the largest item, competitive pricing combined with impacts from product mix, reduced margins by an estimated $2.4 million. And lastly, the adjustment incurred this quarter related to inventory valuation, lower [ph] cost to market (15:46) and slow moving reserves impacted margins by $1.5 million. The price of nickel weakened over the past two quarters where we ended December 31, 2016 with a 30-day LME average at $5, dropping to $4.64 at March 31 and further dropping to $4.05 at June 30.

Post June 30, nickel prices seem to be strengthening and it remains to be seen if that increase will be sustainable. Aside for from nickel, cobalt has also been moving with significant increases lately. All-in, we estimate that raw material fluctuations had an offsetting impact and only moderate compression on margins this quarter.

A few additional items impacting operations and costs, include the following. The first is, our strategic action to expand our service center footprint at our LaPorte location. As we previously disclosed, the cost to move our largest U.S. service center from Lebanon, Indiana to LaPorte, Indiana is expected to cost approximately $2.3 million to $3.6 million that is not capitalizable but rather charged to cost of goods sold. Up to June 30, we have charged approximately $900,000 of these costs to cost of goods sold and looking forward, we are estimating a $1 million charge to cost of goods sold in the September quarter and an additional $1.3 million charge in the December quarter.

The second item is the CapEx investment to install and upgrade the cold finishing equipment to increase sheet capacity and better enable us to service customers, especially in the aerospace market. The construction is in the final innings and commissioning is beginning with benefits expected to materialize in the next few quarters. We have been impacted by start-up and commissioning costs. In addition, mill production levels and inventory levels have been impacted during the construction phase and will continue to be impacted through the commissioning phase. Third item is, when I keep reiterating, which is the significant increase in pension and retiree healthcare expense, which increased $1.1 million this quarter compared to last year's Q3, due to the reduction in discount rates at our valuation at September 30, 2016.

This is a full-year increase in expense of $4.4 million from $19 million in fiscal 2016 to $23.4 million in fiscal 2017. This $4.4 million increase is on top of a $6.4 million increase from fiscal 2015 to 2016. This $10.8 million pre-tax increase over two years continues to have a significant impact on our earnings. The potential good news is interest rates are currently higher than last year. Thus, we are expecting a favorable valuation this September that could reduce fiscal 2018 expense.

Back more specifically to the quarter, SG&A costs combined with research and technical costs were $11.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, which is even with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and $1.4 million higher than the $10.1 million in the third quarter of last year. The increase from last year was driven by unfavorable foreign currency impact of $1.5 million with an FX loss this quarter of fiscal 2017 of $629,000 compared to an FX gain of $883,000 in the third quarter of last year.

The effective tax rate for the quarter was 50.6%, which includes an adjustment to make the nine-month rate 39.8%. The out-of-quarter favorable adjustment is quantified at approximately $850,000. Prior quarters of this year had an abnormally low effective tax rate, due to the near breakeven taxable income from the projections we had at that time. All-in, the net loss for the quarter of fiscal 2017 was $3.967 million compared to the last year's third quarter of a net income of $2.792 million. Outlook for next quarter; long-term, we have confidence in the strength of the markets we serve; however, we expect the current soft market conditions in industrial gas turbines, chemical processing and high-value specialty applications will continue through the calendar year. This, combined with lack of visibility on transactional business makes near-term guidance difficult, thus our best view at this point in time is that revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 will likely be similar to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.

Backlog was $180.9 million at June 30, 2017, an increase of $10.1 million sequentially. Aerospace and other markets have higher order entry and improving backlog levels during the quarter. Beyond quarter end, backlog at July 31, 2017 decreased slightly to $179.2 million.

Cash flow and liquidity, net cash provided by operating activities was $11.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and capital expenditures were $14.1 million. Inventory increased over the nine-month period, driven by increasing order entry rates and managing inventory levels [ph] due to the (21:19) CapEx project in cold finishing. We expect inventory levels to decrease over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Our cash balance was $48.5 million at June 30, 2017 and our revolver balance remains at zero borrowings. Our credit facility has a limit of $120 million with an accordion feature to increase to $170 million. Our strong balance sheet positions us well for capital allocation opportunities and future value creation.

In conclusion, while this quarter's financial results were unfavorable, we are encouraged by the improving order entry rates and backlog levels, as well as the improvement in demand across the specialty metals industry. The headwinds are expected to persist for us through the end of the calendar year, but we see potentially promising specialty application projects in the quoting stage and the longer term order entries already building in the backlog, as being catalyst for improvement in 2018.

Mark, I will now turn the discussion back over to you.

Thanks, Dan. I just want to reiterate for everybody, what Dan and I've pretty much discussed so far. The IGT and CPI business are really running at very, very low levels they are two of the key markets for advanced nickel and cobalt based material, so their struggles are essentially our struggles. Aerospace is holding up extremely well, and if you look at the investments we've made over the last few years in the cold finishing area for our sheet business and our coil business, a lot of that is targeted of where the aerospace business goes through, same thing as we look at the finishing operations with consolidating Lebanon into LaPorte and frankly the purchase of LaPorte so that we could offer a higher quality product into the marketplace and really control that processing for ourselves. So, a lot of – I feel very good about the investments we've made and where we're going as we go into 2018, especially with the aerospace market seeming to be ramping up.

CPI and IGT, those are typically heavier gauge applications, larger section businesses and that's really where we're struggling is in those areas, where we just don't have the volume running through the plant, the way we would have if those businesses were operating at, what I'll call a normal level. I think, I said in last time, if I could get those two businesses to go from horrible to just bad, we'd be in pretty good shape, but they're really operating at extremely low levels right now.

Pricing is still very soft. As it typically is at this stage in the cycle. Demand is still running below that 5 million pound per quarter level. I think we're going to struggle for the next quarter or two as we just don't have the special project backlog or the transactional activity that I feel we need before we can say we're out of the woods. I'm encouraged by that stronger backlog, but remember that backlog at this point is still very much biased towards the aerospace and those other markets which have already been pretty solid for us. We're still not seeing in the IGT or CPI area.

As I mentioned last time, last time we had the call, I'm encouraged. I'm still a little bit paranoid about that business transactional level and I need to see that transactional business pick up, need to see a little bit more project work moving from designing and prototype phase into actual applications. I think I'll feel better about the business when we start to see those things pick up a little bit.

With that, Donna, let's go ahead and open the call to questions.

Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Chris Olin of Longbow Research. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, Chris.

Question about the tubing business, does that segment have exposure to the Airbus A380? Do you think these recent cuts could have a negative impact on volumes for that business going forward? And I guess, maybe to expand beyond that, are we still seeing pressure from like wide-body production cuts on some of your orders?

No, not a lot, Chris. We have a little bit of business that goes through the distribution channel that may find its way into Airbus applications, but Airbus is clearly a target for our tubular expansion, we're not a big player with Airbus at all, most of our product goes into defense applications and Boeing applications.

I thought I heard you mention during your presentation something about increased competition within the aerospace markets and I was wondering if you could expand upon that a little bit in terms of like maybe where this is coming from, like a regional aspect?

Yeah. Most of what you have in the aerospace side of the business is on long-term agreements, that's pretty much sheltered from a lot of I'll say day-to-day transactional pricing skirmishes, but you still have a lot of business – we have a lot of business that goes through the normal supply chain to a myriad of sub-tier fabricators and that becomes a little bit more transactional oriented. So, you'll see a little bit of price cutting out in the marketplace when everybody is a little bit soft, it's not a big part of the aerospace business.

If you take a look at our business when we really talk about transactional business, if you look at the aerospace business, that pricing holds up pretty well; it might be the best way to put it. Where we're really seeing a lot of dramatic, I'll say, price cutting is in the CPI side of the business, that's where people really are making some pretty deep cuts in pricing.

Now, remember too, when you look at our CPI business, the biggest thing impacting our average selling price in the CPI business is the absence of these massive special projects that we've had for – it seems like we've had one or two of them for each of the last five years, six years with the exception of 2013. As we get into late 2013, we were kind of in the same spot in CPI as far as not having a lot of special project work. But back in 2013, it was covered up a little bit by the fact that our IGT business was still very, very good. So, really what's impacting us right now that lack of specialty projects and that's really dramatically impacting what we're seeing on the CPI average selling price.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. Just last question; in terms of the orders in the transactional business, do they correlate with nickel pricing at all, is there a way to think about, like has there been a pickup in July, August activity versus, what we saw in May and June just from the commodities moving...?

You saw the backlog increasing. So, I don't know if that's people trying to beat nickel or not. When I look inside those orders, really what I'm seeing Chris more so than any, if you think what's happening on the long product side, you're seeing the forging business get really, really busy. And, if you look what it – in my opinion, what I think that is, is there's not a lot of forgers out there. So, you better get in and reserve your place in the queue with a forger very, very quickly, and get those orders in and get them placed. Now, as you move into more with our business, we're not a big player in the forging side of the business, but you're talking about fabricators now. There are more fabricators out there, you don't have just five or eight forgers, you've got 35 fabricators making combustors.

So, there is not that immediate necessity to get your orders in, but we have seen loading of orders especially with a bias towards the aerospace side of the business. And we've seen it in what we call our other products which has been the oil and gas or the industrial heat-treating or the brazing and welding area, where we're seeing longer-term orders, that's a little bit of what's frustrating.

If you remember in the past, as we get up to around $200 million in backlog – I'm using the first guy out there, telling my sales people, get out and raise prices, get out and raise prices, get out and raise prices. But, when I look at the backlog now, it's more about people reserving their spot in the queue out into the future than it is this increase in transactional activity and moving out of lead times. So, I hope that gives you a little bit of a flavor for what I'm talking about.

It does. Thanks a lot.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Edward Marshall with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Morning, Mark and Dan. How are you?

Good morning, Ed.

Good, Ed. How are you?

Good. Mark, I can't help but notice that despite lower performance in the quarter, you sound a little bit more optimistic than you did in the 2Q. Is that a fair read?

You know what, Ed, the story like I think some of my board members think I'm crazy, I say to them that if you came to me a year ago, I was looking at a declining order book and I was looking at peers that were absolutely struggling. If you remember, the last two years, we were making money and pretty much everybody else was really not making money.

I felt horrible about the business a year ago and we talked through some of the things we had to do. If you remember, we pretty much put a freeze on hiring and really we're down about 80 or 90 people from that period, just making sure we try and be profitable as we went into this period and we just haven't been successful. Margins have dropped dramatically.

But, getting to your question and it's almost counterintuitive, I feel better about the business today because I like what I'm seeing in the backlog, I like that our peers are getting busy. I told you the story about me meeting with customers and them telling me to kind of relax and our market manager kind of talked me off the ledge a little while ago on the CPI business, so this is the normal evolution that carbon, stainless and the low end nickel, the 800-Hs and things get busy first and then our products start to come back.

We're seeing a lot of activity, so I'm very frustrated right now, Ed, but I think in general I look at the macros and I say, okay, this should work itself out as we get into the future as opposed to last year, you could almost see this thing coming and it was more about battening down the hatches and we were very pleased with the special project work we had in the queue and the – and of course the aerospace that's held up well and as well as some of the tolling businesses have held up well for us.

Got it. And to touch on CPI for a second, curious if you can kind of put pen to the page and tell me what do you think is it market, is it market demand, is it market share loss, is it mix, is it mix in request meaning more request for stainless that you don't produce versus the high performance that you do produce? I am just trying to really get my arms around exactly what's going on?

I think number one is just general volume. The entire market is down. I'd be – look there are some good special projects happening out there right now. There's one over in Asia-Pacific that's going to be fairly large. There is two in the Middle East right now that are just gigantic. If you remember about three years ago, I think it was, two of our peers landed a very, very large pipeline project. One European and one North American and I think it really helped their businesses.

I think there is two more of those out there right now. I am not sure one of them – one of them might be for lower end materials, but there is talk of them upgrading into higher nickel-based materials. I don't know if it would be an 800-H type application or it may go 625. If it goes 625, by the way those are alloys, 800-H and 625,

Yes.

It goes 625 it's going to be a real help to not so much to Haynes. If you think about it like that one that was three years ago, I think we were quoting in the area of about $10 to $12 a pound in our – we were up about $17 a pound and our peers were more at $10 to $12, more importantly we wouldn't have been able to handle that volume.

I think it was 14 million pounds and we're a 20 million pound a year mill, so we wouldn't have been able to handle, but I think those will be very helpful. It's also indicative to me that the activity that we're seeing to finally start to happen, be it in pipeline projects where we're seeing more of the activity at fabricator levels on some of the ethylene projects that are coming. And remember, when you think of Haynes, you almost have to think of ethylene as an input to manufacturing the types of products that use Haynes' materials.

And again, that's where our market manager trying to walks me through and say, hey, we're in the normal process of the evolution, so summarizing it I think we're just in a general very, very low volume area for highly specialized nickel and cobalt-based alloys and CPI, but we're also in that thing – we're in the early innings and I get back to – when oil and gas fell apart three years ago, we were fine for two years and then it just started hitting us late last year and it has absolutely murdered us this year.

So, I think we've got to work through the pain. We're seeing the rig count is doubled from last year, the natural gas rig count is doubled from last year. There is still a long way to go. I think, we're at 900 North American rigs in total, and last peak it was 2,000, I don't think it will hit 2,000, but I think 1,200 is reasonable, I do. And I think, we're just starting to build up and then our types of products will follow after that.

Got it.

And one thing, I'd add on to that is the base volumes of CPI, because this quarter, keep in mind, we had very, very little special projects, but we still had an increase in volume in CPI, so that base business is starting to increase slightly, which is a good sign, not that we like the pricing that we're seeing, but you know, it's a good sign that volumes are coming back. I mentioned the lack of special projects having a large impact on our margins from Q2 to Q3, but it's even more dramatic, if you look at Q3 this year to Q3 last year. The difference in special projects, Q3 to Q3 impacted margins over $5 million So, much more dramatic impact when you look at it in that direction with the lack of special projects.

And question on that point, when you look at that $17.50 a pound in [ph] TAM (35:43) which quite arguably is the lowest I've seen in a long, long time. I'm curious if that's price competition from maybe lower cost regions of the world as currencies had adjusted lower, but now are kind of going the opposite way?

It's more mix than anything, Ed. It's the lack of specialty projects and it's the idea that what we are getting right now is the very lowest end of the nickel spectrum that we're bringing in. And there is definitely price competition in there, but most of what we've seen, it's been U.S. manufacture on U.S. manufacturer as far as the pricing competition so far.

Okay.

Yeah.

Switching to aero real quick if I could, I think and correct me if I'm wrong, but I think [ph] you're near (36:28) capacity on the sheet business, as well as this quarter as you were last quarter...

Correct.

...as you – as we move forward with that expansion, first how fast can you bring that online and two what's the size of the backlog there that you could potentially clear in Haynes, if you have that availability?

Well, I mean, we are in the late innings of the construction kind of starting to commissioning now. So, we've mentioned previously that our volume in production across that type of equipment right now is around 13 million pounds, maybe a little higher and with this new capacity it will go up to 18 million pounds. So, a good – I think 36 million or I'm sorry, 36% increase in production pounds. So, I think that's going to take a while to ramp-up that would be selling out our additional capacity, so we'll see how we go down the ramp of that, but we certainly do have a higher percentage of our backlog as against aerospace and against those type of products than what we have right now.

I guess, another way of asking that question is, will the lead times on quoting right now for your aerospace sheet, and where have they been historically?

We're quoting right now about 26-weeks on aerospace sheet, and some of our peers are – they have much more capacity than we do, they're quoting in the 14 to 16. Now, we do have, as you know, we have a distribution network, and we stock material mid-way through. So, if it's a fairly common alloy, what I'll call market inventories as opposed to custom made inventory, if it's a market inventory, we're still responsive, we're competitive with that 12-week to 14-week lead time, and more importantly, we'll have it in the distribution centers to get out.

But, just to let you know too, right now we are seeing great aerospace activity, but I can't really say that my transactional aerospace has really taken off, it will be the best way to put it. If x, y, z company is ordering 3,000 pounds every month, we haven't seen them really come in and say, hey we need 4,000 pounds a month. We haven't seen that yet. So, we still think that's out there and that's coming, but I think again, I think everybody reserves their place in the queue with the forgers, they'll start ramping up on our side shortly – hopefully, shortly after that.

And do you think the added capacity in the sheet market plays a big difference in industry pricing, given the last comment?

I don't think it will, Ed on this. I mean – I think it's going to – I think we're just in the bottom of that cycle right now, so you're seeing a lot of people being very competitive. Again, CPI and IGT more so than anything, but I think as far as the aerospace, we've got a pretty good niche in there, more so than anything with some of the alloys we produce, the proprietary materials. There's a heavy bias towards proprietary materials when we talk about our aerospace business. I think we're going to be in – I'm really looking forward to when we have these capacities.

Like I said, we have a lot of moving pieces right now, we've got to get this annealing line up and running, and I'm pleased with where we are with that, the rolling mill has gone better than I anticipated, and we've got to get the LaPorte operations consolidated, so we can be ready to go when we hit into 2018.

Got it. Thanks very much.

You bet.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning. And I don't know if there's much left after the eight questions that Ed asked, but I'll try. The Allegheny – the Allegheny Brackenridge asset maybe getting it sea legs right now, Mark. How much of that do you think is impacting the nickel product – the nickel alloy market rather, right now on the flat rolled side?

I think, it'll be a new entrant – might be the best way in some wider width applications, but we've always had competition in there before and if you think about it, Phil for the most part where we win those applications is with our service and especially with the value-added capabilities down at the – of the cutting end side of the business so I think we're still in real good shape there. It is definitely though – it's not like somebody we've got our first competitor on some of these – remember the other mills can manufacture these products in wide-width et cetera.

So, we've always been forced to compete in these areas. I'm hopeful that someone like Allegheny will be more successful in winning a lot of these – again these larger volume projects that we wouldn't have the capacity to produce in anyway. And even – I'll even say that I don't know for sure, I'm getting beyond my – I'm getting out of my lane a little bit, but I think, maybe they'll be more successful too with some of these lower end alloys that we don't manufacture that come in pretty big volumes. And now, I'm talking more about applications that would go into these ethylene crackers and things. I think they might have an opportunity to fill up pretty good on those.

I appreciate that. On the next generation engines, can you talk a little bit about where you're positioned on that whether it's new alloys or...

Yeah.

Or how you expect to grow?

Yeah. If you're talking about seals and plug and nozzle applications or combustors, you know, we've got alloys that go into those. We've got some newer high temperature materials that are going into some of these applications. We got to win specifically with HAYNES 282 on the geared turbofan, the Pratt 1000 series, so again and by the way, that's going to be for more than just sheet – those applications. Those are more towards long product, which is an area where we have lot of capacity, so that will be very helpful to us as that ramps up in 2018.

But, I think a lot of it is going to continue to be the usual skirmishes that ourselves, Allegheny, special metals have a lot on normal, I'll say non-rotating aerospace components. And again, I think, our big differentiator there is the value-added services that we offer, a lot of it in the aerospace side.

Well, one of your competitors maybe not directly, but indirectly sees the jet engine market growing high single digits over the next 12 months, in terms of year-on-year growth and maybe that's more mix of OE and MRO. Curious as to how you guys see that outlook and if that's pretty much consistent with the 9% increase you see in the backlog?

Okay. I think it's mid single-digits to maybe high single-digits, I wouldn't go as high as a 9% or something like that. And remember, typically long products usually has a little bit more content than the flat products do, the non-rotating components. So, we'll see how it goes, Phil but we have a pretty good backlog right now in the aerospace side and I can't say how much I'm looking forward to getting this cap line up and running and the – so we can work the material through that we're feeding off the rolling mills. And even once we get – [indiscernible] (44:05) running, once we get that fully integrated, I'm real excited about where we are – where we're set for the aerospace business. More importantly, I also look at the CPI and the IGT business. As I said, I need them to just come off the bottom a little bit, and I think we'll be in pretty good shape.

Thanks, Mark.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Jonathan Brolin of Edenbrook Capital. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

You continue to sound optimistic about aerospace and we understand why that is, but what you talked about – what happened in this last quarter, I think you said that the volume was up 8 and change percent but the pricing was down 7 and change percent. When do you think those start to move in the same direction?

If you look at it, what happens in aerospace right now and we had a little bit of this last quarter as well, and really what had happened was it leaked into this quarter. We saw a real run on some of the lower priced materials in aerospace, late last quarter and it really picked up the volume late last quarter, but it leaked into this quarter, so you're really seeing just a lower price mix, not as many of our proprietary material, so there's still cut parts that we're manufacturing, but it's like we were doing a lot of part cutting for the real high volume applications in the aero engine, as opposed to the very niche-oriented applications. Now, one of those is related to a major manufacturer who fabricates one of our proprietary materials, retired and essentially sold the business off to someone, so there is transition going on there and they bought a lot ahead two or three quarters ago, which will then transfer to the new guy, who is fabricating it.

And so, we'll probably start to see that come back, as we get later into this quarter, but more as we get into the fourth calendar quarter and into first quarter. So, essentially what you've seen is, just a mix type of situation. And as far as the volume change last quarter to this quarter, again I think you're kind of within the margin of error, when you look at that 2.2 million pounds versus 2.3 million pounds. I'm looking more forward to, once we get the new capacity running in. I think, we can ramp that up.

Okay. Thank you and as you look at the backlog, in terms of the quality of what's coming from aerospace, does that move more towards the higher quality spectrum or – end of the spectrum or does that also contain some of this lower quality mix that you discussed?

It definitely contains some of the lower quality materials, I'd say, the higher volume materials right now, but if you think about it too just in general and you see it in our average selling price per pound. Our aerospace business is clearly the one that typically has, in general the highest proportion of proprietary or high-priced materials. Where you really see the backlog make these tremendous moves in average selling price per pound is when we score these big specialty applications which are typically in our chemical process area. For instance, one – we had a very large one a year ago, the average selling price per pound of that material in that application was close to $200 per pound, and you can see that where that made just a dramatic change in the backlog and the average selling price per pound in the backlog.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

You bet.

Thank you. At this time, I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing comments.

It's a tough quarter, and we're in a very tough period, especially related to the CPI and the IGT business, but the key here is, we've got to stay in front of our customers as much as possible and win everything we possibly can. Also just wanted to make note of two things. One, a very difficult situation during the quarter that those of you who remember Francis Petro, Francis passed away during the quarter. So, we offer our sincerest sympathies and condolence to Francis' family, he was a great leader for Haynes.

And on the positive side, most of you saw we added Dawne Hickton to our Board of Directors. I've known Dawne for about 15 years, and we're really looking forward to having her come on with her background in manufacturing and her financial acumen, I think she's going to be a real positive to, all of us here at Haynes and the Board of Directors.

So, again, thanks very much for your time today and we'll look forward to updating you again next quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day.