corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HYNI
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 13, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Haynes International Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2007


Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-


and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this


conference is being recorded.


It’s now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr. Marcel Martin, Chief Financial Officer. Thank you,


Mr. Martin you may begin.


Marcel Martin, Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you. I would like to start off by reading a cautionary note regarding forward-looking


statements. This conference call will contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Section 27A of the


Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934. The words, believes,


anticipates, expects, plans and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements. Although we believe that our plans and intentions and expectations reflected or


suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such forward-looking statements


are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurances that such


plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the


company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular in its Form 10-K for


the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. You should carefully read these risk factors.


All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary


statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of today and the company does not


undertake and specifically declines any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to


these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect any future events or circumstances


after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.


The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Thank you.


I would like now to introduce Francis Petro, President and Chief Executive Officer of Haynes


International. Francis?


Francis J. Petro, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marcel. Good morning. I want to talk about both the fourth quarter and the year in total,


about some of the major things that we accomplished and some of the issues that we face. And


then when I’m through – in the course of our markets and when I’m through I will turn it over to


Marcel who will walk you through the specifics of the finances and then we will open it up to


question and answers as described.


Both the fourth quarter and the fiscal year set records for revenues and earnings and we are very,


very proud of that, we continue to grow and to expand. And all our markets remain strong. They


have been strong; they remain strong. And we anticipate and see nothing on the horizon that’s


going to change that.


But there were many other milestones and significant accomplishments and things that are in


progress, which I would like to just review. One, we continued -- as you know we are very, very


safety-oriented organization, and we once again set a new standard for Haynes International in


safety. And simultaneously we were certified for both ISO 14000 and 18000 in all our domestic


facilities plus China, with the exception of our wire plant in North Carolina, which will be done in
corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HYNI
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 13, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


February of 2008. These certifications fold our safety and environmental programs into our entire


quality management system of the organization and we feel and are quite proud of that. It’s a


significant step forward and it takes a lot of effort by all our people and demonstrates the


commitment and focus which is necessary to perform at an effective level in all aspects of our


business.


Most of you know that we keep talking about our plans for the upgrade of our annealing furnaces.


We did complete the Drever furnace; the next one up is the electric furnace. I will talk about that


schedule in a minute. We did finish our ESRs and we continue to work our way through that. We


are on our schedule to open up our capacity to the 23.5 million that we committed to in our


secondary offering, and we see nothing that will, at this point in time, nothing of significance that will


stop us from achieving that level. And all our plans are being made with that in mind. The Pilger mill


which will dramatically expand our capability to produce titanium tubing at Arcadia is on schedule


and will be in operation next March. As most of you know by now, we are a significant supplier of


titanium hydraulic tubing to Boeing, and so this is just the next step in that growing aircraft market


and our agreement with Boeing.


Our new alloys, the 282 that you heard us talk about in our hybrid alloys, our dusting alloys, and G-


35 continue to grow and are receiving tremendous interest in the marketplace. We now have actual


production orders for 282 and are working very closely with both land-based gas turbine and


aircraft engine manufacturers. And this alloy will be and is being spec’d into various applications.


It’s already in operation in several land-based gas turbines, and there are trials being run with


aircraft engines.


Our TIMET agreement, which we don’t talk about very much anymore but which is a very significant


thing to us, continues to grow. The volume of material that we will do this year continues to grow.


And that agreement is proving quite beneficial to both TIMET and Haynes, and we are very pleased


that we have it.


We also successfully completed our union contract in June with some significant benefits, and one


of them is that we now have closed our defined pension plan to all employees. If you remember,


little over two years ago we closed it to salaried employees, and we have now, through successful


negotiations with United Steelworkers, closed that plan entirely to all new employees and


substituted an enriched 401(k) plan for our employees, as we continue to do everything we can to


manage our balance sheet and our operating costs as effectively as possible.


I do want to talk a little bit about the furnace schedule. The electric furnace, which is a much more


significant rebuild than the Drever Furnace: we will take that furnace out of operation on December


19. It will be down and we will do all the – I won’t go into a litany of everything we are going to do,


but we will do two complete shutdowns.


The first shutdown will involve all the feed equipment and everything at the front end of the furnace.


We will start December 19; we have already done a lot of work on the foundations and everything


that we can do prior to shutting down, and we’ve have already staged material and done everything


appropriately that we should and could. It will be down until February. We will then put it back up in


operation until April so that – because you can’t run every single material through each furnace.


The furnaces have different characteristics and some of our alloys have different characteristics, so


you need, for certain things, you have to use one or the other furnace.


So we will then run that electric furnace until April when we will take it down again for six or seven


weeks and we will actually do the complete replacement of the furnaces themselves, the rest of this


stuff is all annealing equipment, the feeding equipment etcetera, et cetera. But we have already


fabricated, the contractors have already fabricated the shelves on these furnaces and we will install


these, actually prefabricated with the refractory in them to minimize the amount of downtime or