corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HAYN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Haynes International Inc. First Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question and answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is


being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Stacy Kilian, Vice President and General Counsel


for Haynes International. Thank you. Ms. Kilian, you may begin.


Stacy S. Kilian, Vice President – General Counsel


Thank you, Claudia. Good morning. Welcome to the Haynes International Inc. Earnings Conference


Call for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008. This call is also being broadcast over the


Internet.


With me today are Mark Comerford, President and Chief Executive Officer of Haynes International


and Marcel Martin, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we get started, I would like to read a brief cautionary note regarding forward-looking


statements.


This conference call could contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act


of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, anticipate,


expect, plan, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.


Although we believe our plans, intentions, and expectations reflected or suggested by such


forward-looking statements are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are subject to a


number of risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurance that such plans, intentions, or


expectations will be achieved. Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the company’s filings


with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular, in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year


ending September 30, 2008.


The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of the new information, future events or otherwise.


Thank you. And I will now turn the call over to Mark.


Mark Comerford, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Stacy. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. I’ll recap our financial


performance for the first quarter and discuss some of the issues within our key markets. I’ll then


turn the call over to Marcel, who’ll give you greater detail about our financial results and we’ll finish


up with your questions.


Hopefully, you’ve all had a chance to review the information in our press release and quarterly


report. Our first quarter results were disappointing and indicative of the economic environment and


market conditions which began deteriorating in the August-September timeframe and have since


continued to worsen.


The economic outlook remains very cloudy. Our [audio gap] and the credit crisis and economic


downturn appears to be putting many capital projects into question. In the first quarter, we recorded
corrected transcript


Haynes International, Inc.
 
HAYN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


$4.5 million of net income or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $13.8 million in net income or


$1.16 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2008.


During the quarter, we saw several issues affect our business. First, the economic downturn


resulted in a more competitive environment and lower volume. Second, we saw a rapid decline in


raw material prices from the commodity exchanges, triggering dramatic price changes in the market


place. This factor combined with our high cost inventory in our system result in compression of our


gross profit margins. We expect this compression to continue through the next few quarters, as we


flush out our higher cost FIFO inventories, and expect to achieve levels more in line with current


commodity price levels, and current market pricing provided that such pricing stabilizes.


We’ve taken actions below our cost structure to adjust to this new demand level, most significantly,


we’ve reduced our workforce by over 10% in the quarter and we’re continuing to sharply cut our


costs and spending. However, we are continuing to reinvest in the business. For example, several


key CapEx projects will enable us to improve our reliability and quality which we believe will make


us a better partner to several key accounts. And I think you’ve heard me talk on the prior call that in


meeting with customers, quality and reliability are absolutely critical, without fail our customers talk


to us about, if we were more reliable they’d be able to place more business with us.


Likewise, we continue to pursue broadening our application development and marketing efforts.


While we believe we can maintain profitability for the fiscal year, due to the conditions I described


above, the base economy, our volume and cost of inventories flowing through, we expect our


results will be well below those seen in recent years and will have a substantial impact on the


company’s profitability in the second quarter.


Turning to our key markets, in aerospace first quarter ‘09 revenue was $49.7 million, a 16.4%


reduction compared to the $59.4 million in the first quarter of last year. Volume was up 23.3%, but


partially offset by a 9% higher average selling price. The volume reduction is due to fabricators in


the supply chain leaning out their inventories, along with the disruption due to the Boeing strike. We


expect at least the next several quarters to continue to be at lower levels than seen in fiscal 2008.


Sales at the chemical processing industry were $30.9 million in the first quarter, compared to $40.8


million a year ago. This is a 24.3% reduction in revenue on a volume reduction of 27.8%. Higher


average selling prices reflecting a higher mix of specialty products help offset the volume reduction.


Several key projects in this industry will close out in 2009 and funding in this industry for new


projects remain unclear due to the credit crises and falling demand in some areas of the chemical


industry.


Furthermore, MRO business in this market can be negatively impacted in times of financial distress,


as operators use cheaper materials which must be replaced more frequently in order to preserve


short-term cash.


Our business in China is heavily tied to this segment today and we have seen this market fall off


precipitously since November. However, the Chinese stimulus program appears to have freed up


some money and we’re starting to see some releases of orders that have been on hold. We do


expect this will continue to be a very challenging market through the fiscal year.


Our revenue of land-based gas turbines increased 26% year-over-year to $32.1 million, an


increased volume of 42.2%. A lower price product mix as well as increased competition resulted in


11.3% reduction in the selling prices of this market. The increased volume comparison year-over-


year is also reflective of the timing issue which lowered shipments in the first quarter of 2008.


However, we feel this market is holding up relatively well with current volumes similar to average


quarterly volumes seen in fiscal 2008.