Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Sean Van Bibber — Controller & Chief Accounting Officer, Haynes International, Inc.
Michael L. Shor — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Haynes International, Inc.
Daniel W. Maudlin — Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Haynes International, Inc.
Steve M. O'Hara — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Michael Leshock — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Chris D. Olin — President and Lead Analyst, Tier4 Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Haynes International Inc.'s First Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode, and we will open the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, David Van Bibber. Sir, the floor is yours.

Thank you very much for joining us today. With me today are Mike Shor, President and CEO of Haynes International; and Dan Maudlin, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to read a brief cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. This conference call contains statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation and Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The words believe, anticipate, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe our plans, intentions, and expectations regarding or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurances such plans, intentions, or expectations will be achieved. Many of these risks are discussed in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

With that, let me turn the call over to Mike.

Thanks, Dave. Good morning, everyone. It's interesting for me to take a step back and look at where we've been since the pandemic began and where I believe we are headed. Six months ago, during the Q3 earnings call, we discussed the significant impact that the pandemic-driven volume reduction was having on our business. At that point, we were still in the discovery phase of understanding how far volume would drop. Three months ago, during the Q4 earnings call, we highlighted the actions that we were taking to stabilize our business during these very difficult times. While visibility is still unclear, our recent conversations with customers, as well as our recent order entry trends leads us to believe that Q1 is at or near the bottom of this unprecedented downturn.

This quarter, as compared to last year's Q1, has volume down 34% and revenue down 33.4%. Gross margin percent this quarter was a volume impacted 1.4% versus 17.3% last year. Net loss this quarter was $8 million compared to net income of $3.3 million last year. These are difficult numbers for us to see. They reflect the full weight of the pandemic. As a team, we are focusing our attention on properly positioning our company for the future. We believe that as we begin the process of emerging from the downturn, we do so with strong business fundamentals. I am proud of our entire team for accomplishing what we committed to, both before and during the pandemic, specifically related to gross margin, significantly lowering our breakeven volume and cash generation.

I'll now provide a few comments on each of these areas. Our previous work on improving gross margins was critical to our long-term success. We achieved 18% gross margin prior to the start of the pandemic, expanding our quarter-on-quarter gross margin percent by 670 basis points in Q1 of fiscal 2020 and by 580 basis points in Q2 of fiscal 2020. This was accomplished by our team's focus on pricing for value and relentless cost reductions. An important point, achieving 18% was not an endpoint for gross margin percent progress, but it was a great step in the right direction. We believe that our efforts to significantly improve our gross margin will result in a substantially lower volume breakeven for Haynes. And based on this, we believe that a return to profitability can occur at much lower volume levels than what we exhibited in fiscal years 2017 and 2018.

The quarterly data from 2017 and 2018 show that our company could not be profitable unless we shipped at least 5 million pounds a quarter. Based on the cost reduction and pricing for value work accomplished by our entire workforce, we believe that our breakeven volume should now be below 4 million pounds, meaning that our breakeven should be reduced by at least 20%. While our current level of losses due to just 2.8 million pounds being shipped in the quarter are of concern. We are focused on the positive impact that our work should have on the speed in which our company can return to profitability.

As the pandemic came to the US, we pivoted to cash generation driven by responsible inventory reduction. We generated $24.8 million in the last half of fiscal 2020 and an additional $14 million in cash has now been generated in our fiscal 2021 Q1. Everyone on our team has a role to play in this and we believe that we will continue to reduce inventory and hold a solid cash position in fiscal year 2021.

In addition to our cost, cash and pricing initiatives, both our performance on alloy and application development and our technical and sales service, in my opinion, are second to none in this industry. Since we are both a mill and a global distributor of our products, we're able to provide our customers with unique alloys and products, just-in-time deliveries, small quantities, and value-added cutting capabilities.

Our customer-focused actions and capabilities continue to be core competencies and key differentiators for Haynes and position us very well with our customers for the recovery from this pandemic. We understand that the path back to the commercial aerospace levels we saw in 2019 will take time, but we believe that as vaccines and confidence in safe air travel expand, we will all want to fly again and the commercial aerospace sector will once again show sustained growth. The only question is the timing and slope of the improvement in the commercial aerospace build schedules.

We also expect to see modest growth in both the CPI and IGT markets as the general economy begins to open back up from the pandemic. A recent share gain in the IGT market has helped to offset the decline in this industry. Industrial activity also seems to be picking up. Overall, we're starting to see the first signs of improvement. [ph] Coating (06:46) activity is up and additional pockets of demand now exist. These data points signal that improvement may be ahead.

Wrapping up my comments, I believe that our team has positioned us very well for the future. Our focus is clear. We are a customer-focused, technical, and sales solutions provider for high-value differentiated nickel- and cobalt-based alloys. We help our customers solve their manufacturing and process-related issues through the supply of high-value alloys along with best-in-class technical and sales support. Our formula for success is understood by our entire workforce: safety, speed, agility, quality, alloy and applications, engineering, differentiated products, and outstanding customer service. This is what will continue to separate us from the competition.

With that, I'll now hand the call over to Dan.

Thank you, Mike. Volumes shipped in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was 2.8 million pounds, a reduction of 1.4 million pounds or 33.9% from the same period last year and a 5.2% reduction sequentially from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. This significantly lower produced and shipped volume continues to be the primary issue impacting our financial results. Many of our customers are in a cash-preservation mode, which resulted in conservative order entry trends, combine that with elevated inventory throughout the supply chain particularly in aerospace also contributed to lower volumes.

Sales to the aerospace market accounted for 34% of our revenue at $24.6 million. This is a decrease of roughly 27% sequentially from Q4 and a decrease of 58% from the same period last year. The aerospace market has been the most impacted by the pandemic with reductions in commercial aerospace build schedules and reductions in repair, maintenance, and overhaul activity. Complicating the demand situation continues to be the elevated amount of inventory throughout the aerospace supply chain. Destocking is expected to continue during fiscal 2021.

Notable milestones in the aerospace industry include the start of the vaccine rollout and its impact on people's confidence to fly again, combined with the recertification of the Boeing 737 MAX to fly. As Mike mentioned, it's expected to still take time to get back to pre-pandemic aerospace levels. Backlog dollars in aerospace decreased sequentially from Q4 to Q1 by 11% and down 51% year-over-year.

First quarter sales to the chemical processing market accounted for 21% of our revenue at $15.3 million. This is a decrease of 18% sequentially from Q4 and a decrease of 9% from the same period last year. Demand in this market continues to be impacted by COVID-19 and generally lower oil prices causing chemical companies to delay their CapEx spending.

The commodity side of this market is highly competitive with many producers seeking volume. Special project revenue, most of which is reflected in chemical processing, was $4.4 million which is a $1.5 million lower than the fourth quarter and $4.1 million lower than the same period last year. Backlog dollars and CPI increased slightly by 2.4% in Q4 to Q1 but it's down 7% year-over-year. First quarter sales to the industrial gas turbine market accounted for 19% of our revenue at $14 million. This is an increase of 12% sequentially from Q4 and an increase of 1.5% from the same period last year.

Our share gain initiative continues to help volumes. However, volumes can still be lumpy quarter-to-quarter and this market was impacted by the pandemic. We expect modest growth in industrial gas turbines as conditions slowly improve. Backlog dollars in industrial gas turbines decreased sequentially from Q4 to Q1 by 10% and down 25% year-over-year. First quarter sales to other markets accounted for 18% of our revenue at $12.8 million. This is an increase of 38% sequentially from Q4 and an increase of 8% from the same period last year. This increase was driven by flue-gas desulfurization applications this quarter.

Backlog dollars in other markets increased sequentially from Q4 to Q1 by 22% and we're also up 22% year-over-year. First quarter other revenue accounted for 8% of our revenue and $5.6 million. This is a decrease of 9% sequentially from Q4 and a decrease of 23% from the same period last year. The decrease was due to toll conversion, including toll customers that have exposure to the aerospace industry. The overall low volume of 2.8 million pounds resulted in significant compression of gross margins in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 to 1.4%.

The company continues to face the industry-wide challenge of reducing spending commensurates with reductions in production volume in this current environment. In addition to low volume shipped during the quarter, the company also reduced inventory by $9.8 million or 4% during the quarter, which further reduced production volume and our plan to reduce the utilization of our equipment.

In the first quarter, the company charged five $5.9 million directly to cost of sales for excess fixed cost overhead per pound incurred due to abnormally low production levels that could not be capitalized in the inventory. This direct charge of $5.9 million compares to zero in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and $4 million sequentially in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.

We are continually and diligently striving to reduce our costs to better align our cost structure to these lower volumes. This effort is balanced with keeping employees safe related to COVID-19. Last quarter, we reported COVID-related costs at roughly $250,000 to $300,000 that were for staggered shifts, quarantine pay, cleaning tasks, and cleaning supplies. This quarter, this is up moderately due to some additional precautionary quarantine cases that we have this quarter in an effort to keep everyone safe.

SG&A, including research and technical expense, was $10.5 million in the first quarter as compared to last year's first quarter of $12.4 million or a reduction of 15%. Just a reminder that sequentially last quarter, SG&A in Q4 of 2020 was reduced by $1.2 million due to the reversal of incentive compensation accruals. Excluding this reversal, SG&A was $10.3 million in Q4 similar to this year's Q1.

Two additional points to finish out the P&L, first, the non-operating retirement benefit expense on the P&L was $1.3 million lower in the first quarter as compared to the same period last year. As I reported last quarter, our actuarial valuation was favorable due to lower retiree healthcare spending, as we have been actively managing our retiree healthcare costs, and higher-than-expected return on plan assets for the pension plan. And secondly, our effective tax rate was 21.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 as compared to 26% in the same period last year. This lower effective tax rate is unfavorable due to our pre-tax loss. All of this resulted in a net loss for the quarter of $8 million, which as Mike put it, is difficult for us to see and reflects the full weight of the pandemic.

As far as our outlook for next quarter, we continue to experience market uncertainty due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. While visibility is still unclear, conversations with customers as well as recent order entry trends lead us to believe that our first quarter volumes and revenue are at or near the bottom of this unprecedented downturn.

Earnings for the second quarter cannot be accurately estimated during this time of market and economic unpredictability, low volumes, and unfavorable fixed cost absorption. We expect to continue our solid liquidity throughout fiscal 2021 and to be favorably positioned for the recovery.

Moving to backlog, backlog was $145.1 million at December 31, 2020, a decrease of $8.1 million or 5.3% from the $153.3 million at September 30, 2020. Backlog pounds increased sequentially during the first quarter by 2.2% as compared to September 30, offset by a decrease in average selling price reflecting a change in the product mix.

Liquidity. As we increased – we increased cash $14.1 million this quarter, driving total balance sheet cash to $61.3 million at December 31, 2020 compared to $47.1 million at September 30, 2020. Our increase in cash was largely attributable to reducing our inventory by $9.8 million to $236.3 million at December 31. Additionally, there were zero borrowings against the line of credit. As we mentioned in our last earnings call, we refinanced our credit facility to a three-year agreement and now have $100 million of borrowing capacity, if needed. Capital spending during the first three months of fiscal 2021 was $1.1 million and total planned capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 are expected to be approximately $10 million to allow for maintaining reliability within our operations.

In conclusion, these are challenging times, but they are temporary and we believe that we are at or near the bottom of this unprecedented time period. Since pivoting to cash, we have generated $38.9 million. That's $24.8 million in the second half of fiscal 2020 and an additional $14.1 million this quarter. We believe our liquidity is strong with the ability to weather this period, and we are well-positioned for the expected future improvement and demand in our markets.

Mike, with that, I will now turn the discussion back over to you.

Thank you, Dan. I want to thank all of you for your continued interest in Haynes and your patience as we weather these unprecedented times. I again also want to thank our employees. Together we continue to work on protecting the health of our workforce on enhancing what differentiates Haynes from our competition and then implementing the actions required related to our key metrics for success.

With that, Matthew, let's open the call up for some questions.

Certainly. Ladies and gentlemen, the floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is coming from Stephen O'Hara. Your line is live.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the question.

Hi, Steve. Hope you're well.

Hi, Steve.

Yeah. You too. I mean, I know this is a challenging period for you guys and it seems like you guys have done a really great job kind of maintaining the balance sheet, generating cash. And you talked about kind of the previous gross margin work that you've done. Can you talk about maybe is there a way to frame kind of without that work done in the past and where we'd be today? I mean, it would seem like that work could be a lot more difficult maybe a lot more painful in the face of a downturn obviously, necessary. But, I mean, is there a way to kind of think about, without that where we'd be today?

Well, let me just put it in perspective for you. We were again, we could, all through 2017 and through 2018, we couldn't make money unless we hit 5 million pounds shipped a quarter. And when you look at our history, 5 million pounds is not that common which is why we're losing money through 2017 and 2018. We obviously focused on price and we focused on our relentless cost reduction.

And I think the most telling signal for us is once the Boeing 737 issue hit before the pandemic hit, our volume dropped from 5 million to about 4.2 million pounds a quarter, and even with that we were wrapping up a pre-pandemic times at about 18% gross margin. So significant difference from where we were when we started this thing. And, obviously, when we look back at where we could be if we had not made those improvements, that would be a concern.

Okay. No, that's helpful. And then just I don't think this is the case. But, I mean, you guys haven't received, I mean, again I think the cash flows is pretty significant and obviously, I think that you guys have done a great job there. I mean, there's no government stimulus in there or anything like that or CARES Act benefits or anything, is that kind of – is that the fact?

That's correct.

That's correct. We did not take any kind of a PPP loan or anything like that. I mean, there is a little bit of deferral of payroll taxes paying those, but that's not significant.

It seems done, Steve, I think a real good job of not only reducing inventory but very closely monitoring our payables and receivables, and obviously that's led to real nice cash generation since this thing began.

Okay.

We literally look at cash flow every day.

Yes.

Okay. Okay. No, that's helpful. And then maybe last one and I'll jump back in queue. But just, I mean, if you listen to the airlines, it sounds like they expect capacity to be kind of well above where demand is. Their liquidity is – I think United was about three times what it was in March as of 4Q. And I'm just kind of curious, I mean, does that help at all? I mean, are you starting to see maybe some more positivity there just based on their capacity coming back and then maybe that's kind of the precursor to getting some of these MAXs back in fleets and getting that production started again? Or is that kind of just maybe wishful thinking at this point, based on what you're hearing from customers?

I think it's going to take a little while for inventory in the supply chain to come down. I mean, when you – I love the positive comments. We've all read about pent-up demand and all the rest of that. But I also check, as we all do almost every door every day, the number of flyers going through TSA checkpoints, and that is continuing to be very low. The facts are the airlines were a little below 50% fewer flights in 2020 versus 2019. Passenger traffic is down 67% in 2020. The number of flights operated in 2020 was the lowest level since 1999. So you put those things into account and then you look at what was supposed to happen with the LEAP engine for the A320 and the MAX and the amount of material in the supply chain.

Bottom line is people need to start flying again. And my view is we're certainly in the early stages of the vaccine. But as the vaccine comes and as people start flying again, then obviously there's going to be great interest in starting to build aircraft. And the only advantage of having – being on this end of the supply chain, one of the advantages is when they believe that demand will come, we'll feel it very quickly because of lead time. So it's going to take some time. We're expecting probably plus or minus six months to start seeing aerospace orders come in based on what we see in the inventory supply chain. But it is going to take some time to get there.

And one thing I might add to that is, we talk about how we're positioning ourselves for the upturn. And just our basic business model, as Mike mentioned in his prepared remarks, being a mill and a service center. Having inventory on the ground and a service center will allow customers to order smaller lots if they want to start slow on this demand recovery. But that'll help us immediately through the service center. So we're prepared for the upturn and can't wait for it to be here. Obviously, the vaccine and the MAX flying again, I think, are very positive things, but it'll still take some time.

Okay. All right. Thanks. I'll jump back in queue.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. Your next question is coming from Michael Leshock. Your line is live.

Hey, Mike and Dan. Good morning.

Good morning. How are you?

Good morning.

Doing well. So, you said you're at or near the bottom, you think. That said, I just wanted to get your take on how you're thinking about potentially bringing back some of the head count in terms of your hiring cadence over the next several quarters if we get a recovery here. And if you could provide any color as well on the cost cuts you've taken during the pandemic in terms of how much will be coming back versus being structural, that'd be helpful.

Sure. , first, you got to look at where we are capacity-wise or volume-wise. We're down in our wire facility a third. We're down in Kokomo. Our produced pound's down about 50%. And in our tube facility, they're down even more. So, when you look at that in the January to November time period, we took out 211 people, which is 17% of our overall workforce. So, two points on that.

Number one, we will be slow to bring people back because we want to make sure what we begin to see is real, so we are going to make sure both on the production side and on the salaried side that we take full advantage of the employees we have and be very careful when we bring people back. Again, the key here for me, especially in aerospace, is the slope. We're not sure how fast this will happen. We read everything that everyone else read, so we're going to take this a little at a time.

On the salary side, we'll certainly continue to bring people in that – or going to help us on continue to promote our high-value differentiated products. But it will be slow to bring many salaried people back.

Okay. And I wanted to get your take on the recent pushouts by Boeing and Airbus, specifically on the slower-than-expected ramps on the MAX and A320. And you talked about the LEAP engine, but also on the Boeing 777X, I know you have proprietary alloys there on the GE9X. So...

Sure.

...how – and to what extent did you anticipate some sort of slowing here based on what you've heard from the supply chain? And are you seeing any hesitancy within customers from – because of these announcements?

We've done – as we've talked about before, the LEAP engine for single-aisle is really the key metric for us. And watching the LEAP, and what happens with the LEAP and what happens with the builds there is significant. And I think many in the industry are saying, somewhere in the range of about 850 LEAP engines being built in the year. We're now – and it's interesting when we've done the math multiple times, if you assume that there is no change whatsoever in current build schedules, said another way, 40 Airbus – 40 A320s and 10 Boeing planes, that's 797 planes plus spares.

If you think – if you go with the – what I now would say is an aggressive look, which is Airbus getting to 47 within 6 months, which none of us think's going to happen, and Boeing getting to 17 within 6 months, which, anyone could take a bet on that. That's 929, so – plus spares. So, the 850 is a most likely level force and that's what we're planning on and that's why we think there's still 6 to 9 months in the supply chain.

As far as Boeing 777 and the GEnx, that's disappointing. Our whole fundamental business model is all about proprietary alloys. And as we've talked about, and I'm sure everyone is tired of hearing, we have two proprietary alloys in the GEnx GE9X engine, and that's significant force. And that being pushed out to 2023 is a concern, but we continue to go after the other business and continue to look for ways to develop new alloys for next-generation engines elsewhere.

Got it. That's really helpful. Then just lastly for me on CapEx, it was pretty low in the quarter. I think of your base maintenance around $8 million to $10 million annually. Is that a fair range? And how do you see that trending? Thanks.

Yeah. Well, as far as long-term trends, we've spent the money we need to spend, in particular, in the aerospace business with our $120 million we invested between 2012 and 2018, plus or minus. So, we believe and we've said next three to five years in that range, we'll be well below depreciation in that $10 million plus or minus range. And what we said publicly is about $10 million this year. So, we're going to stick to that for now. Got off to a slow start, but there's plenty of people banging on my door and Dan's door as far as money that they need to spend. So, I think $10 million is a good maintenance number for us. I think below that is a concern, but I don't think we'll get above that.

Got it. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is coming from Chris Olin. Your line is live.

Hello, Chris.

Hello.

Hi, Chris.

Yeah, yeah. Sorry about that. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So, Dan, I was wondering if you – maybe I missed it – provided any information regarding special projects where we're at, outlook, I guess just tie on to that, should we assume that those numbers are going to stay low for a couple of quarters until CapEx budgets come back up?

Yeah. I mentioned special projects this quarter. And we're about $4.4 million, a little down from Q4 by about $1.5 million. And if you look at last year, we had a really good quarter last year in Q1. We had about $8.5 million last year. So the delta Q1-to-Q1 is a little over $4 million in special projects.

Hey, Chris. Let me let me add some additional color to that. In these times, we're all looking for some positives. And when we dove in the special projects the numbers that Dan's talking about, what we really found is there's really two components in there. There is the lower and more commodity sized alloys that are in there that we are helping our customers get into applications in our upgrades for them, but they're relatively high volume and, to be honest, they're relatively low margin. So we decided between Dan and Venky Ishwar and myself that we would take a second slice of special projects.

So – by the way, just to backup, special projects for us, as we talk about, are non-aerospace. Typically, they are CPI and other. So what we did – and this is a different slice for you – is we looked at just the proprietary and specialty alloys, not the commodities that were in there that we did drive in the applications. And what's interesting in fiscal 2020 versus 2019, they were up 24%. And in fiscal 2021 versus 2020, they're about flat. So, what is not in there is a lot of the more, or the products that we drove in applications but the more commoditized products. So, I feel good about our team continuing to drive the high value differentiated products even in these tough times. Sorry, for the long answer, but it's a different way to look at it.

Yeah.

No. That's helpful.

And when we – when we look at special projects without some of those commoditized alloys, the margin that we track on it definitely goes up. So, what we're looking at here are the higher profitable special project.

Interesting. Okay. Mike, you were talking about market share wins on the IGT side and kind of your success there. We've seen some movement within your competitive space in terms of people targeting different products, different mixes. I'm just wondering how you feel about protecting that market share going forward.

I feel really good about it, Chris. And you really have to take it by a market, okay? We've talked about power generation, okay? And we have – we obviously cannot name our customer but we've gained for us significant share in that market. And I love it because Dan and I talked about it and then it actually happened. So, that was that was a real good thing. Also, we've got an alloy called 282, one of our proprietary alloys with an IGT, which is being specked in to make engines more efficient, both in new engines in certain categories and will be eventually with some spare parts. So, I feel really good about our share growing in IGT.

In aerospace, we follow it every customer, every contract we have. And obviously, on the transactional side, there's going to be pluses and minus. There always is every day. But contract side, we renegotiated in January 10% to 15% of our contracts, which is all the high value differentiated product. We did not lose anything there. So, I feel really good about where we are in aerospace.

Chemical processing. It's really the world of two different groups of products there. On the special projects side, again in this market to grow from 2020 to 2021 and stay stable in 2021 versus 2020 so far, we feel great about that. On the commodity side, the C alloy side of this for us and CPI, we see people going after some larger or some intermediate sized projects that hadn't gone over before. So, I wouldn't be surprised n the CPI side if temporarily we've lost a few orders, but that is not unusual as companies get aggressive. And I can tell you based on history, they will be back to us.

Last question, just kind of tying into the inventory comments you made regarding aerospace, I was just wondering if you could separate it between the tubing, the titanium tubing [ph] versus the (34:19) nickel alloy, is there a difference between how you see the inventory playing out or are they the same?

Yeah. Good question. We've seen as far as cancellations, and I'll use that as an example, there's cancellations typically go with what's going on with inventory in the backlog. We've seen that most nickel and cobalt cancellations are behind us, but we're still seeing on the airframe side cancellations, which we expect to go on for probably another six months plus or minus. So, my – I also believe there was a real demand crunch pre-pandemic on titanium tubing. So, I think there was a – on the airframe side, there was a lot of inventory build beyond even everywhere else. So, I see titanium tubing taking longer to come back than I see engine business coming back.

Okay. That's my thought. Thanks. Appreciate it.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is coming from Stephen O'Hara. Your line is live.

Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking the follow-up. Just on the – moving back to, kind of trends in aerospace and things like that, I mean if we think about the trend towards ESG and green technology, things like that, I mean, it seems like, most industries, including airlines have made some pretty, you might say, grandiose projections about how little [ph] carbon limit (35:52) within certain periods of time.

Does that, does that trend – I mean, the trend, obviously, I think is real. But, I mean, does that trend benefit Haynes as the technology needed to make engines, more efficient, whether it's either to save money or to, cut emissions? I mean, does that benefit you guys long term? Is that a long-term secular trend that benefits you guys?

The answer is yes. And it's not only aerospace, but it's power generation. The use of 282 alloy being specked into a fair amount of power generation engines is allowing for more efficiency. So, when we talk about ESG and the environmental side of ESG, we're not only talking about what we're trying to do within our company, but we're talking about the impact it has in aerospace engines being more fuel efficient, being able to burn hotter because of being able to use some of these unique alloys. So, it definitely helps. And it's also no different than what we've got going into the GE9X engine and what's happening there. So, yeah, I think it helps.

And then, when you take a longer-term view of this thing and look at, okay, what's going to happen in 10 years, okay? Is hydrogen going to play a bigger role in this? We've got our technical people all over trying to understand the role of hydrogen in power generation technology and engine technology going forward and how we feel the need there. So, yeah, we feel really good about that.

And if you think about the hydrocarbon industry now, oil and gas, we have some slight exposure to that, but not a huge exposure for us. Oil and gas is not one of our major markets. So, kind of the shift away from that is not going to be that big of a takeaway for us, but certainly see some gains on the other side.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much for the time.

Thank you. Appreciate the question.

Thank you. There are no further questions in the queue at this time. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. I don't see any questions in the queue. So, with that, first of all, Matthew, thank you and thank you, all, for your time today. And thank you for your interest and support of Haynes. Please be safe, and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter. Thanks, everybody.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's conference call. You may disconnect your phone lines at this time, and have a wonderful day. Thank you for your participation.