Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Ryan J. Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Gerard J. Sweeney — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Michael Bunyaner — Managing Member, TLF Capital LLC
Michael Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future.

We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our second quarter 2016 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the second quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our second quarter revenues were $80.6 million compared to $82.9 million in the second quarter of 2015, a decrease of 2.9%. Year-to-date revenue decreased 4.8% to $159 million from $167 million in the first half of 2015. The majority of the year-over-year revenue decline is due to the lower selling prices for our oil products, primarily driven by lower crude oil prices in 2016 compared to 2015.

Our 2016 second quarter EBITDA was $7.5 million or 9.3% of revenue in the second quarter compared to EBITDA of $8.2 million or 9.8% of revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Our second quarter EBITDA represents a 263% increase compared to our first quarter EBITDA of $2.1 million. During the second quarter, Environmental Services revenues decreased $0.5 million, or 1% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Environmental Services revenues decreased $1.1 million, or 1% for the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. The revenue declines were primarily due to the downturn in activity as customers engage in – or related to the energy sector as well as lower energy surcharge revenues.

We are working on several initiatives to improve our revenue growth in this segment. We continue to focus on our cross-selling initiative to better leverage our existing customer relationships. We also have opportunities to expand geographic coverage in the Western U.S. and in Canada. In addition, we are adding field sales resources and completing tuck-in acquisitions to stimulate our Environmental Services growth.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2016 Oil Business revenues decreased by $1.9 million, to $28.1 million from $30 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. During the first half of fiscal 2016, Oil Business revenues decreased $6.9 million to $54.2 million from $61.1 million in the first half of 2015. The revenue decrease was mainly due to lower selling prices for our base oil and RFO products, which was partially offset by higher base oil sales volume. The decline in revenue was further offset by increased revenue from used oil collection charges of almost $5 million during the first half of 2016.

We are very pleased that we were able to achieve positive operating margins in our Oil Business during the second quarter, which was ahead of our earlier forecast. We were able to achieve this result by increasing the price we charged our customers for the production of the used oil, while also experiencing an increase in the selling price of our oil products during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

Furthermore, I'm pleased to share with you that crude oil prices continued to improve as we entered the third quarter and this has further extended our spread. We also enjoyed record production at our re-refinery during the second quarter.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thanks, Joe. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCI's second quarter 2016 results with our investors today. In the Environmental Services segment, revenues decreased $5.1 million (sic) [$0.5 million] (07:41) in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of 2015. Of the 80 branches that were in operation throughout both the second quarter of 2016 and 2015, same-branch revenues decreased 1.9%. For the first half of the year, revenues decreased $1.1 million or 1% in the segment. Same-branch revenues for the first half of fiscal 2016 decreased 0.4% compared to the first half of fiscal 2015. As Joe mentioned earlier, a slight decrease in revenue was primarily due to diminished activity at customers in and around the energy sector, as well as lower energy surcharge revenue.

For the second quarter, our average revenues per working day in the Environmental Services segment decreased slightly from $900,000 in the second quarter of 2015, to approximately $890,000 in the second quarter of fiscal 2016.

Profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Environmental Services segment during the second quarter was 28.8%, which was slightly lower than the year earlier quarter. Our profit before corporate SG&A expense for the first half of fiscal 2016 was 27.6%, which represents an improvement of 1% over the first half of fiscal 2015.

In the Oil Business segment, revenues for the second quarter were down $1.9 million from the second quarter of 2015, mostly as a result of lower oil product prices. For the first half of fiscal 2016, revenues were down $6.9 million compared to the first half of fiscal 2015. The impact on revenue from the lower selling price of our base oil and RFO products was $5.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively, during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015.

The overall decrease in revenue year-over-year was partially offset by higher collection charges and stop fees. In the second quarter, our Oil Business experienced profit before corporate SG&A of $0.4 million, compared to a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.9 million in the first quarter of 2016. The increase in profitability in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 was driven primarily by the increase of $0.04 per gallon and the price we charge our customers for removal of their used oil, and an $0.08 per gallon increase in the selling price of our lubricating base oil compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

Corporate SG&A was 14.3% of second quarter revenues, up from 12.8% in the year-ago quarter. In the first half of the year, SG&A expense was 14.9% of revenues compared to 13% in the first half of 2015. SG&A expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 was $11.5 million compared to $10.6 million in the year-earlier quarter.

For the first half of fiscal 2016, SG&A expense was $23.7 million compared to $21.7 million for the first half of fiscal 2015. The increase in SG&A expense was due to unusually high legal expense of $1.8 million during the second quarter and $3.3 million for the first half of fiscal 2016. The majority of these legal expenses pertain to matters stemming from our acquisition of FCC Environmental including compliance issues that predate our acquisition and an arbitration that we initiated against the sellers to resolve certain routine post-closing matters and to recover related legal expenses as governed by the stock purchase agreement.

At the end of the quarter, we had $68.1 million of total debt and $25.3 million of cash on hand. We had very strong cash generation of $14.4 million in cash flow from operations during the first half of fiscal 2016, which represents an increase of 52.8% compared to the first half of fiscal 2015. We incurred $451,000 of interest expense for the second quarter of 2016 compared to interest expense of $408,000 in the year-ago quarter. For the first half of fiscal 2016, we incurred $969,000 in interest expense compared to $962,000 in the first half of fiscal 2015.

For the second quarter, we experienced income of $1.8 million compared to income of $2 million in the second quarter of 2015. Our basic and fully diluted income per share for the quarter was $0.08 compared to $0.09 in the year-ago quarter. Our year-to-date income was $0.1 million compared to income of $1 million in the first half of fiscal 2015. Earnings per share for the first half of the year were $0.00 compared to earnings of $0.05 per share in the first half of fiscal 2015.

We appreciate your continued interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. And at this time, I return control of the call over to our operator to advise you of the procedure to submit your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Ryan Merkel of William Blair. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, everyone.

Hey, Ryan.

Good morning.

So, you said if current market conditions continue, you expect to have increased profitability for the remainder of 2016 in Oil Business. Could you explain that just a bit further, what you meant by the current conditions? Was that the conditions we see entering the third quarter where the spread is a little better?

Yeah. Well, Joe and Greg can add something. Ryan, what I'm going to tell you, I'll take it from a quantitative standpoint. If you look at what drove the result is – if you look at what the average pricing was and I'm just going to use the stock price as a proxy for what our actuals are, but it will give you certainly more than just directional guidance.

The average stock price in Q2 was about $1.52 and it's about $0.30 higher now. And that's even with the last two weeks there's probably been a $0.02-a-week peel back in spot. So, that tells you there's $0.30 of pent-up pricing based on today's conditions, obviously the quarter is far from over, but hopefully that will give you an idea. And we don't know what, if crude continues to come down, what that might do to base oil prices. There's certainly a little headwind based on the spot coming down at the time you get to the last couple of weeks. But there is a lot of pent-up upside based on what I just told you in the base oil price for potentially for Q3 versus what we experienced in Q2 on average.

I don't know, Joe, if you, anything more to add, or Greg?

Yeah. We clearly have entered the third quarter with a wider spread with the base oil and the charges than what we were in on an average for the second quarter.

Got it. Okay. And then just an update on charging customers, how has the progress been versus what you thought it would be? And then is there a percent of customers that you could share with us that you're actually charging to remove oil at this stage?

Well, we're basically charging the vast majority of our customers. And so, with the price of oil having gone up here now recently, it was a pull back. But starting in the first quarter, we kept pulling the charges up pretty aggressively, and we've reached a certain level that, where we've had that level as base oil prices start moving up. And today, we charge the vast majority of our customers.

Yeah. In Q1, I think and, Greg, I haven't updated the number, but it was 97%, I think it was a overwhelming majority, I don't know.

I don't have a better number, but it's higher than it was in Q1 now. So, it's such a small number that's not being charged, we're not really measuring it.

And then, as you look forward, are you planning to increase the charge in the second half a bit further?

Well, with the significant improvement in the spreads and as we enter the third quarter, we're watching the situation. I would say that if we see any pullback on lube oil or if we see any weakness on crude that further affects the RFO market, then we would seriously consider increasing the charges. So, we've got to maintain the spread, that's the key part of the profitability for our business. [ph]

Are you saying (17:10)... [ph]

I think (17:11) over time, we'll be improving that spread, but I think we moved it pretty substantially this year. And as we said, we were – we like where we are as we enter the third quarter.

Yeah. You've made really nice progress. You're ahead of where we were thinking. So, it seems like you're trending up at this point, which is a good thing. I guess, just lastly on the energy or the Environmental Services business, energy is still the issue there. Do you think you've seen the worse of the energy hitting that business? Are you willing to call it maybe a bottoming at this point?

Well, I would tell you that's how our sales organization view it, and that's how we see it compared to where we were a year ago. So on a comparative basis, we think we've bottomed there, and at least if anything happens it's not going to be much of an impact. And now really our job is to go in and we've started that a while ago, to look at other ways to create, to generate more service revenue with our customer base.

Okay.

And we shared with you some of the initiatives, I think, in here.

Yes. Right. Very good. Thank you so much.

Thanks, Ryan.

Thanks, Ryan.

Thank you, Ryan.

Our next question comes from David Manthey of Robert W. Baird. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Good morning.

Good morning, David.

Good morning, David.

Good morning, David.

First of all on the comment you made about the spreads getting better. You noted that the pricing is about $0.30 better sequentially, and I believe you said that your charge for oil prices haven't changed or I guess potentially might have even gotten better, sequentially. Am I hearing that right that you're saying your spreads might have gotten $0.30 better than the second quarter in the third quarter?

I was quoting what the change in spot prices then.

Yes.

And effect, if you consider if the street charges were flat then that would equate to what your change in spread is. And we didn't go so far as to say really make a hard forecast on street charges, that's one as Joe mentioned we're watching, and you have the decrease in crude that's happened over the past week or so, so that could improve, could give us an opportunity to improve, or how our market lags the actual pricing and the street does lag some of the commodity movement. A couple of weeks before that, there was headwinds or pressure to try and get the increases we did get. So, it's always fluid.

Yeah, definitely encouraging though. Wow, that's pretty remarkable. So, as it relates to the Environmental business then, if you set aside the energy-related customers where you're seeing weakness and I assume based on how your revenues are tracked, you'll lap those comparisons by the time we hit the fourth quarter. What type of trends are you seeing among the other, the all other customer category that you serve? And then if you could separately address the fuel surcharge removal, was the impact of that low single-digit type percentage?

Yeah. It was the – I'll go backwards, yeah. That was 1%-ish around it, on the surcharge. And we don't look so much at industry verticals, but if we look at the branches, that would be the overall 80-branch network that we're currently running at, the non-energy sector impacted ones, I guess, if you strip out the Texas, Louisiana, those type of branches we've had, what we would traditionally say is that what we normally get on price overall for the segment, a little more than 5%, has been the growth there and it's just been brought down by obviously some pretty big negatives. In those other branches it's close to 18% on declining year-over-year basis for Q2. So...

So, Mark, you're talking there about pricing, is that to say that you're not seeing a material unit change like people aren't sending back part washers in Texas, Louisiana, or is that not true?

No, no, that's not true, there is volume decline in those, that's what's driving the big revenue decrease that I mentioned. And...

So the [ph] $8.3 million (22:16) was all-in?

Yeah, that's all-in. That's all-in and so was the other number. So, that's – like it is every quarter with our different lines of business, some grow faster than others. So, that's a mixed bag with how much is volume versus price.

All right. And then one last question if I could. The $1.8 million for legal fees again this quarter, it is a normal level, a few hundred thousand then this is just elevated, is that the situation? And then secondarily, I believe you sort of indicated last quarter that this would impact first quarter and second quarter, are we at the end of this, do you know or do you estimate that we should be through those elevated legal fees at this point?

Go ahead, Greg.

Yeah. The first statement, Dave, you're right, a normal level of legal spending in a quarter would just be a couple of hundred thousand, $200,000 or $300,000, so we're well above that. In terms of how much longer we're going to continue at these rates, we refer to a couple of different matters in the narrative and one of those matters we're nearing the end of. So, we'll see a substantial reduction in legal fees, but another matter we can't neatly predict how long it's going to take. And so, we'll probably still be running at a higher level of legal spending I would guess for a couple more quarters would be likely.

Okay. When you expect resolution here? I mean, what is the goal? What do you end up getting back? Is there some lump sum that you would register if you indeed win or prevail? Or what's at stake here?

Yeah. There's multiple matters that are the subject of our arbitration and at least one of the elements is something where we just sort of expect to get a lump sum that's related to the purchase price, post-closing adjustments. And so, we're hopeful that we'll accomplish that. We obviously think we have a strong argument because we initiated the arbitration to try and recover these amounts.

Okay. We're looking forward to clearing out this, along with the lower cost of market adjustments and let that underlying business, which seems like it's doing a lot better, show through. That will be good as soon we get to that point.

Yeah. We hear you, David, yeah. We're imminent.

All right, guys. Thank you.

All right.

Thank you, David.

Our next question comes from Kevin Steinke of Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

Yeah. In the ES segment, you mentioned you anticipate returning to growth in the fourth quarter, is that just based on the fact that the comps get easier or is there more to it than that?

It's mostly that. We don't think there's been any fundamental changes in our approach to gaining business, using our sales and service reps and it's not as if we've tapped out and we own the market, there's no more share to gain. So, we just think it's mostly a comp story as you said. And we continue to do what we've normally been doing, it's just that those comps even through Q3 are tough to overcome.

All right. And I think Joe mentioned in his prepared comments, potential tuck-in acquisitions in Environmental Services. Just wondering how aggressively you're pursuing those, I mean what the pipeline might look like, what sort of businesses you're looking for?

Typical to us and we always are looking at acquisition, we don't comment on any specific ones. But, if we can leverage, Joe mentioned it earlier trying to bring more services to our customer base, that's usually a priority for us. And we use that, whether that's in existing geographies, the new geographies. I don't know if Joe or Greg, if you want to add to that.

Yeah. The bulk of the growth historically has come in outside of the FCC acquisition, has come in from organic growth, and that's what's going to drive us here as we move forward. But, we have a couple of tuck-in acquisitions we're looking at. Not a long list, but these will help reach our growth goals.

Okay. Okay. Sounds good. And so, with the $0.04 gain in the per gallon charge for used oil, are you around $0.40 per gallon now? Is it a good approximation?

That's probably a little high.

Okay.

And we don't want to get into much more specifics.

Okay. So you also mentioned record base oil production at the re-refinery, what was the capacity utilization in the quarter?

It was a little more than 96%.

Okay. Do you still see room for potential improvement there, or are you happy with how are things running as it stands now?

No, we see a room for – definitely, we see room for further increase and we're going to see that in the first quarter. We got certain issues on our plate here in the third quarter that we – some were worked on, regarding the operation of the re-refinery, but we should see a stronger than these kind of levels in the first quarter.

All right. Good. Just lastly, do you have the number, I guess either for gallons of base oil produced or sold in the quarter?

Yeah. We produced about 10 million gallons.

All right. Perfect. Thanks for taking my questions.

Our next question comes from Gerry Sweeney of ROTH Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my call.

Good morning.

Good morning, Gerry.

In Q1 you quantified, I believe you quantified how much the oil-related customers were a headwind, I think you said about 6%, do you have a similar number or can you quantify for the second quarter?

Yeah, on an apples-to-apples basis, that figure that you're referring to would be a little higher, which is more like 7%.

Okay. And then you did say, I think surcharges were another drag of 1%?

Yes.

So, I mean, just on a math basis, that's probably, we're looking at 7% to 8% drag, but we're down 1% year-over-year and that shows that you're probably getting some decent underlying growth from some of the cross-selling initiatives and et cetera. Is that fair to assume?

Yeah, we're definitely getting growth, I mean that's part of the combined, a little more than 5% growth in some of the – it's a little clearer to see in the non-energy impacted, if you want to use that phrase, branches.

Okay. So, on a go-forward – as this starts to anniversary, we should, there's a high degree of comfort level here that we're going to see some of that organic growth starting to show up in the fourth quarter?

Yes.

Okay, perfect. And then switching gears a little bit to the Oil Business, just want to see what maybe the tone of the market is in terms of charges, charging for oil even with your, I would say, competitors. Are they still charging, if my memory serves correctly, there was certainly a lag on that front there, probably some of them were lacking ability to even charge, but this is probably small players charge because they didn't have systems in place, but it seems like they have gotten over that hump. Are they sort of closing the gap on you as you take a pause, any idea on that front?

Yeah. This is Joe here. The market as we view it is relatively stable at this time. We always get noises from the field but it's a very competitive business. We always get noises from the field that we've lost this account just because of somebody came in. And so that has put lower charges or pay for oil, but we had the same phenomena when people were paying $0.80, somebody comes in and pays $1.20. But I would say overall, the market at this stage is relatively stable, and we're watching crude and the lube prices. Now, not all of our sales are lube, so we have – we are also influenced in the RFO with the reduction in the price of crude. But I think our objective is very simple and very basic, we have restored our margins and as we enter the third quarter, we're enjoying better margins, we've had, we had restored it at the end of the second quarter. And so we're watching out, we're determined to maintain these improved margins, and over a period of time now, our Oil segment to extend that spread.

Got it. What I mean, what I was trying to get at, it sounds like Heritage is generally a leader on the pricing side, then you guys take a pause. Curious if during that pause, your customer or your competitors, they see a little bit of a lift. Granted you see competition, just trying to get a little bit more feel for the tone as you pause, so they sort of play catch-up a little bit to extended, et cetera. But from a... go ahead.

Yeah. This is Greg speaking, I can respond to that. I think that you have a pretty good understanding of what we went through as we broke past the zero point and began to charge, that it took people a while to follow in that respect. And I would say that we still have between our pricing and the competitive market average a significant differential. The degree of that difference depends on the competitor and which market we're talking about and the scale of the competitor.

Our pricing isn't that far away from some guys and other people it is further away from. But I think from our point of view, one of the positives for our current situation is that we believe that virtually everybody for most of their volume is charging rather than picking up for free or paying. And so, we're in an environment where customers are comparing different prices and taking into consideration service quality. And we think we've got excellent service quality and so, we tend to do fairly well in that situation.

What we're nervous about, what we watch closely, is the possibility that oil prices move back in the other direction, in which crude prices go down – go up, and fuel prices go up and some of these competitors who today are having to charge to break-even, may shift into an environment where they decide that they can pick up oil for free or begin to pay for it again, and that will be a difference that's not just sort of simply quantitative, it's sort of a psychological difference and that would put more pressure on us.

But we don't see that happening right now and recent oil prices in the last three weeks, four weeks have been moving the other direction. So, it's not putting a renewed pressure on us on the street. And as I think we answered an earlier question, we're continuing to watch to see if there may be an opportunity for us to further raise street prices, but it will be too early to come to that conclusion.

Just one other quick point and then I'll jump off but, I mean, that was the – they're going to – now that you're paying, I mean, I would imagine from a psychological standpoint, it would be somewhat stickier for your competitors not to go back to paying for oil since they got over that hump, maybe put some systems in place, et cetera. I would imagine now that they're [ph] chasing (35:33) some of that, maybe it would be a little bit stickier before they went back the other direction.

Yeah. Exactly, and I would say that's the case for the majority.

Thanks.

The small independent guy that does his own thing, for one, he's got local markets. And, so that's the majority of the market. We went through the tough couple of quarters, the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year when we had to get to the charge and people who are shy about getting. So, that's all behind us but at this stage, our objective is simple. We're enjoying better margins getting into the third quarter. And over a period of time I think we can build on the spread but actually so with the spread it's what we've improved significantly as we entered the third quarter. And, we want to build on that over the next few quarters.

Got it. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thanks, Gerry.

Thanks, Gerry.

Our next question comes from Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning, folks, and thanks for taking my question here. And sorry to beat on a dead horse, just want to get back into growth opportunities within the Environmental Service, the parts cleaning side. So, if we get beyond the surcharge and the energy-related customer headwinds, yeah, with some of these branches, and we get back to growth in the fourth quarter. Can you help me to understand really how to think about this for, how this growth could perhaps layer in, it almost seems like there could be some strong arguments in terms of more of an impairment of the growth opportunities within that segment, which has been really more of a double-digit grower. We know that there has been at least commentary out there for Safety-Kleen, I think, making better headway than they had in the past and arguably recapturing some share and not to say that that's occurring head-to-head, but perhaps from an opportunity cost standpoint, that can be affecting your growth opportunities. So just want to understand how to think about that moving forward because it's been a pretty good driver in the grand scheme of things? Thanks.

Yeah, there are a lot of pieces. This is Joe here, I'm going to try to answer this. Yes, there has been some noises about the Safety-Kleen, but when we look at our components in our ES, and there, parts cleaning is just one of the pieces. We had the parts cleaning, we got the drum waste business. We've got the vacuum services, we have antifreeze and absorbents and so on. We haven't – when we follow our account on parts cleaning, we haven't lost any business there, and total count, there's a regular turn, we pick up some customers, and they pick up some, and we haven't seen any change in the trend of our historical comparative [ph] measures (39:13) between the two companies. And so, what we want to do and we are doing is look at every other area where we can add revenue. We talked about adding branches, we've in the past had added branches at a higher rate and we've slowed down, we didn't add any during the FCC acquisition and integration which is, we're getting into new branches that way. So, we now got some of these horses out and we're in the mode of adding branches, that's going to help us.

We don't have vacuum services in all of our branches, so we're looking at that. We talked about cross-selling and we had done a couple of small acquisitions in the antifreeze business, people that have recycling capabilities and we got a large customer base that generate spend in antifreeze. We like that that's a relatively new business for us. It's small, but it just enhances our menu. And so, these are the kind of things we're doing. We've added sales resources, we were relatively flat last year as we're integrating – as we see acquisition, so we've added that starting the beginning of the year and these will all bear fruit and help us to get to the single-digit or high single-digit growth.

Okay. And is that something that you think we should be able to get back to that type of momentum by, say, 1Q, 2Q next year or based on the nature of the initiatives that you would want to undertake to reinvigorate that, is that more of a longer-term scenario before you can get to those numbers because obviously you have to make some investments there?

All right. Sean, this is Greg. I think that our expectation would be to be back in the growth range that Joe was talking about by the early part of next year. And again, that's a lot of assumptions there, but I think that the big thing is getting the weakness of the oil patch behind us on a comparative basis, and you'll see start to see that that combined with what we imagine are typical price increases, and sort of the typical expected results we get when we put more sales resources out there, all are going to contribute to that. So, we haven't sort of changed our view that ES is still an important growth opportunity for the company, and we're continuing to invest in it on that basis and we expect to see the results in a reasonable timeframe.

Okay. Thanks for taking the question.

Sure. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Michael Bunyaner of TLF Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hey, Michael.

Good morning.

I just wanted to make sure I heard you correctly, that the cash flow from operations was up 52.6% or $14.4 million, is that correct?

Yeah. Yeah. We had a good quarter, especially that was for the first half of the year. And specifically since we've pretty much been and start spending in Q1 for the expansion, yeah, our free cash flow was over $4.5 million in Q2, so it's good, it's what we expect. We're building cash and as we start to get clarity from the rough patch Joe mentioned, a lot of it's driven by what oil did in our – breaking the psychology of going from paying to charging for oil over the last couple of quarters, we're starting to see the benefits there.

Should we continue to expect that the free cash flow will grow as we continue to execute for the second half of this year?

Yeah, I don't know if we're going to throw off $5 million a quarter, that's probably aggressive, but we didn't spend a ton of CapEx in the quarter and that helped, but just in the grand scheme of things, without getting too detailed in our capital plan, what we've seen over the previous couple of years, being through, having been through the expansion. It won't be as light as it was in Q2 in an average quarter, but where we were the previous three quarters, four quarters, whatever, was too low. So, it's probably somewhere in between those two would be what we would expect.

And just to clarify because there were several numbers mentioned in terms of Environment Services, the revenue in the nine branches was down in the second quarter 18% year-to-year, was that correct?

You heard correct.

And the rest of the branches were up 5%?

Yes, a little more but basically 5%

Okay. And the question that was raised in terms of the competitive nature of the industry and/or the environment that we're in, in terms of Environmental Services. Joe, is there any change that is positive or negative that you're seeing out there? And is the consolidation of the industry going to continue, in which you obviously have been a major force behind?

Well, there are two segments regarding the consolidation, the ES and Oil, there has been a lot of segregation in Oil over the last few years. And I think that has the tendency in my mind to continue pulling these trends, very high capital. And there's less and less local fuel markets for the used oil, so this is a good thing. So, there's less consolidation in the ES, but there's still some that has happened. Mark or Greg, do you want to add on this?

I don't have anything to say.

Yeah. I think that's well said, Joe.

Thank you so very much, and good luck for the second half.

Thank you, Michael.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Michael Hoffman of Stifel. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my questions, Joe, Greg and Mark. On that capital spending, what did you spend in the quarter? And what's the target now for the full year?

Our full year depending on other projects is probably in that $13 million-ish range that we've – you and I have previously talked about. I think it was about $2 million, $3 million in the quarter. I got the first half number right in front of me, but I think it was a net $2 million-ish.

Well, I know what the first quarter is so what's the first half?

$8.7 million.

$8.7 million. Okay, yeah, so it's $2.2 million. Okay. And then – and you would expect to then if we're talking about a $13 million-ish, then we're looking at about $4.5 million for the rest of the year, $4.5 million, $5 million and that's split relatively evenly?

Yeah.

Okay. And then with regards to ES, well, I guess I want to ask a high level question. I hear a tempering in your Oils presentation, but I have this sense that you feel pretty good about the state of business. It was a good quarter and you have a good outlook and you're just being cautious that you don't want to streak it, run away with our forecasting. Am I reading that correctly?

Well, I feel pretty good about the business overall. I think if you – this is again a high level comment because we like where we are with our margins in the end, we're pretty happy. We were a bit careful last year, didn't add resources, we were going through this integration of the two companies. So, we actually cut resources on both sides. And we – and there were some low pricing in the FCC, Environmental Services. So, we're cautious, we wanted to not weaken our contribution margin in the ES. And we were very pleased to see how strong that contribution margin has been and now starting earlier this year, we said, let's put resources, additional [indiscernible] (49:22) resources into our branches to grow our ES business. And some of these things take a little bit of time, but there is nothing magic in here, we follow the pieces that we put in, we expect to start growing again our ES business.

Okay. To that point, if everybody has been digging around these numbers and clawing at it like a dog on a bone, but so let me take one crack at it. If you went back a year ago, and looked at this time in 2015 and stripped away Texas and Louisiana, what's the organic growth of the rest of the Environmental Services business?

Well, we were reporting that not quite apples-to-apples to what you described, but remember how we were reporting a non-FCC environmental impact of branches, and if you know their footprint it obviously encompasses most of the energy patch that has been a negative downturn. So I think for the first two quarters that number was 12% and as I think for Q3, 10%. So that was our – that was our growth rate. And again it's not completely clean with what you asked, but it's close enough.

Okay. And I realize that you're not going to hockey stick this, but you're talking about moving back into that direction ex the energy branch network?

Yes.

Okay. So I just want to make sure that was what the message is, is that we can get back there by doing the cross-selling, adding more multiple services in a branch, taking the average branch revenue up, ex the pressure from the end markets. And if we get a recovery in energy markets, that will be another catalyst of growth.

Yes.

Okay. Can you frame since you've added the new capacity, what's the proportion on a percentage basis or pennies per gallon, on the controllable part of the spread, which is transportation, logistics and the actual processing costs, what's been the benefit from the capacity expansion to date? And what do you think is left proportionately? Was it a 5% improvement, 10% improvement, and what do we have left?

This is Mark. Joe and Greg can add if they want, but we haven't done all the work to break that out. I can tell you actually in some of the areas of the overall results, we've had some challenges in areas like in Q2 anyway, in areas of transportation. So, there's been a benefit, but there's enough moving pieces, that unless we actually do the analysis intentionally, which we haven't done, I can't give you a good number and I don't want to give you a guess.

Okay. Without a percentage, it's improved so in the aggregate?

Yeah.

I get there's puts and takes. One might be up and someone else is down, but that cost basis is part of the helping to spread besides base oil going up and charged oil going up?

There's a positive impact to our added capacity.

Yeah, on a cost basis, yes.

Yes.

And – so it's definitely at a lower cost spend per gallon for the plant, but that's one piece. But the other piece, if you're getting more volume uptick from the used oil coming into the other plant to the lube side and there is a significant uptick in the value of the product feed in the plant. So, every million gallon you put in, it has a significant impact to the bottom line. So, we have some more room to go at the 75 million gallon capacity, yes, we have. And my earlier remarks indicated that we should be able to see the benefit in the fourth quarter as we have some work happening in the third quarter. Besides the fourth quarter, we should see this improvement. And Michael, there is no magic for us at the 75 million, we always look at ways of debottlenecking without spending a lot of capital to go beyond that in the next years.

Okay. Fair enough. And I got, how do I want to ask this? The base oil price increase, the theory here is to post a price at some number, you guys get paid a discount to that, but if the price goes up, you in theory should capture the majority if not all of that price change because you're already – the discount is embedded in what you were starting from. That theory still holds, right?

Yes. Yes.

Yes.

Okay, okay. All right, great. Well, terrific news on the direction this is moving and good luck for the second half.

Thank you, Michael.

Thank you, Michael.

Our next question is a follow-up from Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thanks for taking the follow-up here. I'm sorry if I had missed this here. So, where do we stand in terms of your pricing today through four weeks of the third quarter on the Oil Business side. How is that comparing to your average from 2Q and how is that comparing to a year ago? Thanks.

Yeah, and this is Mark. We just talked about it relative to our or talk about spot, what it was, average spot price, and the average for Q2 versus where it is now, and it was in the high-$0.20 a gallon improvement. So from rough average around $1.50, $1.50 around $1.80. Spot has come down a couple of cents a week the last couple of weeks. So, but it obviously had been going up considerably. So, there's clearly some upside in pricing in that spread, as long as the collection side of the business is constant in what we can expect for, I mean, what we've seen so far for Q3.

Right. Okay. So, when you say the $1.80 though, is that, we're saying that that is also reflective of being down slightly from some of the activities you've seen in spot the last few weeks, meaning that...

Yes.

...three weeks ago, we were at about $1.85, $1.90?

Yeah. Maybe not as high as $1.90, but...

Right.

I mean, last year Q2, it's still $0.30 lower than where we were.

Right. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Sean.

Thank you, Sean.

there are no further questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.

Thank you.

You're welcome.