Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Media Relations, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Ryan Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets
David Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Andrew O’Neill — Vice President, Central Securities Corporation

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted, and you will have the opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your questions. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements.

These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting our Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. And welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our second quarter 2012 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the second quarter and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our second quarter sales were $62.3 million compared to $32 million in the second quarter of 2011, reflecting a growth rate of 94.8%. Year-to-date sales increased 85.8% to $112.8 million compared to $60.7 million for the first half of 2011. In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we continued to ramp up operations of our used oil re-refinery including the production and sales of lubricant base oil and byproducts.

I'm pleased with our operations during the quarter, which allowed us to produce 4.8 million gallons of re-refined base oil, which corresponds to our producing base oil at 69% of our design capacity and to sell 5.2 million gallons of this product. Our growth was made possible in part by our ability to continue to expand geographically and add new customers. As of the end of the second quarter we served over 73,000 individual customer sites, a substantial increase compared to 65,000 individual customer sites at the end of the first quarter. We served those customers from 71 company branch locations compared to 67 branches a year ago.

I'm also happy to report good progress with our used oil collection growth including the acceleration in our truck, deployment, and related investments to support this initiative. We were able to raise our run-rate for internally collected used oil to approximately 36 million gallons per year during the last four weeks period of the quarter.

Throughout the first half, we continued to add additional oil collection trucks. And by the end of the quarter, we had 134 oil collection trucks in service. We expect to continue to add new trucks during the second half of 2012.

Our continued rollout of oil collection trucks allows us to further leverage our established branch network. Without our existing branch network, the incremental costs of our aggressive oil collection rollouts would be much higher. The investments we have made over the last decade to develop these locations and the teams of dedicated professionals who manage them have created this opportunity to grow the used oil collection volume that is critical to our success in the oil business.

In the Environmental Services segment, we're pleased with our double-digit same-branch sales growth, and we continue to invest in new resources which we believe will allow us to continue to meet our growth goal for this segment.

These are exciting times in our organization, and both the Environmental Services and Oil business teams are engaged and look forward to the opportunities ahead of us.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita would now further discuss the financial results, and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's second quarter 2012 conference call. I'm pleased with our second quarter revenue growth as outlined in last evening's press release. Revenues continue to grow at double and triple-digit rates on a year-over-year basis in the Environmental Services and Oil Business segments, respectively.

In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $4.4 million or 15.9% in the second quarter and $8.8 million or 16.4% for the first half of the year. Of the 66 branches that were in operation throughout both the second quarters of 2012 and 2011, the growth in same-branch sales was 12.4%. For the first half of the year, same-branch sales in our Environmental Services segment increased 13%.

On average, sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $545,000 compared to $515,000 in the first quarter of 2012 and compared to $470,000 in the second quarter one year ago.

Operating cost in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $3.7 million compared to the second quarter of 2011 and $8.9 million compared to the first half of 2011. The cost increase compared to the year-ago quarter was due to the higher volume of services performed, higher transportation costs and lower margins and sales of our reuse solvent compared to the second quarter of 2011. These costs were not partially offset by a corresponding inventory evaluation benefit such as we experienced in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.

The margin results also reflect cost of investments in adding additional personnel and related equipment deployed to support the continued growth of this segment. This is the result of initiatives we began in the second half of fiscal 2011.

When compared to our first quarter 2012 profit, before SG&A in this segment of 17%, we saw an improvement to over 22% during the second quarter. The improvement was primarily due to increased labor productivity, improved coverage of our fixed cost and better management of solvents.

In our Oil Business segment, sales for the second quarter grew $25.9 million or 598% as a result of sales of intermediate and base oil products as well as byproducts from our used oil re-refinery. For the first half, sales in the Oil Business grew $43.3 million or 622%. Our Oil Business experienced income, before corporate SG&A, of $1.4 million compared to a loss of $400,000 in the year-ago quarter.

We continue to roll out additional used oil route trucks to increase the collection volume of the used oil to feed the re-refinery. As we've noted previously, this rollout puts pressure on our margins. The aggressive steps we have taken to add sales and training resources in this segment have added about $4 million in annual cost, a big investment, but one we would – in which we believe to be more efficient than the typical acquisitions in this space.

Additionally, in this segment, compared to the 2011 second quarter, we experienced higher energy-related cost for fuel and transportation. As noted in our press release, second quarter results in the segment were negatively impacted by a decrease in the value of our used oil inventory of approximately $600,000 driven by a drop in crude oil prices.

We expect future margin improvement in this segment, as we continue to increase operating rates at the re-refinery, begin to shift our sales mix towards more base oil, improve efficiency of our newer oil collection routes and improve related pricing, relative pricing as we obtain lubricant formulation approvals.

Corporate SG&A was 10% of sales down from 15.1% in the year ago quarter. For the first half of the year, corporate SG&A was 10.6% of sales, down from 15.4% for the first half of 2011. At the end of the quarter, we had $20 million of bank debt and $50.6 million of cash on hand. We incurred $146,000 of interest expense for the second quarter of 2012, compared to $10,000 of interest expense in the year ago quarter.

In the first half of 2012, we incurred $333,000 of interest expense, compared with $14,000 in the first half of 2011. For the second quarter, we generated net income of $1.2 million compared to $719,000 in the second quarter of 2011. Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.07 compared to $0.05 in the year ago quarter.

For the first half, our net income available to common stockholders was $1.5 million, compared to $1.1 million in the first half of 2011. So the first half of the year, our basic earnings per share was $0.10 and our fully diluted earnings per share was $0.09 compared to basic and fully diluted earnings per share of $0.07 in the first half of last year, when we had fewer shares outstanding.

The increased number of shares this year is a result of our April offering. In the second quarter, we completed a follow-on equity offering of 3.4 million shares, which raised about $65.5 million for the company, net of offering costs. The initial use of proceeds included the pay-down on our revolving bank credit facility with the remainder available for general corporate purposes which may include additional re-refining capacity or potential acquisitions.

The first half of fiscal 2012 included some important successes. We began operation of our re-refinery and continue to increase the throughput at this facility. We're also producing and selling on-spec Group II base oil. These achievements are a credit to our continuing good work of our engineering team and our plant operation staff.

We expect to continue to gradually increase our operating rate of the re-refinery as we ramp up our collection of used oil and increase our production in sales of base oil over the second half of the year. This growth in our oil business will complement our continued plan for our Environmental Services business. So motivation of our team to expand our business remains strong. And we have confidence in our ability to take advantage of the exciting opportunities we see before us.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and he will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at this time, we have a question from Sean Hannan from Needham. Your question, please.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Sean.

We're glad you can make it there. I know you had a couple of obligations at the same time here.

Yeah we're juggling a few. So first off congratulations on the top line particularly within the oil business that seems like its pretty strong momentum, especially given that you're not at full capacity. One thing I want to see if I can understand a little bit better. The margins being directionally pressured at the end of the quarter with the drop in oil prices, can you elaborate on the dynamics behind this, given that you declined quarter-over-quarter, was blended pricing through the June quarter much worse than 1Q, was there little progress on operational efficiencies, and then also if you can explain, there didn't really seem to be much revenue leverage that came through here. So any color would be helpful.

Sean Well, in both of these quarters, we've sold a significant volume of intermediate product, we call it vacuum gas oil. And in the second quarter, we operated at the higher overall capacity in the re-refining plant, and but the increased capacity, a large piece of that was to produce vacuum gas oil. And quite frankly with the increase in the cost of used oil in – from the beginning of the year and up to – through the second quarter, and that we've start seeing a weakening in the price of the vacuum gas oil, the production of gas oil didn't have much contribution compared to the lube oil. And we've – on the lube oil we were able to run at a bit higher capacity, but we're still at 69% of design capacity of the plant up from 57%, I believe it was the first quarter; but there was no specific costs that were outside of the normal in the second quarter compared to the first quarter in the – of plant operation.

Okay. And then I guess as a follow-up to that. Is there a way, either to Joe or Mark if you could just to help elaborate for us the path to get the margins up within that business to your target in terms of actions, as well as how it may materialize sequentially as we progress through the end of 2012 or our target still very much in sight. And then also what have you learned so far, that could make you either more cautious or confident on the path to getting there.

Yeah, good question. A couple of points, I mean throughout plan to build and start up the re-refining plant, the mission here is to produce base oil. And base oil prices are much higher than vacuum gas oil. And so, in order to improve our margins, we need to produce and sell at a higher lube oil rates and do we – we've done it directionally from the first quarter to the second quarter and we expect – we expect to keep increasing this rate in the third and fourth quarter. So that towards the end of the year we get pretty close to the capacity which is what we had anticipated.

And but in the process of going through, this is the first year the plant is running. There are operating issues that come in. And it affects plant throughput, there are also issues relating to the sales of the product and we're happy with the progress. But it's not all of the green light, because we need to get further approval on the lube oil formulations. We've obtained one in the last – towards end of the first quarter and we're working on two other approvals and the work is progressing nicely.

The other, so anyway, in summary the production of base oil is going to drive the margins upward. The other thing I'd like to mention in here compared to where we saw it in the beginning of the year, we have experienced two drop in the price of base oil. The market remains strong, but there has been two reductions in the price of base oil, which will affect the margin.

If you recall in, when we made a decision in 2010 to go ahead with the plant, we have lower price of crude, lower price of base oil and then it peaked a year later and would not bound to 2010, but we're done from the peak.

Okay. And so I guess just to follow on that, is there anything that's changed around the spread – really the business spread you think in the business, number one. And then separately since you had a lot of VGO within this June quarter producing revenues, how does that perhaps start to tail down as the base oil ramps up. And is it really a matter of you getting kind of – and waiting on the approvals in order to ship the higher quality products?

So our plan for this quarter the way we're looking at things as the quarter progress is to minimize the VGO and maximize our lube oil. We've added customers since the end of – since the second quarter and now into the third quarter and the production rates for the lube oil, we expect it to be higher. And so we should see some benefits in that area. But the margins between crude and lube oil has shrunken, and do you want to add any comments on this, Greg.

I don't really have much to add on that. I mean the, Joe mentioned that the pricing has come down on base oil a couple of times. And that's driven down that the margin relative to that the peak as Joe said. The other thing that's happening is that I think we've shared with you before that we would expect as crude prices come down over a period of time, we're able to also adjust feedstock costs as the whole market adjusts downward.

And that process is really kind of begun fairly recently and so whenever we see significant moves there can be some temporary lag, it's too early for me to tell you whether it's going to take us longer to adjust feedstock cost and for our finished product prices to move. But our goal is, as lube prices come down we're working actively to drive down our cost of feedstock. Unfortunately, we end up being the market leader in some cases in doing that, as others often don't react as quickly as we would choose to do.

Thanks so much for the color.

Our next question is from Ryan Merkel from William Blair. Your question, please.

Hi, guys. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So just so we're clear, it sounds like the primary reason that the margin was a bit soft in the oil business, is it because you sold more VGO than base oil?

We've sold more VGO relative than in the prior quarter.

Okay.

And another way to think about this relative to our ramp-up of our business to our plan, our numbers are 50 million gallons of feed into the re-refinery and 30 million gallons of lube oil out of the re-refinery, but we have different ways – the way that the plant's configured, we have this intermediate stage product as well. Long term, we don't expect to make any of that intermediate BGL product.

In the second quarter, as Joe said, the backend of the plant that was making lube oil was running at 69% of capacity. The frontend was running very close to 90% of capacity leading to that imbalance, which resulted in our selling more of the very low margin or almost no margin BGL product, which makes overall division or segment margin percentages look bad. I think that if we get the lube oil production up and cease making the BGL that'll restore the kinds of margin percentages we expect.

And that the sales price per unit price was going down at the end of the quarter for the BGL as well. So we have more volume of it at a lower price?

Okay. So the – but the primary reason was I guess the mix of the products, and then secondarily lube prices coming down also had an impact?

Yes.

And could you split out, how much of the impact was due to the falling price of lube versus the mix?

I don't...

Which I guess...

That's the number we can try and come up with as an estimate. And add some color on that?

Yeah, we can. If you want we can get the statistics, but I would say that the biggest factor is this higher volume of VGO sold relative to lube oil, compared to the pricing, because the pricing came in just towards the end of the quarter.

Okay. And so, it sounds like your volume of base lube oil is going to up in the third quarter versus the second quarter?

That is our plan.

Okay. And did I hear you right, you sold 4.2 million gallons of base lube oil?

I believe it was 5.2 million gallons. We made 4.8 million gallons and sold 5.2 million gallons.

Yeah, we sold a little bit into our inventory.

Okay. So 5.2 million gallons. So about half of the input in the 10.3 million gallons was base oil?

Yeah, that's one way to view it. That's a correct statement.

Okay. That's helpful. So – and then I wanted to, I guess, move on to your Environmental Services margin, over 22% this quarter. That was really a good improvement sequentially. Is this sustainable going forward or can we expect to see further improvement?

Well, I think going forward, we – and it depends what your time horizon is. We believe we can get back to the range where we were. I think we talked about or – I'm sure you're aware, Ryan, that we were in the 24% range this time a year ago. And we think long term, we have strategies that we've talked about, with you and others as far as pricing and price increases and the timing of those things are always not immediate, and they won't be this year. We don't feel that we're going to be changing our typical schedule which is more of towards the end of the year price increase, at least initially try to implement it, and the effect of that to be gained over several periods. But we're working on intermediate steps to reduce cost and tweak different areas of our pricing as opposed to our more across the board price approach that we do on an annual basis. Does that make sense?

Okay, it does, and so you're still kind of chasing prices higher. You did push through parts cleaning price increase early this year. Did you also push through a drum price increase?

We haven't been as effective in realizing it. We definitely had that as part of our plan. But part of the incremental improvements we may be able to drive in the future will relate to initiatives along that line of trying to get more in areas maybe where we've already kind of had the advertized price increase, but haven't been that great at realizing it. So we're working on various projects to get better at doing that.

Okay. And then let me shift gears. Can you give us an update on the permit process for the plant expansion in Indi?

Yes. We continue to work on the permit. We're a bit more optimistic here last quarter about the timing. We were – these permits usually take six months to a year to get. And we thought we could be on the lower end of the spectrum. And so at this time, we're looking at trying to get this permit before the end of the year.

Okay, great. I'm just going to ask one more, and I'll turn it over to others. So it sounds like even with base lube prices coming down a bit, is it still reasonable to expect that over time that 20% EBIT margin goal on the Oil Business, is that sill an achievable target?

Yeah. I think we feel that it is in the current environment. We don't have the crystal ball of where else crude and lube and used oil prices go. But right now, in today's environment, we think that that's certainly within our sights.

Great, thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Our next question is from David Manthey from Robert W Baird. Your question please?

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, David.

First of all, as we look at from the first quarter to the second quarter, your Oil Business revenues were up about $10 million, but your operating costs were up a similar amount. And I'm wondering if you can discuss the components of that sequential increase.

I think you mentioned – clearly there was the $600,000 inventory revaluation, but you mentioned collection trucks and I suppose there is other variable costs and things. Could you talk about just the build-up as we look through first quarter to second quarter or the components of that $10 million that got us there?

I think you hit on some of the main things. We continue to use our strategy of sales – aggressive sales approach when we roll out new trucks. So we've kept doing that for the – throughout the second quarter. So all those operating costs of new trucks, new people to do the actual oil collection and then the people to support the additional effort there whether it's data marketing, training people, extra salespeople, those are all big parts.

And I think we referenced in the conference call over an annual basis, you're talking several million dollars there, Dave. So those are the big things. If we get more efficient in the plant, obviously we're going to be able to leverage the fixed costs that are associated with that as well and even our operating cost on a per gallon basis as we push more to the base oil, so.

Yeah. And if can add just in terms of the way you framed the question obviously, we – by running at higher rates, we're chewing up more feedstock. And so the cost of sales is a big component of the increased total cost as we grow the operation.

Okay. So there is feedstock for the trucks. Can you tell us – I guess the $4 million net effect incorporates the salespeople training and the trucks. Is that correct?

Yeah.

Okay.

If the $10 million includes the value of the used oil?

Yeah.

Okay. Well, then that's by far the biggest factor. And especially when you end up taking the used oil from its used oil form and producing vacuum gas oil. It's almost the best pass through as far as the cost and selling price. But we've done it as a strategy starting from last year. We've done it in order to build our volume of used oil, and – so that when we start converting it to the vacuum gas oil to lube oil, that we will have the material available for sale.

Got it. Okay. And did you say that – well, maybe just what percentage of your production this quarter was base lube oil versus VGO and other products?

Well, the plant...

Did you say 59?

You have the plant run at – for the quarter, the plant run at capacity was 69% of the base lube capacity of the plant. So if the plant is designed to produce 30 million gallons of lube, so we run it at a run-rate of 69% of that figure. The refinery, including VGO production, run over 90%. I don't have the numbers in front of me, but was over 90%.

So you can see the gap between – we ran at a much higher rate overall to the plant, but the production of lube oil was at lower rate. And so that's part of the process in our planning. So we get up to full plant capacity towards the end of the year and base lube.

Yeah. I'd like to add when Joe said it's part of the process, we're really saying from our perspective, this is very expected behavior of starting up a plant, that not all components of the plant are going to run exactly in parallels. We keep ramping it up. We've obviously over six months gone from 0% lube production and running the VGO production at a low rate, and we are just continuing to move those figures up with the goal of making all the lube oil that we can as the highest value product.

And so inconsistencies between the front-end and the back-end will in the next – in the coming quarters result in our either having some surplus VGO that we sell at lower margins or drawing down VGO inventory in quarters that we're able to produce and sell more lube oil. And that's pretty customary or to be expected in the startup mode for a re-refinery.

Once we get to where everything is humming along six, nine months from now, then the expectation would be that typically the plant would run at pretty close to full rates of the front-end and the back-end and we wouldn't be making the intermediate product anymore. But in the short term, what we're seeing is not something that we view in any way as a problem, instead it's something which lends itself to our being able to accelerate our collection, which is desirable to ensure greater feedstock supply for the plant as we continue to run at higher rates and still be able to juggle and keep pace with our development of the finished lube oil market and the operability of the back-end of the plant where we're making the lube oil.

Okay. And just in terms of the chemistry and engineering here, is it correct to think that out of 50 million gallons, there is going to be a 10 million gallon water loss?

And then I was under the impression that even when you're running at full capacity, as you said you'll generate 30 million gallons of lube oil, but doesn't that leave 10 million for intermediates even when you're running optimally?

Yeah. The last 10 million is not the same thing that we would call intermediate. The other pieces that are left – you're right on your volume balance, but the other 10 million that's left in normal operation is not this vacuum gas oil, its asphalt flux or asphalt extender, which is a product sold to the paving industry, and it's light fuels that are sold to burners.

And those have characteristic – the value of those is typically a little less than the VGO, but similar kinds of market behavior. All those byproducts and intermediate products do move with crude oil at spot market price condition.

So it's just a different description for the product. But in normal operation at 50 million gallons a year feed, we take out about 10 million gallons of water, we'd have 30 gallons of the high-value lube oil, and we'd have 10 million gallons of byproduct, asphalt and fuel. You can compare that to what we're talking about is going on now or even was going on six or nine months ago, as we started the plant up, before we could make lube oil, when pretty much all of the used oil we put in was turned into – had the water removed and turned into VGO or some of these other byproducts. We weren't making lube oil at that time.

So it's the VGO material that on the same mass balance gets turned into lube oil. And as our markets for lube oil improve, we'll want to convert all the VGO to the high value lube oil.

Got it. Okay, then in the interest of time here, my last question, I know that the price of Group II oils come down. And you've been talking about this sort of coming off of peak, I understand that, but isn't the – isn't where lube oil is today still above when you gave guidance even the second time on the re-refinery? And I'm just trying to figure out in terms of the spreads here, given you took the inventory revaluation this quarter, does that imply something about better spreads going forward just because your cost is now effectively lower?

Well, let me – I think there is two questions there. First, in terms of where posted lube prices are today, they are better than our 2010 model and forecast, they are worse than the March 2012 business re-forecast. If I were to put them in a range they are probably a little closer to the – still to the 2012 numbers. There is still more room for them to drop before they would move all the way down to the 2010 level.

And that would happen if price of oil drops further or the supply of lube oil gets floppier. And as you know we all follow crude, crude has actually firmed up in the last two weeks, three weeks from where the drop where the minimum was, but then lube oil had continued to decline. And so these are short-term, they may have their own equations, long-term they would smooth out.

And your second point, Dave, about the inventory issue, what you said in a way I'd agree with which is the fact that we had to take the inventory charge clearly reduces our carried value of the inventory such that it means that as we covert that material into lube oil, it improves our margins relative to a case where we did had – not had to write that inventory value down. But in terms, of sort of trying to translate that in to what will our margins be next quarter which I think is what you're really heading, there is too many moving parts and all we can say is taking inventory charge by itself would tend to improve margins, but then we're dealing with changing prices on inputs and outputs and changing operating rates. And so I think those other issues are more important than the impact of the inventory value reduction.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Our next question is from David Mandell of William Blair. Your question please.

Good morning. I think earlier in the call, Joe had said that the cost of used oil has increased from the start of the year, I was just wondering how much it's gone up?

We don't have the numbers in front of us, but I – we can check that, but my vague recollection is $0.10 to $0.15 a gallon.

Yeah, it depends exactly where we pick the starting point because prices were moving fairly quickly as they ramped up and I was going to get something just a little higher depending on where we're looking at, it could have been a $0.20 increase, but it depends on how far back we are comparing it to exactly.

Yeah. We can get you that information, the exact information.

All right, thank you.

Thank you, David.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Andrew O'Neill from Central Securities. Your question please.

Great, thanks Joe, Greg and Mark. I guess, I just wanted to clarify a little bit that the production of base lube oil is the bottleneck, so the back-end of the plant as opposed to your ability to market it and find a market for it once you've produced it, is that accurate?

Not really, I would say if I look at the second quarter, they were pretty close hand in hand. As we were ramping up, production sales were ramping – was also ramping up, new customers coming in and sales ramping up. So it's kind of where we were throughout the quarter.

And I'd add to that – I agree with Joe, that these constraints are, have been at sort of a similar level. It's hard to know which are sort of the critical path or limiting factor, but on the product sales side, taking to consideration that it's sort of nuance issue about how much base oil we can sell because it's connected with discount levels. And we feel generally like we can sell lots more if we were prepared to discount more in the market then is perhaps a good marketing strategy.

And so we're consistently trying to manage that and not get into the habit of discounting a lot in order to move more product than we're producing or need to be able to move, or willing to have some occasional little inventory bubbles if that's helping us preserve the best margins and not get a reputation among customers for being a deep discounter, which could hurt us long-term. So we talk about this several times a week in terms of what our production is and what the customer price and the market pricing is right now, and we try and manage that pretty real-time or close and minimize the discounts that we have to offer.

I see. And presumably as you – as you do more marketing outreach and qualify, you get more I guess full price as opposed to discounted and customer demand and I think one of the critical...

Yeah. I think we are seeing that – that occur and it's – when you talk about why that's happening you mentioned kind of outreach, and that's certainly part of it is just getting the more customers, getting them to try our product, use it, build formulations around it, see that it works and then there are more satisfied and need lots of the discounts next time around.

The other element in the process that Joe mentioned earlier that's perhaps equally important is getting the approvals for certain applications that, that would allow customers to use our base lube oil in some of the more demanding product formulations. And in terms of where we are on that path and how many of these approvals we've gotten, we are probably not halfway yet to have gotten all the approvals we'd expect eventually to get to make our product universally or more versatile to our customers for all the products they are going to use it in.

So today we have customers who arguably could use our base oil in 10 different products if they had all the approvals in place, but they are only using it in two of the products today because the approvals we have are limited. And as we open that up, we will be able to build the inherent demand profile from our customers set itself, more of our product with less discounting.

I see.

Now that's – that's a pretty typical process for any new lube oil plant whether it's re-refining plant or a plant that has been built to run crude oil.

Okay. And does that sort of explain why rather than trying to hold a lot of VGO and force it through into base oil and then get involved with discounting that you are sort of happy to sell it as VGO and keep things moving through the plant.

There's a little of that. But there is – there is also just a simple, couple of pragmatic issues in terms of how much storage we have readily available at the plant site for VGO. And if we start moving a larger amount of that offsite and then bring it back, those are additional costs that we think about. And we also have tried within reason, not to build a huge inventory bubble when we have any kind of mismatch here on the production side because as our – all of our listeners know if we get a whole lot of inventory out there, it's not just the working capital tie up. It's also an exposure to crude price swings that we think adds more volatility to earnings, we'd like to minimize that as much as possible. So I'd say those are the bigger factors rather than the thought about moving it to lube oil.

Okay. And then I guess just last question on where this is all sort of heading, you sort of felt that maybe six months to nine months from now, the plant would be running in a sort of all the way through at the intended design capacity, is – are we still on target to be basically collecting $50 million a year so that we're – basically the whole system at that point is operating the way it should?

Yeah. Either collecting it ourselves or buying a little bit from third-parties and so we need to – we're continuously looking at – these are the two sources, by far the biggest volume will be coming from our own routes but we may elect to continue for strategic reasons to buy some from third-parties.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you very much, Andrew.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session for today. Thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect. Good day.