Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
James Ricchiuti — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated Second Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your questions. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factor today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto; and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Shannon. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This morning, we will begin with an update on the impact of the pandemic, discuss our second quarter results and share our third quarter outlook. Like most companies since the end of March, we have faced many challenges as a result of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Since our company and many of our customers have been deemed essential businesses, we have worked hard to adapt to the challenging operating environment the pandemic has created. To safeguard the well-being of our employees and decrease the spread of the COVID-19 virus, we implemented the following steps during the second quarter.

Provided additional personal protective equipment and sanitizers, utilized a staggered work schedule to increase social distancing, allowed high risk or other impacted individuals to work from home when possible, thoroughly cleaned and disinfected some of our facilities, temporarily closed less than 10 of our facilities, none of which were close for more than three to four business days at a time. These steps along with cooperation of our employees have allowed us to limit the number of confirmed suspected cases of COVID-19 amongst our employees. During the second quarter, total loss time from employees off the job due to COVID-19 related health issues was approximately 5,000 hours company-wide. From a customer standpoint, during the second quarter, we experienced situations where some of our customers temporarily closed their businesses while others remained open, but limited our access to their facilities which curbed our ability to fully service those customers.

Other active customers have had a decreased need for our products and services due to the economic downturn. We continue to encounter these same conditions into the early part of the third quarter. In addition to taking steps to ensure the safety of our employees, during the second quarter we also executed several actions to ensure the health of our business. Some of these actions included, but are not limited to the following, implementation of salary reductions for all levels of management, implementation of furlough and a reduction in force programs, implementation of reductions of cash compensation for members of our board of directors, elimination of 401(k) plan company match, reduction of capital expenditures, suspension of mergers and acquisitions activity, elimination of non-essential travel, implementation of a hiring freeze, thorough assessment of vendors to ensure continuity of critical supplies and materials and lastly the tightening of customer credit controls.

Although we have restarted our mergers and acquisitions activities, many of the other initiatives are [indiscernible] (05:09) today. During the second quarter, we also launched the COVID-19 decontamination service to help our customers implement their return to work strategies. We will continue to offer this service if we see a need for it in the marketplace.

I would now like to spend a little time talking about our Oil Business. During the second quarter, there was a significant drop in demand for crude oil and all refined products due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This deflated demand scenario came on the heels of a battle for market share between two of the world's largest oil producing countries, Saudi Arabia and Russia. This market share battle led to historic oversupply of crude oil and the supply demand dynamics pushed the price of crude oil and finished products to all-time lows during the quarter. While crude pricing has rebounded from historic lows, lower demand as a result of the economic slowdown has resulted in ample supplies of crude oil in the market today.

The shelter-in-place orders which were widespread during the second quarter led to a drastic decrease in driving and lower levels of manufacturing activity. This in turn has led to a decreased need to replace finished lubricants such as engine or hydraulic oil. Less oil changes mean less used oil to be collected and less demand for finished lubricants. As most of you know, base oil is the main ingredient in finished lubricant. As the demand for finished lubricant plummeted, this led to a decreased demand for our base oil as well as downward pressure on the price for our product. Early in the third quarter, we have seen an easing of the shelter-in-place orders in many parts of the country which increased the demand for finished lubricants and base oil.

This allowed base oil producers including Heritage-Crystal Clean to gradually increase prices during the early part of the third quarter. However, the recent resurgence in COVID-19 cases in areas which were the earliest to rescind shelter-in-place orders has the potential to limit the level of improvement we will see in base oil demand and pricing. The steep decline in the price of crude oil during the second quarter which I mentioned earlier led to a decline in value across the oil commodity complex. This provided us an opportunity to move from a slight pay-for-oil position during the first quarter to a significant charge for oil position during the second quarter.

On a net basis from the first quarter and to the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we saw a net improvement of $0.48 per gallon in our charge for oil program. As the price of crude oil has come off historic lows, we have seen increased pricing pressure related to used oil collection charges in the early part of the third quarter. Due to lower demand for our base oil as well as a soft pricing environment, we decided to move up a scheduled extended turnaround from the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 into the second quarter. We also executed the turnaround in a more deliberate pace to limit overtime and other labor costs, which would normally be incurred during the turnaround. As a result of the extended turnaround, the re-refinery was down for approximately three weeks, which led to base oil production of 6.5 million gallons or 57.2% of base oil capacity during the second quarter compared to 11.8 million gallons in the year earlier quarter.

During the early portion of the third quarter, the re-refinery is performing well as we increase production to meet growing base oil demand. We are also experiencing an increasing availability of feedstock, which will improve our plant operating performance and utilization. We are projecting base oil production to be in excess of 11 million gallons for the third quarter provided we are not faced with additional shelter-in-place orders because of accelerating COVID-19 virus cases.

As we move forward, we estimate in the third quarter, the Environmental Services segment will see year-over-year revenue performance slightly better than what we saw for the second quarter. In addition, we estimate the Environmental Services segment operating margin percentage will be 2 to 3 percentage points better than our second quarter operating margin percentage. From an Oil Business segment perspective, we estimate third quarter revenue will be down 25% to 35% from the prior year quarter and we estimate our operating margin will improve sequentially quarter over quarter. We believe we have seen worst of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results. However, recent surges in COVID-19 infections in certain parts of the country could bring new or additional shelter-in-place orders, which could directly or indirectly negatively impact the demand for our services, the health of our workforce and our future financial results.

While our results for the remainder of 2020 and into 2021 are hard to predict. One thing I'm confident of is knowing all of our employees are determined to continue to provide the high level of service, our customers have come to expect from us in a safe manner as possible. I'm also pleased that we have maintained our strong balance sheet and are in a good position to take advantage of improving market conditions. However at this point, we're unable to predict the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

With that, Mark will now walk us through our second quarter financial results.

Thank you, Brian. Good morning everyone. Revenue for the second quarter of 2020 was $79.5 million compared to $105 million for the same quarter of 2019, a decrease of 24.3%. Net loss attributable to common shareholders for the second quarter was $2.7 million compared to net income of $7.1 million in the year earlier quarter. Basic loss per share was $0.11 compared to basic earnings per share of $0.30 in the year ago quarter. Earnings in the current quarter was favorably impacted by $0.20 per share as a result of an adjustment to an accrual established during the fourth quarter of 2019 related to a settled class action lawsuits. Excluding this accrual adjustments, net loss attributable to common shareholders would have been $7.3 million or $0.31 per share.

Moving on to Environmental Services, we recorded segment revenues of $59.8 million compared to $70.2 million in the second quarter of 2019. The 14.8% decrease in revenue was mainly due to COVID-19 related volume declines in most of our product and service lines, partially offset by favorable pricing variances in our parts cleaning, containerized waste and antifreeze lines of business. Environmental Services profit before corporate SG&A expense was $8.3 million compared to $19 million in the year ago quarter. Operating margin declined to 14% from 27% in the second quarter of 2019. But we were pleased with our overall operating performance in this segment given the very challenging economic conditions.

Oil Business segment revenues decreased 43.3% to $19.7 million compared to $34.8 million in the second quarter fiscal 2019 as the COVID-19 pandemic and related shelter-in-place orders led to a significant decrease in the demand for finished lubricants, which directly impacted demand for our base oil products. Pandemic impacts also led to a significant decline in the generation of used oil, which negatively impacted used oil collection and feedstock volumes used in our re-refinery.

As Brian mentioned earlier, these headwinds led us to move up the timing of an extended turnaround at our re-refinery into the second quarter. These unfavorable conditions resulted in our oil business generating negative operating margin of 28.2% for the second quarter. During the second quarter, the weighted average increase in our net charge to customers to collect their used oil was $0.48 per gallon compared to the first quarter of 2020. From a base oil standpoint, we sold 7.1 million gallons during the second quarter and our netback declined [ph] $0.65 (00:14:15) per gallon compared to the first quarter of 2020 and $0.61 per gallon compared to the second quarter of 2019.

Our overall corporate SG&A expense increased slightly by $0.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2019. SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue was 15.3% compared to 11.2% from the year ago quarter. This percentage basis increase was mainly driven by lower revenues and higher severance and bad debt expense partially offset by lower travel expenses, share-based compensation and legal fees.

EBITDA for the second quarter was $2.9 million compared to $13.6 million in the year ago quarter. The company's effective income tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was 8.7% compared to 23.1% in the second quarter fiscal 2019. The rate decrease is principally attributable to the opposing effect on the tax rate from changes in year-to-date earnings in an income quarter as compared to a loss quarter.

At the beginning of the second quarter, we closed on an acquisition of an Environmental Services business focused on field services and wastewater treatment for $10.1 million. This acquisition provides us our first wastewater treatment operation in the Midwestern US as well as the ability to use internal labor to perform various field services projects, albeit in a limited geography. We ended the quarter with $50.8 million of cash on hand.

This balance represents a decline of $9.9 million from the end of the first quarter. In addition to the cash outlay for the acquisition I just mentioned, we also paid out approximately $4.5 million during the quarter – second quarter, excuse me, related to the legal settlement I previously mentioned. The payments made during the second quarter represent all material amounts owed by the company related to the settlement. For the quarter, we were able to generate $7.6 million in operating cash flow and we're also able to generate free cash flow of $4.3 million during the second quarter.

Despite many challenges presented by the COVID-19 outbreak, we maintained a strong balance sheet and net cash position as of the end of the second quarter. We do not expect the impact of the pandemic to force us to exercise any portion of our still unused revolving loan in the coming quarters. As we move forward, we've restarted our acquisition-related activities during the third quarter as we look to leverage our strong balance sheet to execute on opportunities which we believe can create value for our shareholders.

In conclusion, given the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we are pleased with the execution of our team during the second quarter and we believe we are well-positioned for the challenges we may encounter during the third quarter and remainder of the year. We hope everyone stays safe and healthy, and as always we appreciate your continued interest in our company. Thank you for joining us today.

I will now turn the call back to Shannon to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Hoffman with Stifel. Your line is open.

Thank you very much for taking the questions and glad to hear that your employees are safe and all in all okay.

Welcome, Michael. How do you do? How are things on your end?

We can't complain, [ph] it'd disappoint (00:18:02) anyway, right?

We're here to listen.

Yeah. Thanks. I just want to tease out a little bit of your outlook for 3Q to try to understand the pieces. When we think about what was – the rate of change are down and say Environmental Services, parts cleaning is down almost 16%, vacuum is down a little over 20%, but field services is up, antifreeze is down in mid-20s. How do I think about those pieces in 3Q given the rolling reopening of economies and where your branches are located?

Let me talk to what we're currently seeing and maybe Mark can review some additional Q2 history. But we are beginning to see gradually increasing revenue performance from most of our branches obviously Michael, the oilfield has impact – oilfield branches we have 14 that are impacted more severely than the rest of our network. So their current run rate, we're seeing those branches down 18% to 20% year-over-year, the rest of our network running into 10% clip down year-over-year and we're pretty happy with that. Obviously, we're seeing hotspots of COVID-19 around the country and that may impact some branches going forward more than others. Right now, Florida is pretty hot; Texas, we're seeing a little bit of a slowing in some of those branches only because of COVID-19, but overall that'll give you some color on what we're seeing currently.

And Michael if you look at from – Brian talked of the geographic impacts. If you look to the overall line of business impacts, you'd call out the three most important ones. If you look at parts cleaning compared to vacuum and our containerized waste businesses as you just outlined those businesses the latter two were impacted from a negative standpoint about – [ph] had (00:20:10) about twice the decrease on a year-over-year basis than our parts cleaning business did and that really makes sense. I think if you think about it logically, the parts cleaning business is a scheduled routine business and you would expect that compared to businesses where the waste pretty much is connected to production or activity more directly anyway that you'd see a quicker more drastic downturn. So, I think on the way back up, when you think Brian mentioned getting some a couple percentage points increase from last quarter's performance in the ES segment overall, I'd probably say maybe two-thirds of that from the vacuum and containerized waste business combined and a third of that from parts cleaning because parts cleaning has that much less further to come back from as opposed to those two other businesses.

And we don't expect to see any quarter-over-quarter improvement in field services. A lot of the projects that we performed in Q2 are already teed up, Michael, that's why you didn't see any erosion in revenue and field services. We'll begin to see some of that filter through the income statement in Q2 [indiscernible] (00:21:20).

And field services, there is about a little more than $1 million. So if you look at it on a quarter basis, you obviously have looked [ph] through our Q (00:21:29), you got that breakdown, it's close – not quite, but close to 25% of the revenue is kind of COVID-related.

That's the decontamination work.

Yeah.

Yeah. We're obviously doing it for our manufacturing client base, smaller client base. So it's not to the level of some of the other industrial service contractors. But it fits what we do really well because we're supporting our customers and helping them get back to open.

Okay. And then if I switch gears to oil, you shared that you thought you'd be at 11 million gallons of production. That's a very high capacity utilization and I mean that puts you at approaching 100% utilization.

Yeah. And that's provided, Michael, the feedstock continues to be available like it is today, I think I mentioned that in my prepared remarks.

Yeah, yeah. You did. And I wanted to sort of tie that in which is so vehicle miles traveled based on gasoline supplies seem to be back up about 70% from the bottom. So...

Yeah, [ph] slightly a litter (00:22:36) higher than that based on what I'm reading, but yeah definitely way up from where it was.

And therefore oil is back in supply. I think the other part of that question, has the oversupply of base oil been corrected, so we've rebalanced the market relative to the current level of driving?

Yeah, I'm not going to go as far as saying we've rebalanced base oil. I think as you know a lot of refineries have reduced production including us and some of the other re-refiners, which obviously took some base oil out of the marketplace. Very less fuel and distillate demand, which I think will keep the refineries at lower capacity utilization. So for now, we feel pretty good about supply demand on base oil and I'm projecting at least as we put our numbers together for our board over the last couple of days, we're projecting relatively flat base oil pricing near-term, expecting it to be balanced and obviously we'll hit the fourth quarter, which is a slower base oil period, we'll see where it goes from there, but near-term we're projecting flat base oil pricing and pretty good demand. We haven't had any trouble moving the base oil that we've been producing.

We feel pretty good about the 11 million gallons and if you look at our past performance last year. I think we were at 11.7 million gallons for the plant, so getting back close to 100% capacity, now all the way there because – yeah, pretty good demand from our third party supplier. So, I know everybody is seeing increased used motor oil activity based on what I'm hearing from the third parties including us, our route density on our trucks has picked up quite a bit since the worst part of the COVID pandemic, which was April, first part of May.

Okay. And just so [ph] unclear (00:24:40) when you say a flat base oil price that's flat sequentially or flat year-over-year, it's got to be down year-over-year, isn't it?

Yeah. No, sequentially I'm talking just run rates, yeah sequentially [indiscernible] (00:24:52) year-over-year as you know.

Yeah. And just so – how – the relative spread sequentially has been materially enhanced by the charge-for-oil within your collection business, so is that correct?

Yeah. We're happy. I mean we're happier with where our spread is today. I'm not where I want to be, but we've made a lot of progress with our charge for used motor oil, significant progress. We obviously got – you saw [indiscernible] (00:25:27) price increase, so we got a price increase on base oil, which helped our spread. So between the two, we're pleased. I mean I don't know if it gets all the way where we need to be, but I'm much happier than I was in Q2, which is why we're producing base oil.

Okay. And then Mark, the capital spending reduction what are we – where should we be modeling for capital spending as we still work through your cash flow statement?

Yeah, we weren't successful as we wanted to be. We spent roughly from a cash basis a $1.5 million more than what we had forecasted. And I had talked to the market on and I'd rather just conservatively especially since our cash position, we were able to, from an operating basis, produce a better result than we thought. We're probably going to put out and forecast another $3.5 million for Q3 and Q4, and Q4, I know it's an outside calendar quarter, but say, try and shoot for another $7 million total in the second half of the year. And hopefully, we can beat that. I really hope so. It's a matter of when Brian and I get people come and talked about, they need this and they need that, trying to make sure we do the right thing.

Looking a lot of it, Michael, as rolling stock I mean you've heard us on calls before we're buying a lot of our [ph] power (00:26:53) these days and especially on our specialty drugs because we – it lasts longer and reduces our maintenance costs. We like having the asset, we could repurpose the ancillary equipment associated with it. So it makes sense for us and we push a lot of it off, but at some point we know this market is going to recover, our balance sheet is strong. We want to get ourselves into a position to have these plants optimized and have our rolling stock in good shape so we can hit the ground running in 2021.

Okay. And then the last couple around that cash subject. So, clearly cash collections were good, bad debt provisions seem like they were not bad on a percent of total revenues. How do we think about where that trend or – all that overall trend is?

Yeah. I think we take an extra special care on bad debt, especially with the new accounting rules. I think that the CECL standard is what the accountants call it, but to not just – you are normal looking at specific accounts, which we do have some things we desire for, but ramp up that bad debt. So I really think outside, there is some specific account – big account reserves, which always hard to predict. We're probably seeing the worst of it or hopefully [ph] book (00:28:20) the worst of it into our allowance right now, but things could change if shelter-in-place orders hit extra hard again and maybe we'll have a different outlook, but right now I feel pretty comfortable that we're not going to have any additional big shock that we're going to have to absorb in the P&L that our allowance is in good shape.

You always worry Michael as you move from a slight pay for used motor oil to a charge, and there is a lot of smaller customers, never easy to collect money from those guys.

Right. Right. Okay. Fair enough. Thank you for taking the questions. I appreciate it.

Thank you. Appreciate it. Take care.

Yeah. You too.

Our next question comes from Jim Ricchiuti with Needham & Company. Your line is now open.

Hey Jim.

Hi, thank you. Hello. Good morning. Yeah. If I look at...

Good morning, Jim.

Good morning, Mark, the cost reductions in – that we saw in Q2. How much of that is – would you characterize is temporary in nature, I don't know if you could size that? Because I guess what I'm also trying to get to is how should we think about that expense being layered back in as you do start to see the business improves?

I think a vast majority of it is temporary, the layering in and you're not going to probably like my answer because we don't have a ton of clarity there. Certainly at the beginning part of the third quarter, you're seeing those same savings in place. And I would say that for since we're almost halfway done most of the third quarter, they're probably going to be in place and that into the fourth quarter is when you'll see some of those costs come back into frame. I can't tell you how much, how quick. That's about as granular as I can get. But we're already basically halfway through and we're holding the line in. And we've taken advantage, we haven't done any large reduction in force, but we've selectively pruned the tree. There has been some permanency in some of the cost reductions, but most of that we hope we'll bring back but we're depended on activity increasing. Brian, do you have anything to add?

Yeah. Just a second that I mean, obviously, we hope that we could bring these furloughed employees back sooner rather than later. But right now, we're not seeing the revenue increase to justify bringing them back. We feel like we're staffed fairly well. In some markets, we may need to bring people back because as the restrictions have eased like in the Midwest and the Northeast, we're seeing more rapidly recovering revenue. Those were the hardest hit areas early on because of the lockdown. We're seeing improving conditions there. So we may selectively begin to bring people back geographically where we see an increased revenue.

Got it. And then, guys, again with respect to some of the areas where we've seen the flare-ups in recent weeks within the ES business, are you seeing some noticeable impact or is it just a case of the opening of these states has outweighed what we're seeing?

Yeah, I think I mentioned this. Michael asked a similar question. Initially, we saw a greater impact in the Midwest and Northeast because it shut down sooner. Obviously a lot of the Southern states continued to operate although not at 100% but certainly at a greater percentage than Midwest and Northeast. We're kind of seeing the reverse today. A lot of the Southern states have had the flare-ups and we're seeing a little more caution out in the field from our customers where they're pushing back on not wanting us to have access to their plants and people. So, I would say if you look at what's happened the last few weeks, probably a little more of a lesser activity in the southern states, better in the Midwest and Northeast. But overall, our branches in general are running at about 90% clip compared to 2019 with a heavier impact down south and less of Midwest, Northeast because of increased activity as a result of them going back to work.

But, Brian, maybe even in these areas that are most affected, some of the Southern states and again I'm just trying to get a sense it's not anything close to what we saw, it sounds like...

No.

...earlier when we were seeing in the Northeast and some of the other states that really shut down.

No, you're absolutely right. Less of...

Okay.

... [indiscernible] (33:26) certainly. We're still getting the work done... [indiscernible]

(33:29)

And then...

...it's just harder.

I think it's just a reflection of, I think, the general economy, Jim, is getting a little bit more used to navigating with it, so it might not be that much better, the situation, medically but I think we're a little more prepared – incrementally more prepared as an economy.

Okay. Thanks. And just on the M&A side, the idea that you're restarting some of the activities there, what's driving that? Are you seeing some potentially more attractive valuations out there or are you just saying, hey, this is time we should be doing and we've got the balance sheet let's start refocusing on that?

Yeah. I think it's certainly a combination of the two. I don't think people are going to put their companies into play near-term, it doesn't make a lot of sense when your EBITDA run rates are as low as they are today based on historical performance, but it takes time to gen up these opportunities and we think starting now will get us in a position to close some strategic deals in 2021. A very important component of our overall business strategy as we've talked about on many calls. We've done quite a few tuck-ins in three years. We still believe that strategy works for us. Yes, we would like to do bigger deals. It may or may not develop because of struggling balance sheet in 2021 coming out of this pandemic, so we're going to focus on the tuck-ins first and then look for these big strategic opportunities. Certainly with a focus on ES, continued focus on ES, continued focus on wastewater treatment because it fits our vacuum truck business well, it's a type of industrial customer that we like to call on. So really nothing's changed. We just think the opportunities will begin to develop in 2021 and we need to get after it now.

Got it. And last question for me. I know it's a fairly small acquisition, but I'm just curious on that COVID-19 service revenue stream. Is that showing signs of contributing in any somewhat meaningful fashion in the current quarter? I mean, how should we think about that?

I don't have quarter-to-date information right at my fingertips, Jim, but I would think you can basically look forward and whatever your forecast is for the return-to-work approach would be the way I would try and forecast what this business would do. Personally, I think as there is more education around the virus, how long it lives on certain surfaces. We're not planning on this growing much more than kind of around where it's at. And if it does, if it's way bigger, then fantastic. It's a way to help keep our people engaged and obviously offset the headwinds from the other lines of business.

A lot of people in the business, Jim, – I mean our focus was to protect our client base. Certainly, we want to make sure our customers are taken care of and can get back to work and we want to be the ones to help them.

Sure. That makes sense. Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Hi, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

Hey. Good morning. Hey. So I wanted to ask – start off by asking about your expectations for the Environmental Services' operating margin? Third quarter you said I believe 2 percentage to 3 percentage points better than the second quarter. How should we think about that improvement occurring? Is it because you said maybe revenue decline will be slightly less or you taking out more cost, what's kind of driving that expected improvement in the ES's margin?

I'll offer a little commentary and let Mark give more detail if necessary, but yeah, it's driven by both slight uptick in revenue, which we talked about and the full effect of the cost reductions. Obviously the pandemic happened and started really in earnest in March, April and we worked on our cost reduction plan. The cost weren't pulled out of the system until mid-second quarter. So it'll be the full effect of the cost reductions, so a little bit of both.

Yeah. I have nothing to add. That's perfect.

Okay. Good. And then you called out severance and bad debt impacting the corporate SG&A expense. Is there any way you could quantify that impact so we can kind of get an idea of what it was in the quarter and what we might expect for the next couple quarters if those items will be impacting going forward as well?

Yeah. We're not...

Go ahead.

Yeah. Just from a color standpoint, we're not expecting any additional severance or meaningful bad debt changes for Q3 even absent a failure of a customer forecasting that.

Yeah. Severance and it's kind of buried at the back of our press release. It was a little over $300,000 in the quarter, specifically, and then...

Got it.

...bad debt, I can follow-up with you on that detail, Kevin.

Okay. Thanks. And then you mentioned you started to see some pressure on used oil collection charges given commodity prices rebounding. What's the state of the competition there in terms of used oil collectors? You would think they are under pretty significant pressure, given the current environment and also IMO 2020. Are you seeing any competitive failures there or any less competitive pressure over time? I mean, what's the outlook there in terms of the competitive pressures on collection charges?

Yeah, I think our comment on pricing, I mean, obviously we have corporate accounts, so that's indexed to the commodity itself, so that's going to drive some of the price change for used motor oil. We're certainly seeing a lot of the smaller third party used motor oil collectors under pressure. There's not a robust RFO market at least this time of the year. Certainly in the winter, there's more opportunity to move RFO, which is why our phone is ringing and then our supply has increased quite a bit from the worst timeframe in the pandemic, so we feel pretty good about supply.

And yes, I think The Street's fairly stable as of right now, absent any meaningful commodity price change. I don't expect to see much deterioration in our charge for oil over the next couple of periods [indiscernible] (40:45) as you know, oil is so volatile, I'm not going to go beyond that, but certainly near-term, we feel pretty good about competitive pressures and pricing being relatively stable over the near term, the charge for oil.

But just to be clear, we have seen some deterioration from our weighted average for the quarter. So the trend was downward on our charges.

And as price of crude goes up, I mean, obviously that's going to impact our corporate pricing structures.

Okay. Got it. Just following up on your M&A activity, what's – kind of what's most attractive to you in this environment in terms of the environmental – building out the Environmental Services footprint, if you are able to provide any color on that at all?

Yeah. I think I could talk to it generically. I don't really want to spell out what we're looking. There is a lot of competition for acquisitions already, but as you know we really want to focus on the environmental side of our business, drum collections, drum waste management, wastewater treatment, light field service type companies that don't and are not asset heavy that fit with our small-to-mid-size industrial customer base anything, vac truck companies that service those types of customers. So we're really focusing on the customer and then looking for acquisitions that fit in terms of what they do historically. [indiscernible]

(42:26), Kevin, we try and leverage that customer base that we already have. That's one of the big key pillars if we're doing just general screens or high level screens of opportunities, so that hasn't changed.

And then [indiscernible] (42:42) talked about on a few of our phone calls, trying to build up our branch network and capabilities in the western half of the US.

Right. Okay. Got it. That's helpful. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.