Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — Chief Operating Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Sean K. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
David M. Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Brian J. Butler — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, all callers' microphones are muted, and you will have the opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be followed at that time for you to ask your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit to our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the program over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our first quarter 2014 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the first quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our first quarter sales were $66 million compared to $60 million in the first quarter of 2013, an increase of 9.9%. Across both segments of our business, the first quarter was characterized by unusually harsh winter weather which interrupted our service routes and impaired our receipts and shipments of materials. In our Oil Business segment, the extreme winter weather slowed our used oil collections and reduced throughput at our re-refinery. During the quarter, we produced 7.1 million gallons of re-refined base oil at our re-finery. This volume represents an annualized run rate of base oil production of 30.7 million gallons per year or 85% of our current expanded capacity, down from 94% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.

In addition, we experienced an additional shutdown at the refinery during the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2013. The market price for base oil continued to decline in the first quarter, placing further pressure on revenue and margins in our Oil Business.

During the quarter, we further consolidated the number of active used oil collection routes from 150 down to 143. We expect this to improve our route efficiency, enabling us to increase the average volume of used oil collected per truck.

In our fourth quarter conference call, we announced a new initiative to lower the average amount we pay for the used oil we collect. We are pleased to share with you that towards the end of the first quarter, these efforts started to gain traction. At the end of the quarter, we achieved a price reduction of approximately $0.03 per gallon.

Coming as it did at the end of the quarter, this didn't have much impact on our quarter one results, but we expect it to have a positive impact on our margins in subsequent quarters.

Our ability to achieve this cost reduction is a testament to the quality of our service and the good customer relations that our employees have developed with tens of thousands of individual accounts. This also reflects our strong commitment to restore some of the margins we have lost as a result of lower lube oil prices. To manage this cost, we have implemented a daily control system, enabling our regional managers to monitor the price paid by every oil route driver to every customer every day, and to immediately compare this to the previous price we paid.

This has allowed us to effectively manage the reduction and make sure we are making steady progress. While we were disappointed with the performance of our Oil Business segment, we continue to take steps to improve the efficiency of our routes and our re-refinery. For the first four weeks of our second quarter, we ran our re-refinery at or above the nameplate capacity – excuse me, at the nameplate capacity. Also, the base oil market has shown some signs of improved pricing in the second quarter relative to the first quarter.

In our Environmental Services segment, the extreme winter weather limited our same-branch sales growth and created inefficiencies at many of our branches. We also experienced below average solvent recycling yield in our parts cleaning business during the first quarter, which negatively impacted our margins in this segment.

With the winter weather behind us, we expect our results in both business segments will improve in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. We also opened one new branch during the first quarter to bring the total number of branches in our network up to 75.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results, and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCI's first quarter 2014 results with our investors today. In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $4.1 million or 11.8% in the first quarter, compared to the first quarter of 2013.

Of the 73 branches that were in operation throughout both the first quarter of 2014 and 2013, the growth in same-branch sales was 6.2%. The revenue growth figures for same-branch sales exclude revenues generated as a result of acquisitions made during fiscal 2013.

Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $655,000, compared to $650,000 in the fourth quarter of 2014, and compared to $580,000 in the first quarter one year ago.

Operating costs in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $3.3 million compared to the first quarter of 2013. We are disappointed that our operating margin was 22.6% for the quarter, compared to 23.5% in the year ago quarter.

As previously mentioned, harsh winter weather and poor solvent yields negatively impacted our margin during the first quarter.

In the Oil Business segment, sales for the first quarter were up $1.8 million from the first quarter of 2013, as a result of increased production at the re-refinery due to our current expansion program, offset by lower product prices.

In the first quarter, our Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.3 million. As was mentioned earlier, extreme winter weather and lower base oil selling prices negatively impacted our operating efficiencies and margin in this segment. Corporate SG&A was 13.4% of sales, up from 11% in the year ago quarter. The increase during the current quarter was primarily due to higher costs associated with the evaluation of potential acquisitions.

At the end of the quarter, we had $20.4 million of total debt and $19.9 million of cash on hand. We incurred $53,000 of interest expense for the first quarter of 2014, compared to interest expense of $106,000 in the year ago quarter. For the first quarter, we experienced a loss attributable to common stockholders of $1.7 million, compared to $0.4 million in the first quarter of 2013.

Our basic and fully diluted loss per share for the quarter was $0.09 compared to $0.02 in the year ago quarter. We expect to produce improved profitability in future quarters as the harsh winter weather is behind us, and we focus on growing revenue and improving operating margin in both of the segments.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator, and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yes. Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yeah. Good morning, Sean.

Yes. Good morning.

Good morning. So, a few questions here. First thing, I just want to see if I could validate that I heard something correctly from Joe's comments. You're operating now at or above nameplate capacity of that 60 million, at least on the input side thus far in 2Q, did I hear that correctly?

Well, I've clarified that our – in summary, we have operated slightly above the capacity, but I think from a practical point of view, we were at capacity in the first period, the first four weeks. And as we said in our comments, in today's price of – where the lube oil is and the weaker margin, we got to maximize operation of that refinery. And this is where our performance for the quarter was disappointing because of weather factors and additional shutdown at 85% versus what we've seen in the fourth quarter, where we've enjoyed a better performance by running at a higher capacity.

Sure. Okay. Yeah. And I maybe want to validate that was a 2Q comment, sounds like it is. And then on that topic, Joe, we've certainly seen and I think you commented to this a little bit earlier, posted and spot's been improving, but I think we're still down a few percentage points from where we exited 2013. Can you comment a little bit more on this in terms of the realized pricing that you're seeing, and where does this stand today, May 1, rough difference versus what you may have averaged say in either December or March? Thanks.

This is Mark, Sean. Overall, we had in Q1 a lower price, slightly lower than what we had in Q4, and a lot of that's due to the fact that, well, Q4, we started hopefully to see, coming out of Q1, some stabilization and potential signs of improvement. Q4 had the benefit of most of September, October, and we're really riding a downward slope throughout that quarter.

Sure.

And really held down the spot forgetting the specifics of our prices, but the spot market prices for the type of product that we produce and sell were down roughly $0.08. Early in the second quarter, while there are signs of supply tightening and due to some planned, some unplanned shutdowns, Chevron plant not starting, there still is, initially, if you do the math the way we do it and you know how we produce a 150 viscosity product, so we take the average of the posted 100s viscosity and 200s viscosity and do all that math, we're technically in the first four weeks, technically, a little bit down, but...

Right.

...we do see an upward trend, we think, in Q2 versus where they were in Q1.

Okay. All right. Thank you. Now, in terms of the Environmental Services side of business, solvent yields, can you provide a little bit more color in terms of how we improve that there, exactly what happened and to what degree that that's fully resolved?

Yeah, maybe I can provide. This is Joe here and – well, we dragged solvent yield. There's two segments. One is through the return back from our services, from the branches and the other one through the operation of the tower, the recycling tower at the refineries. And what we're seeing here in the first quarter, we've had a very unusual low level of yields compared to what we've been doing quarter-after-quarter and which increased our cost of solvent. So, there's several factors that has affected this.

Weather was a big factor at the refineries, the operation of the tower, and then also materials coming back from the field and backlog of return solvent. When we do a service, we pick up the spent solvent, and if we have less services than what we had planned, we do catch-up in the following period. But we've had a back up of reduction of services in the first quarter because of the shutdown of several branches during the difficult weather condition, and so we didn't do all of the services that we should have done. And as we catch this up in this quarter, that's going to help as well as the tower operation. We rely on our historical performance, and we compare the first quarter with substantially lower in the yield areas.

Okay. So, it sounds like based on what drove those issues, that should naturally resolve itself in the second quarter given much of the challenge was weather-related?

Absolutely.

Okay. And then last question here for the moment. Just going back to the Oil Business side, wanted to understand how much of the negative margin within the Oil Business really was driven by the pricing declines versus other variables, if there's any context you can provide around that that would be great.

Yeah. This is Mark. And Joe and Greg might want to chime in. But from a pure numbers standpoint, if you look at our performance versus Q4, it was a little less than 5% impact of the negative move in margin or decline in margin was due to lower base oil selling price. I don't know Joe, if you want to add.

Yeah. A simple, quick answer here is that the biggest factor is the capacity utilization of the plant, and this is the biggest factor. And the second factor was due to the route, the oil collection routes, the inefficiencies, weather condition affecting this and branch closure during – for the weather condition. And then obviously the lube prices were a factor in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter.

But we're seeing the lube restoring. The prices here is coming up again in the quarter. And now there's still the cloud of the Chevron plant, so we clearly won't know the impact of this thing until the plant is running and things stabilize. But we started a little bit about the lube pricing and excess capacity which is in the market, and I have to say we're seeing some indications here that Group I plants which are under extreme tight margins, some players in this industry will be going out, and this week, we've seen an announcement of Shell in Europe, announcing the shutdown of the 7,000 barrels per day Group I plant doing two stages in 2015 and 2016. I'm sure other players are looking at the older plants and there may be more exits as a result.

Okay. Very helpful. Thanks so much.

Thank you, Sean.

Our next question comes from the line of David Mandell of William Blair. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Regarding the $0.03 per gallon reduction you guys realized in the used oil collection. What is that on a percentage basis, and what kind of reduction are you guys targeting?

Well, we really don't get into what our exact pricing is. So, as far as the percentage of our total, we're not going to discuss that. But we are targeting, not only sustaining that because – I wouldn't say it's easy to get $0.03, but you have to be really focused to make sure you don't go backwards. And we have a sustained program. I don't think we want to limit ourselves and Greg and Joe can comment further, but we do think we have more progress to make. We think the market is still in a place that there's still room to make progress there, and I will let you know or maybe clarify the improvement was really in the last third of our first quarter. Overall, our price had crept up because we had a full quarter, if you will, of higher-priced oil from our acquisition of the RS or Universal Lubricants, RS route. So, it really wasn't even a net benefit to overall PFO or used oil pay in the period, but it certainly is going in the right direction at the tail end of the quarter was, and into this quarter. I don't know if Joe or Greg want to comment.

Well, yeah, I think we've said at last call, and I want to reiterate that this company wants to take a leadership in this industry to reduce the pricing. We're happy to see what we've been able to accomplish. We got 65,000 customers basically and a big organization. And we got some customers that wants high prices, but many customers want service. And so, we're focusing on the one that wants services and price is not essential. And we're driving this through our network, and we expect to do more.

All right. And then regarding the dollars you spent looking at potential acquisitions, can you quantify how much you spent, and maybe put some more color around specifically what you guys are looking at?

Well, we don't really comment on any possible or potential future acquisitions, but as far as the numbers go, it was about $1.1 million, $1.2 million in the quarter.

All right. Thank you for taking my question.

You're welcome. Thanks, David.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke of Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

I was wondering if you could give us an update on the re-refinery expansion, where that stands, and do you expect to still get that completed around the middle of 2014?

We're looking at that to be completed and start it up in the third quarter. Again, the weather didn't help us in the first quarter, putting foundations in extreme conditions in Indianapolis have been an issue for us. But we will be seeing that. At least we're expecting to see this starting in the third quarter.

Okay. And once that you do get up to that higher input capacity, does that do anything to your capacity utilization in the short term, or do you expect to still be able to run that at high rates despite the expansion?

But our objectives from the day-to-day basis is to keep running the plant at its maximum capacity. So, once we get that level, we'll be looking at putting more through the plant and selling the products. I mean that's our objective.

I think part of his question maybe also will the process of building out and finishing the expansion interfere with normal operations in the quarters to come in the next coming months?

Right.

Okay. Sorry. I didn't catch that angle. We have put in place tie-ins, et cetera, and every time we get into a turnaround, for equipment turnaround, we try to put in place these tie-ins so that we can get the other equipment in place without taking a long shutdown. And there are going to be some shutdowns needed, but we don't see these shutdowns are going to be any big factors in quarter two.

Okay. You did mention one additional shutdown at the re-refinery in the first quarter. And was that related to the expansion plans? And how much of an impact does one of those normally have on the capacity utilization?

I mean, this is a hydrotreater.

Yeah, hydrotreater [ph] to catalyst (26:43).

Yeah. And, no, it's not based on our expansion; in the hydrotreating section, we had to change the catalyst ahead of what we anticipated, and the cost of that was about $500,000 in value of catalyst. And obviously, we lost some production, a few days production to change the catalyst.

The way I think about it, a typical or a normal quarter we have is about 84 days. And when we have a normal shutdown, it's typically in the two or three-day range. So a shutdown causes us to lose sort of 3% of our production volume in a quarter. And most quarters, we would have a shutdown, but if we have a second shutdown that can take 3% of the production volume off of the top.

Okay. That's helpful. And you talked about reducing used oil cost by $0.03 per gallon and the fact that it should benefit margins in coming quarters, can you give us some sense as to the magnitude of the margin benefit at all, at least directionally – well, not directionally, but relative to your overall cost structure?

Well, this is Mark, Kevin. We talked about what we've been able to achieve in raw dollars. You can really fill in based on our collection, probably if you look towards the higher seasonal periods of Q2 which comes up from the winter months, our collection yield will be in that 40-plus million gallon range as far as collection on an annual run rate basis. You can roughly do the math based on how much improvement you think we have left to do or can do, we know we can do more. We don't, like I said earlier, I think when a previous caller asked the question, we haven't set a limit on how much more we can improve, but depending on where you want to forecast that, you can do the math pretty easily and get whatever impact would result from that.

Okay. Yeah. Sure. Just last one from me, could you just give a little more insight into the weather impact on the Oil Business? Was that not only difficulty for your own trucks, but also maybe railroads being impaired? Just a little more color or insight on...

Yeah. [ph] We're happy to do that. The fact is, I figured out some (29:33) several ways. We've had to slow down the plant because of supply, and the supply was bringing our own material in. The railroad was a big factor, not being able to operate in certain days in Indianapolis because of the weather, so we didn't receive the material in, even our hydrogen supplier which brings in hydrogen for the hydrotreater because of the shutdown on Highway 65, couldn't bring the stuff in and so we've lost some time, a day, in this case.

And so every time we had an interruption, it affects your throughput. And third party collector, so we buy material from because of road conditions couldn't bring the product in or it couldn't bring in at the same rate. But this was extreme condition, and we've learned our self, we do have feed tank and we try to build the volume before the winter, but we didn't because of the severity, we were impacted and that's now behind.

Okay. The effects of the weather on the plant were more severe just due to these logistics things rather than the shortfall in supply from our own collection operation.

But yeah...

Okay.

This is Mark. To add a tiny bit more color from a route standpoint or feedstock standpoint. It probably impacts our, if you look at the different types of trucks in route business we have, the bad weather that is, more negatively impacted and typically does, our oil collection routes more than anything that the pumps do not get too deep in the weeds, but the pumps tend to freeze up more, obviously box trucks don't – and the other trucks don't even have them, the butterfly valves. Basically, our trucks, primarily pick up oil, but they're picking up oily water streams, machine and coolant as well. Even one day, if the last stop you make is an oily water pickup, that butterfly valve will freeze.

And then a lot of our branches that are in the Northern part of the U.S., we usually plan ahead and arrange for either on-site or off-site inside storage, but this bad weather went so far down south. There were many areas, Kansas City, as an example, where we don't typically have to plan for that. And so, these vehicles are sitting outside. We even had the diesel fuel gelling and that obviously applies to all the route trucks. But particularly, it's the oil route truck is hardest.

And customers were impacted as well. I mean, when our trucks were out, there were an awful lot of customer businesses that were shutdown or operating at reduced activity levels during the same difficult winter months.

Okay, yeah. That's all very helpful. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure. Nice talking with you.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Brian Butler of Wunderlich Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Brian.

Good morning.

First on the environmental side with the kind of the gross margins being down significantly on the sequential basis due to weather. Can you just break out maybe a little bit on how of much that was really the weather, and how much of that is your normal seasonal? And then thinking forward, can you make up in the remainder of 2014, that lost profitability associated with the weather and the environmental business?

This is Mark. I think we can make up some of it. Some of the weather impact is simply due to some of our services. The need for them is activity-based on behalf of our customers. So, to the extent they produce less widgets and they produce one drum of waste every 1,000 widgets or whatever the ratios are, they experience some of the transportation and logistics from that Joe and Greg outlined that we had at our facility. So, some of that you're not going to get back unless they ramp production backup and some of that really gets to the ultimate use of the product. It's generally consumers or retailers that the products are used that way or had less activity which they generally did. Some of that you're not going to make up.

So, we can't define how much that is, but we believe we're starting to make up and we'll make up some of it. But some of it, you won't make up. It's just a lost opportunity. If we look what we would normally expect because – I don't want to compare our margins from Q4 because we normally wouldn't expect that same type of weather condition in our Q1, especially with our Q4 being still into the fall.

The main underperformance was in the solvent area. And some in our drum area, basically the mix even on our machine, the types of machines and services we're doing, the mix of those was unfavorable versus what we would normally plan for. So, you have a certain amount of, let's say, whether it's solvent or aqueous chemistry used in machine X versus machine Y and the difference between how you might price that. It's not all simply tied to how many gallons of solution is in the machine. So, if you get a different mix, you can get then a different impact on your profitability, and it happened to be negative. But this is one of things Brian that swings back and forth between quarters. If you remember last quarter when we had our call, I'd mention there's probably 1.2% of the what made our margins so favorable in Q4 was really, that probably are recouping some of the negative mix that we've had in Q3 prior.

So, some of this is just quarter-to-quarter noise. But the biggest things are in the solvent side and the mix and a little bit on our drums as well.

Okay. That's helpful. And can you touch on a little bit on the feedstock and the utilization on the oil side of the business. And when you think about that 85% utilization, can we draw this out and maybe give a little bit more color on how much was that reduced due to the additional shutdown versus lower volumes on your routes versus how much was third-party volumes impacted?

I don't know that we can really do the math, and specifically identify. That's also inter-related, if Greg and Joe want to comment further. But it really more points to the logistics surrounding getting material to the plant, and that impacted our feedstock, as Greg mentioned, even third-parties, I mean, if Interstate 65 is closed, that impacts both our third-party suppliers and our hydrogen and other consumable suppliers.

So, I would think it's mostly around the logistics of it, I don't know if Greg or Joe want to comment further.

Well, if you want to get into the numbers, we've earlier commented that the plant was running in the first quarter at 85%, compared to 94% in the prior quarter. And, in answer to an earlier question, I said that the additional shutdown could probably be extrapolated to represent about 3% differential. So, had we not had the extra shutdown, our operating rate might have been 88% instead of 85%, still 6% short of the fourth quarter mark. And I would say that most of that 6% differential from Q4 to Q1 was due to other logistical challenges at the re-refinery, the delay in getting product delivered in and transfer. There are places where we had oil stored nearby that we couldn't get it moved to the plant and had to slow down the plant operating rates for extended periods of time.

We have third-party oil available to us, as well as our own oil that we couldn't get there, or when we did get it there then we had delays in loading and shipping it out, and that caused us to slow things. So, I'd say most of that other 6% had more to do with logistical challenges and weather-related operating challenges than it did the scarcity of feedstock in general throughout the system. Is that helpful?

Yeah. That's exactly what I was looking to kind of break out wise. That's very, very good. And I think you answered this, and I had last one, just on the weather in this quarter, that didn't change the timing of the capacity expansion at the oil facility?

Well, it's affected. It's affecting somehow because of the construction, foundation work, et cetera, got delayed. But we're still looking at starting this up in the third quarter of this year. So, there's a little bit of a delay, but not substantial.

So, more at the end of the third quarter versus the beginning of the third quarter, is that kind of general way to think about it?

Yeah. We were looking at – we said early on and we had planned it to start in the middle of the year, that's what we've been scheduling to do, and now we're saying well, it's in the third quarter without being any more specific.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We have a follow-up question from the line of Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yes. Great. Thanks for taking my follow-up here. High-level perspective, wanted to see if we could get some feedback from you folks in terms of the acquisition activity that's been taking place in this space. Specifically, as we think about VeroLube, Vertex Energy getting involved here, how do you think about the risks to your operation based on your regional presence and expansion plans versus really where they either are operating today or plan to in future quarters? Any color around that would be great. Thanks.

Yeah. This is Joe. I can maybe comment on both of these players. VeroLube are looking at finalizing their acquisition of Thermo Fluids, and Thermo Fluids are operating mainly in the Western part of the United States. We have most of our activities away from that market. But we don't see much of an impact with that acquisition and they're looking at building other processing plants, and we've looked at the pattern and the technology of VeroLube and we're not too concerned about the economics of their processes versus what is out there with us and other players in the industry. But it's mainly a geographical presence on the service side of the business.

In the case of Vertex, they've acquired a facility that recycles the product and produces basically vacuum gas oil. That's the largest – one of the two acquired facilities in Louisiana. And so, it kind of changes hands from one player to another player.

It's the same facility, the same kind of throughput. Vertex have, historically been in the Oil Business collecting a little bit of oil. Most of the oil they handle is bringing oil from other parties and directing it from one location to another. And we haven't seen any changes yet in their collection piece of the business.

So, at this stage, we don't see much of an impact on the New Orleans facility. The refinery in Las Vegas, the Bango Refinery, again, we're not active in the Western part of the United States plus the Bango Refinery was shut down. They had an incident last year and my understanding they haven't started the plant up. But even when they start, it's not going to impact what we're doing.

Greg, do you want to add anything more?

No, I guess I just would say that extrapolating beyond just those two and thinking about the entire industry, we know that this has always been a very intriguing industry for entrepreneurs and those with capital to try and get into. It seems to have more activity than many other business areas, and we're not surprised to see continuing initiatives on the part of people that think they've come up with a better technology or have a better strategy.

History would suggest to us that there've been a lot of people that believe they've got a new angle on the business and have tried to develop it, and not very many of them have been able to cut it here. So I think that we expect, not just now, but in the future, we'll keep seeing new people get financing and try and build new technologies, new plants, or acquire existing businesses and build on those. But the one technology that we think has been demonstrated over 30 years that really has worked, and the only one that's worked on a consistent basis, has been re-refining with vacuum distillation and hydrotreating. And it's really only worked when it's been combined with a fully integrated model that includes a broad array of services provided to the customers, and when it's combined with a team with experience that has struggled and learned the mistakes of the past.

And so, it's a very tough business for new entrants. We wish anybody well who wants to try. But it's obviously challenging for us right now with all the experience we bring to bear. And we're much more focused on getting back to doing things right ourselves and fixing the problems and improving on our business, not worrying looking over our shoulder at the many challenges that are going to be faced by new entrants.

Thank you, sir. And thank you for your time and your interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call.

This concludes today's program. You may now disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.