Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — Chief Executive Officer & President, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Luke L. Junk — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by those forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future.

We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our earnings release posted on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. I would like to welcome everyone to our conference call. Last night, we issued our fourth quarter 2016 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial results and our operations for the fourth quarter and for fiscal 2016, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our fourth quarter revenues were $106.7 million compared to $100.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. Fiscal 2016 revenues decreased 0.7% to $347.6 million compared to $350 million for 2015. The increase in fourth quarter revenues in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 was mainly driven by higher charges for our used oil collection services and higher base oil sales volume. The majority of the year-over-year revenue decline was due primarily to lower sales volumes with customers directly and indirectly involved in the energy sector and lower energy surcharge revenue.

Our 2016 fourth quarter EBITDA was a record $11.4 million compared to EBITDA of $0.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.

During the fourth quarter, Environmental Services revenue remained flat at $68.3 million compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. Environmental Services revenues decreased $1.9 million or 0.9% in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015. During the fourth quarter, we stabilized our Environmental Service revenue, and we're optimistic that, after several quarters of decline, we will return to growth this year. Our growth will be possible through a continued focus on our cross-selling initiative. The addition of new branches and sales resources, as well as the expansion [ph] of our margin services (04:16) such as antifreeze and field services.

I have been a part of several successful businesses during my 30 years in the environmental industry, and I am confident our renewed focus on the areas I just described will allow us to restore growth in this segment.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, oil business revenues increased $6.5 million or 20.1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. As I stated earlier, the revenue increase in this segment versus the fourth quarter of 2015 was mainly driven by higher [ph] discrete (04:55) charges and a higher volume of base oil sold.

Compared to the third quarter, our street pricing during the fourth quarter was lower by approximately $0.04 per gallon. The decrease in street price was due to competitive pressures created in part by an increase in the price of crude oil and residual fuel. The same market factors also lead to an increase in our cost for third-party used oil feedstock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the third quarter.

Higher prices for fuel oil are continuing to create headwinds for our used oil collection street price and third-party used oil feedstock during the first quarter. Our base oil selling price also faced headwinds in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2016, as it declined by $0.06 per gallon. Based on current market conditions, we expect base oil prices to move higher during the quarter.

As I begin my second month as President and CEO of the company, I'm impressed by the enthusiasm, energy and ingenuity of our team and it's these qualities combined with unmatched experience of our team, which will be foundation of the next chapter of our growth story.

During the next few months, I will continue to work with the leadership team to refine our strategy with a focus on growing our Environmental Services segment revenue and driving improved operating efficiencies in our Oil Business segment.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mark DeVita, will now discuss our financial results, and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. I'm excited to speak to our investors today about HCCI's fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2016 results. As Brian mentioned, Environmental Services segment revenues were flat in the fourth quarter, down $1.9 million or less than 1% for the year compared to 2015.

The lack of growth in revenue for the quarter was due primarily to weak performance in [ph] solvent (06:57) parts cleaning and vacuum services [ph] at (07:01) customers directly and indirectly involved in the energy sector along with lower energy surcharge revenue. Environmental Services profit before corporate SG&A was a record 30.7% of revenue during the fourth quarter compared to 29.9% in the year-ago quarter.

Environmental Services margins were favorably impacted by lower solvent expense and lower disposal cost, partially offset by higher labor cost in the fourth quarter compared to the year-ago quarter. Full year profit before corporate SG&A was a record 29% of revenue compared to 28.1% of revenue in fiscal 2015.

For the fourth quarter of 2016, Oil Business revenue was $38.5 million compared to $32 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, an increase of $6.5 million or 20.1%. In addition to higher used oil collection street charges and higher base oil sales volume, the increase in revenue was aided by higher oil [ph] filter (08:00) revenue of almost $1 million.

On the other hand, RFO revenue was down approximately $1.8 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, which was mainly due to lower volumes sold. The average price for our base lube oil product decreased by approximately $0.07 from the same quarter in 2015. Oil Business revenue was $123.2 million for fiscal 2016 compared to $123.7 million in fiscal 2015, a decrease of $0.5 million or 0.4%.

Used oil collection street charges increased by over $17 million, while our RFO and base oil revenue were down approximately $12 million and $9 million, respectively. The average price for our base lube oil product decreased approximately 22% compared to fiscal 2015.

In the fourth quarter, our Oil Business profit before corporate SG&A was $1.6 million compared to a loss of $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. Our spreads increased year-over-year. Our base oil price to used oil collection street price spread increased by $0.20 a gallon, while our RFO selling price to used oil collection street price spread increased by $0.35 a gallon. This positive impact was slightly offset by an increase of more than $0.08 a gallon in the price we pay for used oil feedstock from third-party used oil suppliers.

Full year Oil Business income before corporate SG&A was $0.8 million in fiscal 2016 compared to a loss of $7.7 million in fiscal 2015. In the fourth quarter, our overall SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue was 15.5%, up from 15% in the year-ago quarter, mainly due to severance and related costs. Full year corporate SG&A expense for fiscal 2016 was 15.4% of revenue, up from 14% in fiscal 2015, which was mainly due to higher legal fees year-over-year.

At the end of the quarter, we had $64.2 million of total debt and $36.6 million of cash on hand. We incurred $0.6 million of interest expense for the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to interest expense of $0.5 million in the year-ago quarter. We incurred $2.1 million of interest expense for fiscal 2016 compared to $1.9 million of interest expense in fiscal 2015.

For the fourth quarter, we recorded net income of $3.4 million compared to a net loss of $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. Our earnings per basic share for the quarter was $0.15 compared to basic loss per share of $0.11 in the year-ago quarter. After adjusting for severance and related costs, our adjusted basic income per share during the fourth quarter would have been $0.20.

For fiscal 2016, we experienced net income of $5.8 million compared to net income of $1.3 million in 2015. Our basic earnings per share was $0.26 for the year compared to basic income per share of $0.6 in fiscal 2015. After adjusting for severance and related costs, our adjusted basic income per share for fiscal 2016 would have been $0.31. We generated $14.1 million in operating cash flow during the fourth quarter and $38.1 million in fiscal 2016. This represents a 32% increase compared to fiscal 2015.

During the first quarter, we entered into a new credit agreement to refinance our bank debt outstanding at the end of fiscal 2016. Our new $95 million credit facility consists of a $65 million revolver and a $30 million Term A loan. As part of this transaction, we used our cash on hand to reduce our outstanding bank debt by approximately $30 million since the end of 2016.

Also, during the first quarter, we received a partial award from our ongoing arbitration related to our acquisition of FCC Environmental in 2014. As part of this partial award, we received a $5.5 million cash payment for working capital adjustment and related interest. We will record a gain related to the award payment during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect the remaining portion of this arbitration to conclude during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 with the final ruling during the second half of fiscal 2017. We expect to incur additional legal fees of approximately $1 million in relation to the final portion of this arbitration. As part of the arbitration, we will continue to seek reimbursement for these costs.

Thank you for your continued interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn [ph] the control of the (12:50) call over to our operator, and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Luke Junk with Baird. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the call.

Good morning, Luke.

Good morning.

Good morning. First question – a couple of questions on the Environmental business actually. First, I was wondering if you'd be able to break out the growth at your energy influence branches versus non-energy branches. I think you provided some color on that last quarter.

And then, also, maybe I'm splitting [ph] hairs here but I have my notes (13:36) the comps are tracking up a little bit to start the fourth quarter [ph] and I was leaving it up flat, (13:40) So, maybe if you could talk some of the moving parts that just led to some of that flattening exiting the year.

Yeah, no problem. This is Mark. I'll take your questions in order. So, we have given that color before, and I'll give an update for the quarter for Q4, anyway. We had roughly 4% growth in our non-energy sector. [ph] Impacted branches are the (14:00) ones that were not impacted to a great extent and were down about 13% [ph] in the ones that were. (14:06)

And as far as the trajectory of the quarter, obviously, Q4 for us is an abnormally long quarter compared to calendar quarter, and we did have initial positive signs. [ph] They weren't something where we had (14:21) 5% increase in revenue or whatnot in the first couple of weeks of Q4, but we did have an increase. [ph] A lot of that, we (14:30) ended up having. And again, we weren't really down. We're basically flat. It was just due to seasonality.

Typically, we see lower volumes, service volumes, et cetera, in the ES segment businesses as the year ends [ph] and whatever (14:45) slight ahead of last year performance we had at the beginning of the quarter dissipated as we got near the end.

If I can add a quick comment on the energy sector impact. One proxy for how we have had this negative impact has just been looking at drilling rigs and service. And for the last two-plus years, the year-over-year comps on drilling rigs have been negative, a decline in activity in that sector. And February 2017 is now the first time in two years we've seen that get to breakeven, and it looks like a slight uptick in activity. So, that headwind should be behind us after the first quarter.

Luke, we probably added to the oilfield market 250-plus drilling rigs with a heavy concentration of them in West Texas, New Mexico. I think the second best market for drilling rigs would be Oklahoma, which certainly will benefit the branches in those two marketplaces. To a lesser extent, we haven't seen [ph] account of new (15:49) rig activity in Texas. But we do expect, as we get further into this up-cycle in the oilfield, that we'll see rigs added to Texas as well, which will further help us.

And for anybody who is not familiar with this, we do not do significant volumes of work that's directly related to the oilfield activity. We're not out servicing rigs, but it has an indirect effect that's substantial on our business. We're talking about the service companies that have activity supporting the crews that are out in the field, and their business ebbs and flows with the oil prices and [ph] oil drilling (16:24) activity.

And when that business is off, as it's been for the last two years, the amount of waste that we get from those customers [ph] are the parts cleaning needs or (16:32) vacuum service needs diminishes accordingly. So, that's where we felt this pressure and that's where we're optimistic that we're seeing light at the end of the tunnel.

And then, a follow-up question on the pricing side. Obviously, we're in the time of the year, where price increases are going into effect [ph] parts washing (16:52) and whatnot. I think [ph] it notes (16:54) that you're looking ballpark in mid-single digits in terms of pricing, which should be pretty typical.

Two questions related to that. One, are things to this point basically tracking in line with your expectations in terms of environmental pricing? And then, second, just in terms of timing and how that rolls into the first and second quarter here, I assume that we'd assume – should assume that there's more of a full impact on the second quarter than in the first quarter. Is that the right way to think about it?

This is Mark. The first part of your question, we would expect to have the normal realization as far as our Environmental Services segment business' price increases. The timing of which should be in line with what we've traditionally done. We, similar to past years, got our price increase in place in the second half of the fourth quarter. And there is usually a little bit of impact in Q4. We do have some flexibility for our people in the field to get this implemented, meaning from a timing standpoint.

So, if they go out and they haven't had the time to have a discussion [ph] when they (18:00) need to let's say at larger organizations, work through several layers maybe a personnel or management to get things implemented. That's why we see more of a full implementation in Q1. And Q2 would be maybe slightly more of a Q1 [ph] it should (18:14) have a large portion of it realized.

Okay. And then, last question from me, switching over to the Oil Business. And on the prepared comments, you mentioned some of the factors relative to sequential trends in charge for oil and stock prices as well on the base oil. Maybe if you could just put all that together and walk through – I guess it was about 150 bps of margin decline from 3Q to 4Q. Can you just walk through all the pieces there? Was there was anything else beyond the pricing changes, or [ph] is it just the CFO (18:50) in the base oil pricing really?

Those were the two biggest ones. [ph] For (18:56) base oil and street price. We did have, I guess, the third largest piece. And again, it wasn't much of a change from Q3 to Q4. So, they were all relatively small, but trends was also a headwind of about 1% or a little more. It was most – the biggest ones were base oil and street price.

Okay. That's all I've got. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thanks.

And our next question comes from the line of Sean Hannan with Needham. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question here. The first one on Environmental services. I'm just trying to get a better understanding around how you grow that piece of the business. So, we get into 2017. The comps become more favorable. We have less of a drag. You talked a little bit earlier about cross-selling, expanding branches, expansion of services such as antifreeze. So, I suppose where I'd start is, what do you see within the fields that's giving you the encouragement of, say, the cross-sell that can create some revenue pickup? Or what have you done in antifreeze services, how do you see that being able to expand, et cetera? Can you provide us a little bit more color around that because I think that, beyond just getting – past the negative comp, we want to see a little bit more in terms of how we progress forward from here?

This is Mark. I'll answer – I'll give you some comments and feedback, and then Greg or Brian can add. Cross-selling was – and it [ph] was mask size (20:41) the headwinds we had from the energy sector that we seem to talk about a lot in the last three to four quarters. But we were at a rate – this is a $5 million, $6 million additional revenue effort that we think we can gain and, certainly, on a quarter-over-quarter basis, that equivalent number and we were demonstrating that, certainly, in the second half of 2016.

So, this is – it's more of a change in behavior for us. It's not a one-time project. So, we just want to keep doing what we've already been doing. It's not as evident in the actual overall results for the revenue for the Environmental Services segment simply because of those other headwinds that masked it.

But as far as antifreeze goes [ph] and some (21:28) of our other new businesses, Brian mentioned it in his prepared remarks, we're investing and adding new resources. And a lot of those new resources are specifically, as an example, antifreeze new sales and service reps in that market. So – and we're doing some work to create a good foundation. For the locations or branches where we add those, I don't want to get into too much detail there, but it is through the actual head count addition in more people and trucks on the road that's going to help us.

In addition to the ones we have added over the last several years, many of those outside of legacy acquisition routes are nowhere near efficient yet – or not efficient yet, but nowhere near fully loaded. So, they have a lot of runway left.

I don't know, Greg, if you wanted to... [indiscernible]

(22:18) Sean, obviously, I've been on the board for a few years, and I've watched the events unfold around the oil business [ph] and know how (22:28) difficult that's been. We also did a fairly large acquisition, which took our focus away from the Environmental business. I can tell you now that that's the part of the business that I like the most. I'm 100% focused on ensuring that we push our field gas. And as Mark talked about, we've added personnel. We're going to continue to add personnel. We're committed to opening up branches this year.

We are going to continue to be opportunistic, if we see a tuck-in acquisition or two. It's a part of the business that I absolutely love. We've had a lot of [ph] branch calls (23:02) already this year. We're doing a lot of field visits. I think we have momentum built in relatively the Environmental business, and I'm confident that we can get back to some level of growth if you guys are – have consistently seen it from this company in the past.

And as a follow-up to that, we're quite pleased with the strong ES margins we've got and are not reluctant to spend some of that money going forward on investment in faster growth. There are number of opportunities to do that. Antifreeze is one of them, whereas we put out new trucks into markets that don't currently have that service. We're able to get them base loaded and up to breakeven fairly quickly.

And so, that's just one illustration. But as you know, we've done the same thing with other services and branch openings and investing in growth opportunities and then bringing them to fruition. So, we have the resources to do that. We don't – we're not over-levered, and we've got the enthusiasm to get back to growing our ES business, and we're committed to doing that.

So, is this a scenario where you start to tick up in terms of slower, smaller increments of year-on-year growth, first quarter and it works through where maybe second, third quarter, you can get back to an upper-single digit type of year-on-year comp, or how do we think about that materializing at this point now for 2017?

Well, I think you, in general, have a good feel for what we expect. I would tell you, it might – Q2 might be a little soon to get to the high-single digits. It's probably more of a second half event, but we'd certainly want to be and expect to be in the high-single digits in the second half of the year. [ph]

In run rate of (24:53) the second half of the year.

Yeah.

Okay. And then, last question here. I'll jump back in the queue. So, if I back out the non-recurring charges such as severance and so forth for this quarter versus the quarter a year ago, it looks to me, unless I have done the math incorrectly, that Europe SG&A is up about 23%. So, I'm just trying to understand that a little bit better and how we think about you managing your SG&A from here. Of course, understanding that you're putting in some investments around moving the Environmental Services a little bit more, but just wanted to see if we can reconcile a little bit of that and get a good perspective. Thanks.

Well, for SG&A, most of the increase – and we'd have to probably get a little granular. We can probably do that offline, Sean, as to making sure your – when you're identifying and we've done some of that here in the press release in the exhibits or the information at the back of it, but make sure that you're stripping out all the one-time or non-recurring cost. That's obviously a somewhat subjective item, but I can assure you that a vast majority of the cost that we have started to spend and we'll continue to spend in investing in new resources, be it sales and service personnel for new businesses or even just new white collar sales people, all the different things we're doing, these are not going to be SG&A items for the most part. So, that's not a driver of any increased SG&A.

We think we have opportunities not only in operating expense, but in SG&A to reduce it. But if you take out the noise, we're relatively flat – is our view on SG&A. It's still a number that we can drive down, we believe. But I guess it really depends on how you're defining the non-recurring items.

One is in a big block of the non-recurring related to the legal and arbitration and...

Yeah. And some of that is broken up, but – yeah, exactly.

Yeah. I had pulled some of that out. But I think, as we can go through it offline, it sounds like in terms of maybe a weekly run rate from here, there shouldn't be much of an expectation for that to tick up and maybe there's [ph] an even (27:22) opportunity for that to move down, but we'll see. Is that fair?

That is fair.

Okay. Thanks so much.

Thank you, Sean. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Stifel. Your line is now open.

Thank you, all, for taking my questions. If I can circle back on the SG&A just to make sure I understood all that, you would anticipate in absolute dollars – given the non-recurring aspect of these legal fees to be down in absolute dollars in 2017, all things being equal?

Yeah.

Yeah, okay. And if I strip [ph] the legal (28:13) fees out, you're describing it as being flat year-over-year?

It's not just legal fees...

Yeah, go ahead. Sorry, Mark.

So, it's not – we'd have to get a little more granular. Generally, yes.

So, if use $45 million, $46 million for SG&A next year, I mean, you're okay with that?

Are you including D&A?

No.

SG&A related? Yeah.

No – okay.

Yes, then.

Okay. Cool. Let's talk about growth. If you thought about – looking across your branch network today and down at the individual customer, what's the average number of services [indiscernible] (29:00) used oil and antifreeze and oil filter, what's the average number of services compared to best-in-class? And where can we move that to support this idea of organic growth?

Greg, I don't know if you want to take that.

Yeah. I just don't know if we've disclosed that...

We haven't. But maybe, directionally, you can...

Yeah...

As far as how efficient.

Well, I can tell you – your question is actually helpful to illustrate that when we talk about cross-selling, we're not just talking about telling our guys, hey, go sell more. We're actually – we created a system where we aren't measuring this. We just haven't been transparent about disclosing this in public. But the number of services on average that we do for a customer, if you run across our six or seven most substantial services, is less than two.

And we think that, that suggests there's a really big opportunity because the majority of our customers have the potential to use certainly three or four services that the company provides. And in some cases, they could use six or seven services.

And so, what we're doing is developing systems that point each of our different specialized reps to the particular opportunities on their route to talk to prospects about other services that they could be using and they're not using and then getting them to talk about it with incentives and rewards and gathering leads and feeding those back to their appropriate rep to go and prosecute those opportunities.

We did it largely in a test mode in 2016. It worked very well with substantial improvement in the cross-selling metrics at branches, and we attributed that it added millions of dollars of revenue during the year that we wouldn't have gotten otherwise. And so, we're expanding on that concept and using those tools starting in 2017, and I don't think we're going to want to sort of tell you what the numbers are on an absolute basis.

But as Mark said, we may be able to report statistically some information in this year to tell you how we're doing with the project. We'll give some thought how to best describe it so that you can see the results.

But it is proven to be effective at selling and improving all of our lines of business. We had thought [ph] as we were testing this that (31:13) maybe we'd find that one or two of our business activities were the long-hanging fruit and the easy ones to cross-sell and we weren't otherwise that we could really grow all of our businesses if we use these methods. So, I think that's maybe only a partial answer to what you were asking for, Michael. I hope that's helpful.

And can I add a quick additional piece of reminder, I guess, to our other topic we're just talking about Michael. Don't forget we do expect to have additional legal costs that are, we would call, non-recurring or extraordinary related to our arbitration. I mentioned that earlier. At this point, we estimate around $1 million, and that would definitely be in SG&A.

Okay. So, $45 million plus the buck – or $1 million for that plus your – the D&A. And that's the way to think about it?

That's in the range.

Okay. Greg, if I could tease out a little bit in your answer. In the test branches, if you are less than two, what did you improve to?

The number improved. If you think about the number measured by number of services, it's not a dramatic increase when we look at it as how many services the average customer uses. A tiny change and that number moves the top line needle a lot, Michael. So, I think maybe we, on average, might have improved it something like just a couple of hundreds, but it represented millions of dollars of revenue.

Okay.

And that's part of the problem, just figuring out how to report this. I could tell you that we added – if you think about a unit of measure – a customer service. So, we have a customer who uses two services today and we add one and get him to three services, we added one customer service.

If you think about that, we were adding during our test across the company more than a thousand customer services every four weeks while we were doing this test over an extended period of time. And so, again, it doesn't – it's very slow to move that needle in terms of this because we have so many customers. But adding the 1,000 customer services is worth a lot to us. In some respect, it's close to the value of adding a 1,000 new customers if we only had one service when we add a customer. And so, that's very productive.

Okay. Fair enough. Can we just understand a little bit of trend, so we're managing our modeling expectations, a flat 4Q probably [ph] this was down in 1Q (33:51) for seasonal issues and then you reversed it back to flat, slightly positive and then it accelerates. So, that's the way to think about ES?

I think that's logical, yeah.

Okay. That helps. And then, can we switch to used oil, just to get a couple – what was the plant utilization?

It was 92%.

Okay. And was that as you expected, or was there any unusual downtime beyond putting in the new heater or bigger heater?

There was no – yeah, there was no issue with new heater or whatnot. We expect to run at a higher rate than that, to be honest. We did that in the first couple of quarters in the last year. We're at 96%. And Brian mentioned it at the top. There is efficiencies to be gained both on the cost side and leveraging the asset, which obviously both [ph] commit (34:49) profitability from different directions but both improved the profitability. So, this was not an optimal performance quarter, to be honest.

And to give you visibility into Q1, we typically have about one turnaround shutdown and reactor change a quarter. And just because of the timing of the dates, I'm not sure yet. But it's more likely than not, will end up with our second shutdown in Q1 because it will be at the end of the quarter or we'll have 1.5 and it will cross over the end of the quarter. So, we may have reduced production slightly less because of that in Q1 than we otherwise would.

Okay. So, you could be sub-90% in Q1?

I think that's probably fair, close to 90%.

Okay. And then, can you share – you shared this in the past, gallons processed – produced, gallons sold?

Yes, yes. It was 12.7 million gallons and 12.6 million gallons for production and sales for base oil.

Okay. And RFO gallons sold?

We did a little less than 6 million gallons in volume.

Okay. All right. And then, am I correct that – I mean, the base oil has had a nice move in January. It's paused a little bit here in February, as I think people are trying to figure out [indiscernible] (36:21) is going down for a turnaround or not, but it would appear we have got pretty significant price increase year-over-year based on the average of all of last year. If that just holds, there's a pretty nice tailwind just on that alone?

Well, we'll – comps is one thing. When we look at where we were in Q3 versus Q4 versus now, you're basically lost – maybe a loss but it was different on market price. Market price, if you look at spot through one of the services, we are down 12%. And our pricing – our sales guys did a really good job. We weren't down that much, and we pretty much rebounded here in – after one period or one four-week accounting cycle for us to be about where we're right now or at least for that cycle I should say right now, that's the first four weeks of the year, it's around the same point we were for Q3, is there more tailwind there? We believe and Brian remarked or talked to it. We think there is, at least, through the next couple of months some more headwinds going into the springs – or tailwind I should say for further increases. It's hard to tell how much.

Yeah, exactly. This is – Michael, you're right, it's driven by refinery turnarounds and maintenance. Obviously, we think crude is range bound. I mean, we're not going to sit here and predict the price of crude, but we do think we'll get above near term, and then it will probably flatten out as our current forecast.

Okay. I'm probably [ph] way to in the weeds (38:01) the way you described that. But I mean, at its simplest level, am I sitting here with a $0.20 or $0.30 tailwind? But when I look at all of the average of last year's price versus where I am at the – on the post – the spot price today, that's what it appears like. It's about $0.30 gap right now.

I...

Am I misreading that spot? I mean, that's public data that's on Lube Report, blah, blah, blah. It's...

Well, our – I can speak to what our spot data is. Our spot data is saying right now and I'll start back by, in Q3, it was around a little less than about $1.70 for the quarter then for Q4 about $1.56. Now, it's up to the high-$1.70s and it has some room to move in the coming months. But if you look at Q1 last year, we were at – yeah. So, you're probably right, at Q1 last year, for spot, it was done in the mid-$1.30s. So, there is probably even more than what you're seeing on a year-over-year basis.

Yeah. And then, the energy price moved around. And so, when you look at it on a full year average – okay, so there's a nice tailwind in theory. All things, if you held this exact same utilization, same amount of gallons, I've got nothing else, I've got a price lever, I should be able to count it.

But Brian mentioned there is tremendous competitive pricing on the frontend of the spread. So, if you are looking year-over-year for Q1, you'll remember – we don't give exact numbers, but you'll remember in that range that we were at for Q1, we have gone from Q4 2015 of charging $0.015 up in that $0.30 range and we've had pressure downward, not only from Q3 to Q4.

But Brian alluded to we've had additional pressure probably to the tune of [ph] a nickel or whatnot (40:07) on street price already in Q1, so far. So – and that doesn't seem to be subsiding. So, we're going to eat up on a year-over-year basis. We're going to eat up a lot of spread that you might get on the backend improvement with a potential deterioration on the frontend.

Yeah. But – I mean, if I'm collecting 100 gallons on the frontend and you're making 60 gallons on the back, which is your rough average and I'm only down a nickel on the frontend and up $0.30 in the back. I mean, I still got a – it should be a favorable spread.

Well, you got to look at the weighted average for the fourth quarter for us. That's a pretty long quarter. It was trending downward at the end, so $0.05 is from that downward – or, well, not from the downward, but the other thing you got to look at is third-party. We're buying in over 20% of our volume, what we did in Q4. Brian mentioned this as well. Fuel, residual fuel and other fuel, oil prices are putting pressure on that number as well. That's climbing for us. So, we're getting hit on both ends of the feedstock gain.

Okay, okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Michael.

Thanks.

Thank you.

And we do have a follow-up question from Sean Hannan with Needham. Your line is now open.

Thanks. After that thorough questioning, I actually have a lot of things that are now answered. One thing just to check back on stat-wise. Did I hear an average for the same branch sales and average sales per working day for your Environmental Services side?

No, we haven't spoken to that, mainly because we really haven't added or at least through 2016. Now, we've already taken steps to add branches here in the beginning of 2016 officially, but the [ph] brand's count was (42:15) basically the same, so you're basically looking at the same branch sales as similar to our overall ES sales because again we don't include oil sales and branch sales.

Yeah, as the revenues were flat, yeah. [indiscernible]

(42:28) flat store, yeah.

Okay. All right.

Should we get back into growth mode and if there is a meaningful difference, we'll get back to reporting that in the future.

Sure. It makes sense. Okay. Thanks very much for the time.

Thank you.

Thank you, Sean.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.