corrected transcript


Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
 
HCCI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Joseph Chalhoub
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Gregory Ray
 
– CFO, Secretary & VP-Business Management


Other Participants


Ryan Merkel
 
– Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC


David J. Manthey
 
– Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets


Sean K. F. Hannan
 
– Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC


Wilmot H. Kidd
 
– Chairman & President, Central Securities Corp.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean,


Incorporated First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded.


[Operator Instructions]


Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words “aim,”


“anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “should,” “will


be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “would” and similar expressions identify forward-looking


statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks


and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.


These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as


representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after


this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our


earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may


affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the


Investor Relations section of our website.


Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as “Earnings Before


Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization, or EBITDA,” are non-GAAP measures. Please see


our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.


For more information about our Company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.


With us today, from the company, are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph


Chalhoub; the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray;


and the VP Oil and Chief Accounting Officer, Ms. Ellie Chaves. At this time I would like to turn the


call over to Mr. Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead sir.


Joseph Chalhoub, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our first quarter 2011 press


release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. Today, we will


discuss the financials and our operations in the first quarter. Greg will discuss some of the changes


to our financial reporting, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.
corrected transcript


Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
 
HCCI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We are pleased to report that our first quarter sales were $28.7 million compared to $24 million in


the first quarter of 2010, reflecting a growth rate of 20%. Our average sales per working day


increased to approximately $480,000 compared to $475,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and


compared to $400,000 in the same quarter one year ago.


As we said in our last conference call, we opened four new branches in the first quarter, bringing


the total number of branches in operation to 66. Of these branches, there were 62 that were in


operation throughout both the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, and the growth in same-branch sales


for these branches was 17%.


We continue to make good progress on our used oil re-refining project. Through the end of the first


quarter, we have spent and capitalized approximately $21 million and have issued an additional $9


million of purchase commitment. We are pleased that the project continues ahead of schedule, and


based on this progress, we now expect production of intermediate products in the third quarter of


this year and startup of lube oil production near the end of the year.


We have recently begun hiring more staff in anticipation of the re-refining plant startup. We have


added a lube industry sales veteran, Cary Palulis, as our VP of Base Lubricant Sales. We have


also hired a great group of refinery operators, maintenance staff and laboratory personnel. Most of


these people are currently engaged in activities that allow us to capitalize their labor until startup.


We continue the expansion of our used oil collection program. During the quarter, we added five


new oil collection trucks organically. We also acquired additional route trucks and volume through


our acquisition of the Warrior Group as announced in our last quarter earnings release. The


integration of the Warrior Group is going as planned and we are happy to welcome the new


employees to our company.


By the end of the period, we had 57 oil collection trucks, and we expect to continue to add new


trucks at an accelerated pace in 2011. While this accelerated expansion puts downward pressure


on our operating margins, our staff has been able to obtain new customers and get new trucks to


breakeven in a reasonable period of time.


Overall, the attitude to win at the Heritage-Crystal Clean remains strong. Our sales team continues


to grow both our Environmental Services business and our Oil business. We are all very excited


about the additional growth we anticipate once the re-refinery begins operating.


Our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray, will now


further discuss the financial results and then we will open the call for your questions.


Gregory Ray, CFO, Secretary & VP-Business Management


Thank you, Joe. It’s good to be with our investors today for HCCI’s First Quarter 2011 Conference


Call. First, I would like to clarify some of the new terms Joe used earlier. As we enter the used oil


re-refining business, we have decided to begin reporting our company’s activity in two operating


segments. The first segment is Environmental Services, which includes parts cleaning,


containerized waste and vacuum services. The second segment is our Oil business, which includes


used oil collection and re-refining.


We feel that this new way of reporting provide investors with a better understanding of our


business, as we feel that these two segments will likely have different variables contributing to their


results. In the current quarter and until we begin operating our re-refinery, our Oil business segment


will reflect our used oil collection activity and also our sales of the used oil we collect.