Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — CFO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David Mandell — Research Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Sean K. F. Hannan — Senior Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Ryan Merkel — Junior Research Associate, William Blair & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for your question. We ask that our callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements.

These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to the SEC filing, including our Annual Report on Form-10K, as well as our earnings release posted on website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting our investor relations section of our website. Also please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA or non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; and Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Joe Chalhoub. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. And welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our second quarter 2011 press release and posted it on the investor relations page of our website for your review. This morning we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the second quarter and first half of the year and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our second quarter sales were $32 million compared to $25.3 million in the second quarter of 2010 reflecting a growth rate of 26.5%. Year-to-date, sales increased 23.1% to $60.7 million compared to $49.3 million in the first half of 2010. Our average sales per working day increased to approximately $540,000 compared to $480,000 in the first quarter of 2011 and compared to $430,000 in the same quarter one year ago.

In our last conference call, we announced that we opened four new branches in the first quarter, which is typically when we open most branches. In the second quarter we opened one additional branch bringing the total number of branches in operation to 67. Of these branches, there were 62 that were in operations throughout both the second quarters of 2011 and 2010. And the growth in same-branch sales for these branches was 20.6%. For the first half of this year, same-branch sales increased 18.9% based on the 62 branches that were in operation throughout both the first halves of 2011 and 2010.

Construction of the re-refinery remains on schedule for production of lube oil near the end of the year. We have now completed construction of the front end of the plant and have started operational testing of this section with the expectation that we would begin producing and selling intermediate products during the third quarter.

Through the end of the second quarter, we have spent and capitalized approximately $30 million and have issued an additional $6.1 million of purchase commitments. Overall, we are very pleased with the progress of this project. In the second quarter, we continued the expansion of our used oil collection program, adding seven new oil collection trucks. By the end of the period, we had 64 oil collection trucks and we expect to continue to add new trucks at an accelerated pace in 2011.

While this accelerated expansion puts downward pressure on our operating margins, our staff has been able to obtain new customers and get new trucks to breakeven at a reasonable period of time. The additional volume collected internally contributed to higher sales in the second quarter. I am pleased that we are able to report good progress with our used oil collection including the acceleration in our truck deployment and continued geographic expansion. This shows that we are realizing our plan for organic growth in this segment.

In my view, this progress is only possible because of the 12 prior years we have invested in building our large branch network. So today, we have personnel, management and sites needed to deliver this growth. These are exciting times in our organization and both the environmental services and oil business teams are engaged and look forward to opportunities ahead of us.

Our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President – Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray will now further discuss the financial results and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's second quarter 2011 conference call. I'm pleased with our second quarter revenue growth as outlined in last evening's press release. Revenues continue to grow a double digit rates in both of our segments.

In the environmental services segment, sales grew $3.5 million or 14.5% in the second quarter and $6.9 million or 14.6% for the first half of the year. Operating costs in this segment increased approximately $3.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2010 and $6.5 million compared to the first half of 2010.

Approximately $1.5 million of the cost increase compared to the year ago quarter was due to higher energy prices. As higher prices for fuel, transportation and solvent were partially offset by a corresponding inventory valuation benefit. Additionally, our transportation costs were higher than a year ago as we had some temporary re-routing costs due to the construction of the re-refinery, which impacted the logistics at our Indianapolis hub.

In response to the rise in costs of petroleum-related prices, we implemented a fuel surcharge on our services effective the second quarter, which provided some additional relief to the higher costs for products and services impacted by higher prices of crude.

In the oil business segment, sales for the second quarter grew $3.1 million or 259% and for the first half, sales grew $4.5 million or 184% as a result of growth in our oil collection volumes and also higher prices for fuel oil sales.

Compared to the year-ago quarter, our oil business loss before corporate SG&A improved by approximately $100,000 resulting in a reduced loss of $400,000. For the first half of the year our oil business loss before corporate SG&A increased by approximately $400,000 to $1.2 million.

The oil business profitability before corporate SG&A improved on a sequential quarterly basis even though we rolled out seven new oil collection trucks. This is a result of the additional gallons collected as we improved the productivity of young routes and the increase in selling price of the used oil into the fuel market.

Of course, as we have noted previously, the rollout of new used oil route trucks is not immediately profitable and this puts pressure on our margins. Our losses in newer routes was approximately $800,000 for the second quarter and approximately $1.4 million for the first half of the year. In this segment additional energy related costs for fuel, transportation and used oil were partially mitigated by the increased value of used oil inventory.

Our revenue in the oil business segment in the latest quarter was almost entirely derived from the sale of used oil as fuel. In the future when our re-refinery is operating we expect to reduce or eliminate our sales of unprocessed used oil and instead re-refine this material and sell the resulting lube base oil and byproducts.

Joe motioned that our overall same-branch sales growth increased by 20.6% in the latest quarter. And I would like to make a comment on this statistic, over the past several years this has been a useful metric for our business, but we think it may become less meaningful in the coming year as we expect to see substantial sales growth from our re-refining business, which in some ways does not directly reflect our branch activity. To address this in future quarters we propose to re-task this measure and report same-branch sales growth for the environmental services segment. We think this will provide a more meaningful benchmark for our investors.

Returning to a discussion of our second quarter results, corporate SG&A was 15.6% on sales down from 17.5% in the year ago quarter. For the first half of the year corporate SG&A was 15.9% of sales down from 17.8% for the first half of 2010.

During the second quarter we made the initial draw of $10 million on our term A loan to fund investment in our re-refinery. And at the end of the quarter, we have $10 million of bank debt and $7.4 million of cash. We incurred $10,000 of interest expense for the second quarter of 2011, compared to zero interest in the year-ago quarter. And we incurred $14,000 of interest in the first half of this year, compared to none in the first half of 2010.

For the second quarter, our net income available to common stockholders was $700,000, compared to $900,000 in the second quarter of 2010. For the first half, our net income available to common stockholders was $1.1 million compared to $1.6 million in the first half of 2010. Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were both $0.05 compared to $0.09 and $0.08 in the year ago quarter. For the first half of the year, our basic and fully diluted earnings per share was $0.07, compared to $0.15 in the first half of last year, when we have fewer shares outstanding. The increased number of shares this year is a result of our June 2010 offering.

Although Q2 was a good quarter for us, we are more focused on the view looking forward.

The testing phase for the front end of our re-refinery has started off well due to the continued good work of our engineering team and our plant operation staff. We hope to begin producing some marketable intermediate products in the third quarter. More importantly we've remained on track with the overall project and are still targeting around the end of 2011 to begin lube oil production. With the re-refinery coming along nicely and our branches growing the customer base and building collection volumes of used oil. This is an exciting time in our company.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and he will advice you the procedure to submit your questions. Thank you.

Thank you sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Mandell from William Blair.

Good morning. Do you guys have any sense whether you will be able to sell the intermediate products produced by the re-refinery and what impact that might have for the rest of the year?

Yes, we have began as we said here the startup shakedown of the re-refinery and we have at least for the front end of the plant we've been producing some product, [ph] the centers are out (15:02) in the hands of our customers and I really couldn't comment further and so we will know here shortly where we stand. If this product could be sold we expect a small contribution, positive contribution as we sell this as an intermediate product out in the market. And on the other hand we are also looking and building some inventory of this product so that when the second half of the re-refinery is ready to go we can get this processed into lubricants. This is due to the pretty strong demand and pricing we're seeing in the market today with the lube oil business.

All right. And then on the Warrior acquisition, how is the integration going there? And are you guys still out there looking for more opportunities?

The integration is pretty well done. We have moved the raw trucks into our branch structure. We've been able to retain the customers, the volume, and practically most of the employees. And so we feel good – the efforts going in to get this integrated. We are looking, we'll continue to be looking at oil, used oil route acquisitions and we just need to get comfortable with the economics of doing this versus doing organically.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, David.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (17:14) from Robert W. Baird.

First, I was wondering if you could maybe discuss a little bit more some of the moving pieces with higher input costs this quarter. I know you mentioned the impact on fuel and solvent prices. I was wondering if there's any impact on inventory relating to either a buildup or a draw down on inventory this quarter.

I don't think that there was a significant change in the volume of our inventory, but I think that we did get benefit from higher prices that flow through inventory. And as you may remember from prior discussions with the inventory accounting model that we are doing that flows through gradually, we kind of track our inventory in layers. And so it's a fairly complicated thing to simply describe. But we did have benefits on the total inventory valuation side that resulted from higher prices that mitigated the full impact of the higher costs we would otherwise have experienced for all the hydrocarbon-related products. Sorry, it's not more specific but directionally that maybe makes sense.

Okay, that's helpful. And then, as it relates to looking at year-end and getting the re-refinery up and running, I know last quarter that you brought on a new VP of base lubricant sales. I was just wondering if you could give an update on how conversations are going with potential customers and what the visibility looks like for sales of that product once the re-refinery is up and running.

Our VP of base lubricant sales has been doing a canvassing of market opportunities. He is quite optimistic. He has been going through the exercise of trying to determine how to allocate the production that we'll have. And so – and implicitly he believes that there's a strong market out there and he doesn't currently feel that he is going to have any difficulties moving the product – the lube oil product that we make.

The overall market remains tight for supply of lube oil in the United States. There continued to be occasional reports about customers who are having difficulty getting as much lube base oil as they want to continue producing their products. And the situation is very good in terms of a new entrant coming into this market we feel. So we're quite pleased that it's worked out that way and that we seem to had lucky timing in terms of this development.

And then just one more question if I could quickly, as it relates to the intermediate market I know – maybe just a follow up there, last quarter you just mentioned that in recent months that market have been pretty strong but the caveat there can be pretty variable from one quarter to the next. Do you still see that market is strong in the second quarter or has there been some kind of change there?

Are you talking about the market for the intermediate product?

Correct.

I am not sure if we felt that there was sort of a seasonality or volatility to that market, maybe the pricing we have might have reflected some discussion about that and the pricing remains good. The big question that we've really had and I think I have shared in the past in these calls has been whether the nature of product that we are going to make is going to neatly fit the specifications that our customers would have for this material. There are large volumes of these kinds of materials that are traded typically between major refineries and our products since it's not sort of custom designed in order to meet these product's specs may or may not be within the range of what these different customers are looking for.

That's why as Joe said we've got samples out and being evaluated and tested now and if they are viewed as adequate then the overall market demand for these kinds of product is quite large and we really think it's primarily just a matter of meeting specifications and that if we meet the specifications that we shouldn't have a lot of difficulty selling the product.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Sean Hannan from Needham & Company.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Sean.

Just switching over to the other side of your business, and I apologize I joined your call a little bit late, so apologies if you had already gone through this. But can you perhaps provide a little bit of breakdown around the performance within your environmental services group and really what you feel was driving that? It seems like it was back – it remains just a kind of back that 15-ish year-over-year growth, so some color there would be helpful.

Sure, happy to do that. We did not – you didn't miss that on the call, so no apology is needed. The themes for growth in the environmental service business I would say are consistent with what we have talked about in every prior quarter since the recession ended for us. And that is that we can look at sort of different pieces of the growth in environmental services to build up what contributes to that 15% growth right now. An element of it that's fairly easy to talk about and separate out is our price improvement. And our increase in parts cleaning prices typically has been and I think in latest year has been in the range of 5% or 6% on year-over-year basis. So parts cleaning representing around half of our revenue in environmental services, you'd have to dilute that down against the price increases for other environmental service that may be only 2% on a blended price increase then it's probably in the order of 4% or so of the 15%.

The rest of the growth inevitably then is all volume-related and so we can look at where the volume growth comes from. And typically very little of the volume growth comes from newly opened branches because they take a while to ramp up. So when we think about our same branch growth statistic, almost all of the real volume growth is in our year – branches that have been in operation for more than a year.

The growth in the business includes both new customers obtainment, which continues at a good pace as well as cross-selling and we think that we're still seeing good progress with cross-selling customers and as we get oil accounts that gives us opportunities to cross-sell our parts cleaning services. Additionally in parts cleaning, we have experienced sort of above normal growth over a while now with our Aqueous parts cleaning program which has been growing at a faster rate than the overall rate of the parts cleaning business. And Aqueous parts cleaning, for those of you who haven't heard us talk about it before, refers to cleaning solutions that are water-based and we have a very strong line of Aqueous parts cleaners including good chemistry and good machines that are proprietary to us.

So that's been experiencing good growth relative to the overall of our solvent parts cleaning business. The drum – waste business that we have which is an important slice of our environmental service has also shown good volume growth. So really, I guess in summary all aspects of this environmental business have been showing growth that has been fairly steady and consistent now over the last several quarters.

Okay. So – and then really parts cleaning standing out a little bit more aided by the price increases?

The price increases and the success with Aqueous.

Great. Okay, that's helpful. And then – so then overall looking at the broader model, can you help to provide a little color around how we should think about SG&A changing through the year and perhaps just at least directionally in 2012 how substantial it could be versus say June levels? And the reason considering of course the effort that you may have around the intermediate products and more importantly go live around this year, your re-refining facility?

On the intermediate product sale – this is going to be handled by existing staff who are pretty well familiar with the outlook in this market so we are really not hiring any staff for this. We have as we mentioned we already have added staff, senior staff here as Vice President of our lube sales has been with the company now for a few months. Generally speaking, the SG&A as the percentage of the sales should be dropping as we increase sales. We are going in to the intermediate product sales and then at the end of the year start making lube oil. And so we would see the top line growing rapidly in the whole business with relatively small percentage of sales going into SG&A. We have already added most of the staffing as we speak in here in SG&A some more to come. So we'll see some improvement in that area.

Okay, terrific. Thanks very much for the color.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from George [ph] Gus (27:43) from Environment Business.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning. Part of my question was answered in your last answer, but I did want to – sort of have you expand on the environmental services sector and some of the drivers for growth. What are – what have been some of the healthy client sectors for that side of the business and which sectors do you see as really driving forward good business going forward over the rest of this year and next?

I'm happy to try and answer that George. We really in our business have at a high level just segmented and talked about two main customer groups that purchase or use most of our services. There is the vehicle service side, which is sort of aftermarket repair and maintenance of cars, trucks and other vehicles and there are the industrial or manufacturing customers, which is a much – sort of broader catch-all that includes anybody from sheet metal benders and assembly lines to print shops and anybody who is doing any kind of manufacturing work.

In the last year, we've seen good growth in our customer count on both sides of that ledger. The phenomenon we've had over several years is that we were – although we continue to grow our customer count, the industrial or manufacturing side of our business was down substantially in revenue and volume during the recession, and that that's come back nicely in 2010 and we're continuing to feel like it's a more normal economic growth rate for us.

The automotive or vehicle service side didn't suffer as much during the recession, but really in both of those categories, we've continued to get good growth. As our focus the last year has been heavy on growing our used oil collection business, that tends to keep us maybe a little bit more focused on the vehicles side. You might assume that all the oil we were collecting was coming out of automotive shops but that's not quite right because there are plenty of manufacturers who have hydraulic fluids, cutting oils, compressor oils things like that that also need service. So it's not totally skewed towards automotive but we continue to get good growth in customers and revenue on both sides. And I realize that may be a bit of a high level discussion, I don't know if that answered your question. If it didn't, feel free to follow up.

No, that's fine. That's great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, George.

Thank you. And our next question comes from David Mandell from William Blair.

Actually, it's Ryan Merkel. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning.

I joined the call late, but just wanted to get a sense from you guys, any competitive reaction or response to you ramping up in the oil collection business?

No, not really. The oil collection business other than three large players is very fragmented and the members or people in the business are parts of what we call NORA, National Oil Recycling Association and there are over 200 members and there's more oil collectors that are not also members. So we haven't seen a response. Obviously this is a very competitive market but we feel really pretty unique in this area with our branch structure and it's taken us a long time, as I said in my presentation to put and build these 67 branches and we're handling 45,000 customers and adding them at a pretty good clip as we speak with the rollout of the oil business.

And so it's one customer at a time, but we have that infrastructure that the independent smaller collectors don't have. They've done a good job running these businesses, but they have not structured the way we have with a centrally controlled sales management throughout regions and then branches.

So we like – we've been pretty pleased with the results of the organic growth but we'll keep an eye on acquisitions, it's one way of growing even faster.

And to add to Joe's point about the way that our growth, because it's – excuse me – geographically distributed doesn't make a huge splash in any single market typically. At the point we're at right now, we're still probably collecting less than 2% of the used oil in the United States. So it's not like we've done something that it's terribly dramatic and where we'd expect competitors to react vigorously.

Okay. Thank you for the color. And then just second question, it looks like you've passed on fuel surcharges, do think that you've recovered most of the increase in diesel at this point or is there still may be a little bit more to go?

Let me answer that. The – when we measure what we are trying to recover or sort of have a target idea it's not just diesel, sort of diesel and solvent, which are our big energy related costs and with the surcharges we put in place which have been acceptably received. We have probably recovered a majority of that where we stand today but not all of it. We're somewhere between the 50% and the 100% range of recovering those costs at current levels.

And we'll just keep watching it and see if we feel that the prices are going up further and we can do more to recover those through surcharges we will, of course we also in some sense recover those higher costs each year through price increases and it's not a bright line as to whether our late 2010 price increase, how much of that should have really gone towards some higher costs for these energy constituents. It's not a neat equation if that makes sense but we – if you just look at the surcharges against year-over-year energy price costs, we've not fully recovered them.

Thanks for taking the questions.

Sure, our pleasure. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] I am showing no further questions at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call. And have a wonderful day.