Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David M. Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Luke L. Junk — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask question. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future.

We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. And welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our first quarter 2016 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the first quarter and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our first quarter revenues were $78.5 million compared to $84 million in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease of 6.6%, the decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the pricing of our oil products in the Oil Business segment due to the lower crude oil price.

In our Environmental Services segment, revenues decreased 1% compared to the first quarter of 2015. The lack of growth in this segment is primarily the result of a decline in activity at customers in and around the oil industry and lower energy surcharge revenue due to lower energy cost.

Even with the slight decline in revenue, we're pleased that we were able to increase our operating margins in the segment by almost 300 basis points in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter last year.

While the headwind to our Environmental Services revenue growth have been stronger than anticipated we believe our focus on cross selling to our over 100,000 customer locations will allow us to return to our historical growth rate before the end of fiscal 2016.

First quarter results in the Oil Business segment were negatively impacteded by the continuous decline and the price of crude oil during January and February, which lead to a decrease in the price of our product. During the first quarter, revenue decreased $5.1 million that's of 16.2% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015.

However, we were able to make progress in several areas of the business which should position us for improved performance during the remainder of 2016. During the first quarter, we increased the weighted average price. We charge our customers for our used oil collection service by over $0.25 per gallon compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.

This contributed approximately $4 million in revenue during the first quarter. In addition, we were able to increase the revenue generated from our used oil filter collection services to $1.7 million, which is more than doubled the revenue generated from this service during the first quarter of 2016.

We also increased the revenue generated from our oily water disposal service. Despite these improvements in fees, we did not improve the spread between the selling price of our oil products and the strict price for our used oil collections service during the first quarter. Due to this situation we aim to continue to increase our strict prices with the goal of improving out spend and restoring our spread to the level we've enjoyed before collapse of the price of the crude.

We are pleased with the production record we set for the first quarter of – at our re-refinery, due to the increased nameplate capacity of 75 million gallons per year. We were able to produce more base oil than in any previous 12 week quarter since we begin operating our re-refinery.

During the quarter, we produced base oil at approximately 96% of our nameplate capacity. We have the opportunity to further increase production and produce base oil at rate above the nameplate capacity of the re-refinery in the future.

Although the past few quarters have been very tough in the Oil Business segment. There have been recent changes in the price of crude oil, which should help to improve the price of our oil product and provide us with opportunity to eliminate usual losses on a pre SG&A expense basis in the segment. In the past week, both Chevron and Exxon increased their posted price by $0.20 per gallon, for the type of base oil we sell. These improvements in selling price along with our plan changes to street price should help the Oil Business, which breakeven during the second half of fiscal 2016.

Our Chief Financial Officer Mr. Mark DeVita will now further discuss the financials results. And then we would be open to – we will open the call for your question.

Thanks, Joe. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCI's first quarter 2016 results with our investors today. In the Environmental Services segment, sales decreased $0.5 million in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2015. As Joe mentioned, first quarter revenue declines resulted in part from a declining – activity of customers in and around oil industry and lower energy surcharge revenue.

The negative oil industry impact was felt primarily in our vacuum services and parts cleaning businesses. Of the 83 branches that we are an operation throughout both the first quarter of 2016 and 2015 the growth in same branch sales was 1.2%. Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment, decreased to approximately $870,000, compared to $880,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and decreased from $900,000 in the fourth quarter of 2015.

In the Oil Business segment sales for the first quarter were down, $5.1 million from the first quarter of 2015, the decreased in revenue was due to lower selling prices for our base oil and recycled fuel oil products. The average price for our base oil product decreased by approximately 35% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015, this decrease was partially offset by the increase in used oil collection service revenue of almost $4 million. We are pleased with the improvement in the operating margin in our Environmental Services segment, our profit before corporate SG&A in the Environmental Services segment increased to 26.4% during the first quarter of 2016, compared to 23.5% in the first quarter of 2015.

The 26.4% figure represents a record high for the first quarter for this segment. This result was achieved despite the requirement to write down our solvent inventory by approximately $0.8 million due to the continued decline in solvent process, which is related to the decline in crude oil price.

In the first quarter, our oil business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.9 million compared to a loss before corporate SG&A of $1.7 million in the first quarter of 2015. The operating margin in our oil business was negatively impacted by the continued low selling prices for our oil products.

Due to these lower selling prices we are forced to write down the value of our oil product inventory by approximately $0.7 million during the quarter. Corporate SG&A was 15.6% of revenues up from 13.2% in the year ago quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015, costs increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher legal fees. At the end of the quarter, we had $69.6 million of total debt and $22.4 million of cash on hand. We incurred $518,000 of interest expense for the first quarter 2016, compared to interest expense of $554,000 in the year ago quarter.

For the first quarter, we experienced the loss of $1.8 million compared to a loss of $0.9 million in the first quarter of 2015. Our basic and fully diluted loss per share for the quarter was $0.08 compared to $0.04 in the year ago quarter. After adjusting for our inventory write down and non-cash compensation, our adjusted basic and fully diluted loss per share was $0.03 for the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn the control of the call over to our operator to advise you with the procedure for submitting your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from David Mandell from William Blair. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, David.

Environmental services sales, kind of three parts, were you able to get price this year power industrial customers trending, and can you quantify the impact of the lower oil fuel surcharge.

Yes, this is Mark. Our biggest impact and we alluded to it in our prepared remarks for Environmental Services, was related to this thing that we've talked about probably since the Q3 earnings call and that is the overall impact from the oil business – oil industry and energy industry downturn and that really amounted to almost the 6% headwind. There the surcharges was only – was less than $300,000. It was an impact and most of that energy surcharge as far as the revenue side is completely tied to energy cost things such as diesel.

So as that goes – and we've experienced benefit on that end as well in our cost of sales or operating expense, but the revenue line impact was again a little less than $300,000 negative quarter-over-quarter.

Okay. And then, as far as branch opening, what's your plan for this year?

We're not going to deviate too much from our traditional pre-FCCE plan. We have actually net-net around the same amount of branches now as we did in the first quarter. We did as part of some of our review work and trying to make sure that we're being efficient with our cost. We've added some, closed some but we're still around just over 80 branches. I think technically today – we're at 81.

So, while we're still in that add branch mode, maybe three year I think we've traditionally been pre-FCCE three to four year. And we'll probably be in that same range maybe the low end but on the net basis it might be our branch were too lower. If we find that – there are some branches that we're just not being efficient enough and I don't know if Joe or Greg want to adding into that.

All right. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Luke Junk from Baird. Your line is open.

Good morning guys.

Hello.

Mark, couple of follow-ups on the environmental business. First question is just on the fuel surcharges, wondering how those were contractually – obviously fuel down lot of last year, I guess you didn't called up and. Is that a real time adjustment as fuel goes down that you lower the surcharge? Or is it somehow tied to say an annual contract that would adjust on only a periodic basis? Any help there would be great.

I can't speak to each. There might be individual circumstances, but in general, it's tied to Department of Energy postings on a lagged basis. So it is somewhat systematic for most of the business. There are some exceptions, but the majority of it is tied to DOE postings and then it's a month or two in arrears than we make adjustments. So a little lag the change in, I don't know again. Greg if you have anything to add.

That's the explanation Mark.

And then second on the cross selling initiatives that you mentioned both in the press release and in your prepared remarks. Just curious if you can maybe put in context, how much progress you've seen in this regard already or kind of what the status is there or maybe so differently, how much of the opportunity is still in front of us. Is it mostly incremental from here you'd say?

I didn't get the question. I am sorry.

On cross sell what's kind of the opportunity from here?

Yes, I'm happy to respond. So we really have been doing cross selling intrinsic to our business model from our inception. And we do it because we have a bunch of guys in the branch, who sell different services and are encouraged to promote each of the services and talk about it with other people that they work. And we have unifying sales people like our branch sales managers and our branch managers who call on customers and represent all the services.

What we're doing a little bit differently this year and we've just kicked it off in the last few months, is we're trying to be more structured or systematic and with respect to our cross sell. We're starting to measure across our customer base, the number of services of different types that each customer uses and we're trying to infant and reward our field sales people for cross penetrating and increasing the number of services that our customers are buying from us.

We're doing this obviously because we get more revenue when we increase the penetration in cross sell. In addition, we're doing it because our data suggests that customers that use us for more services remain with us longer and more loyal and what's likely to switch.

So, we are just at the infancy of trying out different incentive system. Those of you who know our company know we use contests and rankings and things like that to reward people and keep a high level of interest. And if we are able to be successful with this and see material improvement then we'll be reporting back to you in coming quarters about that in more tangible terms and the context of what success we are having. But right now we are just at the beginning and we know that there is tremendous potential for us to sell more services to existing customers.

Most of our customers use only a small fraction of the breadth of services that we offer and most of our customers have potential to use us for significantly more services and that's the target that we are addressing.

That's a great color. I appreciate that. If I could just speak one last one in on SG&A, Mark you mentioned in your prepared remarks that one of the factors that led to the increase this quarter was higher legal fees. I guess, if I look back to the first three quarters of last year, you guys are running and say $10.5 million range give or take. With the legal fee most of the delta there and does that go away as we go into the second and third quarter here?

Good question. That is most of the delta, yes. We believe it will taper off although we might see continued in some form maybe not as high as it was in Q1, but elevated cost for the next quarter or two. Most of this is related to reason we say it will taper off is most of it is related to legacy issues that are progressing related to the FCC Environmental acquisition. So its' just something we have to finish working through.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you and our next question comes from Sean Hannan with Needham and Company. Your line is open.

Yes, good morning, folks. Thanks for taking my question here. I have a number of them actually. First on the Environmental Services side and not necessarily trying to give you guys a hard time, but the drop year-over-year still doesn't make a ton of sense to me. Within a somewhat comparable business the Safety-Kleen business and Clean Harbors was actually seeing accelerating progress. So is there a way to maybe step back and think about any commentary you can provide about either customer losses as perhaps share losses or maybe in a different way of thinking about it. Perhaps even being out hassled in terms of new acquisition you take away from say some of the smaller mom and pop regional players. Thanks.

Yes, this is Greg speaking. We think it's very clear in our mind that these losses we've been talking about related to oilfield activity and fracking activity and the reduction in that kind of business in the last nine months.

When we look at it, we've identified specific accounts that we lost or in many cases not lost but just seen tremendous reduction in activity in certain market areas that we've identified and quantified and reviewed with our sales team and go for account-by-account to understand what really went on with these accounts.

So these were accounts that we're involved in drilling, some of them are pipe yard; some of them are evolved in producing materials that are use in the fracking industry. And we see it on a geographic basis, so that when we look at our business, the areas that we would expect would have this kind of activity in Texas and Louisiana and other markets that we serve that are linked to oilfield services. Or the only markets where we've seen this kind of decline and we are not seeing in aother areas.

I can't comment on why a competitor wouldn't see the same thing unless their disproportionately under represented in that space or have something else to compensate for. So I don't know why they are not experiencing the same thing we are. But it's very clear in our mind that it's not sort of a loss of accounts competitively at this time. It's not something where we feel that it's going to be sustained long-term.

As I had win what we've said several quarters ago is that, we saw that happening late in second half of 2015. We were losing a significant amount of this type of business and it was sort of getting to the bottom very quickly and we felt that the comparisons would remain difficult for four quarters and then it would get easier again.

So looking forward to by the half way point of 2016 having the comparisons over with respect to when we have that type of business in the prior year and at that point being able to show more of the traditional kinds of ES growth rate that you leased from us.

Sure. And I certainly appreciate that just in terms of the offset overhang from that subspace, it just certainly wasn't pronounced as it was this quarter versus the last few quarters. So, but your commentary is helpful?

And if I could add to that maybe one reason, it was I might have commented on this in a prior conference call but...

Yeah.

Some of this is that when those customers slowdown or start closing facilities or not following things, sometimes back and we do not only sustained or lagged impact on our revenue but it came in bump up the revenue with a particular account, because there is cleanup work to be done or things that we have to do for them as they go into a dormancy stage. So that maybe why it accelerated in terms of the proceed impact, but not a big difference in our minds than what we thought was coming a quarter or two ago.

Sure.

Yes. And then, this is Joe here. In addition when we were looking at last – when we look at last year, and we were looking at the numbers. The 2015 and we were comparing them to the previous year. 2015 is the first full year we've had the FCC revenue, ES revenue. So now that we are in the stable form it's long period to see that, I mean as Greg said, we've done it to the specific regions that have been affected and allows it account-by-accout.

Sure. And that's very appreciated. Now on the pricing side, can you talk a little bit on – I am sorry pricing for the re-refined oil. Can you talk a little bit about your observations, in terms of say, what's very easily tracked for many of us in posted prices versus what you are actually realizing in pricing? How is that being trending in the industry in terms of that spread differencing on the business spread.

Yes, I'll give some indications here. As Mark had mentioned specific, but when we started the quarter – the first quarter and you got the positng and you have the actual activities on the selling price. We started the quarter at much higher base oil – average base oil selling price than where we've ended. And so, we've seen a decline during the quarter, towards the end of the quarter, there was already a bit of an uptick from the low point. And that uptick continued, it has continued now in the second quarter.

We have seen the impact of the first, there has been price increase. The first one, all of the oil major players have done in and put the price, it's about $0.15 a gallon. Although most of us stayed behind for an extended period of time, the rest of the players of the oil industry had put the price up by $0.15, but Motiva to follow. So the first round went to the system and we enjoyed the result of that increase.

Now we have a second round, that's starting with Chevron. Chevron put the price up by $0.20. This is just the last few days. And then this week also Exxon went up by $0.20, Motiva hasn't pronounced any price increases and one – when one player puts the price up, the market doesn't necessarily strong, but one – the two big players put the price up and the market starts to respond, and we are hopeful, that we will see the rest of the or oil – major oil producers follow the lease of the two large players and then we'll enjoy most of that increase when that happen.

Okay. I guess, what I'm trying to get out is that, if you look to kind of drop point within the last four or five months. In realized pricing that you are getting, is that uptick that we're seeing today is that outpacing were the posted prices have been changing?

Well, it certainly hasn't yet due to the recently – hi, this is Mark, Sean. Due to the recency Joe mentioned, it's been in the last week that the two Chevron and Exxon have moved again. So we are seeing in our actual selling price some uptick from what we hope is the trial, at least the most recent trial from the end of the quarter. But if you take Sean, Motiva had moved up, I think $0.15 and then they were kind of catching up to Chevron was in had released right at the – increased their posted prices right at the end of March.

And then you still want another $0.20 on top of that, we certainly haven't seen $0.35 or $0.40 uptick pricing yet. Let me help us – help to clarify this, our expectations the way we normally think about our business is that, yes the majors have posted prices and they actually trade a lot of their activity at discount after posted prices. And re-refiners often have a further discount, but if the major as a group move up by x cents a gallon, then subject to a month or six week what we glide with some times occurs.

We expect that our price seems likely move up by the same x cents plus or minus of few percent. And so from the bottom, we've already seen a confirmed $0.15 improvement in posted prices and we will get most of that unless they're something strange that happens over the course of the next ensuing few weeks. And if there's $0.20 price increase that Chevron and Exxon have announced sort of gets confirmed by the other major players and sort of becomes the new prevailing price at the market, we'd expect to get that further $0.20 improvement on our base oil.

Again, in a month, month and half something like that fill orders and get it through the system. And so it's a pretty good indication, its not always the way it works, I'll let to add because there are times when majors move their posting, but there are real discount off the posting could change and that could effect how much we could realize. But that's not what we think of is normal and what we expect in the current round. Is that helpful?

Absolutely. I mean, if you do the math on it, I mean, obviously, we got skewed a little bit because the some of these recent price where is it just happen there is a lag effect. But if you do the math on it, I mean, you guys are actually should see some of that delta in time quotes.

Yes. That doesn't take years, it will take...

Right.

...months, two months something like that.

Right.

So, we're feeling good about that and we're feeling that – as Joe mentioned earlier I mean, in order to restore our spread we're still working it increasing our charge oil on the Street. And doing that and making further progress and increasing our charges and getting a benefit on the loop price at the same time is putting us in a position we're feeling like we can restore this spread in the next quarter to a level that we were thinking was reasonable a year ago. But there is still bunch, if there we appreciate that and we have to execute. But that's the path we're on.

Wonderful. Thanks folks.

Thank you, Sean.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Good morning everyone.

Good morning, Kevin.

I wanted to follow-up on Environmental Services, just I don't if you can give us the percentage of accounts or percentage of Environmental Services revenue that are tie to the energy industry or those particular geographic regions that you're talking about.

This is Mark. It's less – as far as number of branches, its less than 10 branches. As far as the total revenue from those branches, I don't have that in handy. But I do know that we measured the impact and I think I've referenced this earlier that, we think it's negatively impacted our revenue by almost 6% in Q1. Is that all of the revenue there, no. And I would tell you from a customer relationship standpoint, I don't have the exact numbers in front of me.

In general we are not loosing customers as speaks to a point, Greg made earlier about, has been working hard and keeping relationships there. In almost all cases just the downturn their actively, I mean, there have been some company that close facility. So in those cases there is no more business. But we still have those relationships, which share then we are not banking out of branch but even within those markets should their activity increase again. We feel like we are well position to participate in that, but I can't tell you the exact amount of revenue that we still have across all these affected customers.

Okay, that's helpful though in terms of the number of branches. So just shifting gears to the oil business. What – where did you exit the quarter in terms of your average per gallon charge for used oil or where does it stand today. If you could give us anymore color or quantification on where you charge for oil is that would be helpful?

If you remember, we spoke couple of months ago, when we were going over Q4 results we've said that we had reached close to I think it was the mid-30s on a $0.01 per gallon basis for our charge. We are – in that same range right now, we have seen somewhat of the headwind as could as come up in price since that time you probably notice that [ph] WGIF (34:53) come back up. But we've done a pretty good job and holding most of the improvement and you can see that in the weighted average number being over $0.25.

So during that same range, I think the important thing to note is what Joe said in his prepared remarks, which is we don't think where we at is where we need to be. We know we need to do more and we are going to do more increase that.

Yes, I would like – add little bit more color on our pricing on the used oil. When we during the last beginning of the year last quarter we went in aggressively to put these charges in. And that we are needed to restore the spread and we said as a target, we were able to achieve it, we shared with you. And I am also please to see that overall industry, the used oil processing industry has also got into improve the service fees in order to minimize the losses in this industry. And – but not that we've achieved the first target, we go back and we are looking at it and pressure a little bit is moving but we – as we said earlier, we feel that we need to further have an uptick now that we see the rest of industry moving in the same direction.

Okay. That's helpful. And it's good hear that the industry is moving in the same direction although, Mark also kind of mentioned there that may be a little bit of a headwind from higher crude oil price. So, but you haven't seen that kind of impact, the mentality of used oil collectors in terms of well. They're not going to be as aggressive now on charging. Now the crude oil prices have come up. Have you seen any of that at all and that impacting your ability to...

Yes, no we haven't..

...increase.

We haven't seen it. That doesn't mean may not happen. We really haven't seen it. Where we've had something an issue, the reality is we do have very some account, very limited number of accounts as large that part of the way we conduct business here is we have a formula that is – has – is attached to the pressure crude. So when the pressure crude goes up. We charge less than and it goes down we charge more. So that is a very small number of customers and the vast majority of our customers we don't have that formulations or able to increase the fees when we decide to increase the fees.

I would add you know we've shared with you we are in the $0.30 range and for street charges. And we've talked in the prior calls about the magic or difficulty of that zero price point for customers. And today somebody is charging less than we are and probably most competitors are charging significantly less than we are. They are still probably charging. There's very few instances we see or hear about with competitors, who think that they can breakeven picking up used oil for free. And so if they are charging a diam and we are charging $0.30 we are still in the game. And we can sell our quality of service and our full menu and other things and trying hang on the customers.

If oil prices and -- here crude oil prices or fuel oil prices move up significantly from where they are today and some of our competitors say we are going to go back to free that will be an important price point and that will make it harder for us to expand our charges or even to sustain what we've got. But where crude is right now, we are not seeing prevelance of competitors picking up oil for free and that makes a big difference to us and we think a big difference to customers that they are not comparing our charge so this was somebody else doing it for free.

Okay, very helpful. And just one last question for me, I don't know if you touched on this in an earlier question. But, could you talk to your ability to implement the price increases in the Environmental Services segment that you typically do towards the end of the prior year?

Yes, we've had, this is Mark. Kevin, we had – the same type of successes we had in prior years on the price side. A lot of the issues of these price and mix perfectly. But a lot of the issues we've had with revenue outside of surcharge things that we talked about is really volume related. Some of it's even related, we've gotten more discipline at least year-over-year versus some of the legacy FCC environmental, ES business or at least business that we classified as asked, and that's help drive improved margin. But our pricing power, we're not really seeing any change versus what we traditionally experienced.

And I add color, I mean what that means in practical terms is usually when we do our price increases at the end of each year. We expect to realize 70%, 80% of our targeted price increase or this price increase and we pretty much accomplish that every year successfully except for the recession here five – six years ago when we really won't able to hold our price increase. But in the last – when we did last November we've accomplished largely what we would have expected.

And that seperate from the things we've talked about that are specific to our oil business where we've been raising prices due to other factors and that means our oil street price, our oil filter price we've raised dramatically and done that more frequently than just about one point in time last year. The early water we picked up on our used oil trucks and increase that we pick up on our used oil trucks. In all those areas, we've targeted larger price increases and on a more continuing basis and have been getting those as well.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

Sure, Kevin.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] So our next question comes from Sean Hannan with Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Yes, thanks for taking a follow up here. Two questions, number one, so if we are looking for breakeven or better on the oil business side in the second half, you had previously I think assume or communicated that you are assuming some level of pricing improvement to materialize in order to get there and its been quite dead cat balance at least is, we were talking a little bit earlier around the positive pricing. But is the degree of this bounce, what you were actually assuming or is it above and why now are we not to change on expectations for the back end of the year? Thanks.

I will provide some color and then Greg and Joe can join in. We didn't have a set assumption of base oil, it's going to go up actions again when our RFO in our thinking. We needed some help on the overall pricing for the product mix. As far as our outlook is the potential that we could achieve breakeven based on lets say some of the recent spot price – excuse me, positive price increases hit. And we are able to execute on the other end of this spread like we talked about that we could hit it sooner than we've otherwise have targeted I think that's possible. But given the markets and quite frankly the last several quarters performance I think we are little leery to assume that that's going to happen.

Very fair answer. Okay. Next question just administrative, so if I back out the write down in stock comp so looking for an adjusted cash EPS, it appears back of the envelope that might have been a breakeven EPS or can you confirm that?

No the adjusted was $0.03.

$0.03 okay. Sorry if I miss that. All right, thank you.

No, no worries.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions. I'd now like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.

If there are no further questions, we will conclude the call.

Thank you everyone.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.