Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — Chief Operating Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David M. Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Sean K. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated, Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted, and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit their selves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night we issued our second quarter 2015 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the second quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our second quarter revenues were $82.9 million compared to $78.1 million in the second quarter of 2014, an increase of 6.2%. Year-to-date revenues increased 15.9% to $167 million from $144 million in the first half of 2014. This increase was primarily the result of revenues from the acquisition of FCC Environment, FCCE, as well as from organic growth in the environmental services segment, and the partially offset by decreased revenue in the Oil Business segment, due to lower oil product pricing.

Our 2015 second quarter EBITDA was $8.1 million, which represents a 35% increase over the year-earlier quarter. For the first half of fiscal 15, EBITDA increased 97% to $11.5 million compared to the first half of 2014. Adjusted EBITDA was $10.5 million for the second quarter of 2015, an increase of 51% compared to the second quarter of 2014.

In our Environmental Services segment, revenues increased 27.2% compared to the second quarter of 2014 and 31.4% compared to the first half of 2014 from additional sales of legacy FCCE customers in all of our Environmental Services lines of business. Revenues in our vacuum services line of business doubled from the first half of 2014 to the first half of 2015, due to volume added from FCCE acquisitions. We also experienced strong organic growth in this business. In our branches that were not affected by the acquisition, Environmental Services same-branch revenues increased by approximately 12% during the quarter. We are also very excited that we were able to improve our operating margins in this segment by over 100 basis points in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis.

In our Oil Business, segment revenues were pressured by lower pricing of our oil products. Revenues decreased 3.7% from the first half of fiscal 2014 to the first half of fiscal 2015. During the first half of fiscal 2015, our – the average spot market price for the Group II base oil we produce declined by over 35% compared to the first half of fiscal 2014. The decrease in revenue due to pricing pressures was partially offset by sales of recycled fuel oil or RFO. We continue to respond to the unfavorable market conditions and work to maximize efficiencies in the Oil Business. By tightening controls over our cost we're able to partially offset the negative impact of a non-cash lower cost of market write-down of our oil inventories by $1.6 million during the second quarter. This inventory write-down was due to improved efficiency of our used oil collection routes as a result of route consolidation during the integration of FCC Environmental.

We are also very pleased with the performance of our Environmental Service segment, which has delivered margin improvements compared to the second quarter of 2014, despite the addition of legacy FCCE sales volumes, which has historically had lower margins than our legacy HCC business. In addition to increased synergies, we believe we can continue to deliver growth and increase profit from this segment. The Environmental Services segment now generates about two-thirds of the total company revenue.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita will now further discuss the financial results, and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thanks, Joe.

I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCIs second quarter 2015 results with our investors today. We continue to realize synergies from the FCC Environmental acquisition during this past quarter. During the second quarter, we estimate that we generated approximately $4.3 million in cost savings synergies and $0.6 million in business improvement synergies for a total of $4.9 million of growth synergies. We also incurred $0.2 million in costs to achieve synergies, which resulted in an estimated total net synergies of $4.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. We ended the quarter generating synergies at an annualized rate of approximately $22 million.

In the Environmental Services segment, revenues grew $11.3 million in the second quarter compared to the second quarter 2014. Of the 72 branches that we're in operation throughout both the second quarter of 2015 and 2014, the growth in same-branch revenues was 19.2%. For the first half of the year, revenues increased $25.3 million, or 31.4% in the segment.

Same-branch revenues for the first half of fiscal 2015 grew 21.4% compared to the first half of fiscal 2014. For the second quarter, our average revenues per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $900,000 compared to $700,000 in the second quarter of 2014.

In the Oil Business segment, revenues for the second quarter were down $6.5 million from the second quarter of 2014, mostly as a result of decreased product prices. The first half of fiscal 2015, revenues were down $2.4 million compared to the first half of fiscal 2014. We are pleased that the margins improved in our Environmental Services segment compared to the second quarter of 2014. Even considering the impact of adding FCCE volume, which was traditionally lower-margin than our legacy business, our profit before corporate SG&A in the Environmental Services segment increased to 29.7% during the second quarter of 2015 compared to 28.4% in the second quarter of 2014; and to 26.6% in the first half of fiscal 2015 compared to 25.6% in the first half of fiscal 2014. Our Environmental Services segment benefited from lower solvent costs as a result of low crude pricing.

In the second quarter, our Oil Business experienced the loss before corporate SG&A of $0.6 million compared to income before corporate SG&A of $0.6 million in the second quarter of 2014. For the first half of fiscal 2015, the Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.4 million compared to a loss of $1.7 million in the first half of fiscal 2014. The operating margin in our Oil Business was negatively impacted by the continued low prices for oil products and by write-down of the value of our inventory during the second quarter.

As Joe mentioned earlier, we wrote down the value of our oil inventory by approximately $1.6 million during the quarter. Without this write-down, our profit before corporate SG&A in the Oil Business segment would have 3.3%.

Corporate SG&A was 12.8% of second quarter revenues, up from 10.6% in the year-ago quarter. In the first half of the year, SG&A was 13% of revenues compared to 11.9% in the first half of 2014. SG&A declined $0.5 million from the first quarter to the second quarter of fiscal 2015. SG&A as a percentage of revenues decreased from 13.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 to 12.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 despite a decline in revenue.

During the second quarter, we incurred an additional $0.2 million in integration costs for FCC Environmental, bringing our total for the first half of fiscal 2015 to $1.6 million. At the end of the quarter, we had $77.8 million of total debt and $19.4 million of cash on hand. We generated $9.4 million in cash flow from operations during the first half of fiscal 2015, which represents an increase of 36.2% compared to the first half of fiscal 2014. We incurred $408,000 of interest expense for the second quarter of 2015 compared to interest expense of $33,000 in the year-ago quarter.

For the first half of fiscal 2015, we incurred $962,000 in interest expense compared to $86,000 in the first half of fiscal 2014. The increase in interest expense was a result of increased debt used to finance the FCC Environmental acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

For the second quarter, we experienced income of $2 million, which was the same income experience in the second quarter of 2014. Our basic and fully diluted income per share for the quarter was $0.09 compared to $0.10 in the year-ago quarter. Our year-to-date income is $1 million compared to $0.3 million for the first half of fiscal 2014. Earnings per share for the first half of the year are $0.05 compared to $0.01 in the first half of fiscal 2014.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time I will turn control of the call over to our operator and she will advise of the procedure to submit your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of David Mandell.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning [indiscernible] (14:22)

In the Environmental Services business, a strong operating margin result there. How much of that is kind of sustainable? Or is there a boost there from the inventory write-downs you had in the first quarter?

Well, when you look at that – this is Mark, David. We had an additional much more minor write-down in Q2 versus what we had in Q1. If you recall, it was over $1.5 million in Q1. It was only $0.2 million. Our total lower cost to market write-down was attributable to solvent in the ES segment. So quarter-over-quarter, the percentage increase is there. But that's sustainable because that's really, as opposed to the spread business where you could have impact on the back end of the selling price, our selling prices, as you know, are not really commodity or affected by commodity changes in general. Over the long-term, they are of course. But with this lowering of our cost base, we consider that to be – as long as the commodity conditions are where they're at to be sustainable, and we should continue to gain in other areas like labor and benefits we traditionally gain for Q1. We have some other improvements, but in general we'll gain more and more efficiency and leverage the fixed costs of our network as we grow our top line. So given the current conditions, we think that what we've now is sustainable and we should look to – as we add more volume to incrementally improvement it.

All right. And then what's going on in the PFO front?

For PFO for this quarter versus last quarter, we actually picked up a penny or two. And we had talked about that in the earnings call last quarter, even though we experienced in the Q1 results – the movement was pretty favorable that we had seen – started to see headwinds in that area. Obviously, crude has come down, if you've been watching it, the last several weeks. So this is something where the market's at a point where it's one where we're being cautious. We lost a fair amount of volume, as we've told the market several times, because we're so aggressive in our move downward initially. So we want to strike that balance that we've been trying to strike between being efficient in our routes and gaining route efficiency like we did a good job of this quarter, and also collecting at a prudent rate because, overall, those both go into our overall cost of collection. So we're taking as balanced approach as possible. I don't if Greg or Joe wanted to add anything.

No. It's fine.

Thank you for taking my questions.

Thanks David.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research.

Good morning, everyone. Just wanted to follow-up on the Environmental Services margin. How much – I don't know you could quantify it, but how much of a benefit were lower fuel prices and lower solvent prices to the ES margin?

It was probably a 200-300 basis points benefit there.

Okay. And aside from that benefit, you seem to be doing a good job with the integration here and I think you were optimistic about getting FFC's Environmental Services margins up. Just wondering how much progress you've made there and in what sort of benefit that had in the quarter.

Well, we actually – we hadn't really got this granular in previous quarters, but we talked about our business improvement synergies and a lot of those relate to trying to get the margins for the legacy FCC Environmental business in line – over time, that is – with the HCC legacy margins. So really if you strip away to 200-300 basis points from the improvement for, let's say, solvent and diesel that we just talked about, you see what we expected initially when we talked even a couple of quarters back, which is the overall margins – with or without that benefit, the margins from the legacy FCCE business would have had a damping effect or headwind to our overall margins and pull them down, were starting to, and we cited $0.6 million in business improvement synergies that we had. So a lot of those relate to our progress in trying to get those – get the pricing for those – or get the margins, I should say, for that business more in line with what we've traditionally done. And we'll continue to do that. That's not something where we can flip a switch and we fix it in one or two quarters. This is probably a multiyear project.

Okay. And would you say at this point that the FCC synergies are in line with your target or are you slightly exceeding that at this point?

Yeah, we're exceeding it. We had talked about for long time, the $20 million. And we do have additional upside. I don't know if we can quantify it, all that exactly here. But we're at $22 million now on a run-rate exiting the second quarter, and there's still some potential for incremental improvement.

FCC Environment, we clearly have more than achieved our target that we had forecasted before the acquisition – $20 million and we delivered $22 million. There's a little bit less here, but it's going to take us longer, and it's not as meaningful as what we've delivered. On the pricing side, we have made many changes to improve the pricing, but I think we will – outside of this, we're going to be benefiting over the next few quarters for further improvement in the pricing for the services of FCC.

Okay, good. Can you just give us an update too on your cross-selling efforts in Environmental Services you've been talking about maybe formalizing that effort a little bit more?

Yeah. This is Greg speaking, Kevin. We have done more to develop systems to support our aims to cross-sell; we started to develop some internal metrics and to create incentives in our field organization to get people to focus on cross-selling. I would tell you it's too early for us to start sort of talking with any specificity about results from that with investors yet, but it is a focus for us. It has been for the last several months, really, since we got the heavy lifting of the integration effort completed. That was the point when we first felt sort of free to start focusing on sales growth or the resumption of sales growth.

And so we've been working on it, and we hope to have more to talk about in the next couple of quarters as we start to see how that's working. But we remain excited about the opportunity. We know that the vast majority of the accounts that we added in the FCCE acquisition were primarily customers of the used oil service that FCCE was focused on, and with relatively little cross-penetration to the other types of services, either those that FCCE had where they were underpenetrated or the broader menu of services that Heritage-Crystal Clean offers.

So we see it as a great target, it's something that we're developing, and we will be back in front of you, I suspect, in the next year to talk more about what we were able to accomplish in that vein.

Okay, good. I'm just going to sneak a couple more in here. In terms of corporate G&A cost, do you expect to continue to see that you know get leverage in terms of percentage of revenue and flatten out here on an absolute dollar basis?

Yeah. We think there's some more improvements to be had. It's hard to predict for sure, as a percentage of revenue, due to the potential commodity impact in the Oil Business segment and on those revenues. But we do have initiatives we're working on to help improve EBITDA beyond our synergies, and part of those involves SG&A. And that's part of the reason you did see some improvement. So...

Yeah, I think we need to remember here that between Heritage-Crystal Clean business and FCC business, the combined entity, we're dealing with about 100 million gallon of oil, and – whether it's RFO or lube oil or light oils. And this drop by over $1 a gallon, so you've got $100 million of reduction in revenue to conduct with same business. That's why we're also seeing an increase from a year ago in our SG&A, and that's a big factor. I think we're pretty happy if we're able to maintain this lower level of SG&A. But there's always room to improve.

Oh, sure. Yeah. I was – I think the SG&A is trending fine and you're doing a good job on that front, even in light of the revenue pressures you mentioned. So just lastly, I don't know, did I miss – did you give just what the utilization of the re-refinery was and how many gallons of base oil you sold in the quarter?

We didn't give that. We ran it at about 98% and our base oil was 8.8 million, I think.

That was gallons sold.

And that's what you wanted, right?

Produced and sold.

Correct.

It's very close.

Yeah, very close.

Okay, great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you, Kevin. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Stifel.

Hi. Thanks, Joe, Greg, and Mark, for taking my questions. Mark, in December, the company published – I forget what document it was in, but if was a very formal sort of outlook about guidance in 2015. Could you refresh that table sitting here at the midyear?

Well, basically we don't have any – that had – I know what table you're talking about. It had revenue, then it had EBITDA in there for – well, it had it for, I believe for the quarter or remainder of 2014, but then it also had full year 2015 revenue range, it had EBITDA range, and then it had adjusted EBITDA. And there's really no change. Similar to what we said the last couple of quarters, there's really no change to what we put in there, except for, as I said, for the last two quarters, we would expect that the adjusted EBITDA would be lower by a couple million dollars, simply because we had shifted into 2014 some of our cost to achieve, and thus they wouldn't be an add-back in 2015. It wouldn't be an adjustment.

So simply put, the $42 million to $53 million becomes $40 million to $51 million?

Yeah.

Right, okay. And then in the end of – at the second quarter on the conference call, you all said you were below $0.10 per gallon in PFO. I guess it would be helpful to the market to understand, I get that oil price is rising, some of the customers push back a little bit, and all that, and it walks up a little bit. But are you below $0.05, having absorbed more – a couple pennies?

We remain below $0.10, Mike. This is Greg speaking. And I think that – I don't know how much we've sort of talked about it. There was a lot of noise in the industry a quarter or two ago about pushing through the zero point and getting to charge in. We made our endeavors to try and do that, and we did charge some customers for a while, but it's very difficult to be out all alone doing that kind of thing. As I think we've talked about before, there's sort of a non-symmetry or nonlinearity in customers' perception about price, and if one company is paying $0.10 and another company pays $0.05, that $0.05-a-gallon difference doesn't seem huge in the mind of a customer. When one company is paying $0.02 and another company is charging $0.03, that same $0.05 is very large in the mind of the customers. They shift from getting paid for this commodity to having to pay entirely for the service of getting rid of the waste. And it's very difficult for us as a small player to be out in front on that and being the only one taking the plunge to charge. And so we remain interested in doing that. We think that that's what's needed to restore our margins in the current situation to something that we'd be more comfortable with. But we've been unsuccessful in moving past that zero point in the face of reluctance by most other competitors. So we're going to keep watching that keep testing the waters.

So, okay, fair enough. So would you expect to in this dollar range of oil up to $60 that you should get closer to zero than you are now.

Michael, this is Joe here.

Hey, Joe.

Hi. If you go back to the beginning of the year, we've had crude drop in January, and then picked up close to $15 from a low point of $13 to $15 a barrel, and it stayed there. And we track Brent versus WTI, and Brent for us reflects better value of the product produced, not only with – from us but also in the oil industry. And then it stayed there for a while. And what happened in the market, and I think Greg covered this enough, but there was quite a bit of drive to lower – initially, to lower the price we pay for the used oil and generally speaking the market. But then – when crude went up, people started coming out and competing fiercely. So we've had to make some changes. And now recently, crude has dropped to – almost to the level it was back in January.

And so I would tell you for the industry, the whole industry, if oil stays where it is, there should be and measurable fee for the service in today's cost structure, and collecting and processing whether you're making RFO or lube oil.

Now the recent drop in crude has not affected the price of lube. In the same way as when crude went up earlier in the year, every other product – RFO went up, the light oil went up, but lube oil didn't go up. And so my view is on under today's crude, there should be a measurable service fee so that the spread would be restored to where we've seen it three, four years ago.

And certainly with the trend in crude in the last month being down by $10 a barrel, we think that we're attempting to get our pay-for-oil down in the short term from where it was a month or two ago.

Okay. And I get the analogy of $0.10 going to a $0.05 is easier to do than $0.02 going to being paid $0.03. But is zero a practical objective in the near-term?

Zero – it is practical. I mean, whether it's – Michael, whether we were $0.03 or $0.05 or zero, it doesn't swing the economics in a big way. What I was trying to say earlier, I mean, there should be – today, there should be a fee for the service of about $0.15, again. We're not talking about the swing of $0.05.

And to piggyback on Greg's comment, I don't think any of us believes there's a difference in the psychology of the generator or the customer's mind between getting paid zero but not being charged or getting a couple of cents. It's when you go to charge where it becomes that much harder.

And we have been historically – I think we've mentioned this in the past. We have been there. The industry stayed with the chart for a long time, but it's important for the leader of the industry to take the initial steps. We have a reasonable balance in our volume, and we're waiting to see what's happening.

And it's obviously a customer-specific sort of calculus. So where we are today, we have many customers at $0.03 right now. And we have some that are on different indexes where we have to pay them a little bit right now. And so if we're not able to push through in a big way to charging people, then we'll get a lot more customers to free, but there'll still be some on indexes that will get paid $0.01 or $0.03, and that will perhaps keep us just marginally above the free line if we drive as much as we can to free.

Fair enough. Yeah, absolutely and thank you for that added color. Mark, thanks for the gallons on processed and sold. Could you – you shared last quarter RFO sold. Could you share where that – what the RFO gallons were?

Yeah, it was about 6.2 million.

Okay. And are you – I think when we were together in the middle of June, you shared that because of what was happening in your efforts to lower price and ultimately get charged for it, that kind of run rate legacy kind of being at $45 million plus $55 million from FCCE, you're not at $100 million collection right now; you're probably more like an $80 million and $90 million. Is still a truism?

Yeah, we're probably in the range. Again, until we get through a full season – or it's not season, a full year with the combined companies, there's obviously some play in those numbers. But we had said that last quarter, we figured we were $80 million to $90 million. That's what at least I've been telling investors and analysts, and I think that's still the range.

Okay. And then I just want to make sure I understood the solvent fuel comment. So 29.7% margins. I take – maybe put out – take 250. That puts me at sort of what is that 27.2%. Is the 250 kind of at this current environment a consistent benefit in 3Q and 4Q? Is that the way to think about it, and therefore the underlying is somewhere in that 29.5% to 30% kind of range, is where you are as you make incremental progress in your synergies?

I think, so yeah.

Okay, that's the way to think about it? Okay. And then – go ahead.

Yeah, sorry, Michael, the synergies are pretty well down. They're still a little bit, but not much. I think the biggest factor here in the future is going to be our continued growth into the existing branches by adding further volume on the footprint that we have. And also it depends, how much we invest into resources to expand head count to add more business.

Okay. So we should look at this now as a sales-per-branch average. That trend should start to improve as you drive the operating performance of cross-selling and full utilization of underutilized assets and the acquired companies, things like that?

Yes, exactly.

Okay.

Yeah, that's how we're going to continue to get even – once we get one year through the FCCE deal, the double-digit top-line growth in that segment.

And we – and that's that underlying structure organic growth has been 10% or better – it's been much better, but 10% or better on a historic company should carry through going once you anniversary? That's sort of... [indiscernible]

(37:16)

Okay. And then G&A, just so I'm clear, should we be thinking about G&A somewhere between $10.5 million and $11 million a quarter for 3 and 4?

Well, four is...

Well, yeah, right, right. That's my favorite subject. Joe, we have to talk about this.

That rate for a 12-week quarter, it's probably in that same range.

Right. Okay, so take $10 million, $11.5 million, divide by 12, and it's – 16, is this year, right, 16 weeks?

That's right.

Yes, so only once every – 16.

Yes, it's going to make all the little hair I have left all fall out, I'm sure. And then last thing on the synergies, maybe, Joe, you kind of answered it. I kiddingly always keep saying, so this is going to be $30 million, but in practical reality, what really talking is to maybe $22 million, it ends up around $25 million, and that's sort of the way to think about it. It might squeeze a little bit more out, but that's it.

Yeah. Some of the stuff that we have left, some of it like consolidation of some branches, we've got to get off leases and there are permit issues and – they're going to pick – the bulk of this stuff is junk and the rest is going to be noise over the next year or so.

Okay. So now I have a sort of ephemeral question I meant to ask because I missed the very beginning. Are you all happy about the quarter? Because I was on another call. So are you pleased with the state of business?

Yeah, I'm very happy with the quarter, and the thing that got me – first we've achieved and better than achieved our synergies that we had forecasted. The FCCE acquisition, we confirm that was a very good acquisition, basically four times EBITDA, and gives us 30,000 customers we can keep building our ES business on. And that's going to take us quarters; I mean it's going to take long-term. It's hard to develop 30,000 customers. And so we're very happy with that.

We're not – and the Oil Business, we're happy that we were able to deliver the productivity that we had planned. Without the FCCE acquisition, it would have taken us three to five years. We did it quickly because of the acquisition. We got more supply, we got into the RFO market, FCCE gave us terrific logistics, so now half of our oil sales are into the lube business and the other half – because I include the by-products of refinery that is not lube that are related to the fuel, in asphalt market. So, we're almost half-half. So if especially in lube, and crude goes up, we get the benefit of the RFO sales in the spread there. So – and we got great logistics.

So the only thing short-term is this instability of oil, but we are where we are, and we see, when we – where the oil would be here for the balance of the quarter.

I'd add to Joe's comment that one of the things that I think we're also pleased about is that we were able to do multiple things, execute well simultaneously. So, we have this huge task of this acquisition integration and achieving synergies, which we think we did well. But we didn't lose sight of maintaining ES growth. And as Joe commented on in the branches where we did not gain business through the acquisition, we still booked 12% annual growth in Environmental Service revenue, which is a pretty exciting indicator for us that we're still in the field, able to go out and deliver new customers and cross-selling and price increases and all the things that we've historically done that had made ES such a great business for us.

Oil remains a challenging situation. I think that we've managed a dramatic downturn in values pretty well. We've bought FCCE at a time when oil prices were collapsing around us, and while we had inventory charges, the business has sort of been stable. We've done okay in retaining customers and volumes and keeping that from being something that punished us as we're continuing to grow the ES business which, we point out today, our ES business really is two-thirds of our revenue and of the business focus. And so it's something that continues to be the driving force for the company going forward.

Okay. And the last set of question on oil specifically. You are still planning on phasing in the incremental 10 million gallons or some equipment high-end. So should we – we should mindful of that in thinking about what our capacity utilization looks like through the second half. That's sort of the opening part of that question and would you have us err towards that being in 3Q or 4Q?

Well there's two pieces to the – what remain in the expansion. There's two – I don't want to get too technical, Michael, but there's a hydrotreating unit and there's a vacuum distillation. We have just here recently – this quarter we have commissioned the new hydrotreating equipment, the expanded one, and in the last quarter we're going to commission the front end of the planned vacuum distillation. And when the second piece will be done, then we'll get the full 75-million-gallon capacity. But with the hydrotreater being extended, we may get a little bit more in here. And so we'll review it with you when we finish the quarter.

Okay. So just so I'm clear, you have already rolled – interfaced the upgraded hydrotreater. You still have to put the distillation column in. And there's – so, I might see a little bit more volume, but more importantly you've got one phase left to finish the capacity expansion?

That's right, and that will be done. Somewhere between now and end of the year, we're going to gradually get up, and definitely after we do the distillation unit in the fourth quarter, we'll get up to the 75 million gallon. So as we enter the New Year, we'll have another 10 million gallons of throughput.

Okay. So just, again, back to my question about sort of phasing in capacity utilization, 3Q could be better capacity utilization than 2Q because you did the installation of the hydrotreater in 2Q, and 4Q could dip again because you're going to be installation of the distillation column in?

Well, if we do it early enough in the quarter, we'll catch up.

Okay. Fair enough.

Didn't we do the HT in Q3?

Yeah, this quarter here.

Yeah, so the hydrotreater connections in Q3, Mike.

Oh, okay.

We did have in Q2 we had an extended shutdown because of that.

Yeah, that's why we weren't at 100%, probably; we were at 98% in Q2 because our shutdown in our fifth period was a little longer.

And then, there's still some work, and it depends on when do you tie certain things in. And we always don't want to disrupt the regular operation in any big way, and so we're doing incrementally.

Okay. Fair enough. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

All right.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Sean Hannan with Needham & Co.

Can you folks hear me?

Yes, we can hear you.

Yeah. Good morning Sean.

Okay, great. Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. So I think a number of mine have already been answered. Maybe if I can go back and address some topics, I think, that have already been hit on just for additional clarification, specifically, the PFO, it sounds like obviously breaking over to a – or moving over to a charge model. There's plenty resistance there, a lot of – I think other folks in the industry have talked about it, but it sounds like there's just too much resistance to get there.

But then when I think about on the pay side, where you're paying, and then in the context of the – what your sales force is seeing out there in the field, can we get some color in terms of what you're seeing or witnessing as a general range? Is there a rational behavior in terms of the prices that are being paid? Or is there a widespread – are there wildcards that are affecting some of those dynamics? Can you provide some color around that?

Yes. I don't want to – the word wild is very, very strong, Sean, but I think generally speaking, I would say there is rational behavior, generally speaking. But there's still a range, and I'd tell you we haven't done a lot of acquisitions, but we have done some acquisitions where the big one is FCC. We have done a couple of other smaller acquisitions. And every time we do an acquisition we find that we're the lowest price on the block. It was a $0.10-a-gallon difference between us and FCC when we acquired FCC.

So we don't see charges. But it's still rational because the price has dropped from close to $1 a gallon and to where it is now. So the bulk of the stuff is the spread. People couldn't sustain, the industry couldn't sustain itself, with this wide – the reduction of the price of oil. But I think the industry has been weak as far as its performance and margin. And we can't – we don't dictate what the price of oil is, but we provide a service, and we think that there should be a service fee at today's price of oil.

I wanted to also comment on your remark about sort of reluctance or resistance to move to a charge, because I think you understand it pretty well. But that's sort of a hump that the industry needs to get over. There's not an intrinsic price at which consumers – generators, if you will – are going to say, now I won't give you my oil anymore. It's all based on what the competitive offers are that they see and where crude has been in the last few months. We still have competitors who think that they're surviving if they pay a little better at $3 crude moving down another $10 or $15 of barrel might be what it would take to get all the collectors to say, we can't survive in a free-price environment anymore and we have to charge. And as soon as that happens, I think you'll see the industry sort of get over the hump and everybody starts to charge and implement that. Sort of that's the new normal for generators. So we can't control when that will happen, but that or more disciplined behavior by industry leaders to say that they're ready to restore margins or the things that are going to get the industry there.

Yeah, well, obviously we've – and I think you had alluded to this earlier. We've seen some pressures around crude very recently, and I think there's a lot of conversation around striking a deal with Iran, that having some impacts there. And so, I guess, it would seem that there should be incremental behavior changes at least in the field today, or reason you're developing real-time that we might be able to ask for observations on. We just feel that that's fair.

If oil stays where it is now, the answer is yes. I mean, oil has moved up a little bit. I haven't looked at the numbers this morning, but the last couple of days, it went up a little bit. But if it stays where it's, yes, the answer is yes. If it goes back to where it was four to six weeks – or even four weeks ago, then the pressure to move down isn't – won't be as strong. [indiscernible]

(51:21)

Sorry, go ahead.

Yeah – no, it's – I'm sorry. Go ahead and please do finish.

Yeah, I mean, Greg – I think Greg articulated this pretty good. If crude drops further by another $10, $15, that will make our life a lot easier, quite frankly. And the issue we have, if you are at the stage where Brent is at $60 or $65 a barrel, and it's pretty hard to go into a sustained charge in today's environment, and – because then you say, well, if crude goes up to $75, I'm going to be making pretty nice margins. But if you're down to $35 a barrel, then, it's pretty clear. If you want to stay in business you got to charge. Once we get into a charge, the cycle for the customers, whether it's getting a charge of $50 every quarter or $25 a quarter he's got to pay. But right now, the customer doesn't want to pay when somebody is picking up for free. And that's a big – it's an important step, a logical step for the customers.

The other thing we see – and I'll try and describe this. We've been through this several times before in our collective experience in the industry. There is a small amount of storage capacity that all these generators have. And so, when the market initially switches, the crude would have dropped $10 tomorrow and we all as an industry said, we're going to start charging customers, it's rational customer behavior to say, well, let me wait two more weeks and see what happens next. Because their mindset is oil as a commodity; it's got value. That's been ingrained in them for the last decade, and they're not willing to start paying for it yet.

And so when we move to a charge, we not only have to be prepared to move to a charge, but be prepared to outwait the customer's capacity to hold their inventory. And that means waiting two months or three months with slightly reduced collection volumes. When I've seen this before, volumes drop off by 15% or 20% the first couple of months before they recover. And if the industry blinks, the little collectors say, oh my god, I see my volumes going down, I'm in an awful bind, I guess I better go back to free or start paying again, then that's what happens.

And so, again, I've been through this, our team's been through it, we know that when we start charging, some generators will outwait us. They'll effectively let our truck show up and say, we're here to pick up your oil today and the charge is $0.10. And they'll say, well, if that's the price, come back in a month and I'll see if it's still your price.

In reality between 1986, 1987 to – that's 1998; these are 12 years of our charges. We were charging $0.25 to $0.40 a gallon for the oil. And so it's not a new thing for the industry, but we have to be careful we don't lose significant volume to the competitive market force and take a lead at this, and affect us in our productivity.

Sure. That's helpful. Thank you. And then two last questions here. If we were to assume a steady state in terms of where crude is today, the first part of the question is, what would we be looking at in terms of on inventory breakdown, say for next quarter? I'd assume it would be fairly small. And then number two, how we're operating today in kind of a steady state, what should we consider as kind of a normalized margin range? I think this has been previously viewed as kind of a 5% to 10% pre-SG&A, maybe toward the lower end of that. So if we can get some clarification around that, that will be helpful. Thanks.

Well, as far as the inventory adjustments for Q3, I wouldn't expect a ton. First of all, there are lags in the business. And we're talking – Greg had mentioned earlier in the call as far as our movement on PFO, and it's not as if there's $10- to $12-a-barrel price decline that's been here for three to four weeks. The minute us or the market in general sees that there's an adjustment immediately in pay-for-oil and we're already one period or one four week cycle into our quarter.

So our route efficiency, we don't expect to have – you expect over quarters and it would be very incrementally. We expect to let seasonal adjustments grow our volume, but in general, we shouldn't see that, which was the big driver in the Oil Business segment in Q2. So I wouldn't expect much. And what was the second part of your question?

The margins...

The margins. I still think the lower end of that range is what we can expect. We're kind of in a period of transition based on the factors we were just talking about. But that would be my guess; not at the high end of that range, but near the lower end.

Okay. That's helpful. Thanks very much for taking my questions.

Thank you, Sean.

Thank you for your time and interest. We are all grateful for your support. We do invite you to join us for our next conference call. Ladies and gentlemen, you may all disconnect. Have a great day.