Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted, and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your questions. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements.

These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. And welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our first quarter 2012 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the first quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our first quarter sales were $50.5 million compared to $28.7 million in the first quarter of 2011, reflecting a growth rate of 75.8%. This growth was achieved by strong top line performance in both our Environmental Services and Oil Business segments. This growth was made possible by our ability to continue to expand geographically and add new customers.

At the end of the first quarter, we've served over 65,000 individual customer sites, a substantial increase compared to 44,000 one year ago. We served those customers from 71 company branch locations, compared to 66 branches a year ago. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we began operation of the hydrotreater portion of our used oil re-refinery, and we began to produce and sell lubricant base oil.

I'm pleased with our operations during the first quarter, which allowed us to produce 3.9 million gallons of re-refined base oil and sell 2.7 million gallons of this product. I'm also happy to report good progress with our used oil collection growth including the acceleration in our truck deployment and related investments to support this initiative. We were able to raise our run rate from internally-collected used oil to approximately 31 million gallons per year during the last four-week period of the quarter.

Throughout the first quarter, we continued to add additional oil collection trucks and by the end of the quarter, we had 117 oil collection trucks in service. At this point, we expect to continue to add new trucks at an accelerated pace throughout the remainder of 2012.

Our continued rollout of oil collection trucks allows us to further leverage our established branch network. Without our existing branch network, the incremental cost of our aggressive oil collection rollout would be much higher.

Investments we have made over the last decade to develop these locations and the teams of dedicated professionals who manage them have created this opportunity to grow the used oil collection volume that is critical to our success in the oil business.

In the Environmental Services segment, we were pleased with our double-digit same branch sales growth. And we continue to invest in new resources which we believe will allow us to continue to meet our growth goals for this segment. These are exciting times in our organization, and both the Environmental Services and Oil Business teams are engaged and look forward to the opportunities ahead of us.

Our Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray, will now further discuss the financial results, and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.

I'm pleased with our first quarter revenue growth as outlined in last evening's press release. Revenues continue to grow at double-digit rates in both of our segments. In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $4.4 million, or 16.9%, in the first quarter. Of the 66 branches that were in operation throughout both the first quarters of 2012 and 2011, the growth in same branch sales was 13.7%. Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $515,000, compared to $495,000 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and compared to $435,000 in the first quarter one year ago.

Operating costs in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $5.2 million compared to the first quarter of 2011. The cost increase compared to the year-ago quarter was primarily due to higher energy prices, specifically, higher prices for fuel, transportation and solvent. In contrast to the year-ago quarter, these costs were not partially offset by a corresponding inventory valuation benefit.

The margin results also reflect the cost of investment in additional personnel and related equipment deployed to support the continued growth of this segment. This is the result of initiatives we began in the second half of fiscal 2011. As indicated in our press release, we recognize that our Environmental Services margins have declined, and we are currently working on strategies to address this.

In our Oil Business segment, sales for the first quarter grew $17.4 million as a result of our initial sales of base oil products and by-products from the re-refinery. Our Oil Business recorded a profit before corporate SG&A of $1.4 million compared to a loss of $0.8 million in the year-ago quarter.

We continue to roll out additional used oil route trucks to increase the collection volume of used oil to feed the re-refinery. As we have noted previously, this rollout puts pressure on our margins. The aggressive steps we have taken to add sales and training resources in this segment have added about $4 million in annual costs, a big investment, but one which we calculate to be more efficient than the typical acquisitions in this space.

Additionally, in this segment, higher energy-related costs for fuel transportation and used oil were partially mitigated by the increased value of used oil inventory and higher margins on base oil product sales. We are pleased with our results with respect to leveraging our corporate SG&A. Our revenue growth allowed us to reduce this cost as a percentage of sales, which was down to 11.4% for the first quarter of 2012, compared to 15.8% in the year-ago quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had $32 million of bank debt, which consisted of a $20 million Term A loan and $12 million in revolving loan. And there was also on the book $700,000 of cash. Following the end of the first quarter, we paid down the revolving loan, as I'll explain further in just a minute.

We incurred $187,000 of interest expense for the first quarter of 2012 compared to just $4,000 of interest in the year-ago quarter. For the first quarter, we experienced after tax income of $0.3 million, the same as we reported in the first quarter of 2011. Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share was $0.02, also the same as the year-ago quarter.

After the end of the first quarter, we completed a follow-on equity offering of approximately 3 million shares, which raised about $57 million for the company net of offering costs. The offering was well received by current and new investors, which enabled us to increase the size of the transaction and even at that, we're still significantly oversubscribed. The initial use of proceeds included the pay down on our revolving bank credit facility, but the remainder available for general and corporate purposes including further growth of our oil business.

The first quarter included some important successes. The operation of our re-refinery went well with production of on-spec Group II base oil, and this is a credit to the continuing good work of our engineering team and our plant operations staff. We expect to continue to gradually increase our operating rate for the re-refinery as we ramp up our collection of used oil and increase our production and sales of base oil over the next three quarters. This growth in our oil business will complement our continued growth plans for our Environmental Services business. The motivation of our team to expand our business remains strong, and we have confidence in our ability to take advantage of the exciting opportunities we see before us.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator, and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Mandel from William Blair. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

In the Environmental Services business, can you discuss any pricing action you guys might have took and if it's been sticking so far?

Yeah, we did implement what we think of as a – for us a fairly normal price increase on our parts cleaning business at the end of 2011. And the goal for that was to accomplish a 6% to 7% price increase, and that seems to be sticking fairly well.

In our Environmental Services segment, historically, we've not done as much in price increase with the other services, the non-parts cleaning services. And we're working on that really in the second quarter now to try and see if we can do a little better in that area than we have historically because we feel we need to make up some ground there as well.

I mentioned in my part of the script, we also realized that we've experienced margin erosion in Environmental Services which, to the greatest degree, stems from higher energy costs. And our price increase over the last couple of years, our price increasing strategy really hasn't kept pace with some of these rising costs. And so we're now evaluating more carefully some of the existing fuel surcharges that we have to see if those need to be expanded and we're thinking about being more aggressive with our pricing in the coming year.

All right. And then in the Oil Business, are you willing to quantify how much sales came from intermediate products during the quarter?

We did sell some vacuum gas oil during the quarter. I guess we think that there's likely to be some small amount of continuing activity in that area. It's not terribly material to the overall business results. We'll look into that and see if we want to put that out.

Yeah, I'd like to add basically, our operating philosophy has been to continue to run the plant at a higher rate. Although we did have the hydrotreating units starting up in the quarter, we kept the used oil processing at a higher rate than what we have been producing and selling lube oil. And we intend to do that, the production of vacuum gas oil will, over a period of time, will decline and all of the output will come out at – as lube oil to the hydrotreater.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question comes from David Manthey from Robert W. Baird. Your line is open.

Thank you, good morning.

Good morning, David.

Good morning.

First off, I'm wondering about the price increases. Is there some sort of a benefit lag there and how soon do you see the benefits from that because of course, we were assuming better profitability in the first quarter in the ES segment. And then just in relation to that, I think you – Greg, you might have mentioned something about some investments there and I'm wondering if it's a mix issue of parts cleaning versus everything else. So I'm just trying to get underneath the lower profitability here and see if there's something that we can expect will resolve itself as we move through the year?

Well there – it's Joe here, we've had – it's higher cost and increasing cost in the Environmental segment led by, no question, led by energy, solvent cost and fuel cost, fuel for our own service trucks and also what we call over-the-road transportation between the branches and the hubs and the disposal of our waste streams.

In the first half of last year, these margins were – this erosion in margin was somewhat camouflaged by the benefit that we had in – of our increase in value of the inventory. And so, the last price increase no actually the effect we feel wasn't sufficient to get – to cover our increased cost and maintain our margins. We are committed to, as Greg said earlier, to two things, one is, fuel surcharge, we have one and we need to revisit that and see how much more we're going to have. And the other one is a more aggressive price increase later on this year. Now we're not going to benefit. The fuel surcharge is something we're in the process of evaluating, and we'll be doing shortly. We don't like to go twice a year with price increases. So we're going to ensure the price increase until later on this year.

There is a component, but it's not a major piece of the cost and we talked about here in our discussion as we have added starting in the second half of last year, we have added additional sales resources at the branches to ensure that we continue to grow our Environmental Services business at a good clip past 2012. And these – the head count take a little bit of time before they start producing. So we have – this represents a small impact but still an impact on our margin orders.

Greg, I don't know whether you want to add anything more.

Well, I just – going back to Dave's sort of original question about the timing of the late 2011 price increase. It is probably in Q1 almost fully reflected on the parts cleaning side. Typically, we implement it at the end of the year and the first quarter sometimes we might only get 80% to 90% of what we get in subsequent quarters, but it's mostly picked up in the first quarter of the year. That's true for parts cleaning.

For the other services that I mentioned we were working on, we really didn't see much there. We don't have as much flexibility in our judgment to get the same kinds of price increases on our drum program or our vacuum program that we've historically had on our parts cleaning service, but we think we can do better than we have been doing. And we really didn't see any of that materialize in Q1. So that would be one place where we'd hope to pick up some improvement in the next couple of quarters would be on the non-parts cleaning Environmental Services.

Okay, but from the sound of it, as you said, you typically go out with this one price increase at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year, one price increase which we probably would see at the end of this year and then with fuel surcharges not doing much, you still have some increased costs because of growth investments, it doesn't sound like we're going to see a snap back above 20% next quarter. It sounds like we're sort of going to be in this range until the volumes pick up and you maybe get to the end of the year and you can sort of start to eclipse some of these higher costs that you're – that you're dealing with right now. Is that fair?

Yes.

Okay, all right. And in terms of any other – any other efforts I think you mentioned you're looking at other things, but that might have been the price increases that you're talking about and the non-parts cleaning it. Is there anything else in terms of – of costs that you could take out and I'm also curious as you're now – the oil, the used oil collection businesses is a separate segment. Was there any change in the allocation of corporate costs or anything that would permanently change the profitability of the ES segment?

Well, on the last point, since we're typically focused on the line of profit before corporate SG&A, we do internally look at sort of all the way down to a bottom line for each segment with allocated SG&A costs, but we're not reporting those. And so you wouldn't see those allocations in any event. In terms of – in terms of the internal costs, the things that might affect operating income or stuff like that, I don't think there's any major changes, but...

Nothing material.

Yeah, so...

The only thing we have done is as our Branch Manager oversees both the Environmental Services and the Oil Collection business, some of the cost of this branch management is being allocated to the oil. And so really nothing that will impact the Environmental Services negatively.

Okay, all right. I'll get back in line. Thank you.

<A – [0649ZG-E Gregory Ray]: Okay. Thanks, Dave.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Sean Hannan from Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Yes, thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Sean.

Good morning.

So, switching over to the Oil Business side, when you look at your current process and where you are in kind of that nascent effort, clearly there are a number of inefficiencies that you've – that you're working through. I mean, you've addressed this as a topic in the past. Can you help to elaborate for us what specific processes or hurdles or issues that are most critical to you to get your yields up to more efficient levels? And how are you addressing those right now?

Yeah, well the yield I'm going to talk a little bit about the business approach for the Oil Business. The yield has not been an issue for us. We were quite happy with the yields compared to the design of the plant. And really the operating plan, the operating process is the ramp up of the production from higher rate to the plant and maximize the lube production versus vacuum gas oil. And so, the factors and that's – we said we're going to start roughly about 50% of the plant capacity and by the end of the year, we should be pretty close to the plant capacity. And internally, we're doing everything we can to meet this and where we can accelerate it.

And so, the kind of steps that affect or the issues affect this ramp-up is, a), the supply issue, which today is no longer a factor. And the other thing is production on a consistent basis out of the new plant. And also, the sale of the product again on a consistent basis. And that's why we said, it's going to take up to a year to get us there. And we're really quite happy with the progress. There is no – there's no bottleneck, there is typical issues with starting up a new plant, including the other factors – I'd like to add a little logistics, the physical logistics of not collecting the oil, but getting the railroad to bring it in on a consistent basis and ship it out to our customers.

The other thing which I think we shared with you in the past, when you start one of these plants, you need to go through an approval process to qualify the lube oil, whether it's a re-refining plant or if you're running crude oil through a new lubricant manufacturing plant. You still have to go through that process. And we are working with our additive suppliers to get all the approvals. Fortunately, we have been able to sell significant volumes of oil without having that in our pocket, but we need to get that wrapped up here in the next quarter or two.

Thank you. I probably should have chosen efficiency versus yields, but I think you addressed that succinctly. So thank you.

Okay.

When you look at your collection, you seem to be – still seem to be on track to reaching 50 million gallons organically. Do you support this at this point or how do you think about your collections you track for the year?

We're quite – we're quite happy with the progress. We're really very enthusiastic about our ability to tap [indiscernible] (26:41) and our own collection and we have a tremendous branch, motivated and effective and experienced branch network. And we've been very pleased and we – to grow as much organically, a lot of other players are – and we have in the past, our former lives, have done quite a bit of acquisitions. And this time around, we said how about growing more organically and we're very pleased to see our rate of growth and our ability to deliver. Yes, there is inefficiencies in starting up any route, but we're picking up oil and we're quite happy at the rate we're growing and at the cost that we're procuring this used oil. And so we feel we were able to satisfy our total plant requirements as we go down the road.

That's very helpful. Thanks so much, Joe.

Okay. Thank you, Sean.

Our next question is a follow-up from David Manthey from Robert W. Baird. Your line is open.

Thank you. It looks like you bought just under 2 million gallons of used oil from third parties this quarter. And so if you're collecting at about an 8 million gallon rate and you're buying a couple million, that puts you at about 40 million gallons of input coming out of the first quarter, as you look to next quarter and again do you start to just cover this in terms of your – the trajectory to get to 50 million gallons, it seems like you'll get there sooner than year end and the only question I would have related to that would be, is your ability to collect used oil fairly linear? Meaning, if you're exiting the quarter at 31 million gallons, is it reasonable to assume it will go up from there or based on the collection schedules could it actually go down, if you signed a bunch of customers, collected the oil and then sort of didn't have other customers that were ready to be collected until a couple of months later? So I'm wondering is the oil collection capacity fairly linear as you add trucks?

Relatively, there is a seasonal impact in the spring and the fall with historically more oil changes in our industry. So there's a bit of an uptick and a typical slowdown in December and January, but nothing major and – but our ability to grow will be a function of the additional number of trucks – additional route trucks we're adding and at this time, we – our plan is to keep adding at the same rate as what we've done earlier this year. And so, back to the processing rate, your math indicate that we've run up to 40 million gallons and actually in the quarter, we've ramped up much lower level in Tier number 1 and much – and higher level in Tier number 3 in that first quarter. And as we said earlier, we still moved quite a bit of oil as vacuum gas oil and that does not have the margins that we see in the lube – economically are quite different and vacuum gas oil allows us to continue to build our oil collection business with – but it doesn't really – doesn't do much as far as margin.

Okay. Given the – how far you are from the whole startup and shakedown period, I mean if you had enough input theoretically at this point, there's no real reason why you'd generate much more VGO. It'd primarily be lube oil, right?

That's right. That's right, and it's going to be a function of how fast we bring the customers on and I mean, our customers are blenders and compounders. And so they like the product, but they need to formulate with the product and they need to displace other volumes they buy from third parties. So that process takes a bit of time and since it's a formulation process, and that's why we had planned to do it over the period of a year. Obviously, our pedal is – our foot is on the pedal and pushing hard as an enterprise and we're not going to slow it down, if sales keep going stronger we'll get there faster, but I think it's prudent for us to say it's going to take us until the end of the year.

Okay. And then last question from me in terms of as you ramp up here, how many trucks can a branch support? I guess it's easy to look at the number of locations and think that it's much higher than it is right now, but I'm wondering if there's any concentration issues or there's any areas where you have much stronger customer relationships and there's some sort of a bottleneck there. Is there a limit how many used oil collection trucks you're going to have at a given location?

Well, at some point in time, everything has a limit, but we're so far away from that. I mean, we're just touching the market. 50 million gallons represents 5% of the oil being -- roughly 5% of the oil being collected in the United States. And we got general broad coverage. Greg, do you want to add?

Well, one way to answer it in an abstract way, maybe this is your thinking about total market size. Probably our typical branch serves a market area where competitors are operating as a rule of thumb firm maybe 20 or 25 regular used oil trucks in the market area served by our branch. And so if we are trying to get where we had four or five trucks penetrating that area, we don't have to take the majority of the market. We're still, to some extent, skimming and able to focus on the customers that value the broader menu of service offerings that we have.

If you think about it logistically, at some point, we'd have to – if we grew to where we were dominating a market, we might have to get more space at some of our branches or establish larger rail facilities or things like that. But where we're starting from zero in all these markets and right now in most of our branches just adding a second truck or maybe a third truck, we've still got a long way to go before we're a significant player in any single market that we're operating in, and we still have a lot of room. Does that answer the question?

Yes it does, thank you. Great.

And I'm showing no further questions at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call.