Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
David M. Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one question or two questions.

Some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future.

We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings including our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Well, thank you, and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our third quarter 2016 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the third quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our third quarter revenues were $81.9 million compared to $82.7 million in the third quarter of 2015, a decrease of 1%. Year-to-date revenues decreased 3.5% to $240.9 million from $249.7 million during the first three quarters in fiscal 2015. The majority of the year-over-year revenue decline is due to lower selling prices of our oil products, primarily driven by lower crude oil prices in 2016 compared to 2015.

Our 2016 third quarter EBITDA was $8 million of 9.8% of revenue compared to EBITDA of $9.2 million or 11.1% of revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. This decrease was due to unusually high legal and other expense we incurred during the quarter, which Mark will describe in more detail shortly.

During the third quarter, Environmental Services revenue decreased $0.8 million or 1.6%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2015. Environmental Services revenue decreased $1.9 million or 1.2% for the first three quarters of 2016, compared to the first three quarters of 2015. The revenue declines were primarily due to the downturn in activity at customers engaged in – or/and related to the energy sector as well as lower energy surcharge revenues.

We are working on several initiatives to improve our revenue growth in this segment. We continue to focus on our cross-selling initiatives to better leverage our existing customer relationships. We also have opportunities to expand geographic coverage in Western U.S. and Canada. In addition, we are adding field sales resources and targeting tuck-in acquisitions to stimulate our Environmental Services growth. We expect to resume revenue growth in the Environmental Services segment during the fourth quarter.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2016, Oil Business revenues were flat at $30.6 million, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2015. During the first three quarters of fiscal 2016, Oil Business revenues decreased $6.9 million to $84.8 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2015. The revenue decrease was mainly due to lower selling prices for our base oil and RFO products, which was partially offset by higher base oil sales volumes. The decline in revenue was further offset by the significant increase in used oil collection charges we achieved during the first three quarters of 2016.

We are very pleased that we were able to achieve positive operating margin in our Oil Business during the latest quarter. Our third quarter operating margin and margin in the Oil Business segment represents a record high, and [ph] in (06:31) the second straight quarter [ph] we'll be enabled (06:34) to achieve positive operating margins. We were able to achieve this primarily due to the increase in average selling price of our base oil of almost $0.25 per gallon during the third quarter compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss our financial results and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thanks, Joe. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCI's third quarter 2016 results with our investors today. As Joe mentioned earlier, there was a slight decrease in revenue in the Environmental Services segment during the quarter. This decrease was primarily due to diminished activity of customers in and around the energy sector, as well as lower energy surcharge revenue.

Compared to the latest quarter – comparing the latest quarter to the year ago quarter, our branches that operate in markets that are mostly impacted by the energy sector downturn experienced a decline of approximately 17%. The good news is that our other branches, those with minimal exposure to the energy sector, continue to show year-over-year growth in Environmental Services segment revenue of approximately 4%. The other good news is that the energy sector appears to have bottomed earlier this year. So we see the comparisons getting easier going forward.

For the third quarter, our average revenues for working day in the Environmental Services segment decreased slightly from $900,000 in the third quarter of 2015 to approximately $885,000 in the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Our profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Environmental Services segment during the third quarter improved to 29.4% compared to 28.7% during the third quarter of fiscal 2015.

Our profit before corporate SG&A expense for the first three quarters of fiscal 2016 was 28.2% compared to 27.3% over the first three quarters of fiscal 2015. We are especially pleased with these improved margins considering the challenging business climate.

As stated, revenue in the Oil Business segment was flat during the third quarter compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2015. From a profitability standpoint, we experienced profit before corporate SG&A expense of $1.7 million in the Oil Business segment during the third quarter of fiscal 2016, compared to $0.6 million in the third quarter of 2015. The increase in profitability in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase in used oil collection charges of approximately $4.6 million.

Corporate SG&A expense was $11.6 million or 13.1% of third quarter revenue, up from $10.7 million or 11.9% of revenue in the year ago quarter. For the first three quarters of this year, corporate SG&A was $36.9 million or 14.3% of revenue compared to $33.9 million or 12.6% of revenue in the first three quarters of 2015.

The increase in corporate SG&A expense was due to unusually high legal expense of $2.1 million during the third quarter and $5.5 million for the first three quarters of fiscal 2016. The majority of these legal expenses pertain to matters stemming from our acquisition of FCC Environmental, including compliance issues that predate our acquisition and an arbitration that we initiated against the sellers to resolve certain routine post-closing matters and to recover related legal expenses as governed by the stock purchase agreement.

During the third quarter, we recognized other expense – net of other income items of $1.4 million, included in this is $1.6 million of expense, the set of compliance issues which predate our acquisition of FCC Environmental. With this settlement, we expect that we have recognized the majority of the cost to be incurred related to the various legal matters stemming from our acquisition of FCC Environmental.

Our balance sheet remained strong. At the end of the quarter, we had $66.6 million of total debt and $29.8 million of cash on hand. We had very good cash generation of $9.6 million in cash flow from operations during the third quarter of fiscal 2016, which represents an increase of 26% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2015. We incurred $463,000 of interest expense for the third quarter 2016, compared to interest expense of $404,000 in the year ago quarter. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2016, we incurred $1,432,000 in interest expense compared to $1,366,000 in the first three quarters of fiscal 2015.

For the third quarter, we experienced net income attributable to common shareholders of $2.3 million, compared to net income attributable to common shareholders of $2.7 million in the third quarter of 2015. Our basic and fully diluted income per share for the quarter was $0.10 compared to $0.12 in the year ago quarter. Our year-to-date net income attributable to common shareholders was $2.4 million, compared to $3.7 million for the first three quarters of fiscal 2015. Earnings per share for the first three quarters of the year was $0.11 compared to earnings of $0.17 per share in the first three quarters of fiscal 2015.

Our net income during the third quarter was negatively impacted by legal fees and other expenses coming from our acquisition of FCC Environmental. We believe a majority of these costs related to our acquisition of FCC Environmental have now been recognized. Excluding the impact of these expenses, our adjusted net income attributable to common shareholders for the third quarter would have been $0.22 per share.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. And at this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator to advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Stifel. Your line is now open.

Thank you so much. Good morning, Joe, Greg and Mark. Thanks for taking my questions.

Good morning, Michael.

Good morning, Michael.

Good morning, Michael.

So, if we could start with Environmental Services, if I understand your [ph] current mark (13:21) and the comp in your prepared remarks, the [ph] ex-energy (13:25) exposure, you're up 4%?

That's correct.

How does that compare to what you thought it should be and more importantly, what's the trend in the last four weeks versus the first eight weeks of the period?

I might let Joe or Greg give a little more color to the granular question you had. But in general, that was pretty much in line with what we've expected. You probably remember as we've been measuring the [ph] ex-energy (13:52) or the other branches' performance that are not really as impacted or minimally impacted by the energy sector, it's been roughly in that 4%, 5% range. We might have thought it might have been 100 basis points or less higher, but it is generally what we expected.

If I can add something Michael, this is Greg speaking. When we talk about [ph] ex-energy, (14:17) that could be a little bit misleading and I just want to run through to you what we've done in terms of the breakdown here. We can't judge exactly how many of our customers or which customers are impacted to some degree by the downturn in oil exploration or fracking.

And so, our analysis is based on geography and we've identified a handful of branches that we have in the oil producing region of the country, the Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma area, and those are the branches that we're talking about as being most heavily impacted by the energy downturn and where we see the most negative results. But that's not to say that when we look at our other branches, the one we referred to as [ph] ex-energy, (14:57) that they don't also have some exposure to the downturn in the energy business.

So, the 4% figure still has some very small headwinds related to energy. We're just not nearly as impacted in those markets, maybe Pennsylvania or the [ph] Midcontinent (15:15) area are still areas that are affected, but maybe not as strongly as the areas that we've put focused on and identify as really the key areas that have built the negative impacts. So, everybody feels something even [ph] our printer (15:30) in Wisconsin, we see reduced volume, because he is not doing as much work for customers that are in Louisiana, but we can't discern those differences. [indiscernible]

(15:40) Michael, part of your questions here is to – just to add, maybe a little bit of color here, this current quarter, we're seeing positive movements in the first few weeks and so hopefully this will remain in the same trend. And our expectation earlier this year that we would see some growth in the fourth quarter, compared to a year ago.

So we're optimistic about that and, well, we'll see how the quarter goes. The other thing relating to ES is we have started at the beginning of this year. We had taken measures to add resources to this segment of the business and whether it's sales, sales management or some [ph] round tracks (16:44) or expand geographically, and these things historically have taken a bit of time to generate the revenues, but we know that these are in place and over a period of time, we should be able to see a resumption of our growth.

And if I could tease out that one part of the question, so you suggested we've seen a turn to positive in 4Q, did you end the quarter positive the last week or two week of the – so that trend was building out of 3Q?

Well, we don't really get to the – look at results on a week-to-week basis, but on a period-to-period basis, there has been some trend in the quarter – the third quarter and but a nice increase in the first few weeks – the first period I would say of Q4.

Okay. So, if I could shift gears to the used Oil Business, you're providing a [ph] data end point (17:59) beginning in 2Q of stop fees and charge for oil, it was $8.3 million for the first half, it's $13 million approximately, $13 million in the second half. So you're $4.7 million in the third quarter. Would that trend be one that's continually improving on the cents per gallon basis or is that improving because you collected more?

Well, for the quarter – yeah, Michael, this is Mark. For the quarter, we technically, we're up $0.01.

Okay. That's a good trend.

Yeah, as far as further improvement here as we go forward, as you know depending on what happens with the price of crude, and – so we're not expecting at the current price of crude that we would be seeing much increases here at the – in the next couple of quarters.

Okay.

And so, that's really where we are and to a large extent, with the crude have gone up by $4, $5 a barrel, people selling fuel – recycled fuel oil have seen some revenue increases and we're obviously competing with them on the use of service.

And then, the last items on this used oil side. Is there planned maintenance in 4Q that you could frame based on that maintenance, the expectation [ph] that (19:49) of the utilization would be, what? Because you dipped in 3Q from middle upper 90%s and 2Q to 92%, what's your thought about your utilization in 4Q based on what you know [ph] as (20:02) planned?

Well, we should be doing better than that. We've had a scheduled important maintenance in the third quarter. And we have maintenance throughout the year, but the maintenance of – in the third quarter was scheduled where we've also made some changes and we had scheduled a longer shutdown than usual.

So, hopefully we'll [ph] get in any (20:38) surprises that we should be able to deliver something better than what we did in the third quarter.

And then last one for me, and I realized this is a little harder to get your hands around, but so Motiva has pulled back about $0.15 a gallon, would you feel that this – comment, whether you think this is an appropriate seasonal adjustment or is there anything more to it than normal seasonal pattern that would be happening at about this time a year.

Yeah. I have my thoughts on this, and our people, and I'll tell you comments from other players in the industry. We just came back from a yearly conference of the lube manufacturers and the industry is surprised because there were some [ph] noses up with (21:29) crude going up by $4, $5 a barrel [ph] that than the (21:32) increase. People did not follow, people – I'm not talking about the majors, did not follow the Chevron. There was an increase by Chevron and rather than having Shell follow Chevron, and they dropped their price.

And so, we're – everybody in the industry is surprised, and it's hard to predict this, but for [ph] crude stay (22:06), where it is or move a little bit higher, I just don't see how can Motiva justify their – the drop over an extended period of time.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. [ph]

Appreciate it. (22:23)

Our next question comes from the line of David Mandell with William Blair. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Can you guys discuss the trends in the selling prices that you're getting for the lube kind of in 3Q, and at the beginning of 4Q?

Well, I can give you some of the history, this is Mark, David. We're up from Q2, and at least from a market standpoint it's 11%, we don't get into the fine details on our numbers, but ours tend to, in general, on a percent to gallon basis, follow usually what you see in spot. That's down still though over 10% from the year ago quarter. So, the trend was technically up.

And based on what Joe was saying and the previous call I alluded to, there's probably some pressure downward in what we've seen in the last two weeks, when we look at some of the information from the parties that we subscribe to get spot market information is that it actually has been relatively flat spot heads in the N100 and N220 or the light viscosity products that are similar to what we're making.

So, I don't know what the next coming weeks [ph] point then (23:51), Greg and Joe can give you their take on that, but we haven't seen much movement lately. I don't know if that means there's going to be additional movement because of what Motiva did or not?

Yeah. I'd like to add that the most of our volume – the customers we have track [ph] for the stock market (24:14) rather than the posted, and the stock market hasn't moved which reflects the whole industry view of this Motiva downward move. But then we do have some contractual volume that is formulated around the posted prices. And so we've experienced in our overall bit of a reduction in our blended base oil selling price, but nothing close to the $0.15 [ph] again (24:58) on the Motiva [ph] drop reflects (24:59).

In addition, I'd like to highlight that we do sell outside of base oil; we do sell other hydrocarbon, mainly fuel, whether it is a fuel producer out of the refinery or used oil RFO. And these are showing an increase in selling price because crude went up by $4 to $5 a barrel and usually fuel tracks crude oil.

Okay. And then, how do you feel about regarding how your plants operating, is there anymore efficiency that you can get out of it or at this point, is it just a matter of how the lube spreads move?

No, no, we definitely have additional efficiencies both in throughput and cost reduction, and we should be able to see this in the next few quarters.

Thanks for taking my question.

Okay.

Thanks David.

Thanks, David.

Our next question comes from the line of David Manthey with Robert W. Baird. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Hi, guys.

Hey, Dave.

Good morning.

So the current quarter's underlying performance is clearly encouraging, can you also give us a longer term view on the company's growth prospects? And specifically I'm thinking about within EF, are there still the opportunity to expand services to existing customers and get into new geographies and so forth? And then second, when you look at the Oil Business, can you talk about the medium term plan or the longer term plan to grow there or is the plan just to run the re-refinery at 100% and hope spreads are favorable?

David, this is Greg. I'll start with the Environmental Services question. We definitely think there's a good opportunity for us to continue to grow the ES segment, we're not at all discouraged about the future there. One of the things that I think Mark or Joe mentioned was cross-selling, and you know that we've got roughly 100,000 customers, and we've been really trying in the last half year or so to figure out whether we can develop programs or initiatives to do a better job at selling more services to the customers that we already have.

That's particularly a right market opportunity because it was quite a few of those accounts or customers came to us in the last few years through oil acquisitions, where the only service that we were providing was used oil collection, and yet these customers often need parts cleaning services, drum waste services and increased recycling services or other things that we can do for them.

And I think we're starting to get a little bit better at cross-selling. We're developing metrics and tools for that. I'm not going to give you any quantitative forecast for that right now, but that's one of the things that we think helps us improve our growth rate in the years going forward.

In addition, we continue to look at adding new services. The most recent one that we've been enjoying and I think has good prospects has been our antifreeze business or service. We got into that a couple of years ago through a couple of acquisitions. It has legs; we're doing a good job of growing that organically. We may find additional tuck-in acquisition opportunities with that, and it something that you know the majority of our customers can take advantage of and so we think there's a big opportunity for us to keep building on that.

We have geographic expansion back on the menu. We took a bit of a hiatus where we were digesting the FCC acquisition and didn't do a lot in adding branches, but we're starting to open up some new branches and get back on track for growing a little bit more geographically. Although there's not a huge amount of runway for that as you can imagine our maps getting [ph] neither filled in (29:11), but there's still quite a few markets particularly on the Pacific Coast, as well as in Canada, where we think we can resume growth and add more locations.

So those are just a few of the things we're doing with Environmental Services. Joe, do you want to handle the oil question? I think it was sort of along the lines of you know what we can do to improve the business beyond just waiting for market pricing to improve.

Yeah, I can answer this. Relating to the Oil Business, we do have planned to further improve the Oil Business as far as outside of the pricing and spread, then cost reduction, and – but our view at this stage is to hold back on that – these capital investments until we see a better return and get some of the efficiencies already in place. But we do have, on our books, a couple of projects with short-term payouts. We would work on projects that are a couple of years' payout and – but at this stage, we're holding back to see better results in oil.

Okay, then...

Did we cover what you wanted to hear, David?

You did. Thanks, Greg. Just one other question, as it relates to the improvement in your charge for oil efforts, it seems like there's a distinct difference between getting a higher price per gallon versus charging a stop fee in terms of the stickiness of that type of an arrangement. Can you talk about your current mix relative to the stop fee, I mean is it a bigger percentage of the improvement you're seeing? And if not, is it something that you plan on doing going forward?

I'll take a stab at that. From the operator's point of view or a marketer's point of view, I guess is a better way to say it, we want to get our average price up or at least maintain it where it is. And we have been willing to be flexible about whether we get that pricing through a per gallon chart or a stop fee, or a combination of those. And we have customer segments who seem to be strongly opposed to paying a high price per gallon, but are happy to pay it as a stop fee and the opposite.

And so, we're pricing based on what we think the market will bear, and we kind of got a mix of those, and it really doesn't matter a lot to us. As somebody says, I want to go from a per gallon to a stop fee or vice verse, we're just flexible in making the changes. We think that in general, our competitors are often similarly oriented to just getting the price in whatever mechanism or form they can. So we haven't seen, but there's an overwhelming trend of that companies that are in our industry are all going to either a stop fee or a per gallon price. Is that what you were asking?

Yeah. That's great. Thank you very much.

And I can add, we do track that, it's just like Greg indicated with his comments. We don't see that it's all that meaningful. It's roughly half and half, if you have to break it down or charge revenues.

Our next question comes from the line of Sean Hannan with Needham & Co. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question here folks. And I'm sorry, if it's going to seem like I'm beating a dead horse. First on the Environmental Services, I think, as seen by a number of questions in the call, [ph] many of us (33:26) had picked up on that 4% growth. As I step back, my thought process had been, this is really more of a upper single-digit to double-digit growth business for you, and that we've had some hiccups this year, but should be on path to getting back to an upper single-digit to double-digit growth by 1Q, 2Q.

There's a pretty good delta in order to accomplish that. I realized there's going to be some better comps once we get into the new year, but just trying to understand, do we still have that as an opportunity? And really what drives that is the expansion of services actually able to be ramped up that quickly to achieve those types of numbers? How do we really think about, over the next couple of quarters, the type of growth recapture that we can accomplish?

This is Joe, here. Our objective is to drive this thing, significantly more than the 4% that we've seen and we – and move that up at the high single-digit. I don't know about double-digit, we already have a good position in the marketplace without adding new services to our customer base, but we also need to recognize that our organization for two quarters or three quarters were in late last year and early this year.

We're at the branches preoccupied with the fix in the spread on the used oil, and so that has affected us a bit, but we're not going to be satisfied with the 4% increase in ES revenue, and we're working on many angles to try to boost this throughout the company.

So getting back to an upper single-digit type of growth number, if I interpret your comments correctly, might seem a little bit aggressive to accomplish by 1Q, 2Q, or did I not interpret correctly? [ph]

No. (36:23) I think, I would agree. I would agree with you. And we first start to put in some pros in place overall for the company versus what you've accomplished here recently and keep driving it. We have – we also have our annual price increase that would be going in this quarter. So if we – in the past we had some [ph] more than (36:55) losses and now that we described here in the branches that are quite enrolled with energy sector and I think we've reached things are being pretty steady study.

So, from a comparative point of view, we won't see that repeating. So, between our regular yearly price increase and the initiatives that we're taking new branches, more services into the – some of the existing branches and the cross-selling, we know we should see our growth again. But we [ph] aren't (37:37), at this stage, promise high single – single-digit, the growth in the beginning of next year. So it will be a step-by-step improvement.

Okay. Thank you. And then, if we shift over to the Oil Business, now maybe I had the wrong interpretation around how some of the spread management was materializing for you. The margins, while an accomplishment in getting an improvement 3Q versus 2Q, still seems at least a little bit lower than at least my expectation.

I had the impression that we had a more stable pricing environment that was a bit improved quarter-over-quarter. And some better stability in terms of that shortfall as well as the implemented – further implementation around some of the fees that you're charging. So, can we get a little bit more color in terms of what we can accomplish from a margin standpoint as we head into or have started the fourth quarter here?

And obviously, where the cost and then the price for the base lube oil market is going to have a pretty material dictating impact, just want to get some better clarity around how some of this improvement materializes? And I think this piggybacks on an earlier question.

Yeah. We're expecting an improvement. I mean [ph] what's special here was (39:39) the Motiva. We are expecting an improvement. We have had in the quarter, the third quarter, as we said earlier, a shutdown. It was a major shutdown, it was not just a regular shutdown, and so our operating cost for the quarter was higher than the trailing few quarters ahead of it.

And so, that's one factor we talked earlier about the throughput. Any improvement in throughput from the 92% should help us between this lower cost and higher throughput. We are expecting improvements in margins, contribution margins, for the Oil Business. The reduction on the Motiva, so far, is more than balanced by the increase in the value of the non-lube oil products that we are marketing.

To add to Joe's comment, again, well, we usually have some smaller or more normal shutdowns in most of our quarters. But as far as the margin impact versus Q2, between the extra catalyst we need to do for some of this work and then extra maintenance and what not, you're talking a little less than 4% headwind on the margin quarter-over-quarter, sequentially. So there is definitely a room for improvement there.

Okay. Thanks. And then last question, this should be a quick one. From an SG&A standpoint, it looks like the next quarter should be much more normalized taking out fines, restitution, legal fees, how should we think about SG&A moving forward here, because it seems like that's becoming much more optimized? Thanks.

Yeah. I think so – this is Mark. I think you're right. Remember, from on pure accounting standpoint, the fines and restitution were in the other category. So it's really just when you think of Q2...

Right. Right. Right.

Excuse me, Q3. You got a couple of million dollars extra or close to that, we always have some, like most companies, some legal fees. But it's close to probably – it's [ph] about (42:09) $1.8 million or so of excess. So if you strip that off, you're probably down, I think it was 11.7% to down to the $10 million range. And I think for – again Q4 has more – another period in it, an extra four weeks. But on a run rate basis, that should be what we would expect.

Great. Thanks so much.

Thank you, Sean.

Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Good morning, everyone. Just...

Hey, Kevin.

Good morning.

Just taking another stab at the Environmental Services growth here. I know the focus has been on the impact of the energy slowdown on ES growth, but that 4% growth rate outside of the impact of oil and gas, how much do you think you're being impacted just from what has been for quite some time, just a really sluggish overall manufacturing and industrial environment.

I think that's part of it Kevin. I mean I think that, we certainly feel like, we haven't been in a very strong growth environment for manufacturing. I'd also kind of repeat what Joe said earlier that our people have been spending a lot of energy managing oil price changes and dealing with customers who needed handholding the transition from being paid for their used oil to going to free, and then being charged for it.

And we've done a good job of explaining that and hanging on to our accounts through that time even when competition didn't always behave the same way and so there were price differences that our customers were seeing.

And that took, not only the rep resources, but it took time and attention from some of our more senior sales people, so they were having to do extra duty to talk to well-established customers and sell them on this. And to some degree, those sales resource that I'm referring to now, some of the people that we've historically charged with being more focused on building and growing the industrial or manufacturing customer base.

So, we're excited to feel like these oil price changes are largely behind us, and we can get back to restoring growth in the manufacturing side of our business, which we think we can do even if the manufacturing climate overall is not very robust. But we've still historically been able to add accounts in our Environmental Services business and with manufacturers and we want to resume that, of course with the continuing focus we've always had on the small to mid-sized customers. I'm not talking about changing our target accounts in any way from what we've done typically.

But we think that that's another small headwind we've had, both the slow manufacturing environment and the challenges of our Oil Business, and as Joe said, we think that our expectation is to be getting ES back fairly quickly in the high single-digit growth rates, but we can't pick which quarter that's going to materialize particularly because we can't measure precisely what these headwinds will feel like in Q4 or Q1.

But we'll be trying to do that, our own goals and objectives are based on that and expectations, and we don't see any reason to feel like that's not a reasonable goal for us to be able to hit during the coming year.

Okay, that's helpful. And you referenced earlier implementing your annual price increase in Environmental Services this quarter. Are you, again, targeting that typical kind of mid-single-digit price increase and how do you feel about your ability to realize that?

Yes, we're targeting the same ballpark range that we historically have in that mid single-digit range. It does vary a little bit from service type, it varies based on specific customers and how much of a discount or what price they've been on most recently. But that's a good overall target, and we don't have any belief that it's going to be harder or different for us to achieve this than in other years.

You know our track record and in every year, except for the great recession. We've typically achieved sort of in the 80% or 85% range of what our nominal or posted price increase was, and so, we're expecting to get to the same outcome this year as well. And that obviously gives us a lift in terms of our revenue growth, supporting to us to be able to sustain and potentially improve our margins [ph] in any absence (47:23). And so, we think that this is something that we're planning on accomplishing in the coming quarter or two quarters.

Okay. Good. And just on the ES margin, it was quite strong in the quarter and up year-over-year, so what drove that higher? What's enabling you to maintain those high levels despite the lack of topline growth?

We continue to benefit even in Q3 from – I think that we've benefited from the last four plus quarters, which on our parts cleaning business, and still a large majority of it is what we call solvent or mineral spirits based. And to help offset, if you will, on the revenue side, the lower fuel surcharges, our diesel fuel cost, it continue to come down. So those were the two of the bigger positives. There were some headwinds offsetting some of that labor and benefits and then – but some counterbalancing from improved insurance. So the two biggest things are really commodity-driven.

And Mark, I don't know how much it's played a role in Q3 you can correct me if I'm wrong. But I think over the last several quarters, some of the benefit we've got and was taking the Environmental Service business that we acquired with FCC, which was a smaller, but very meaningful part of what we acquired there and improving pricing there, some of the pricing there have been very weak. And we've been able to improve pricing and [ph] that (48:57) probably have a positive impact on our overall ES margin. Is that fair?

Yeah.

Okay, good. One last question for me, just circling back on the Oil Business long-term growth strategy, I believe I remember from a couple of years ago some discussion about potentially manufacturing your own blended lubricants or maybe even making an acquisition in that area, and I think product pricing for your own lubricants tends to be a little more stable. So, I mean is that still on the drawing board or something you're thinking about long-term?

Yeah. This is Joe here. It's an option for us; we've been looking at this as a possible step. So, we've had this – well that's for the last couple of years, but we haven't acted on it, and on the short-term I don't see us doing a major undertaking. We've done it in the past, we know the steps. Acquisition could be a logical step for us, but at this stage we basically want to continue to improve our margin in the Oil Business, and I think we can do it by improving our cost structure, and efficiency at the redefining [ph] pen (50:38).

Okay. Well, fair enough. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you, Kevin.

We have a follow-up question from the line of Sean Hannan with Needham & Company. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Thanks. Just a question here on the gallon sold. Can you remind me, what did you sell in terms of the re-refined oil? I think it was about [ph] $9.6 million (51:07), and then what did you sell in terms of RFO in the quarter?

It was just a little over [ph] $9 million (51:13) in sales actually for base oil. And then on the RFO side, it was about [ph] $6.3. (51:21)

Great. Thanks so much folks. [indiscernible]

(51:28)

Thanks, Sean. [Operator Instructions]

This does conclude our Q&A session for today. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.