Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Media Relations, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Sean K. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measured. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our second quarter 2013 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the second quarter, and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

Our second quarter sales were $63.6 million, compared to $62.3 million in the second quarter of 2012. Year-to-date sales increased 9.6% to $123.6 million, compared to $112.8 million for the first half of 2012. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we produced 6.5 million gallons of re-refined base oil at our re-refinery. This volume represents 93% of nameplate capacity for base oil production. Although the market price of lube oil increased slightly during the second quarter, lube oil pricing was still much lower than it was in the second quarter of 2012. These lower lube oil prices negatively impacted our Oil Business segment revenues and profits for the quarter.

During the second quarter, we had steadied the number of used oil collection trucks in service at 140. We continue to execute plan to increase the efficiency of our routes. During the second quarter, we collected used oil at an approximately annualized rate of 37 million gallons. We continue to implement the initiatives started at the beginning of the year, and we believe that these will help deliver improved results in our used oil collection business. However, we also realize that the full value of these improvements may not be evident for a couple of years.

When we entered the Oil Business, we recognized that we would be exposed to commodity price swings and have ups and downs through the cycle. We remain confident that this is a good business that will provide attractive returns over the long run. We look forward to beginning to expand the capacity of our re-refinery during the second half of 2013, which will allow us to better leverage the fixed cost of our current operation.

In the Environmental Services segment, we are pleased with our same-branch sales growth. We are especially pleased that we continued improving our segment margin during the quarter. Improving our margin in this segment has been a clear objective of ours for the last few quarters. In addition, our growth was made possible by our ability to continually add new customers. As of the end of the second quarter, we served over 91,000 individual customers located from 74 branches. We are also pleased to announce that early in the third quarter, we purchased certain assets of two antifreeze recycling companies. We expect that these two acquisitions will contribute to continued growth in our Environmental Services segment.

While the lack of profitability in the Oil Business in the latest quarter was disappointing, we continue to take steps to improve our efficiency in this segment in order to help mitigate the negative impact of current market conditions. The continued strength of our Environmental Services business provides stability to help us through the current downturn in the Oil Business.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results, and then we would be open to calls – open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's second quarter 2013 conference call. Second quarter saw improvement in both of our business segments compared to the first quarter.

In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $3.8 million or 11.8% in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012 and $8.1 million or 12.9% for the first half of the year compared to the first half of 2012. Of the 70 branches that were in operation throughout both the second quarters of 2013 and 2012, the growth in same-branch sales was 9.6%. However, if we exclude the impact of those existing branches which gave up territory and customers to new branches, the growth in same-branch sales was 10.5% for the second quarter. For the first half of the year, same-branch sales in our Environmental Services segment increased 11.4%.

Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $600,000, compared to $580,000 in the first quarter of 2013 and compared to $545,000 in the second quarter one year ago.

Operating costs in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $1 million compared to the second quarter of 2012 and $2.3 million compared to the first half of 2012. We are very pleased that our operating margin was 27.8% for the quarter, which was up from 22.5% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to work to recover the impact of higher solvent and diesel costs experienced over the past few years, and have been successful at holding down costs while growing revenue in this segment.

In the Oil Business segment, sales for the second quarter were down $2.5 million from the second quarter of 2012 as a result of continued pressure on lube oil prices. For the first half of 2013, Oil Business segment sales were up $2.7 million over the first half of 2012, as increased production at the re-refinery more than offset lower product prices.

In the second quarter, our Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $0.5 million, which was a reduction of $1.6 million compared to our first quarter loss. In the first half, the Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.7 million. As was mentioned earlier, lower base oil selling prices negatively impact our operating margin during the quarter.

We have seen positive results from our efforts to reduce cost and increase efficiency. We've reduced both our internal cost of used oil collection and our transportation cost on a per gallon basis during the second quarter of 2013, compared to the first quarter of 2013.

Corporate SG&A was 11.1% of sales, up from 10% in the year-ago quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had $21.5 million of total debt and $41 million of cash on hand. We incurred $107,000 of interest expense for the second quarter of 2013, compared to interest expense of $146,000 in the year-ago quarter. We incurred $213,000 of interest expense for the first half of 2013, compared to $333,000 of interest expense in the first half of 2012, when we were drawing on our revolving loan.

For the second quarter, we experienced income of $1 million, compared to $1.2 million in the second quarter of 2012. Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.06, compared to $0.07 in the year-ago quarter.

For the first half of 2013, our income was $0.6 million compared to $1.5 million in the first half of 2012. Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share were $0.03, compared to basic earnings per share of $0.10 and diluted earnings per share of $0.09 in the first half of fiscal 2012.

During the remainder of 2013, we expect to increase our internal collection of used oil, increase the efficiency of our transportation network and take advantage of enhanced economies of scale as we ramp up and expand our re-refining capacity.

Our team continues to focus on the portions of the Oil Business we can't control with the goal of improving the overall results in this segment. We are also very excited that we've been able to restore our margin in the Environmental Services segment to the mid-20% range. We will focus on continued revenue growth in this segment.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from David Mandell from William Blair. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, David.

Good morning, David.

So, on the Environmental Services margin, were there any one-time benefits in there this quarter or is this level sustainable going forward?

We believe it's generally sustainable. The increase quarter-over-quarter was made up of a bunch of small different items. Probably the biggest singular items was the fact that we're internalizing some of the – or reducing – capitalizing on the benefit of reducing cost in our aqueous parts cleaning business related to purchasing chemistry from our subsidiary Mirachem that we acquired at the beginning of the fiscal year and that was worth roughly 1% in margin. But that should be something that we would expect to continue on.

All right. That's good. And then how much lube did you guys sell during this period?

6.5 million gallons in the quarter.

Okay. So, you sold and produced 6.5 million gallons?

Roughly.

All right. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Sean Hannan from Needham & Co. Your line is now open.

Yes. Thank you. Sean Hannan.

Hey, Sean.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So, I think I heard Joe that you had mentioned 37 million gallons in terms of collection. I just want to make sure I understood that correctly. And kind of as a part B to that, what is the mix of the internal collection, Joe – the internal collection today versus external collection? Thanks. Can you hear me?

Pardon me. One moment. Please stand by. Please stand by. Please, sir, go ahead.

Sean, are you back?

Yes. Thanks.

Well, sorry about that.

Well, Sean, your question was so difficult that we lost the line.

We heard some of it. We're roughly a two-thirds/one-third mix as far as two-thirds was internal collection for the quarter and about one-third with third party.

Okay. That's helpful.

One-third the other – other party [ph] constituents (16:04).

Yeah. And then, if you weren't collecting externally, what would we be looking at for margins?

If we were not buying all from third party?

That's right.

Well, basically our objective is to run the re-refinery at full capacity and sell the output. And so, in our mind this is not an option. What we cannot collect, we would buy from the market to supply the plant and run at the full capacity, otherwise the margins of the business will deteriorate significantly.

Yeah. I'm not sure of the assumptions behind your question, but as we said, we collected 37-million gallon rate – annual run rate during the quarter. And if we had not bought any oil from third parties and only processed what we collected ourselves, our margins on profitability would have been significantly diminished from what we reported. We are making incremental profit on the volume that we buy from third parties.

Right. So, I guess, where I'm going with that, and I think there's a way that some of that can be kind of derived from your comments, Greg. The internal collection, I believe, has not been quite at the level of efficiency as you've desired. That's part of the focus in you addressing your transportation network. I believe that the margins for internal collection are a little bit more of a drag today, whereas the external collection helps provide a little bit of an offset or a balance. I want to understand if that assumption is still correct? And how that's moving?

Yeah. Well, first, let me give you just slightly different color on answer to this, because the – our internal collection costs on a fully loaded, fully absorbed basis are higher than our marginal costs for buying used oil from third parties right now. And you said that they weren't quite what we desired, and I guess I'd say there's two reasons that our internal costs are higher. One had been that we have some correctable inefficiencies, some sloppiness in the system as we were growing rapidly that had built up, that we definitely wanted to work out of the system. And two, it's naturally less efficient, because we have a younger, less dense route which is improved – route network, which is improving all the time.

That's the biggest reason for the difference is this young, immature route network. And as we've mentioned, it's going to take us probably several years of continued effort before we get the increased volumes and density to be as efficient as somebody who's taken 20 years to build up a dense route organization.

The more controllable short-term inefficiencies related to transportation, logistics, rail car demurrage and other things that we've been working on, we've probably accomplished a significant amount of the improvement that's possible for us to achieve at this time. So, we've squeezed out some of those costs that we could work on, but the longer-term game of pushing our costs lower through increased loading of the trucks and routes is going to take more time.

We think that eventually, when we've done all of that, our own internal collection cost is not only at parity with third-party costs, but probably is lower than third-party supply costs. More importantly, there's the strategic element which is that we think it's essential for us to have a substantial portion, preferably 100% of our appetite satisfied from internal collections if we can achieve that goal.

That's very helpful. And then so, when you look at those costs today, what you're able to manage, what's in your control, you're most the way through, if I heard you correctly, in terms of what you feel you can achieve for your own efficiencies, low-hanging fruit, with that transportation network. And is there anything further you can really accomplish that you feel on your end through a lower pay for oil or is some element of that already kind of becoming embedded in these efficiencies you're speaking to as well?

Well, I'd say the pay for oil issue is another one I didn't touch on yet. It's sort of an entirely different category. So, I'll personally stick with the cost issues. I don't think we've achieved all of the cost savings that are related to just being more careful and efficient and logical about our operations, but we've gotten most of those. And I can't really quantify for you whether there's still a couple of pennies left on the table that we can squeeze out of the system, but it's not a big number.

The efficiency gains we get as we get more route density over several years are much larger than that and we're working through that now. And we certainly think there's still plenty of room to more fully load our trucks, which in many cases are only running at 50% or 60% of what we'd consider full capacity for a vehicle. So, you can just appreciate that when you have the fixed cost of the truck lease and the driver overhead and things like that, there's a lot of room to spread those costs out over more gallons and we're going to get bigger improvements there.

Now, to turn to your other comment about pricing, none of these cost things I talked about really relate to street pricing at all. We are desiring to reduce what we pay on the street for used oil. We've made some efforts to work on that, and I guess the simple way to describe it is that over second quarter if we break that down into three-week, four-week periods, which is the way we do our accounting, we made small sequential improvements or reductions in what we pay generators on average each of those four-week periods during the quarter, but only very small improvements.

We believe that we're – we continue to be at the low end of the industry spectrum in terms of what we're paying generators for used oil, and we certainly know that some generators – excuse me, some collectors have indicated that they expect to put in place price changes and pay less for used oil. But we're not seeing that in the market at this point in time on a broad scale basis.

That's helpful, Greg. Last question before I jump back in the queue, do you have a blended cost per gallon that you're willing to share for what you're able to achieve today?

On the oil collection?

Correct.

We don't choose to disclose that, Sean. I appreciate your asking and why it would helpful, but we haven't been publishing that. I think you can understand why it would be competitively and commercially sensitive.

Sure. That's fair. Thanks very much.

Thank you. Appreciate the effort.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Morning, Kevin.

Morning. I wanted to follow-up a little bit more on the Environmental Services margin, and you mentioned that that could be sustainable going forward. Does that mean that the price increases that you implemented have mostly been realized or is there more room to go there?

Yeah. They've been pretty much fully implemented. You'll see – quarter over year ago quarter, you'll see that realization rate probably be at similar rates to what it has been the last couple of quarters. So, that, other than comparing year-over-year, quarter-to-quarter, will be at around the rate probably that we're at now. So, we don't see any other big bump coming until we implement our next event. Usually we look at this every year and specifically in the fourth quarter typically as I'm sure you're probably familiar, so.

Yeah. I agree with what Mark said. I'd add that we feel very pleased with the good market acceptance of our last round of price increases. That's allowed us to restore margins to what we think of as the healthy level. And we do our price increase typically each year in the November timeframe and sort of phase it in over a month or two so it's in effect at the start of the New Year. And we'd expect where we sit today to be able to do the same thing again as we look ahead to the coming couple of quarters and be able to implement another price increase.

Okay. Great. And Mark, in your prepared comments, I believe you mentioned that you've been successful in holding down costs in the ES segment and you did mention, I believe, the benefit of the aqueous side of things. But are there other costs that you've been successful in holding down in terms of solvent or anything else that we should be thinking about?

Solvent – mineral spirit solvent was – we had a minor uptick there and that can be, as you've followed us now for a little while, as crude impacts things like the cost of mineral spirits and other related products that affect our business, you can see swings from quarter-to-quarter in our inventory. For instance, we can have write-down sometimes due to lower cost of market factors. We didn't have any of those things this last quarter or at least anything of note.

So, those are always possible in future quarters and we usually then will gain back the benefits of lower cost inventory in subsequent quarters. So, we try and walk everyone through that. But we didn't have any of that, what I would call noise in this quarter, certainly compared to Q1. So, in general, we haven't seen a lot of increases there. So, it's more about route density. We've been able to drive better revenue, a lot of it through better price, and simply maintained other things we've done really well at. We've had increases in previous quarters. Our disposal costs, we didn't have a great additional improvement from Q1 to Q2 this time, but over the past several quarters, that's been one where we've also had some benefit.

Okay. Thanks. And on the Oil Business side, how is the expansion of the re-refinery tracking? Has that begun and is that on plan currently?

Yes. It is on plan. We have, as we speak here, a couple of weeks ago we have taken a regular shutdown and we do this every quarter for equipment cleaning and general maintenance. And at that time last week, we've done some tie-ins and put some equipment towards the expansion. And as we said earlier, we expect the expansion to be completed by the middle of next year.

We will see some benefit in the second half of this year in taking the capacity beyond the initial design of 50 million – nameplate design of 50-million gallons towards later on in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Should we think about that normal plant shutdown that you just did having any meaningful impact on capacity utilization in the third quarter here or is that not meaningful?

Well, typically we have these shutdowns every quarter

Okay.

And this was a little bit more extended by a few days and we're little bit too early in the quarter and we're expecting to get up to the rates you've seen in the last couple of quarters. We're over 90% of the initial 50-million-gallon nameplate capacity. And we're obviously driving this thing to go up beyond that and beyond the 50-million gallon.

All right. One more question for me here. You referenced a couple acquisitions you made in the third quarter, antifreeze recycling. How large were those acquisitions and what made those particular businesses attractive to you in that particular market?

Yeah. We have been – antifreeze is a common waste stream from most of our customers and we haven't had a proper way of managing this. And we have historically been shy from servicing some of the customers that had large role of antifreeze.

And so, in size – and anyway just to finish my thought in here, what we have done is we've identified two companies that are bringing us the technology and operational experience in managing the spent antifreeze and recycling. It's a relatively low capital business for recycling, but they have good technology that we have evaluated to recycle antifreeze and be able to offer it to the customers back as a finished product so that meets ASTM and other standards. And so, the two acquisitions totaled in revenue $6.3 million.

Okay.

And we expect to add another couple of million dollars in our first full year of operation.

Should we – just one quick follow-up on that. Should we think about those – that as the service that can be just rolled out with your existing infrastructure of trucks and recycling technology, or is there something incremental that the acquisitions brought on or that you need to invest in?

Well, the first reason why we did this thing is, we didn't have a full menu in our Environmental Service business. We were uncomfortable just offering the removal of used antifreeze from some customers, but not all customers, and then we would ship the antifreeze for disposal. And the first objective here is to correct this thing and have the internal capability to recycle antifreeze and build on that business. We are in the process of evaluating our strategy at how to proceed with this business.

If I can add to that, when we think about the branch business, we are picking up antifreeze now, and this gives us a way to route the material we pick up and manage it for recycling. And so that will be sort of a natural fit with our existing branch business in terms of – if you're sort of modeling this out and thinking about capital, which is what I kind of heard as part of your question, if we sort of keep this at the scale it's at or modest growth, there's not any substantial incremental capital requirement. We'll only be talking about putting more capital into the business to the extent that we want to grow it more aggressively. And our first step is to sort of learn and integrate what we're doing before we put together ambitious plans.

And as Joe said, it's not a terribly capital intensive business from everything we've seen. So, it probably is going to be something that – our need to sort of budget the capital for modest growth isn't very significant.

All right. Great. Thanks for answering my questions.

Sure. Nice talking to you, Kevin.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Michael Hoffman from Wunderlich. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much for taking my question.

No problem.

On the – let's start with the Oil Business. Straight out, can this be a profitable business on the current 50-million gallons in the current lube environment?

The contribution from a – contribution, margin before SG&A, the answer of that is yes.

And how do you do that?

Get to this – run consistently at the 50-million gallon, we're pretty close in the quarter and we're running at 90% – and we announced it, we're at 93% of the capacity. And we haven't fully implemented. As you heard earlier from Greg, there's still little bit more stuff from the efficiencies of the transportation outside of the oil collection. The oil collection trucks are far from being efficient. And so, we have room in that area as well.

We don't want to aggressively go in and load these trucks up and move the price on the street up. And so, we want to be able to do it through build up relationship over a period of time without going in and paying the big dollars at the Walmarts of the world. And so, we have quite a bit of room on our collection. I think Greg, in here, you want to add?

Well, I just was saying, as Joe's defined the answer to the question, we're pretty close to that point in the second quarter. We were – profit before SG&A for oil was negative $0.5 million on $26 million of revenue. So, we've got still a 2% deficit. And as Joe said, making up that last $0.5 million in a quarter with just doing a little bit better on cleaning up the operations, on getting a little bit more density on the trucks, and on running at a few percentage higher rate in the plant gets us above break-even.

Now, the bigger answer to the question is in the current economics for lube prices. How do we do better than that? The answer is we get the street price lower. And we've heard lots of talk from people about that. And as I said, we think that we're at the low end of the spectrum and continuing to drive our costs lower on the street, but we can only make a certain amount of progress because the differential between our pricing and competitors remains large.

Okay. So, to pull on those threads a little bit, you made a suggestion, Greg, it's a couple of points, so 95% is sort of a magic number on utilization, or is it really – just so we're not splitting hairs here, is it--

On 95% of capacity?

Yes.

No, not – no. We should be able to run at nameplate capacity and we are satisfied. Anything over 90% is typically good for this kind of any refining operation is good but--

Yeah. I might not have been clear. What I was trying to say is it's a couple points or maybe 200 basis points of negative margin in the Oil Business that we have to overcome, and that's the couple points I am talking about. And so, increasing the plant utilization from 93% of nameplate to a 100% of nameplate can go a long way towards making up those missing 200 basis points.

Okay. But it would take the whole – it would take to be at nameplate to do it. That's what I'm trying to understand. How sensitive and close is -- because 7 points is, from a way back in my manufacturing day, 7 points is pretty healthy lift?

Yes. Absolutely. At 7 points, we would expect a lot more than a couple of percentage here.

Okay.

This is outside of our – the correction. This is just from the processing side.

Right. Right. I get that. Greg, I get it, you didn't want to answer a price-per-gallon blended number earlier, but could you frame what is the collection – what's the cost of goods sold percentage of the feedstock versus processing costs? What's – how do I think about that? Is it greater than 50%, less than 50% or...?

I'm not – I'll see if our CFO, Mark DeVita, is willing to take a stab at that so that we can be consistent with what we tell people generally.

Yeah, it's right around 50%. And I'm not trying to be evasive. It depends on wet basis, dry basis, and how you're looking at the gallon but

But that – I mean, that helps. I mean if you can move these pennies a gallon and we get – that gives us a sense of some of the leverage of that.

Exactly. No, there's no question.

Okay. Okay.

The used oil cost outside of processing efficiencies, the used oil cost is single-most important factor in the economics of the business today. And so, as that – as we get more efficient without driving the price of oil on the streets up and seeing a reduction of the price on the street, there's still quite a bit of uplift here at today's price of lube oil.

Right. And then on the collection side, why not maybe park a few of the 140 and buy third-party for now and get some improved economics and allow time to be your ally on improving the density of maybe a fleet of 120 and then start to incrementally add 20 more trucks in. Why not pull back a little bit? I mean there's so much collected volume out there and there's one or two very big collectors you could source from and they ship by train, it's pretty low delivery cost. Why not do that?

Okay. Well, it's a good question. And my back is still full of signs of bad experience with third-party collectors and we've been hit negatively in the past on relying on third party and didn't get it. And today we're long and we have to think strategically how far we want to go. We have parked 11 trucks and have parked a fleet of additional truck that we had – we stopped acquiring these trucks, but we're in the process of building them. And I – it wasn't too long ago, a year and a half ago, to purchase third-party oil we would have to pay more than our own cost, which was not very efficient at the time. We still had to pay even more than that.

And the other factor is we are taking the plant from 50-million to 75-million gallons. That's a big block, 25-million gallons, and it's prudent for us to not to reduce the number of trucks from 140 down to 120. I don't think we'll see much of a difference in our economics. We're getting relatively close to third-party oil cost.

Okay. Thank you for your answer to my questions.

Good talking to you Michael.

Thanks, Michael.

Me too.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And I'm not showing any further questions.

Thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us on our next conference call.

Thank you. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.

Thank you.

Thank you.