Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
James Ricchiuti — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian Joseph Butler — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Gerry Sweeney — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated First Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask a question. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking statements. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto; and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Kevin. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us today. First off and most importantly, I hope you and your families are healthy and staying safe during the COVID-19 crisis. On behalf of the Heritage-Crystal Clean family, I want to thank all the healthcare workers, first responders, and those working in essential businesses including our employees who continue to put their own health at risk while serving our communities. Thank you again for your selfless service.

It is with mixed emotions that we begin this call today. We were so pleased with the results of our hard working team delivered for our first quarter. However, that positive feeling was short-lived as we entered our second quarter with the COVID-19 outbreak that rapidly spread throughout the US and began to inflict both the physical and economic toll on millions of people.

My comments today will address some of the impact of the pandemic in our company along with detail and what we have done to navigate the company through these uncharted waters at the onset of this pandemic and how we are preparing to set ourselves up for the opportunities in the future. Mark will take you through the results of the first quarter. We will then open up the lines to take your questions.

As Mark will detail later, the strong results of our fiscal first quarter do not reflect the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has had on our business. Since our fiscal first quarter ended on March 21, we did not begin to feel the effects of the pandemic until the last week or two of our quarter. However, as we moved into the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to experience a noticeable decline in the demand for our products and services as our customers' businesses began to feel the impact of the shelter-in-place orders which have become commonplace throughout the country.

Shelter-in-place orders, social distancing practices and other similar actions have negatively impacted demand across diverse industries which included many of our customers. This is a likely a decrease in activity for our customers which eventually affects their demand for our products and services. While we are fortunate that we also serve many customers who are considered essential businesses such as automotive repair and certain manufacturers, even some of these customers are experiencing a decline in activity due to the COVID-19 outbreak. As the pandemic spread, we assembled key leaders within the company and initiated our response plan.

Our initial focus was taking steps to ensure we could continue to safely serve our customers while protecting the health and safety of our employees. To help safeguard of the well-being of our employees and decrease the risk of the spread of the COVID-19 virus, we have taken the following steps. We've provided additional personal protective equipment and sanitizers. Implemented staggered work schedules to increase social distancing. Allow high risk employees or other impacted individuals to work from home when possible. Thoroughly cleaned and disinfected some of our facilities. Temporarily closed a few facilities, none of which will close for more than three to four business days at a time. These steps along with the prudent behavior of our employees has allowed us to limit the number of confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19 amongst our employees.

Beginning near the end of the first quarter, continuing into the second quarter, we experienced situations where some of our customers have temporarily closed their businesses while others have remained open but limited our access to their facilities which curbed our ability to fully service those customers.

Other customers that have remained open have had a decreased need for our products and services due to the economic downturn. In addition to taking steps to ensure the safety of our employees, we also executed several actions to ensure the health of our business. Some of these actions include but aren't limited to the following; implementation of salary reductions for all levels of management, implementation of reductions of cash compensation for members of our board of directors, suspension of all material and non-essential capital expenditures, suspension of mergers and acquisitions, the elimination of all non-essential travel, implementation of a hiring freeze.

We also conducted vendor assessments to ensure continuity of critical supplies and materials. We extended payment terms to vendors and instituted tighter customer credit controls. We are also preparing furlough plans to augment the compensation reductions I alluded to a moment ago. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, we have also procured cleaning and disinfecting supplies, as well as PPE and other equipment to facilitate the implementation of COVID-19 decontamination service.

I would now like to spend a little time talking about the oil industry. As most of you are aware, there's been a significant drop in demand for crude oil and all refined products due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This deflated demand scenario came on the heels of a battle for market share, putting two of the world's largest oil producing countries, Saudi Arabia and Russia. This market share battle has led to a historic oversupply of crude oil and supply demand dynamics that pushed the price of crude oil and finished products to historic lows in the past couple of weeks.

The widespread shelter-in-place orders have led to much less driving and lower levels of manufacturing activity. This in turn has led to a decrease need to replace finished lubricants such as engine or hydraulic oil. Less oil changes mean less used oil to be collected and less demand for finished lubricants.

As most of you know, base oil is the main ingredient in the finished lubricant, so there's been a decreased demand for our base oil as well as downward pressure on the price of our products. While there is less used oil being generated, we've been able to move from a slight pay-for-oil position during the first quarter to a significant charge for oil position during the second quarter.

Compared to the weighted average pay-for-oil position in the first quarter, our current charge for oil represents a net increase of approximately $0.50 per gallon. From a re-refinery perspective, with lower demand for our base oil, we have decreased the run rate at the re-refinery to approximately two-thirds of our normal run rate.

In order to take advantage of this demand weakness, we are planning on moving up the timing of our fall extended turnaround into next month. After our shutdown maintenance work is completed in May, we will determine if it is prudent to keep the refinery idle until more favorable market conditions exist. As we move forward, we believe that we will experience a decrease in activity in both our Environmental Services and our Oil Business segments during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and the remainder of fiscal 2020.

At this point, we're unable to determine the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business and operating results. During the beginning of the second quarter we have seen a number of services performed in our Environmental Services segment. Business has declined between 20% and 30% in some weeks.

From an Oil Business, perspective, early in the second quarter we have seen collection volumes as much as 40% lower in certain weeks and base oil volume sold have been down by approximately 30% compared to last year.

In summary, we are undoubtedly in unprecedented times, and the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of our operations, financial condition and cash flow is highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. It is dependent on future developments including the duration of the pandemic and the related length of its impact on the global economy.

Until the uncertainty begins to clear, we will remain focused on supporting our employees and customers and regaining the momentum and execution we demonstrated prior to the COVID-19 outbreak. On a positive note, we believe the strength of our balance sheet will put us in a strong position relative to most of our competitors, allowing us to capitalize on growth opportunities as the economy begins to recover.

With that, Mark will now walk us through our first quarter financial results.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everybody. Before I get started, I want to echo Brian's comments and thank all of those who have continued to risk their own health by going to work every day to treat the sick and provide the essential services we all need to continue our daily lives.

As Brian mentioned, the results of our fiscal first quarter reflect only a minor impact, probably a couple of weeks of the adverse impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on our business due to the timing of when our first quarter ended. With that in mind, let's go over our first quarter results.

Revenue was a first quarter record of $107.3 million compared to $95.8 million for the same quarter of 2019 while net income was also a first quarter record of $5.3 million compared to a net loss of $2.5 million in the year earlier quarter. Diluted earnings per share was $0.23, another first quarter record compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.11 in the year-ago quarter.

Now let's talk Environmental Services. In the first quarter, we posted record segment revenues of $77.5 million compared to $66.5 million in the first quarter of 2019. The 16.5% increase in revenue was driven primarily by growth in our field services, parts cleaning and containerized waste businesses. Our field service business accounted for 8.7 percentage points of revenue growth for the quarter mainly due to a large project that continued from the fourth quarter of 2019. Excluding the field services project, the first quarter organic revenue growth in the segment was 7.2%. The growth in our parts cleaning business was due to stronger pricing partially offset with slightly lower volume compared to the year-earlier quarter. The growth in our containerized waste business was price – excuse me, and volume-driven resulting in a 9.1% increase compared to the first quarter of 2019. Overall, same-branch revenues grew approximately 10% on a year-over-year basis during the first quarter.

We reached a first quarter record in Environmental Services profit before corporate selling, general and administrative expenses of $18.8 million which compared to $14.7 million in the year-ago quarter. The 28% increase in operating margin dollars from a year-ago quarter was mainly driven by higher revenue and lower healthcare costs partially offset by higher disposal and repair and maintenance cost as well as higher depreciation expense. Our operating margin percentage came in at 24.2% compared to last year's 22.1%.

Moving on to the Oil Business segment, Oil Business revenues increased 1.8% to $29.8 million compared to $29.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a slight – excuse me, increase in revenue mainly due to an increase in our selling price of base oil, partially offset by a decrease in the volume of base oil gallon sold. Profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Oil Business segment increased $5.4 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 mainly due to better operating efficiency and less downtime at the re-refinery and lower third-party feedstock costs compared to last year.

Oil Business segment operating margin improved to 3.1% compared to negative 15.3% during the first quarter of 2019. Our overall corporate SG&A expense declined $1 million compared to the first quarter of 2019; and as a percentage of revenue, came in at 11.6% compared to 14.1% from the year-ago quarter mainly driven by lower severance cost, [ph] professional (00:14:36) services expense, and legal fees partially offset by higher non-management salaries and share-based compensation. The company's effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 21.5% compared to 28.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The rate decrease is principally attributable – attributed to the opposing effect on the tax rate from equity compensation in an income quarter such as the first quarter of 2020 compared to a loss quarter like the first quarter of 2019.

We generated record first quarter EBITDA of $12.2 million which represents a momentous improvement over the $1 million EBITDA figure we achieved in the year-ago quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $13.5 million. This is also a first quarter record and is over 2.5 times higher than our adjusted EBITDA of $5.1 million during the first quarter of 2019.

Looking at the balance sheet, we had $56.9 million of cash on hand at the end of the quarter. We generated $10.3 million in cash flow from operations during the quarter compared to $9.2 million in the first quarter of 2019. And total debt remains steady at $29 million year-over-year.

From an acquisition standpoint, early in the first quarter, we purchased the non-controlling interest in one of our subsidiary for approximately $2.8 million. Also, at the beginning of the second quarter, we closed an acquisition of an Environmental Services business focused on field services and wastewater treatment. This acquisition provided us that first wastewater treatment operation in the Midwestern US as well as the ability to use internal labor to perform some field services projects, albeit, in a limited geography. Total consideration for this acquisition was approximately $10 million.

As I stated earlier, we ended the first quarter with the approximately $57 million in cash and then a strong net cash position. Given our net cash position, we have now felt the need to draw on our $65 million revolver. We believe that if we execute on the cost and capital reductions – reduction measures Brian outlined earlier, we should not need to take on any additional debt in order to make it through the worst of the COVID-19 induced downturn. As our first quarter results demonstrate the true operating strength of our business.

Our combined operating and balance sheet strength should put us in a great position to capitalize on the opportunities we believe will be available to us as the economy recovers. Thank you for joining us today.

And with that, I will now turn the call back to Kevin to take your question. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Jim Ricchiuti with Needham and Company.

Hi. Thank you.

Hi, Jim.

I'm wondering if you – if we – hello? Can you hear me?

Yeah, yeah. We can hear you. How are you, Jim? Sorry.

I'm fine. Hopefully you guys are well. Thanks for taking the question. And I'm wondering if we think about your branch network, [ph] your base network (00:17:59), do you have any maybe rough percentages, what the level of the network has been most heavily impacted? Yeah, I don't know if you had that data, I'm just trying to get a sense as to how much of an impact you're seeing?

Yeah. I'll let Mark answer the granular detail. But certainly, as we look at our network, we have roughly 14 branches that are in – we exactly have 14 branches that are in oil field areas across the country that are supporting shale plays. So, they went into the first quarter being down a little bit as expected because of the activity in the oil field. But understanding that from the 2014 downturn relative to now, the base was a lot higher back in those days you had 2,000 drilling rigs working and a lot more completion crews. So certainly, not seeing the impact of the oil field like we did in 2014. And I'll let Mark if he wants to add any additional detail.

No. I think as far as variation across the network, the real underlying factor here is not COVID-19, it's the more oil-centric story. So, if you really want to get into COVID-19, there are – yeah, there was a branch in Arkansas for a few days, the branch in Tennessee, in New York areas as you might expect that were part of some of the very short-lived shutdown so to speak that we had and a few of the branches that Brian addressed in his prepared remarks. But really, COVID-19 stands [ph] the oil impact as really (00:19:42) hasn't had a much greater effect in one area versus another at this point.

Yeah. I agree. [indiscernible]

(00:19:52)

Okay. And I'm wondering, I mean, it sounds like you're taking some cost initiatives. Is there – as this has the potential to extend, is there any color you could provide on perhaps what other steps you might be considering? And, again, I realize it's still a very fluid situation, but I'm just trying to get a sense as to what kind of leverage you might be able to pull?

The leverage that we have, the next move would be the furlough route. And understanding our workforce, at least our service reps, are already heavily impacted by our revenue decline because we're different than most of our competitors, they're paid heavy commissions. So, they've already experienced some erosion in that pay. But we will, as the activity decreases and we lose density with our service reps and our trucks that are operating out in the field, we'll have to eliminate some routes because we lack enough density to keep going and that will lead to furloughs so that will be the next step for us.

And obviously if this lasts longer than that, then we'll look at other potential cost reductions which would involve potentially more people but I doubt we'd go in any direction other than the furlough route.

Got it. And a final question for me is the small acquisition that you announced in the Midwest, so I just wanted to make sure I'm clear. Is this also tied into this COVID cleaning service initiative as well or are they separate? I may have misinterpreted that.

No. It's – in Mark's comments, it's certainly tied in. They have field crews that do their own field services type activity, one of which is they were already in the COVID-19 [ph] business (00:21:56) before we close the acquisition. We've subsequently taken our field services group and procured the supplies necessary to get into that work directly with the hope that we can repurpose some of our field reps in the spirit of trying to keep everybody whole out in the field and allowing us to rebound quicker when the rebound happens, repurpose them to do COVID-19 decontamination, understanding that that was in our old structure, so we had to build the safety program, we had to procure the supplies, we had to train the people, make sure they were [ph] outfitted (00:22:31) properly. We've done all of that, and we've actually conducted some direct work ourselves and I'm pretty excited about it as a way to help augment our activity in the field, repurpose some of our very important people.

Yeah. And this is Mark. [ph] All your questions (00:22:48), I'm sure Brian already just addressed that, but when we look at this deal, we had already signed and closed, but we had signed this before this was anything more than a Chinese story, the COVID-19 issue. So certainly, while this is – it's fortuitous for us, it's great. Brian discussed our how we're leveraging and [indiscernible] (00:23:09) company to do this disinfecting and pandemic type cleaning work. But we see a ton of value just in general [indiscernible] (00:23:10), not just in field services work and more traditional whether it's tank cleaning remediation, ER type work, but also the fact that we have wastewater treatment processing assets now. And when you look at some of the synergies and the real drivers behind the return on investment on this deal, it really lies in kind of all the things pre-COVID.

Understood. Okay. Thanks very much.

And I think we have talked about our desire to get more into the non-haz treatment business. So I know we talked about it during our last quarter conference call. And that's part of the reason why we acquired this company for us to control more of our own destiny on non-regulated waste treatment.

Makes sense. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from Brian Butler with Stifel.

Hi, Brian.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just – on the Oil Business, just a couple one items. Do you have a number of gallons sold as well as how much RF – recycled fuel oil you also sold?

Yeah. We'll take that. Why don't you go to your next one and I'll [indiscernible] (00:24:25) in a second.

All right. And then you talked about the facility being down for service in 2Q here. What day does that go down and what's the planned days? And then I'm assuming over that time period you're going to decide whether you bring it back up or not. Is that – I just want to understand the time line on that?

That's essentially what we said in our prepared remarks. But right now, it looks like we're going to bring the plant down the night of May 10 and then we'll be down. As you recall, our extended fall turnaround usually last 10 to 14 days. I expect this will be a little bit longer just because of market conditions. And that's our current plan and we built – which I think I mentioned in the last call, we built the [ph] swing (00:25:10) tank last year, which gives us some base oil storage capacity. We will go into this turnaround prepared for an extended shutdown given market conditions. And as we begin to sell off the supply base oil, we'll bring the plant back up when needed.

And Brian, we've sold the base oil I think [ph] it is based on our how you want it (00:25:31). We sold 10.5 million gallons in Q1 this year, which was down a couple of hundred thousand gallons from Q1 last year; and then [ph] 1.5 million gallons (00:25:45), which is exactly what we sold last Q1.

So, the plan would be 14 days and possibly we extend it based on market conditions.

Okay. And then when you talked about the charge for oil, it increased net $0.50, what does your netback look like now versus a year ago versus what you saw in the first quarter?

You give him the number, and I'll add some color.

It's [ph] $0.20-plus for Q1, it was (00:26:20). I don't know if that's where you're going. And mostly – all of that was improvements in price; and the base oil side, it improved even more than that. But when you look at current, that's a different story. Are you interested in the kind of what we're seeing today?

Yeah, I'd be interested what that's looked like now that oil has come down so much and charge for oil has gone up so much.

Surprisingly, the spread has held up reasonably well. I mean, we're off – I'm not going to give the exact numbers, but let's say we're off $0.15 to $0.20 on the spread and that's been driven by our ability to get out there and charge for used motor oil. We also pushed off some third-party used motor oil which is typically our cheaper supplies. We moved into Q2 and didn't need the used motor oil because of lower base oil demand. So, not a terrible spread scenario today.

We have seen a little bit of a flattening out in our ability to get a higher price for what we're charging currently for used motor oil, but we're hoping discipline continues to prevail out there and most of our competitors are feeling the same thing we are. Yeah, at this point, at least [ph] we should be (00:27:40) considered the waste stream we need to charge for because we all know the oil industry is going to be lower for longer, and we don't expect base oil pricing to rocket back up. We do expect to see some recovery as we move into Q3. There's a lot of pent-up demand for people to jump back in their cars and go see family and take vacations. I doubt they're going to get on an airplane. So our hope is they're getting in their cars and we begin to see more used motor oil, more demand for base oil and pricing begins to go back up. We can't lose focus on the fact that we need to continue to charge for used motor oil if this industry is going to be productive.

Okay. And then one on the Environmental Services piece, what was the profitability in the first quarter if you took out the project? I mean, was that project that materially higher margins or kind of in line?

Well, it would have – would normally been in line, we are on – we have some issues. We're kind of working out some of the billing there. So, to be quite honest with you, the way we conservatively book that it was a drag. We would have been close to 26%. I think the rough math is 25.9%. So, you're talking 180 basis, 170 basis points improvement over the 24.2% that we printed.

And not inconsistent with what we said in the last quarter. I mean, our cost problems have been a lot of healthcare issues. We can't help that. I mean, it's – we got a self-insurance program. We got a good run here lately as we started 2020 and that helped and that was not inconsistent with what we said last quarter.

Yeah. I mean, when you compare that is they – if you want to call it [ph] an unadjusted (00:29:25) operating margin for lack of a better term, I think what we normally print is in Q1 in the ES segment really, really good. And I would attribute part of that, it was generally a milder winter in most of the northeast or northern US states. Obviously we're US-centric here. So that – is that worth 150 basis points, 200 basis points, I mean, really you will see a couple hundred basis points headwinds versus other quarters. But really, I mean, the underlying story there is really, really good margins in the core business.

And we've...

Okay. And then just... [ph]

Let me (00:30:11) continue to work on our fleet pretty hard. I mean, we've got a more robust preventive maintenance program. So that actually has increased our cost over the last few quarters, which we've talked about and we think it's the right thing for us to do to get on top of the overall maintenance of our fleet. So we think as we move deeper into the year that will begin to go away because a lot of these older trucks are being returned.

Okay. And then just one last on the CapEx. You said you're focused just on maintenance stuff. So what does that look like if you just – I mean if you just do maintenance CapEx, what level is that?

Well, we're looking at the rest of the year to try and keep it pretty low. Probably around $6 million-ish, maybe a little more. But we'll see how that goes. Obviously, Q1 was kind of baked in some of the dollars that we will spend we're already committed to. So hopefully, we can keep it down to around that number. We started off saying that we are going to be around where we were last year. So if we execute the way we want, hopefully, we're going to save about $20 million CapEx.

So you can reduce $20 million of CapEx?

Yeah. Close to that, yeah, versus what I had told you a couple of months ago after Q4 results.

That's our plan currently.

Okay. Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research.

Hi, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

Hey. Good morning. You talked about potential opportunities coming out of this environment. I guess, are you referring to potential acquisition opportunities? Do opportunities become more attractive in this environment even though I know you've said you suspended M&A activity for now? But coming out of this, do you think there are going to be more attractive targets in the areas where you'd like to acquire?

Yeah, I'll comment first and then Mark can take on as necessary. But certainly, we see that's been a consistent theme for us. We hired a dedicated resource to pursue M&A activity. We closed the deal in Q1 which we're very excited about. We've got a very extensive pipeline of opportunities. Obviously, everybody is feeling the impact of COVID-19 so the guys that we're continuing to have dialog with targets, they want to postpone it. We want to postpone it, but we'll continue to maintain the dialog and get them in a position to hopefully move in 2021.

As soon as we feel comfortable that the pandemic is behind us and we're beginning to see some recovery in revenue, which we think will be in Q3, we'll bounce off the bottom. We're going to see that back up because it's a major focus area for us and we've got the balance sheet to do it. And we continue to want to expand in our core environmental service offering. We like the non-haz waste treatment plants, any business that's collecting waste drums is a potential target for us. We've got a long list and we certainly want to continue to move out [ph] west (00:33:30).

In addition to the acquisition opportunities and let me reiterate that your thought process mirrors ours. I think acquisition is the first idea when you think of that general comment we made in our prepared remarks. But really, [indiscernible] (00:33:47) it ties in with some other things that we've articulated in our plan. For instance, the timing of furloughs or other reductions be then – be it temporary in our workforce that we've – in some people's mind maybe we're not moving as quick as others. But to us, having that connectivity, [ph] we can pull this longer (00:34:07), it is going to allow us once the economy does start to turn, and hopeful we're not that far away from it even if it's not a V-shape, at least some type of U-shape recovery that for getting even the inorganic – organically, we will have the better positioned company from an employee continuity standpoint to go ahead and take advantage of those opportunities.

We won't be having to go out and rehire a bunch of people we [ph] briefed (00:34:34) or anything like that just because we were maybe a little too quick on the trigger on the front-end of this. So, there is a delicate balance there, but we think that could be just as [ph] powerful (00:34:44) even if you really add up the dollars, it's probably more meaningful than even some opportunistic deals.

Okay. That makes sense. Given that your team out in the field is a little more dependent on commissions and you'd like to retain, it sounds like that team, I mean, any thoughts to – I know you're trying to conserve, but doing something to retain them so they can – you can tie them over during this period maybe in terms of mix of salary or anything like that versus commission or is it you're just going to continue kind of as is?

Kevin, you're thinking a lot like we are. We've already done some of that. I mean, our employees, we do a series of town halls with our employees every other week. I mean, we've done everything in our power to communicate with our employees and try to keep them as long as possible. They're absolutely critical, as Mark talked about for our organic recovery. So, we have done some of that.

And as revenue has declined, we have to look at furloughs because when you look at the opportunity under the Federal CARES Act and some of the state unemployment programs, they can actually do fairly well if we position ourselves right and furlough them and continue to pay for their health care benefits, which we will do because we care about them and want to keep them in the [ph] queue (00:36:20), and that's been our strategy. So, we've delayed it. We've augmented their pay, so we kept our workforce intact. We're going to drag this out as long as we can. We're going to use the furlough route so they can stay reasonably whole during the process and they could be back to their force when the state opens back up. That's our game plan right now.

And if we were to go into this, we're levered up or anything like that [indiscernible] (00:36:45) strong on net cash position. We would be in a position to do that. We're seeing that from a lot of our competitors. So, we know even the employees we furlough even if they are negatively impacted, most of them realize already or will realize relative to the way other people are treating or handling their employees and maybe not out of desire, but just out of necessity, we're going to be looking pretty good.

Okay. That's good to hear. Thanks for taking the questions.

You're welcome, Kevin. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Gerry Sweeney with ROTH Capital.

Hi, Gerry.

Hey. Good morning

Good morning, Gerry.

How you guys doing? Thanks for talking my questions. Most of my – hanging in there, I guess, like everybody else. But most of my questions have been answered, but one just more on the opportunity side. We've always talked about – or at least in recent years, shake out of some of the smaller collectors and really moving to a charge for oil on a permanent basis due to service. It's a somewhat hazardous material, et cetera. Do you think this environment maybe accelerates that process, [ph] shaked up (00:38:01) some of the small collectors, so when we come back out on the other side maybe the market is different than when we came back in?

I hope you're right. I mean, that's certainly our hope and we've seen some regional competitors shut the doors. But it's very difficult if you're not tied into a re-refinery today. Obviously in the winter months, the RFO market is a little more robust. It starts to dissipate in the summer period. You certainly have the impact of IMO 2020, which we expect because of the pandemic will not have much of an impact this year, but we still believe in the long-term viability of that as it impacts the RFO market.

So we're – I mean we have to have that happen. I mean base oils will be lower for longer. I've been on the board since 2012. It's never done what we really wanted to do. So I mean in order for us to consistently make money in the Oil Business at the levels that we think justifies the capital that we've spent, we need everybody to start charging for used motor oil. We have a lot of costs associated with people and equipment to collect, use motor oil and water and we need that to be a charge. I mean, it happened in the [indiscernible] (00:39:25) back in the day – long ago, it needs to happen here.

Got it. Then actually one last final one. This is just a small one. Disposal costs have come down. I think that was a little bit of a headwind last year. I believe it was maybe partly vendor related. Is that reasonably well-positioned on a go-forward basis, should it – lower cost actually just carryovers [indiscernible] (00:39:51)?

Yeah. We had one vendor problem last year early. Vendor went down for unscheduled maintenance. But overall, our vendor arrangements are very solid right now. Obviously, it was coming into 2020 pretty bullish economic cycle. So like us, everybody got their price increased, [ph] cost of living (00:40:16) adjustment. So we saw some of that come in into 2020. But overall, we're pleased with our vendor performance and pleased with our margins. Pleased that our price increase was able to stick. So no issues on the vendor front.

Obviously as we evolve as a company, we're trying to develop more of our own internal capabilities mainly on the non-record and because we think it's very important for us as we continue to grow in the industrial marketplace with our retail customers that [ph] would (00:40:47) control our own destiny and that's what we're doing.

:Great. Appreciate the insight. Thanks a lot. Stay well.

Thanks, Gerry.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the Q&A portion of today's conference. And it also concludes the presentation. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.

Thank you.

Thank you.