Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
James Ricchiuti — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian Joseph Butler — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted, and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for your questions. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipates, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. Before discussing our first quarter results of the longer-term outlook, I would like to briefly talk about the impact of the pandemic on our business. During the first quarter, we continue to execute in the company's pandemic response plan and remain focused on ensuring the health and safety of all our employees and their families as well as those customers we came in contact with. Total lost time from employees off the job due to COVID-19-related health issues and potential exposures was almost 5,400 hours companywide during the first quarter. This result was relatively flat on a normalized basis compared to our experience during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Despite the prevalence of highly contagious strains of the virus, we were able to successfully implement our preventive measures program and avoid any meaningful increase in downtime as a result of the virus during this past quarter.

From a financial standpoint, the company performed extremely well during the quarter with both segments exceeding plan from a revenue and adjusted EBITDA standpoint. In fact, our Q1 adjusted EBITDA performance was a first quarter record for the company. Total first quarter revenue exceeded expectations and finished at $105.4 million with adjusted EBITDA of $17.7 million up 33.6% compared to the first quarter of 2020. In the Environmental Services segment while our revenue was down compared to record results in the first quarter of 2020, we experienced relatively flat sequential revenues compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 on a normalized basis. We achieved this result despite elevated loss time hours due to COVID-19 as well as significant downtime toward the end of February, as winter storms wreaked havoc across various parts of the southern US.

On a cumulative basis our branches were closed for almost 70 days during the quarter as a result of the dangerous weather. Even with these challenges our containerized waste and antifreeze businesses achieved the year-over-year growth during the first quarter. Our profitability in this segment was down only 1.2% during the quarter on a year-over-year basis despite the comparison to pre-pandemic record results.

Lower labor efficiency was a driver of this underperformance – but considering the weather and remaining pandemic related challenges we are very pleased with this outcome. Let me now focus on the Oil Business, during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 Oil Business revenues increased 20.5% to $35.9 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2020. This represents a first quarter revenue record. The increase in revenue was mainly due to higher base oil revenue as a result of both higher sales volume and higher average netback. Higher charge for oil in our used oil collection business also contributed to the increase in revenue. Oil Business segment operating margin was a record 28.1% during the first quarter. The increase in margin was primarily due to an increase in our base oil to charge for oil spread of $0.34 per gallon compared to the first quarter of 2020.

In the prior year quarter, we were in a slight pay for oil position on a weighted average basis. But during the first quarter of 2021, we were in the net charge for oil position. We also continue to track used oil feedstock from third parties at fair prices which helped improve our operating margin during the quarter. Mark will provide more detail regarding cost improvements in a few minutes.

During the first quarter our re-refinery team picked up where they left off at the end of 2020. As you remember, outside of our planned shutdown the re-refinery due to supply and demand issues as a result of the pandemic. In many ways 2020 was our best year in terms of execution at the re-refinery.

We continue to reap the benefits of the mechanical integrity and other programs, which have helped create a more proactive approach to the overall operation of the re-refinery. As a result, we produced 12.1 million gallons of base oil during the first quarter. We continue to demonstrate why we believe the re-refinery operation is now a strength of our Oil Business segment.

In our Environmental Services segment from a revenue perspective, we expect to outperform our pandemic impact 2020 results for the remainder of 2021. More importantly we now expect to produce revenue growth compared to 2019 for the remainder of this year. Initially we expect the growth percentage will be in the low single digits compared to 2019 with the level of growth building throughout the year. We expect to exit the year at a mid-single digit growth rate or higher. From an operating margin percentage standpoint, while we should benefit from improved labor efficiency as a result of higher revenue, we also anticipate inflationary headwinds for at least the next few quarters. Despite the cost pressure we expect to see our operating margin continue to grow throughout the remainder of 2021 and our goal remains to have our operating margin approach 27% in the segment by the end of the year, from an Oil Business segment perspective we continue to see a tight supply in a base oil market which is continue to push prices higher into the second quarter.

While we believe the factors driving much of this supply tightness are temporary, we expect to see continued strong pricing – oil pricing through the second quarter and into the third quarter. Although our charge for oil was improved on a year-over-year basis during the first quarter our used oil collection charges were lower compared to the fourth quarter of 2020. This downward pressure on used oil collection charges was due in part to an increase in the price of crude oil by over 35%.

We have continued to see downward pressure on our charge for oil at the beginning of the second quarter and we expect that we'll move in a slight pay for oil position at some point during the quarter. Overall, we expect the operating margin of over 20% during the second quarter. We expect spreads will remain elevated compared to recent years and during the second half of 2021. With the increase in the percentage of the US population are fully vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus we continue to see evidence of a broad reopening of the economy. As a result, we're optimistic this positive momentum will continue in both of our reporting segments for the remainder of 2021.

Before I turn things over to Mark, I want to remind our investors that we remain focused on promoting ESG here at the company. We continue to work on a formal sustainability program we launched earlier this year. While the foundation of our company was built on sustainability with activities such as turning used oil waste antifreeze and waste solvent into reusable products, we realized the need to create a formal program to better to better inform our stakeholders and the general public about the sustainability aspects of our business. We remain on track to reach our goal of issuing our first sustainability report during the second half of this year. We believe we have a great story to tell and look forward to sharing it with everyone. With that Mark will take us through our first quarter financial results.

Thanks, Brian. It's great to be with everyone this morning. In the first quarter of 2021, we generated a $105.4 million of revenue compared to $107.3 million in the same quarter of 2020, a decrease of $1.9 million or 1.8%. The decrease in revenue was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of a large field services project and the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic partially offset by higher revenues in our Oil Business segment. Net income was a record $9.2 million or $0.39 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2021. This compares to net income of $5.3 million or $0.23 per diluted share in the year earlier quarter. From a reporting segment standpoint, the Environmental Services segment reported revenue of $69.5 million a decrease of $8 million or 10.6% compared to a year ago quarter. As I just mentioned, the decrease in revenue was mainly due to a large field services project which occurred during the first quarter of 2020 but did not reoccur during the first quarter of 2021. This accounted for $5.8 million of the $8 million decrease. If you exclude the impact of the project from last year's revenue the decline of revenue during the first quarter 2021 would have been only 3.1%.

As Brian mentioned, the remaining shortfall was due to lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and weather related disruptions. During the first quarter we experienced volume declines in our parts cleaning and wastewater and vacuum services businesses but saw increases due to pricing and mix in these businesses. In the containerized waste and antifreeze businesses, we experienced increased sales volume, but declines driven by pricing and mix. Our Environmental Services profit before corporate, selling, general, and administrative expenses was $16 million or 23% of revenue compared to $18.8 million or 24.2% of revenue in the year ago quarter. The decrease in operating margin was mainly driven by lower revenue, higher disposal and health and welfare costs as well as lower labor cost efficiency.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, Oil Business revenues were a first quarter record of $35.9 million, an increase of $6.1 million or 21% compared to $29.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, a 20% increase in lubricating base oil revenue, was the main driver of this improvement along with an increase in used oil collection revenue compared to the prior year quarter. Base oil sales volume was up 1.2 million gallons to 11.7 million and our base oil netback increased by $0.16 per gallon compared to the first quarter of 2020.

From a profitability standpoint, Oil Business segment operating margin increased sharply to a record 28.1% in the first quarter of 2021 compared to 3.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The higher operating margin compared to the first quarter of 2020 was due to several factors. In addition to the previously mentioned improvement in base oil selling price we experienced an $0.18 per gallon improvement from the change from pay for oil during the first quarter of last year to charge for oil in the first quarter of this year, a $0.21 per gallon decrease in the cost of third-party used oil feedstock compared to a year ago quarter also helped push operating margin higher. Our transportation costs were low in the first quarter of 2021 on a year-over-year basis due to more feedstocks being received from third-party sources for which we do not pay freight.

Finally, during the first quarter we recorded an entry to correct excess depreciation expense taken during fiscal 2020. The impact of the correcting entry was approximately a 4% improvement in our operating margin during the first quarter. Our overall corporate SG&A expense of $13.4 million increased by $1 million compared to the year ago quarter. Corporate SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue was 12.8% compared to 11.6% in the year ago quarter driven primarily by higher amortization expense, bad debt expense and bank fees associated with our amended credit agreement.

EBITDA of $16.5 million was a record of 35.3% compared to the year ago quarter. This was the second consecutive quarter of record EBITDA. The company's effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was 25.9% compared to 21.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The rate increase is principally attributable to the opposing effects of non-deductible expenses and projected last year as compared to a projected income year.

Looking at the balance sheet we had $46.7 million of cash on hand at the end of the quarter. Our cash balance decreased by $20.9 million compared to the end of fiscal 2020 but only because we paid off our $30 million term loan during the first quarter. During the quarter we amended our credit agreements which no longer contains the term loan that is made up only of $100 million revolving loan. There were no amounts outstanding on the revolving loan as of the end of the first quarter. However, we did generate $16.2 million in cash flow from operations during the quarter which represents a 54.7% increase compared to the first quarter of 2020. We continued to pursue multiple acquisition opportunities as we look to utilize our strong balance sheet to capitalize on inorganic growth opportunities during the remainder of 2021. To summarize, we're very pleased with the continued improvement we're seeing in our Environmental Services segment as we look to move past the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are also happy with the continued execution in our Oil Business and our ability to take advantage of favorable market conditions. This concludes our prepared remarks.

I will now turn the call over to Mike to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

We will pause for a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Jim Ricchiuti from Needham & Company.

All right. Thank you. Just – the question just with respect to the Oil Business sounds like things are tracking better than you are expecting exiting 2020. And you had given some color about operating margins I guess during the first half of 2021. And Mark, I think you were saying in the mid-teens I'm just wondering I may have missed it. Are you updating that outlook? It sounds like you're also anticipating the strength in that business continuing into Q3. And I wonder if you could just maybe elaborate on that?

Yeah. To be clear, we're definitely updating based on what we had at – what we knew back then when we announced Q4 earnings – we had guided to that mid-teens. And you heard Brian in his prepared remarks guide to higher – and we have clarity at least for Q2 and into Q3. We don't know how far into it. So, it really – you know we aren't giving much clarity beyond that. We do think we're going to continue to see favorable conditions relative to that historical performance in that business. We just don't have a ton of clarity beyond kind of the summer.

And Jim if I ...

Okay. and I if ...

... and that's depending on us where we're forecasting right now four days to five days of downtime for the quarter which is normal for us – that's after the issue – we're guiding at a 20% margin level if you listen to our prepared remarks. And as Mark said we are we are bullish on the business. Base oil supplies still has been restricted because the refineries are not yet back up to core capacity. They are into the 80% range probably 84% on utilization now versus the mid-70s last quarter. So, we are seeing more supply, but the demand is still strong, and the prices are still good. We obviously worry about the other side of the equation as Mark mentioned in his prepared remarks. Used motor oil – well we're seeing a change on the street. We think we'll move to – unfortunately, a slight pay in the quarter – but we're still bullish.

And you alluded to inflationary pressures – and I'm just wondering if that extends into other parts of the business – and Mark if you could also – if you can talk a little bit about what – how we might think about corporate SG&A over the balance of 2021?

Yeah, I'll touch on – maybe some broad macro on what we're seeing from an inflationary standpoint. We are seeing commodity prices way up – as Mark talked about hydrocarbon crude prices being up. We're seeing chemical prices up. We're seeing supply shortages too. I'm worried about supply chain issues. If we continue to see inflationary pressure, we may even think about a mid to third quarter price increase. Typically, we do it late third quarter, early fourth quarter. We have to do it earlier this year if we continue to see inflationary pressure. We're also worried about labor. We've got quite a few vacancies today until the inflated unemployment runs – runs out. By September we're going to struggle to get people in to run this service or out for work. We're working hard to recruit. So, certainly worried about inflation and labor cost.

From an SG&A standpoint, Jim we're looking at a pretty flat environment. At least that's what we're forecasting for the remainder of the year, flat to what we had on, again keep as you know it's a longer duration than the other quarters. But in line I guess with what we experienced in the first quarter. There's certain things like writing off of some of the bank fees that when we did our amended our credit agreement that we're – you know that's kind of onetime because we changed up our bank group slightly. You can't carry over some of those costs. You just got to write them off. So, yeah there is some of that. But in general, they'll be probably other figures that would replace that. So, we think a flattish forecast is probably a good way to model it.

Got it. Thanks. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Brian Butler from Stifel.

Hey, Brian.

Good morning, Brian.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question.

Welcome.

Yeah. No worries.

Could you just maybe you said there is 45 days built into 2Q I think for maintenance Can you talk just kind of utilization targets for 2Q and then what other maintenance you have planned for 3Q and 4Q and what the utilizations might look like?

Yeah, I think on the fourth quarter call we should go to roughly 28 days of maintenance and we're still in that 28 days to maybe a couple of extra days because we're running it pretty hard right now. From a production standpoint we expect to see base oil production in the – I'll just give you a range 11 million gallons to 12 million gallons – not that different from Q1 because our maintenance schedule is very similar to Q1. We're expecting four days to five days in this quarter like we had in the first quarter. We did push out our larger turnaround to Q4 driven by the fact that we think base oil will be weaker by the fourth quarter and we certainly want to – and don't need to do it – until the back end of the year – so we're going to push that off. So, we're still projecting 48 million gallons to 49 million gallons of base oil production for the year.

Okay. that – that's helpful. And when you think – I guess the spread and the margin volatility – I mean do you expect the strength to continue into 3Q. But what – what's maybe the right way to think about this business in longer term with the spread? I mean obviously you had a very nice move to the spread – but when you get back to a normal – let's say a more normalized spread. Is this still a mid-teens kind of margin – operating margin business?

Yeah, I mean obviously Brian, we would like to think it is. We certainly don't think it's going to be mid to high-20s business. But we do think we'll begin to see some impact from IMO 2020. We're not seeing the large aggregations of used motor oil – as matter of fact we tried to sell used motor oil at one of our RFO plants because we had excess supply, where we're going to put a barge load together. Not a lot of interest out there for large supplies of used motor oil. So, we think we're going to see some impact from IMO 2020. We think it's a mid-teens operating business and that's our ultimate goal. We've got the cost structure in much better shape today and our operating costs for the quarter were $0.64 per gallon when you compare it to a run rate in 2020 and 2019 in the $0.70, so we're – we're continuing to make progress at the plant. And our goal and pitch to our board of directors is that we are going to get into the teams on a consistent basis.

Okay. And then I guess you touched on M&A in your prepared remarks, but can you give maybe a little bit more color on kind of what's kind of your capacity or desire for size and what – what types of – what you are kind of looking at I guess would be the best way to say.

Well, I mean obviously we were being very aggressive. We're seeing a significant increase in our pipeline driven by the potential for the capital gains taxes to change. So, not a shortage of potential targets. Most of them are unfortunately smaller in nature and tuck ins. But great companies for us because it continues to expand our footprint and our processing capabilities. We will get a few deals closed this year, deals that we are very far along with, they're smaller but very strategic for us. And obviously we would love to do a larger deal if something pops up. You see our balance sheet we have quite a bit of free cash flow generation, significant EBITDA, no leverage, the ability to finance a larger deal, cooperative shareholders, so we certainly are going to get aggressive if we see the opportunity.

And we've been in some formal processes as well as a lot of the ones Brian speaks to are kind of more homegrown, I guess cycle not formally bank. But we're, we're in on some of those processes and some of them are pretty big. But the bigger you get there's a lot of fish in that pond so to speak. So, the chances are obviously low that any one bidder is going to win it. And we're, we're just trying to play the numbers game. We have a better pipeline and more of it is going to come out the, the back end if we put more through the front end.

But continually focused on acquisitions in the environmental business. We like where we stand today in oil great complement to our overall environmental business because of the cross-selling potential. We're going to launch a new automotive program here over the next month or two to get more aggressive in that area. So pleased with the Oil Business. Want to grow the ES business by acquisitions and most of our capital will go into the ES business obviously.

All right. And then did you mentioned that kind of balance sheet in the leverage part of your debt going to zero. Can you give maybe a little thoughts just high level? What are the targets for kind of leverage? I mean is the goal to be at zero debt or is there a right amount of debt that you think heritage can, can carry?

I'll give a little bit of color. No, we're not happy that we would, I'd love to have some leverage. That means we've been able to do a deal or two. I don't like the fact that we're we've got zero net debt and cash in the bank and we haven't been able to pull off a larger deal. So that's priority number one. In terms of leverage, I mean I think I personally could get comfortable in the 30 plus range. I mean especially if we pull off a deal that has meaningful synergies which we think we would have synergies with a larger deal That's just my personal perspective. Mark can add color if he wants.

Yeah that's – it's right on where we're thinking and in aligned way. So, I – we don't want to be we're at – I guess I'll just reiterate what Brian said. We want to be more levered, and we will be – it just a matter of finding and not just finding – but closing on the right opportunity or opportunities.

All right ...

[Multiple Speakers[ (28:03)

You're welcome.

Thanks, Brian. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research.

Hi Kevin, how are you?

Hi, Kevin.

Good, good. Good morning. How are you.

We're good ...

Good.

Much better than where we were last May.

Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah. Really nice results ...

Yeah. Thank you.

... so you called out the impact on ES growth from the large field services projects in the year ago quarter. Did you take a crack at kind of trying to figure out what the impact of weather was on ES growth in the first quarter?

We had about 70 days – I think Brian mentioned that we were down total branch days – and again you know your average branch is a couple of million bucks a year. So, you can do the math on what that means. But that's kind of the only detail that we've done. We haven't gone any deeper than that.

But our guys whenever we have weather issues are pretty resilient and find a way to go out and get the customer service. But certainly, when you're a manufacturer and you're shut down for three days, you're going to generate less waste. So, it affected them, and it affected us. As Mark said we can't put an accurate dollar figure on it, but it was $0.5 million to $1 million for sure.

Yeah. No, no, that's helpful. That's good color. I think in your prepared comments, Mark, correct me if I'm wrong you talked about containerized waste, a negative pricing [indiscernible] mixed dynamic, there might have been 100 business there too, but can you just kind of talk about what you're referring to there?

Yeah. Some of that is. I mean overall there's a great story. It's probably one of our businesses we're most optimistic about along with our wastewater and vacuum business, but really good growth. We mentioned for probably a couple of years now you've been covering us long enough to remember about our push to in one of the areas in addition acquisitions, but areas where we're going to invest it in vertical integration specifically in doing more processing and specifically as it relates to non-hazardous waste. So, a lot of that waste like an average per gallon, per pound whatever your unit of measure is, is less expensive. But we're driving towards some of that. So that's more of a mix issue. It's not so much that we're not getting a great price for that, but from a pure revenue standpoint that was a negative.

Okay. All right. Got it. And you, I think you said also that you brought in more third-party used oil this quarter and maybe versus a year ago.

Yeah.

I mean, is that – was that a function of maybe lower collection volumes due to the weather or kind of what drove that?

I think a lot of it was us wanting to be prepared...

Yeah.

...again. You've been covering us long enough; you know that those winter months can be most challenging in that collection part of the business. Yeah, there are challenges as running a plant when there is cold weather every morning, nationwide has experienced that and we manage to get through that really well because we're used to dealing with it in Indianapolis but not having feedstock and even not so much just from an absolute standpoint, but even getting real low on a larger feed tank gets you into layers of oil. I don't want to get too technical here but layers of oil that don't run as well that you have a little less pure oil in. So, we just wanted to be overly prepared and while we did take in more third party or bring in more third party than we did in the last Q1 we thought more and as a result now we're bringing in less. So...

I think we just worry vehicle miles driven obviously down because of the pandemic. I've been here for four years. I don't think we've ever made it through a winter with a full oil tank and we were committed as Mark said that the key boil in our feed tank not run low this year. We accomplished it by increasing our third party supply during the winter months and it – it's helped us.

Okay. Great. You know that makes sense. You know over the longer term is the goal still to continue to increase your internal used oil collection volumes at the expense of buying in third party used oil.

Yeah. I mean I think that's the ultimate goal for us. We certainly value our third party customers, and we will continue to support them but it's critical for us from a cost standpoint to increase the railbeds of our oil trucks. I think I mentioned earlier that we're launching an automotive program specifically to help us support the needs of our plant internally, so we can reduce our overall collections and logistics cost. So absolutely that is the goal.

And remember that – there's a reason why we've invested $100 million in pet plants. It's really – the main goal is to extend our reach and allow us to have more customer contact. So, then we can sell more Environmental Services to them. And so, we've never operated it and never will as a loss leader. But this is a way to get in the door and sell other services. So that's really on top of the raw density and all the great things Brian just mentioned. The real motivator there is one step down the line, which is if you're in there doing used oil, you probably need something else. And we're going to hopefully go after that business when we have that direct relationship as opposed to when we don't...

Yeah. Absolutely right. That makes sense. And how much of a margin lift is still available from improving used oil route collection density. And do you kind of need to improve that meaningfully to get to that mid-teens' ES – or I'm in OB margin on a more sustainable basis.

Yeah, we don't need meaningful improvement on where we're at. We're already running better efficiency than we had – pre-pandemic and we've been able to – you know it's certainly the pandemic has been terrible for basically every country on the planet, but we haven't grown stronger through some of it. And we have a more efficient route collection network even now. And while incremental gains will help solidify the consistency of producing that mid-single teens results, we certainly don't need a sizable improvement to reach in-route entity to reach that goal.

Okay got it. And then just lastly, I – did you give your re-refinery utilization number on the call...?

Yeah. We did. And it was 107.1%.

Okay. Great. All right, all right. Thanks.

Thank you.

And that was our last question at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you.

Yeah. That's all we have today. Thank you everybody.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.