Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Ryan J. Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Company
Brian Joseph Butler — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligations to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Ashley, and welcome to everyone joining us this morning.

Last night, we reported our fourth quarter 2017 results. Our diluted earnings per share during the quarter was $0.51, compared to $0.15 in the fourth quarter of 2016. Our revenues for the fourth quarter increased 8.5%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, to $115.8 million, driven mainly by 9.4% growth in our Environmental Services segment. Mark will provide more financial details in a moment, but I would like to talk about various aspects of our business.

I would first like to discuss the results in our Environmental Services segment. From a revenue standpoint, I'm proud of the fact that we delivered on our projection of high single-digit growth by the end of fiscal 2017. We again saw a growth in almost all lines of business in this segment on a year-over-year basis, with the majority of the revenue growth coming from our aqueous parts cleaning, vacuum services and containerized waste businesses. This growth has been aided by continued focus on industrial customers, cross-selling initiatives, and additional sales and service resources.

During fiscal 2017, we added five new branches. We also added sales and service resources such as brand sales managers, antifreeze sales and service reps, vacuum sales and service reps, ESP specialists, and field services reps throughout 2017. The total cost associated with the new branches and resources added during 2017 was approximately $4 million, from which we generated approximately $3.4 million in revenue during the year. We expect these resources will generate approximately $6 million in revenue and an equal amount of cost during fiscal 2018.

Looking forward we plan to continue to add new branches, as well as sales and service resources, in this segment. We estimate that we will incur almost $3 million of new cost for resources to be added during fiscal 2018. We anticipate these additional resources will generate almost $2.5 million of revenue during the year.

Our Environmental Services operating margin in the fourth quarter of 2017 was down to 27.2% from 30.7%, compared to the same quarter a year ago, in part because of the investments in new branches and sales and service personnel, which I mentioned earlier. These new resources contributed to the growth we achieved during 2017, and we expect an increase in amount of revenue, as well as improved profitability, from the same resources during fiscal 2018 and the years to follow.

Now, I would like to talk about our Oil Business. While the fourth quarter provided higher base oil selling prices, compared to the year earlier quarter, our Street price for used oil collection retreated for the fourth consecutive quarter. During the fourth quarter, our base oil netback increased $0.02 per gallon, but our Street price declined approximately $0.05 per gallon, compared to the third quarter of 2017.

We continue to battle our competition for used oil collection in various geographic markets. During the fourth quarter, used oil collectors who sold into RFO market benefited from continued tightness in the bunker and fuel oil markets. While the price of No. 6 oil relative to the price of WTI crude was flat during the fourth quarter, compared to the third quarter, it was still above the range of 80% to 85% of WTI, which was more typical in years past.

As a result, the higher price of RFO relative to crude oil allowed collectors that do not re-refine the used oil they collect to continue to be more aggressive than they might otherwise have been. During this competitive pressure, the efficiency of our used oil collection routes increased approximately 6% during the quarter, compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. We operated the re-refinery at a rate of 96% of our nameplate capacity during the fourth quarter compared to 91% during the third quarter.

The increase in operating rate was due to the fact that during the third quarter, we had a planned extended shutdown to implement capital improvements to the re-refinery. We did not have a similar planned extended shutdown during the fourth quarter. As a result of the improvements implemented during the third quarter, at 100% capacity, the re-refinery is now capable of producing approximately 47 million gallons of base oil per year. Due to this increase in capacity, we were able to produce a record 13.8 million gallons during the fourth quarter. This represents a 9.1% increase compared to the year earlier quarter.

While we are pleased with our operation of the re-refinery during the fourth quarter, the first quarter of fiscal 2018 has been challenging. As you may be aware, winter conditions in Indianapolis have been historically cold levels during the early part of 2018. These conditions have caused mechanical issues and unplanned downtime at the re-refinery. The unplanned downtime will lead to lower production and put downward pressure on our operating margin in the Oil Business segment during the first quarter. We estimate the negative impact will result in lower revenue, between $2 million and $2.5 million, during the first quarter, and operating margin in this segment approximately 4% lower than the first quarter of 2017.

Fortunately, we've made the necessary repairs and improvements to the re-refinery, which allowed us to return to maximum production rates and should provide us the opportunity to make up for most, if not all, of the production shortfall during the remainder of 2018. We have also improved our re-refinery staff by adding refining industry experience at both the management level and several supervisors who are already having a positive impact on our day-to-day operations. Combining this with a low crude spread, which is at its highest level in approximately the last five years, and you can see why we are optimistic about our Oil Business performance moving forward.

Looking back on my first year as President and CEO of the company, I'm thrilled with the record-setting financial performance we achieved during 2017. Such a performance would not have been possible without the willingness of our employees to embrace change and work hard to further improve what was already a very successful company. It is this commitment to improvement that will propel us into continued growth and success during 2018 and beyond.

Mark will now walk us through our fourth quarter financial results in detail.

Thanks, Brian.

For the fourth quarter, we recorded net income attributable to common shareholders of $11.7 million, compared to income attributable to common shareholders of $3.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2016.

As Brian mentioned earlier, for the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded diluted earnings per share of $0.51, compared to diluted earnings of $0.15 per share in the fourth quarter of 2016. Our fourth quarter earnings include a one-time adjustment of $0.27 per share, which was the result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in late 2017. I will discuss this in more detail in a few minutes.

On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the impact of the income tax benefit recorded and adding back our one-time charges for site closure costs incurred during the quarter, our adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.26. Please refer to our reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP supporting schedules in our press release.

In the fourth quarter fiscal 2017, Environmental Services revenues increased by approximately $6.4 million, or 9.4%, from $68.3 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to $74.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase in revenue was due to increased activity at all of the segment's businesses, except field services. The majority of the increase was due to favorable pricing and mix in our parts cleaning business and an increase in volume in our containerized waste and vacuum services businesses.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, Oil Business revenues were up $2.6 million, or 6.8%, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The revenue increase was due to higher selling prices for our base oil product, partially offset by lower used oil collection charges. Oil Business segment operating margin was 7.9% in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to 4.1% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we sold approximately 13.6 million gallons of waste oil compared to 12.7 million gallons in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016.

We sold approximately 3.8 million gallons of RFO during the fourth quarter, which was down 36% or 2 million gallons compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016.

Turning now to income before corporate SG&A expense. Oil Business income before corporate SG&A expense increased $1.7 million in the fourth quarter from $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 to $3.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. The increase in income before corporate SG&A was mainly due to higher revenue and lower maintenance cost due to less downtime at the re-refinery, partially offset by higher cost for the purchase of used oil feedstock. The fourth quarter of 2017 marks the seventh straight quarter of operating income in the segment.

Profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Environmental Services segment was $20.3 million. Our fourth quarter operating margin percentage was 27.2% compared to operating margin of 30.7% in the fourth quarter of 2016. Despite this year-over-year decline, operating margin in that segment was flat compared to the year – compared to the third quarter of 2017. The factors which led to the decline in operating margin compared to last year were higher labor costs from the addition of sales and service resources, higher health and welfare costs, as well as higher solvent and transportation costs driven by the increase in crude oil price.

Our overall corporate SG&A expense as the percentage revenue was 12.7% compared with 15.5% from the year-ago quarter, driven mainly by higher revenue, lower severance costs, lower incentive compensation costs, and a decrease in our sales tax expense accrual, partially offset by higher salaries and wages.

We continue to explore corporate SG&A expense cost-saving initiatives, and we expect to drive this expense lower as a percentage of revenue during fiscal 2018.

The company's effective income tax rate for 2017 was 17.3%, compared to 31.8% in fiscal 2016. The decrease in tax rate reflects the impact of the accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. As a result of the lower rates which are part of the new tax law, the value of our deferred tax items was positively impacted, resulting in a one-time, non-cash increased income of $6.2 million, or $0.27 of diluted share, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. We continue to evaluate the impact of the Tax Cuts and Job Act (sic) [Tax Cuts and Jobs Act] (00:14:27) on our company, and we expect that our future effective income tax rate will be in the mid-20% range.

Fourth quarter EBITDA of $14.2 million was $2.8 million or 25% higher than the year-ago quarter.

Turning to the balance sheet. Cash on hand at the end of the quarter stood at $41.9 million, compared to $36.6 million at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016. And total debt stood at $28.7 million compared to $63.5 million one year ago. The increase in cash and decrease in debt is due to a record-setting cash flow generation over the past year.

Our cash flow from operations for fiscal 2017 was $45.3 million, which represents a 19% increase compared to fiscal 2016. We intend to use our excess cash balance to seek acquisition opportunities, as well as pursue capital projects to help drive revenue growth and improve operational efficiency. We are currently pursuing multiple tuck-in acquisition opportunities and we hope to close on several opportunities during 2018. We expect to increase capital investments to the mid-to-high $20 million range during fiscal 2018 to support various initiatives across the business.

I want to thank everyone for their interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean.

Now, I will return control of the call over to our operators, advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ryan Merkel of William Blair. Your line is open.

Hey. Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning, Ryan. How are you?

Good. So, want to start off with the Environmental Services Business. The growth there has been really solid. Can you just talk about sources of growth? How much did the auto end market grow and then also how much did the industrial end market growth?

Brian, this is Mark. We typically don't have that kind of detail by those areas, but I can tell you within our lines of business, and we touched on this just generally, but give you more background; in parts cleaning, it was mostly price. And that, again, is going to be fairly well equal across both automotive and industrial segments. We had basically about a 7% increase – or 7.5% in parts cleaning business. We had much larger increases in our vacuum and containerized waste businesses. Those were over double-digit growth in both, and was pretty much all volume. And containerized waste is a little more weighted towards the industrial segment versus the automotive, and vacuum service, again, would be fairly – well, pretty much in between the parts cleaning and containerized waste businesses as far as mix of industrial versus vehicle maintenance.

So, hopefully [indiscernible] (00:17:44) give you a little information.

And then, Ryan, it's very consistent with what we talked about on prior calls. We've made a significant investment in resources to grow our industrial account base, and I think that is paying off. We added 20 sales professionals during 2017, mainly focusing on industrial customers.

Got it. Okay. And then, for 2018, would you expect to get price in the Environmental Services segment again? And what would be the range?

Yeah. We expect to get some price in 2018. We're shooting for a 4% to 5% price increase to stick in 2018. And we'll continue to add resources as we talk about in our prepared remarks, and we're still pursuing that high single-digit growth rate in 2018.

Yeah. And across the lines of business, it would – we've expected to reflect the distribution, at least, the qualitative distribution I just gave is more in the parts cleaning side of the business and last in the two waste, the vacuum and containerized waste businesses.

Okay. And then, just lastly. Just stepping back on the Oil Business, as you look at 2018, do you see the economics improving, ignoring the one-time impact in the first quarter?

Yeah. We certainly see the economics improving. I mean, you're well aware of the recent virgin [indiscernible] (00:19:22) producers raising base oil pricing, which we're going to benefit from that. Typically, in the first part of the year, we see soft demand for base oil. We're not seeing that. You had the effect of the hurricanes and, last year, the storms, the flooding. We've also had a pretty robust export market for base oil. So, we're seeing supply-demand being fairly tight right now, which is leading to some strengthening of pricing, and we feel pretty good about where base oil is headed. Now – and on the flip side, as we talked about in our prepared remarks, used motor oil is going to be difficult, but we do see and expect that to ease up as we enter the busier seasons for oil changes.

We also think we're beginning to see a lengthening of residual fuel on the Gulf Coast. We should strengthen our ability to hold our used motor oil pricing a little more firm than we have. As you heard in our prepared remarks, four consecutive quarters that we changed the pricing on used motor oil in a negative fashion, but we feel like it is going to begin to flatten out because crude is range bound. So, very optimistic on the Oil Business going forward once we get past these plan issues.

And if you did pass our specific performance, Ryan, in base oil in Q4 of 2017, you can, if you look at what the spot market did and how that moved, it actually moved up a fair amount more than the major increase we had, and we've already kind of narrowed that gap, it was a temporary – a lot of it was contractual due to some of the force majeure, that our pricing de facto was tied to some of these producers that couldn't change price. So, long story, not as long, we didn't nearly demonstrate in Q4 what we can on the base oil side, not just in Q1, but as long as the general conditions hold, there's a fair amount of upside to the base oil price.

Okay. That's great to hear. Thanks so much. I'll pass it on.

You're welcome.

Our next question comes from David Manthey of Baird. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys.

Hi, David.

First off, the $622,000 add back for site closure costs. That, you said, was an unplanned shutdown of the re-refinery in the fourth quarter. Is that correct?

No, that relates to a facility that we're closing down, that we're closing our operations, it's not the re-refinery, it's a facility on the East Coast.

And, David, that was a legacy FCC site that we acquired through the acquisition that we decided to close was a strategic.

Okay. All right. So, I think the last time you added back a charge for the re-refinery was the fourth quarter of 2014. And when you look at the first quarter shutdown, was that significant enough that we would expect the charge add back in the first quarter? I know that the fourth quarter 2014 shutdown was like two weeks and that of an insurance claim, but do you expect that in the first quarter or is it inconsequential?

I would think it's likely we'll call it up.

Okay. And then, you said you plan on getting back...

David?

Yeah, I'm sorry.

We are operational. I mean, we were shut down for a 20-day stretch, but the plant is back operational today and performing well.

Oh! I didn't get that. So, the re-refinery was down for almost three weeks?

Well, it was limping along. It wasn't down-down for that time, so it just was underproducing. There were some times where it actually wasn't operating at all, but for much of that time, it was just not operating optimally.

Okay.

In our prepared remarks, we talked about the weather issues. I mean, we had 10 days below 10 degrees Fahrenheit, we had multiple days below zero, so very tough conditions to operate a refinery in. If you follow the industry at all, there were quite a few that were shut down during the first quarter due to weather issues.

Okay. And Brian, I think you said that you plan to make up that volume through the remainder of the year. Is that because, during that shutdown, you were able to do some maintenance that will help you skip a planned maintenance later in the year? Or how do you plan on making up that volume?

Yeah. We pushed off our planned shutdown in Q2, so that's part of it. As you know, we made operational changes to the re-refinery in Q3 of last year, which increased our capacity. The plant, it's practical capacity today is 47 million gallons. And if you've been on the calls the past few quarters, I think we've talked about our production for 2017, was roughly 43 million gallons. We think we will beat that number in 2018 in spite of the issues we've had in 2018.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, just thinking about the business overall, it sounds like you're optimistic on both sides of the business, but if you're looking at acquisitions, is there – are you more interested in ES type acquisitions than OB or are you equally interested as it relates to external growth?

Yeah. I think we've been fairly consistent that we're going to focus our capital on ES growth. We love the Oil Business, love where we are, and we'll certainly – we're not opposed to oil collections if it includes a significant piece of Environmental Services revenue. So, we're out there actively looking for acquisitions. And as you know, from Q3 and Q4 of our conference calls, we have a dedicated resource now. We have quite a few opportunities in our pipeline, and we do expect to close acquisitions in 2018. And they will be more environmental-focused. And we love the wastewater business, we love the industrial waste business. We like antifreeze. All of the core services that we've talked about on this call that have been growing at a nice double-digit rate, those are the areas that we're looking for acquisitions.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question here, and sorry if some of this might be a little repetitive, not sure. Environmental Services, just trying to get a sense of what degree you might be implementing price increases here in 2018 that wouldn't play in that fourth quarter and to what degree could that be consistent with historical increases or any changes in dynamics there?

Yeah. We went through our normal process, normal, but I guess, historically normal process, in Q4, near the end of Q4, of implementing and going out with the price increase. It was maybe into the lower mid single-digits, we've been maybe a couple percent higher in some of the years past, but it's in line, maybe 100 basis points or 150 basis points lower than what we normally would do. I mean, it really comes down to what the realization rate is, so the action is going to be the same as it's been in years past, and we would expect to see more price in the more mature businesses and less price in the ones that are growing more, presenting more opportunity for us.

So, as I kind of went over briefly with another caller, that would be more in the parts cleaning, higher because we got about 7% growth, and it was basically [indiscernible] (00:27:47) priced in that line of business, and then it was much more volume, almost all volume in our waste business is containerized waste and vacuum. So, we would expect to add still some price in those last two in 2018, that's certainly our goal, but more price in parts cleaning. So, I think the numbers we're going out with around that 5% range. So, we'll see what we realize, but to us, and just like it was in 2017, it's all about we're going to achieve high single-digit topline growth and we're not – it's not as if we're not concerned or not aware of what that mix is, but we will balance that to make sure we achieve the growth while making sure we hit our margin target. And I don't think we've maybe said it in our prepared remarks, but our view really hasn't changed from what we said more than a quarter ago, which is we're going to target to keep margins here especially since we're continuing to add resources or even the ones we've added last year, it's still in immature phase that our margins will be in that flattish range barring a big commodity swing that might make solvent cheaper or more expensive.

Understood. Very helpful. Yeah. And some of that I had got in here, Mark, thank you. So – then, switching over to comments on re-refined oil volume. We heard the directional impacts that this – I suppose the limping along per se, what would we be looking at here if we didn't have those hiccups? I mean, presumably revs and margin should both be up here in the first quarter, although I'm not sure to what degree, but I was hoping to get maybe a little bit of context as we're kind of setting the tone here for 2018?

Yeah. I'll let Mark talk to the numbers. But directionally, you're very accurate. I mean, obviously, our production is going to be off and you're selling at a pretty good netback today, base oil selling prices are high. So, it's definitely going to impact our first quarter. And you saw in our prepared remarks, we suggested that our Oil Business will be a little bit below where it was in Q1 of 2017. In spite of the fact that all of the fundamentals are very positive and in our favor today, so a little bit frustrating for us, but I've been at that plant quite a bit. It's an unbelievably difficult environment to operate a plant in when it's that cold. And as you heard from our prepared remarks, we've made some nice additions to the plant. We're also going to bring in a world class maintenance person to help us manage the day-to-day of that operation to make sure that we continue to be as ratable as possible. And we had a very good year last year in terms of our base oil production, 43 million gallons. It's great year. 45 million gallons is going to be really good. This year, if we can get there, on a maximum capacity of 47 million gallons. Understanding that you have to have scheduled downtime, we budget 35 days of scheduled downtime a year. So, obviously, would impact that in Q1, and we're going to try to make it up.

Yeah. From a number standpoint, if you look at last year Q1 and you know this a seasonal business, but I'll remind you that we had about 3.5% operating margin and, I would say in, optimal conditions for the Q1 season that we would have expected to be a couple hundred basis points better than that, but clearly we're unfortunately going to be going on several hundred basis points the other way, as Brian alluded to. At least, that's what we estimate at this point.

But if you go back and just think of, again, it's seasonally adjusted, but the dynamics of what's going on commodity-wise, our margin could have been north of 12% from a base oil standpoint if we would have been able to take more advantage of some of the spot price opportunities. Again, we had with some force majeure in the way some of our larger contracts were written, which we fixed, by the way. We were kind of de factor tied to one producer instead of more of a market price. So, we fixed that, and I think that really gives you a glimpse of – again, that's Q4 seasonality, but that gives you a glimpse of, in the market conditions where we're at, what the business is capable of.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, last question here following on in the spirit of the Oil Business. It sounds like there have been some comments here this morning where there are perhaps some glimmers of hope that – and some of that might be in terms of tied to No. 6 pricing whether we look at where some inventories of used oil might be and so forth. That relief didn't materialize in the fourth quarter. It sounds like there's hope that perhaps we are able to sustain the charge for oil.

Two months into the year now, what evidence are you seeing of that? Is there perhaps any upside in being able to manage that input side of the equation and better the spread here? And particularly as we – I suppose as we would lead into them this second quarter. But any more feedback we can get on that impact that's going to tie into the spread economics? Thanks.

Yeah. I think, again, it's thematically pretty similar to what we talked about as far as the production at the plant or even the base oil conditions. You can look at the same thing for No. 6 and it's relation to some of the crude for instance, is that it is improving, but this is a business you've covered us long enough to know that it's the business of lag.

So, we see that improving into the rest of 2018. But in Q1, again that improvement, it didn't happen the first day of the New Year, number one; and number two, even if it did, usually there's a several-month lag as you know, but those lags are – they're pretty predictable. So, we're very optimistic. So, you got better operation post early Q1 of the re-refinery. You got – I alluded to the improved base oil market that we can now take better advantage of because some of the changes we make contractually. And then, we'll start to have tailwinds as far as pricing [indiscernible] (00:35:02) on the Street due to the outlook for our full market getting a little more rational.

So, when you add those three together, it really is, if you look forward again, and forward meaning beyond at least the first two months of Q1, it really is a pretty good story, certainly a great story historically versus the way that segments perform.

Got you. So, as all that converges, the quarter-to-quarter uptick for June beyond just getting past the unplanned or issues at the – in the production plant, as all of this comes together, it's going to be – it's lining up to be a very substantial uptick for June results then potentially.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Great. Thanks, folks. Appreciate all the time.

Thank you.

Appreciate it.

Our next question comes from Brian Butler of Stifel. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Brian.

Brian, how's it going?

Good. First one, on the fourth quarter results. Did you see any benefit or any catch-up revenues associated with the hurricanes from the third quarter kind of getting pushed out, and can you just give some color on that if there was any?

No. We had identified that in our third quarter call because, obviously, we're a month into it then. It was – it really turned out to be a wash for us, especially from an Environmental Services standpoint because while there were some opportunities which we captured kind of post-hurricane and most of this is Harvey related, there were branch shutdowns and downtime when the storm hit and was going through. So, it really was a net zero affect pretty much for us.

Yeah. And we have not seen any residual effects into the first couple of months of this quarter from – I've heard on a couple of other calls that some manufacturing has shut down, but we haven't seen it. I mean, our branches that operate in the hurricane-affected areas have rebounded nicely.

Okay. And then, also on the Environmental Solutions. When you think about the target of bringing five new branches or new locations on kind of in 2018, how should we think about the pace of that timing-wise? Is that just going to be evenly, the right way to think about it, or is it front-end or back-end weighted?

It's more back-end weighted. It's a good question for modeling purposes. So, I would definitely put as a back-end. And when you even think of our branch count that we had in 2017, a couple of those were – basically had hardly any material activity in them. So, hence, [indiscernible] (00:37:49) if you go back to Brian's prepared remarks, obviously, you'd expect revenue to go up. But that's why some of the costs are going to be going up materially as well because they – there was barely anything in the 2017 figures for some of these 2017 adds because they were late, so it will be a similar [indiscernible] (00:38:12).

Okay. So, do you get like a little bit of a benefit in the first half from the projects that were put in place in 2017? And then, again, maybe I'm just thinking about it too much, but...

No. Yeah. So, the ones we just added at the end of 2017 really had no benefit or impact, I'd say, because obviously new branches are more negative than anything. You're getting revenue, but you have all the costs upfront. But you'll start to see them be more material certainly right out of the gate.

But certainly more towards the end of the year. As you know, starting up a new location, it takes some time to generate revenue.

Okay. And then, on the Oil Business, so you charge for oil, you're still in the positive in that you're still collecting fees. Is that the right way to think about it? And how did the spread in general kind of end 2017 versus kind of the average you saw over the whole year? I mean, are you up – is that spread benefit up 10%, 15%? Just – if I can get some color on that context.

Yeah. I'm not going to talk to where we are specifically on our oil charges, but we expect, if you're talking about what we expect to see in Q1, we expect to see the spread improve. We're not going to give the range [indiscernible] (00:39:37) don't do that.

Okay. And then, just one...

No, it's going to be driven mostly by the top end and the [indiscernible] (00:39:46).

Yeah. That is all changed.

I mentioned how we are – and it's really unusual for us because we have a great sales team. It was more a contractual issue, but we lag the – in Q4, our base oil increase was pretty tepid, we lagged the market there. So, there's pent-up upside which we're starting to see already. So, that's going to really drive the improvement.

Okay. And then, just one last one on capital spending. Can you give a breakdown on 2017, what was maintenance and growth CapEx? And I think for 2018 you said there was $20 million for growth. Did I hear that correct?

No. We didn't specify for 2018, and we can get into that later. There's a myriad of projects, some like the re-refinery is about 40% of that number, another 40% is for our ES business, parts cleaning [indiscernible] (00:40:39) facility, antifreeze, whatnot, trucks, trailers actually, and then we'll have a couple of million bucks, at least, maybe closer to $4 million in some IT and other kind of general corporate numbers. That's kind of the breakdown of what we expect in 2018. We only had, I think it was $14 million. Yeah, so we had about $31 million in free cash flow in 2018 – 2017 total, but that $14 million was fairly well-split between maintenance and growth.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Kevin Steinke of Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Good morning. So, on your...

Good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

...on your last call, you had talked about targeting about $7 million to $8 million of cost reductions within the Environmental Services Business during 2018. So, just wondering what the progress might be on those and the timing of those as we move throughout 2018?

Yeah. I think what we talked about was achieving a run rate by the end of the year, reducing those costs at that level. I still think we're on track. We may be a little higher with your $7 million to $8 million. I think we had a broader range than $7 million to $8 million, but we're still confident that we can get the cost reductions out. It's important for us. As you all know, we are seeing a little bit of inflation on commodities, so we've got to drive those cost reductions to maintain our margins, and that's our plan, and it's mainly around logistics, from the branch to the hub and the hub to the branches and to our end disposal sites. And we've got a few additional resources in our logistics group that are working those cost reductions.

All right. And with the weather issues in the first quarter affecting the re-refinery, what would you expect the re-refinery utilization rate to actually come in around in the first quarter?

Well, it's certainly going to probably be a low for the last couple of years from a – especially using our new – I'll get technical – our new denominator, because of the capacity we're going to – that we're at now, thanks to our third quarter improvement. But wouldn't getting too specific intentionally, I would say it's going to be probably in the nine years range, probably lower.

Okay. That's...

Just focus on the headline number. Comparing year-over-year production, we think we're going to – we have a shot of beating last year's production, because of the changes that we made in Q3.

Okay. Right. All right. That's helpful. And on corporate, SG&A continuing to come down as a percentage of revenue in 2018. Do you see that the potential for corporate SG&A also just coming down a bit on an absolute basis in terms of the quarterly run rate or the period run rate or however you look at it?

I don't want to get too granular during the year. Certainly, early on, I don't know that we see that in the first quarter or two. I think that potential – there's a potential for that. By the end of the year, we still have some changes we need to make. And to be quite honest, we have things going in both directions. So, we have a big initiative to drive more efficient processing of transactions, automate that more. And we've been pretty paper-based and still part of our business, and that takes money out of operating expense that really adds to it, at least some to it in our corporate SG&A line item. So, with that balance, it's possible, but we're comfortable saying that we're definitely going to reduce it or our target is, anyway, to reduce it as a percentage of revenue.

All right. And then, just lastly. Any color on what the geographic dispersion of – was of the branch openings in 2017 and also what you're planning for 2018?

Yeah. The bulk of the branch openings are going to be in the western half of the U.S. I'd rather not get into cities on this call for competitive reasons, but the bulk of it's going to be in the western half of U.S.

Yeah. And it was [indiscernible] (00:45:55) with some central, some east, some west for 2017 though.

Okay. Great. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Sean Hannan of Needham & Co. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thanks for taking the follow-up here, folks. Just a follow-up on a prior issue. I think that you guys had some ties to a particularly large rail carrier that was having some challenge there, the back end of 2017, and some of that may have lagged a little bit here into 2018. Just want to see if we get a follow-up on that, to what degree that's still affecting you guys. Is there – are there any actions you're taking to further mitigate that or what color can you provide on that topic?

Much better performance by our primary rail carrier. I mean, you're well aware that they made a CEO change and they're certainly becoming more customer service friendly since that day. We haven't had any residual impact moving into the first quarter of 2018. Obviously, with the

plant having its challenges in January, we certainly have had to increase the shipment of used motor oil to some of our depots in order to better position the product to get it back into our re-refinery when it was open, because I certainly wanted the volume and that's one of our goals this year, is to fill up the depots. So, we'll have some impact from additional transportation costs in the quarter, but that's factored into some sort of our prepared remarks.

Yeah. And that's not a [indiscernible] (00:47:46) issue here.

No, it's not. [indiscernible]

(00:47:48) issue.

Sure. I understood. I'm sorry, go ahead.

Now, this good performance by our rail carrier, they're doing a much better job.

Great. Okay. And then, last modeling question here. Mark, what should we be thinking about in terms of taxes? Sorry if that's a comment that you had in the very beginning of the call Not sure if that was called out.

Yeah. No problem. I mean, we're not – we don't expect to be a cash tax payer for federal income tax other than in the past we've paid alternative minimum tax, it's been the only tax we paid in the last several years. We still have a large NOL. And so we expect with the 100% expensing for certain qualified depreciable asset that is part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that we're going to not eat too much into that and that should carry us through probably 2019 or mostly 2019 from an effective income tax rate. We're still learning, like most companies. I mean, it was a fire drill with the timing of the passage of the new regulation, but I said in my prepared remarks, and we don't have any better information at this point, that we think our effective tax rate will come down from it's been in the high 30s to the mid 20s percent range.

Okay. Great. Thanks so much, folks.

Thank you.

Yeah.

And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time. With that, we will close the call. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.