Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — CFO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Ryan Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for your question. [Operator Instructions]

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements.

These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form-10K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting our investor relations section of our website. Also please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, or non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; and the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead sir.

Thank you. Good morning. Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our third quarter 2011 press release and posted it on the investor relations page of our website for your review. This morning we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the third quarter and first three quarters of the year and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our third quarter sales were $37.2 million compared to $26.7 million in the third quarter of 2010 reflecting a growth rate of 39%. Year-to-date, sales increased 29% to $98 million compared to $76.1 million for the first three quarters of 2010. Our average sales per working day increased to approximately $640,000 compared to $540,000 in the second quarter of 2011 and compared to $460,000 in the third quarter of 2010.

In the latest quarter, we completed construction of the front end of our used oil re-refinery and started operational testing of this section, including the production and selling of intermediate products such as vacuum gas oil. Construction remains on schedule for the second phase of the plant, which includes the hydrotreater section, and we expect to begin producing lube oil near the end of the year.

Through the end of the third quarter, we have spent approximately $37.6 million and have issued an additional $9.6 million to purchase full purchase commitment. We are pleased that the project continues on schedule.

As a result of our progress with the re-refinery, our ore business delivered meaningful revenue growth and also contributed to our profit before corporate SG&A.

Our Environmental Services segment also reported good revenue growth of 16% compared to the year-ago quarter. But margins in this segment declined as the energy surcharges we bill to our customers were insufficient to mitigate the higher costs we incurred for solvent and fuel. We are currently investigating ways to improve the margins in this segment, and will put our annual price increase into effect later this year as part of our plans for improvement.

I am quite happy that we are able to report good progress with our used oil collection, including rapid new truck deployment and continued geographic expansion. In the third quarter, we continued the expansion of our used oil collection program adding eight additional new oil collection trucks. By the end of the period we had 72 oil collection trucks, and we expect to continue to add new trucks at an accelerated pace in 2011.

This illustrates the tremendous value of our established branch network. Without the investment we put in place over the last decade to develop these locations and the team of dedicated professionals that manages them, we wouldn't be able to deliver this growth in used oil collection that is so critical to our entry in the re-refining business. This is a key to our future success.

These are exciting times in our organization and both the Environmental Services and Oil Business teams are engaged and look forward to the opportunities ahead of us.

Our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President – Business Management, Mr. Greg Ray, will now further discuss the financials. And then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's third quarter 2011 conference call.

I'm excited about our third quarter revenue growth, as outlined in last evening's press release. Revenues continued to grow at double-digit rates in both of our segments. In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $3.7 million or 16% in the third quarter, and $10.6 million or 15% for the first three quarters of the year. As mentioned in our second quarter conference call, we are now reporting same-branch sales for only the Environmental Services segment, as opposed to consolidated same-branch sales as this is a more meaningful benchmark for our investors. Of the 62 branches that were in operation throughout both the third quarters of 2011 and 2010, the Environmental Services growth in these branches was 13.7%. For the first three quarters of this year, same branch sales increased 13.9% based on the 62 branches that were in operation throughout both first three quarters of 2011 and 2010.

Operating costs in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $4.9 million compared to the third quarter of 2010. Of this the net impact of higher energy prices was approximately $800,000 as higher prices for fuel, transportation and solvent went to roughly $1.2 million of higher costs that were partially offset by a $400,000 benefit due to higher sales prices on reused solvent.

In the Oil Business segment sales for the third quarter grew $6.8 million, or 239%, but for the first three quarters sales grew $11.3 million, or 213%, as a result of initial sales of intermediate products from our used oil re-refinery. Our Oil Business delivered income before corporate SG&A of $1.5 million, which improved by approximately $1.8 million compared to the year ago quarter.

For the first three quarters of the year our Oil Business income before corporate SG&A increased by approximately $1.4 million to $300,000. The oil business profitability before corporate SG&A improved as sales improved and due to increased margins on intermediate products sold from our re-refinery.

We continue to roll out new used oil route trucks to increase the collection volume of used oil to feed to the re-refinery. As we have noted previously, this rollout puts some pressure on our margins, but this is not as significant as it has been in the past, as we now have the ability to upgrade the value of the collected used oil by processing it in our re-refinery. In our Oil Business segment, additional energy-related costs for fuel transportation and used oil were mitigated by the increased value of used oil inventory and higher margins on intermediate products sold from our re-refinery.

Corporate SG&A was 13.1% of sales, down from 15% in the year-ago quarter. For the first three quarters of the year, corporate SG&A was 14.5% of sale, down from 16.4% during the first three quarters of 2010. During the third quarter, we made a second draw of $10 million on our Term-A loan to fund investment in the re-refinery, and at the end of the quarter we had $20 million of bank debt and $12.7 million of cash. We incurred $9,000 of interest expense for the third quarter of 2011 compared to zero interest in the year ago quarter. And we incurred $23,000 of interest in the first three quarters of this year compared to zero in the first three quarters of 2010.

For the third quarter, our net income available to common stockholders was $600,000 compared to $700,000 in the third quarter of 2010. For the first three quarters, our net income available to common stockholders was $1.7 million compared to $2.3 million in the first three quarters of 2010.

Our basic and fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were both $0.04 compared to $0.05 in the year-ago quarter. For the first three quarters of the year, our basic earnings per share was $0.12 and our diluted earnings per share was $0.11, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.19 for the first three quarters of last year when we had fewer shares outstanding.

The third quarter was very positive as we were able to begin operating the front end of our re-refinery and we produced and sold intermediate products. Equally important, the construction project remains on track and we expect to begin producing lube oil soon. Market conditions for lube oil sales remain good at this time.

Our sales and service organization remains highly motivated with good double-digit growth in our traditional Environmental Services business, as well as the used oil volumes that are the feedstock for our re-refinery.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and he will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ryan Merkel with William Blair.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning.

So my first question has to do with the sales of intermediate products. It sounded like that accelerated this quarter. Do you expect it to pick up more in the fourth quarter or is that start to level off a bit as the lube oil starts to be produced?

Yeah, we won't be producing much lube oil until towards the end of the year. As we said earlier, we're expecting to start up near the end of the year. And so anything we are making now and until mid to late December is going to be sold to the vacuum gas oil market.

Okay. And may be for Greg, I'm sorry. May be for Greg, I want to ask about the footnote that there was an error that helped boost the third quarter. Could you just talk a little bit about what that was and did that impact Environmental Services or the Oil Business?

That was an accounting error that occurred during the second quarter that was not caught until the third quarter, it was, the net income effect was right around $100,000. It was the Environmental Services segment. Essentially in the second quarter, we under reported or under measured our inventory, and so we artificially reduced or diminished the earnings of Environmental Services in the second quarter and by correcting that in the third quarter, it had a positive impact of that $100,000 after tax.

Okay. And then last question for me, I wanted to talk about the margins in the Environmental Services business. We were down year-over-year, how much of that was due to increased solvent costs in the fuel and then versus adding more trucks, and can that start to pick back up in the fourth quarter?

Well, we shared with you already that a couple of the components of the analysis, the impact due to energy price alone, which was solvent, fuel for our own trucks, and third party transportation was $1.2 million just due to price not at no volume effects in that. And then we also reported that mitigating that somewhat was the $400,000 benefit that we got for higher than a year-ago selling price on our reused solvent. So that explains a chunk but not the majority of the additional cost.

There were also, as you alluded to, higher fuel costs related to expanding the business, more new inefficient trucks, also to some degree higher transportation costs because some of our newer branch growth is in more distant areas from our current hub infrastructure, and so we've got more drive distance for the newer locations we're opening out west.

I think that the biggest factor in looking ahead and trying to think about how that's going to evolve over time, the biggest factor is probably the pricing impact and what's going to happen with the cost of hydrocarbons. Another big factor is going to be how much of that we're effectively able to recover with changed pricing. You know that we do an annual price increase, that's coming up for us and for our customers, and the margin erosion is obviously going to cause us to be aggressive about increasing prices where we feel we can recoup that.

Okay. Thanks for taking the questions. I'll jump back in the queue.

My pleasure. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Sean Hannan with Needham & Company.

Yes. Good morning, Greg and Joe.

Good morning, Sean.

So the sales for the Environmental was actually pretty flat quarter to quarter, kind of a similar trend to last year. I realize you think of this business more in terms of annualized terms, but can you remind us of what we should expect normally in this side of your business as you move through the year? First, how to think of perhaps when you typically expect sequential improvements? Maybe second how the revenues materialize here in the quarter or how they did materialize versus your expectations? And then third how do you see that business actually performing today shaping up for the fourth quarter, is there anything that may drive that business that stands out to you?

Well, if we're talking specifically about the Environmental Services business we don't typically give a lot of credit to there being substantial seasonality in that. We think that it's been and we expect it to continue to be a 15% top line growth business. We've seen that over the last couple of quarters; that obviously was not the story during the recession, but since we've emerged from the recession we think we are back in that range and we look for that to continue.

The one seasonal effect that I'm sure Sean you are already aware of, it's not really seasonality, it's a calendaring issue, is that our fourth quarter is longer than the first three quarters because of our fiscal calendar. The fourth quarter is 16 or sometimes 17 weeks and the first three quarters are 12 weeks and that's not a hard thing to adjust for. That's one of the reasons we've been reporting average daily sales, and of course we've seen average daily sales continue to improve for our business. I'm not sure, you asked a couple of questions so maybe I could ask you to come back and refocus me on what else you would like to hear.

Yeah, actually Greg that answers I think all the – or the majority of kind of the sub components to the question. But I guess as a follow-up on the Environmental Services topic, can you give us an indication of how each of the lines of business in that group performs during the quarter? Were they all up double digits, I think, similar to what we've been seeing in the last couple of quarters or is there anything that...?

Yeah, I think all the businesses were strong and had double digit growth. And if we focus on the sales side, on the P&L we do not break out our accounting for the individual segments, but given what we've been talking about with energy and your understanding of our business, that all of these businesses use vehicles and have the same transportation issues. There is not a lot of differentiation there in terms of different performance.

I think the other one of your questions I now recall you kind of asked at the beginning, maybe I misunderstood it, but it sounded to me like you were sort of asking about what we are seeing in the market, and I do get asked that question often. At this point, we have not seen any indications from our customer base that would cause us to feel like the statistics are pointing to another recession or double dip or whatever we would want to characterize it as. We sometimes are a little bit nervous with what we read in the newspaper, but we are not seeing any symptoms of that in our customer base at this time.

But we also recognize that in some respects, our customers' activity that we do with them, maybe more of a trailing than a leading indicator because we are often picking up the waste materials that were generated in their production activities two or three months earlier. And so we might not immediately see in our volumes an impact of reduced business activity. But the feedback we are getting from our tens of thousands of customers and our hundreds of reps in the field is that business conditions remain firm and we are continuing to find that we can grow our business and add new customers.

That's very helpful Joe. And then one last question before I jump back in the queue, on the oil business side. So the delta versus June is about $5 million, so I guess kind of part A; was the majority of that delta have been the VGO product or was it all of it? And then separately, when actually during the quarter were you shipping and recognizing the revenues on that? So effectively, whatever it is that we did recognize in the quarter, how much of that was actually active during the course of the quarter?

The majority of the increase in revenue was from VGO sales. The production process that is operating right now and making this intermediate product is making VGO the primary revenue generator. It's also making some of the same byproducts that we'll continue to produce as we're operating the full re-refinery in the future and making lube oil, one of those of is asphalt flux, that is sold to the paving industry, and so we sold some of that, and that's a small part of the revenue, but VGO is the biggest part.

In terms of the production operation and the timing of that, the plant during the third quarter was doing exactly what we had expected, which is that we were starting up and working out kinks in the system. And so there was some production activity kind of spread out throughout the quarter, and obviously we were getting a little better at maintaining the sort of normal operations towards the end of the quarter than towards the beginning, but it's still in a mode where we deem that the plant is kind of going through its testing processes. We haven't completed every aspect of the evaluation and kind of turned it on for normal routine day-to-day business.

Okay, that's helpful. I'll jump back in the queue thanks so much.

Sure. Thank you Sean.

Our next question comes from David Manthey with Robert W. Baird.

Thanks. Hi good morning. First of in terms of the adjustment that you made this quarter could you tell what the pre-tax impact was, Greg?

$180,000.

$180,000, okay.

Pre-tax. That's the inventory adjustment we talked about.

Right, okay. And that's, but that's the P&L impact?

That's the pre-tax P&L impact of the under reported inventory in the second quarter corrected in the third quarter.

Got it, okay. Then, second could you talk about the margins that you are getting or maybe the contribution margins on the intermediate product versus what you will ultimately get on re-refined oil. I think you said north of 20% EBITDA on lube oil, but can you just talk about the intermediate product where that falls today?

Well, when we talk about margins part of the complexity Dave is that you are right to cite our original plant announcement over the year or plus ago where we said we would be getting a 20% margin of the re-refinery, when it was producing lube oil and when it was operating at capacity. And if we want to go back and compare that to what we are doing right now, we are not making lube oil and we are not running it at capacity, although pricing in the marketplace is significantly different.

It's not something where we are sort of looking at and reporting a margin percentage on the dollar selling price of VGO right now, it is somewhat sensitive to the volume that goes through the plant and that's changing on a regular basis. What I would want you and others to understand is that the difference between making the VGO product and selling it at today's spot prices, and making lube oil and selling it is quite substantial. And so there's still a tremendous room for further margin improvement in the business, not only as we get the plant up to capacity, but more importantly as we begin making the higher value lube oil. And so we can't wait to get there. We're doing everything we can to go quickly and get the plant in lube production and operation.

As I mentioned before, the market seems strong in terms of pricing being attractive. It also seems strong in terms of customer interest in the product that we will make. We have many inquiries and interested parties who are talking to us regularly, trying to make sure that they can secure a stake in the product we're going to make and have an opportunity to buy it. So we're very encouraged about all those indications and we would expect to see, as we start to make lube oil that the margins for the oil business will increase dramatically from what you're seeing in the third quarter or what you may see in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Could you tell us what the capacity today is of your network in collecting used oil? And as you move forward here, should we assume that you'll buy from third parties to get up to your capacity? And then finally when do you think you can reach this 50 million gallons of input overall? And then finally, how long do you think it'll take you to get to 50 million gallons internally? I know that's a lot of questions, but it's sort of a timeline question.

Sure, I'll try and do my best and catch me if I drop anything. Your first question I remember you asked about was the capacity of our collection business today. And I want to be sure I differentiate between sort of the physical capacity and what we are actually collecting, because as you know we have many new trucks that are not fully loaded and are not fully productive.

The capacity of the trucks we have out there right now is in the neighborhood of 30 million gallons to 35 million gallons a year, if they were all fully loaded. But they're not, and in fact our stated goal for our business in terms of our own collection volume remains as we've articulated before, which is that we're attempting to be in a position where we're collecting approximately half of our re-refinery capacity. Our re-refinery capacity is 50 million gallons a year, so we want to be collecting about 25 million gallons a year on Heritage-Crystal Clean trucks by the time the plant starts making lube oil just a few months away. So we're working towards that goal.

You asked about purchases from third parties. The answer is, yes, we have already begun to purchase some used oil from third parties. We expect that that is likely to continue, and we may look for that to increase to some degree as we get our re-refinery up and running and making lube oil and feel that we have an opportunity to run more oil through that plant to get it closer to capacity.

In terms of the schedule for building up our volumes and operations at the plant, we've not changed our thinking that we would expect to start the plant around the end of this year in making lube oil, and our goal is to have it running at full capacity a year later. So if we start around the end of '11, we would expect to be running at about 50 million gallons a year around the end of 2012. And we've not shared with anyone a very detailed model of how that ramp up will occur.

We're not quite sure what bottlenecks we may run into. Possible sources of bottlenecks during that first year, or areas where we may need to do work could include logistics and shipping issues of getting material into our plant or material out of the plant. They could include plant operational issues themselves, need to tinker with the design or more likely maybe replace some aspect of equipment that has early failure or something. It may include the market development and we may find that we can't rapidly and immediately sell all of our product until we have more time to build relationships with important customers, and we may be feedstock-constrained during that first year. And so with all those possibilities of things that could slow us down, we've said, we're allowing ourselves a year to work through all of that and get the plant up to capacity.

I think your last question had to do with how quickly we would be able to feed the plant ourselves from our own collection, and historically we've said that that would probably come another year later. That's a somewhat fluid target because we continue to think about how much more rapidly we can grow our collection business. And if we find that we're able to continue to effectively roll out our own trucks and go very quickly, we'd love to accelerate that because our perspective is that increasing the rate of supply from our own business as opposed to purchases from third parties has several benefits. One of them is potentially lower cost feedstock supply. Another is potentially better quality control on the feedstock when we do it ourselves than when we buy it in bulk from others. And a third is obviously the increased number of customers that we have relationships with that we can then leverage through cross-selling.

Okay. Thank you for that. Just one more question here in terms of the profitability of the ES business. We've seen plenty of periods in the past where we've had rising oil prices and we've never seen quite the degradation that we saw in the margin this quarter. And when you talk about the impact of just raising prices it doesn't sound like it's the majority of the move here. And I'm just wondering as you go out and try to recover some of that, are the issues you are seeing in ES in this quarter is that, are they structural or can we by going back to customers and trying to get some relief there and changing some other things, can you get the margins back up over 20% before everything?

I think we're certainly expecting to get the margins back up. I don't think that there is things that are structural in the market that have changed anything about the business. In terms of why we haven't seen this kind of margin erosion as clearly in other situations, I'd actually point to this year as part of the explanation. The first two quarters of this year we were seeing higher energy related costs, substantially higher compared to a year ago, but they were almost entirely mitigated by sequentially rising energy prices having a positive effect on our inventory values and on our sales of reused solvent and other materials.

So they are somewhat masked in the short term and we've talked about that I think a few times before that in a market where prices move, the first move results in higher costs that get mitigated by improved inventory values, and only after those inventory values have stabilized do we start to see that net bottom line impact of the higher costs.

Here we saw that happen for a couple of quarters. We were getting higher costs, but also getting improved inventory values. And then in the third quarter we kind of saw energy prices stabilize compared to the first and second quarter, and we didn't get any more inventory benefit and had to live with the higher cost.

The other aspect of this in a long-range or medium-range scenario and the timing challenge is, as we've talked about before, we do try and mitigate these higher costs with energy surcharges and we ultimately feel we can mitigate them with price increases. And so our business has sort of a different look. If energy prices go up in June and we then are looking at a October/November/December price increase, you may not see it at all, because if we get one quarter of higher cost that's mitigated by inventory, or even two quarters that's mitigated by that short-term inventory benefit, and then we have time to raise prices, it sort of flows through and you don't see much affecting the bottom line.

When energy prices go up early in the calendar year, and right after we've done a price increase, particularly if the price increase was not very aggressive or was modest compared to our historical average as happened this time, then there is a longer period of time for that increase to flow through the P&L and for you to see the result. And it really just kind of gets you to think of this as having to do with the fact that we do our price increase at the same time every year rather than adjusting our timing to more nearly match when our costs go up, and that's what leads to this sort of timing phenomenon. I don't know if I've made myself clear with that, but if you have any follow-up questions I'd be pleased to try and address it.

Yeah, that helps a lot. So we should pretty much expect maybe more of the same fourth quarter, but getting relief now in the first quarter of next year?

I think that's reasonable, yeah.

Yeah, got it. All right, Greg, thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question is a follow-up from Sean Hannan with Needham & Company. Sean, your line is open. [Operator Instructions]

Hi. Sorry. Are you able to hear me?

Yes, Sean. We can hear you.

Okay, okay. Great thanks, phone problems. It sounds like you had a comment around the interest coming from customers, you have a lot of interested parties. Can you update us around is there anything that has actually changed versus a few months or quarters ago. Had that interest really always been there and we are continuing to pursue that and have discussions and getting prepared to provide product, or has there actually been an acceleration in terms of the number of interested parties and the degree of that interest?

Most of the customers, we anticipate, selling the lube oil to are independent lubricant manufacturers, and there is a multitude of these customers representing a good sized industry and since we've announced the construction of the plant, we've approached some and some have approached us. And we've had a pretty high level of interest as there are very limited suppliers of lube based oil in the United States. And these independents have been looking at diverse sourcing of their needs.

I would say since we've announced the project and as we stand now, we've had an increased interest. The market remains pretty tight. And we're pretty confident about our ability to market the product. And so we're looking forward to the startup of the hydrotreater in order to get this uptick in value compared to our current vacuum gas oil. But...

So it sounds like net-net the interest level has always been strong, either proactively or then brought to you as well, but that is also an interest level that has been – that continues to accelerate. Is that fair?

Yes.

Terrific. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] . And thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call.