Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Ryan J. Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Manthey — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time all callers' microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views on the future.

We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on the Form 10-K as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA; adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. For more information about our company please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com. With us today from the company are the founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night we issued our third quarter 2015 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review.

This morning we will discuss the financial statement and our operations in the third quarter. And we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business. Our third quarter revenues were $82.7 million compared to $77.9 million in the third quarter of 2014, an increase of 6.1%. Year-to-date revenues increased 12.5% to $249.7 million from $222 million in the first three quarters of 2014. This increase is attributable to our 2014 acquisition of FCC Environmental, or FCCE, as well as organic growth in our Environmental Services segment and was partially offset by decreased revenue in our Oil Business segment due to lower oil product pricing.

We are excited to report that our 2015 third quarter EBITDA was $9.2 million, which represents a 32% increase over the year-earlier quarter and a new record of EBITDA in a quarter. This marks the second straight quarter of which we have generated record EBITDA. For the first three quarter of fiscal 2015 EBITDA increased 62% to $20.7 million compared to the first three quarters of 2014. Adjusted EBITDA was $12 million for the third quarter of 2015, an increase of 63% compared to the third quarter of 2014.

In our Environmental Services segment, revenue increased 24.7% compared to the third quarter of 2014 and 29.1% compared to the first three quarters of 2014 as we have achieved additional sales to legacy FCCE customers in all of our Environmental Services lines of business. Revenues in our vacuum services line of business more than doubled from the third quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2015 due to the volume added from the FCCE acquisition. We also experienced strong organic growth in this business. In our branches that were not affected by the acquisition, Environmental Services' same-branch revenues increased by approximately 10% during the quarter.

We are also very excited that we were able to maintain our operating margins in this segment in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis despite the fact that the acquired FCCE business was generally lower margin than the legacy HCC business. We are pleased that we recorded a positive operating margin in our Oil Business segments during the quarter. This result was achieved despite a decline in our Oil Business segment revenues due to lower pricing for our oil products and an inventory write-off of $1.9 million. Revenue decreased to 15.4% from the third quarter of fiscal 2014 to the third quarter of fiscal 2015.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2015, the average spot market price for the Group II base oil we produce declined over 40% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2014. The decrease in revenues due to pricing pressures was partially offset by sales of recycled fuel oil, or RFO. We have recently seen significant changes in this industry, particularly the drastic decline in the price of crude oil and as well as the [ph] beginning (7:13) base oil, RFO and our re-refinery byproducts. During this period of change, we have focused on key goals: number one, managing the price paid or amount charged to generators for collection of used oil; number two, improving the efficiency of our used oil collection routes; and number three, efficient operation of our re-refinery.

Over the past two years we have led the industry in lowering amounts paid to generators for their used oil. As we've stated many times before, moving from a pay-for-oil to a charge-for-oil model is a significant adjustment for used oil generators and collectors, although it is something that our team has done before. As of the end of September we were able to achieve a small average charge for our used oil collection service across our customer base. This is a significant step for our company in our effort to restore spreads in this business.

Our integration of the legacy HCC and FCCE used oil collection routes has greatly increased our productivity. As a result of the integration process, we were able to increase the efficiency of our transportation and logistics for delivery of used oil to our re-refinery and our RFO sales locations. As a result of our efforts to move from pay-for-oil to charge-for-oil and improve the efficiency of our used oil collection routes and related logistics, we have reduced the landed cost of used oil at our re-refinery, and that includes the transportation from the collection areas to the re-refinery.

We have landed the cost, reduced the cost by almost 70% since the end of fiscal 2014 and today that cost is below $0.75 per gallon. We operate the second largest re-refinery in North America and we expect to complete our expansion to 75 million gallons of nameplate capacity during the fourth quarter. Completion of this expansion will make our already-efficient re-refinery even more efficient on a per-gallon basis. All of our Oil Business segment improvement I mentioned will help us reach our goal of continuing to make our Oil Business more profitable, even in a difficult business environment.

Looking forward, all else equal, each $0.10 per gallon improvement in our charge-for-oil program should result in an approximately annual EBITDA improvement of $7.5 million. Similarly, all else equal, each $0.10 per gallon improvement in base oil selling price should result in an approximate annual EBITDA improvement of $4.5 million. So as you can see the potential here for the future as we move in that direction we set. We are pleased with the performance of our Environmental Services segment, which has delivered consistent margin performance compared to the year-ago quarter, even after the addition of the somewhat lower-margin FCCE business.

In addition to the synergies we realized, we believe we can continue to deliver growth and increase profit from this segment. Our Environmental Services segment now accounts for about two-thirds of our total company revenue and continues to show steady, predictable growth in both revenues and profit. This remains a solid and successful foundation for our company and provides us with continuing opportunities to add value in the years ahead. Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results and then we will open the call for your questions.

Thanks, Joe. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss HCCI's third quarter 2015 results with our investors today. We continued to realize synergies from the FCC Environmental acquisition during the quarter.

During the third quarter, we estimate that we generated approximately $4.6 million in cost-saving synergies and $0.6 million in business improvement synergies for a total of $5.2 million of gross synergies. We also incurred $0.1 million in costs to achieve synergies, which resulted in an estimated total net synergy of $5.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2015. We ended the quarter generating synergies at an annualized rate of approximately $23 million. In the Environmental Services segment, revenues grew $10.3 million in the third quarter compared to the third quarter of 2014. Of the 73 branches that were in operation throughout both the third quarter of 2015 and 2014, the growth in same-branch revenues was 15.7%. For the first three quarters of the year revenues increased $35.6 million, or 29.1% in this segment. Same-branch revenues for the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 grew 19.5% compared to the first three quarters of fiscal 2014.

In branches with no impact from the FCC Environmental acquisition, same-branch revenues increased approximately 10% during the third quarter compared to the prior-year quarter. For the third quarter, our average revenues per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $900,000 compared to $720,000 in the third quarter of 2014. In the Oil Business segment, revenues for the third quarter were down $5.5 million from the third quarter of 2014 as a direct result of decreased product prices. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 revenues were down $7.9 million compared to the first three quarters of fiscal 2014. We are pleased that our profit before corporate SG&A in the Environmental Services segment stayed strong at 28.7% of revenue, which was slightly higher than the third quarter of 2014. Even considering the impact of adding FCCE volume, which was traditionally lower-margin than our legacy business, our profit before corporate SG&A in the Environmental Services segment through the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 was 27.3% compared to 26.6% through the first three quarters of 2014.

Our Environmental Services segment benefited from lower solvent costs, which tracked the lower crude oil pricing. In the third quarter our Oil Business achieved a profit before corporate SG&A of $0.6 million compared to profit before corporate SG&A of $1.3 million in the third quarter of 2014. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 the Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $1.7 million compared to a loss of $0.5 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2014. The operating margin in our Oil Business was negatively impacted by the continued low prices for our oil products and by a $1.9 million write-down in the value of our inventory during the quarter. Without this write-down, our profit before corporate SG&A in the Oil Business segment would have been 8.3%, or approximately $2.5 million.

Corporate SG&A was 11.9% of third quarter revenues, up from 10.5% in the year-ago quarter. In the first three quarters of the year SG&A was 12.6% of revenues compared to 11.4% in the first three quarters of 2014. Now that we have worked through the FCCE integration, we are pleased to see evidence that our efforts to control SG&A expense are paying off. From the second quarter to the third quarter of fiscal 2015, SG&A expense decreased by $0.7 million, or 7%. This comes right after a decrease of $0.5 million in SG&A from the first quarter of fiscal 2015 to the second quarter of fiscal 2015. So over two quarters, we have achieved a $1.2 million reduction. SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues had decreased from 13.2% in the first quarter of 2015 to 12.8% in the second quarter and down to 11.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015.

During the third quarter we incurred an additional $0.1 million in integration costs for FCCE, bringing our total for the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 to $1.5 million. At the end of the quarter we had $73.6 million in total debt and $20.5 million of cash on hand. We generated $7.6 million in cash flow from operations during the third quarter of fiscal 2015, which represents an increase of 73% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2014. During the third quarter we generated free cash flow of $5.3 million, which marks the second straight quarter of positive free cash flow generation for the company.

We incurred $404,000 of interest expense for the third quarter of 2015 compared to interest expense of $24,000 in the year-ago quarter. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2015 we incurred $1.4 million in interest expense compared to $110,000 in the first three quarters of fiscal 2014. The increase in interest expense was a result of increased debt used to finance the FCCE Environmental acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. We are pleased to report that for the third quarter we set a quarterly earnings record with net income of $2.7 million compared to income of $2.4 million in the third quarter of 2014. Our basic and fully diluted income per share for the quarter was $0.12 compared to $0.13 in the year-ago quarter.

Our year-to-date income is $3.7 million compared to $2.7 million for the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, which represents an increase of 37%. Earnings per share for the first three quarters of the year are $0.17 compared to basic earnings per share of $0.15 and fully diluted earnings per share of $0.14 in the first three quarters of fiscal 2014. To update our full-year guidance, we now expect our total revenue for fiscal 2015 to be in the range of $345 million to $360 million, our unadjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $30 million to $35 million and our adjusted EBITDA to be between $40 million and $45 million.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you [Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Merkel with William Blair. Your line is open.

Thanks, good morning, everyone. And congratulations, you're definitely executing well in a tough environment here. So for my first question I want to focus in on the EBIT margin in the Oil Business. If we did the calculations right, I am coming up with an adjusted EBITDA margin, or EBIT margin of about 8.4%, which would be a nice improvement sequentially and year-over-year. So my question is how sustainable is this lift? And now that you're actually charging for oil, what could this be in the fourth quarter?

If we look from Q2 to Q3, I can give you a little insight into what the movement was. One of the things that we believe will be permanent to help us with that improvement is we saw almost a 3% benefit from quarter-to-quarter in catalysts. And Greg or Joe, maybe you can explain a little bit more in detail if you want about that. But that relates to some of our changes that coincide with the expansion that we're moving through and expect to finish the quarter that we're in now, the fourth quarter.

We benefited on the cost side, although it was somewhat offset by the write-down. But third-party bulk oil, which again that should be something given the current – if the current crude environment stays where it's at that we should continue to see. And then there were – those were really the two big items going forward. I don't know, Joe, if you want to talk about the catalysts, or just any forecast.

No, the catalysts I think you covered it well; that's $1 million a year of savings. The real impact for us to give you an estimate, Ryan, because we really don't know what's going to happen with crude, and the other thing that has happened here recently is there has been a reduction in posted price of $0.10 to $0.12 a gallon for the lube oil and yet the spot price hasn't moved much and so we're hoping that that continues for the quarter so crude can also go up and that affects us in almost half of the volume we sell. We sell RFO and we sell byproducts of refineries that are tied into crude, so if crude goes up even if the lube oil doesn't move up we benefit, so sorry couldn't give you any more clarity on the oil segment.

Well, sure. And just to follow up, I think your guidance for the full year for adjusted EBITDA did you say was $40 million to $45 million. So that sort of implies I believe that the EBITDA margin will be up sequentially in the fourth quarter from the third quarter. Now I know that's a bigger sales quarter for you but does that also reflect improvements in I guess the margin in both businesses?

Well, it's not much, it's doesn't reflect much of a change. We do have the benefit of – you already talked about the extra four weeks, but we do expect before the quarter's over we will be running at a higher rate, again depending on what happens with the commodity prices that should help us – higher rate at the re-refinery I mean. So that should help us marginally there, but there is not much built in as far as improvement beyond where we're running. Because there could be offsets. We don't know, as Joe said, how the $0.10 decline in posted price that might not lead to much spot price or the actual price that most of the transactions are done at in base oil there might not be much of a decline. We'll have to wait and see. It's still fresh for some of the people who just followed I think in the past week. So that's really the big variable and the reason for the range. You know the ES business is fairly predictable.

Right, okay, maybe one more here. You know the industrial economy here in the U.S. has slowed quite a bit over the last couple of quarters and I know that your exposure there is fairly broad-based. But I'm wondering are you starting to see any signs, particularly in the heavy manufacturing space? I'm not sure how much exposure you have there, but are you seeing signs that maybe some customers are you know taking down shifts or slowing down production? Because I recall the last time we saw the industrial complex slow you sort of had a one-quarter to two-quarter lag before it really impacted your business. So just curious if you're seeing anything, any signs of slowing.

This is Greg speaking, Ryan, and I would say that in general across the broad manufacturing segment we're not seeing a general slowdown. What we are seeing and we've been seeing for more than a quarter is that manufacturer and our industrial customers that are dependent or related to the petroleum industry or oil patch have been slowing down and that's not a surprise to anybody. But we have quite a few customers that are involved with drilling rigs and pipe yards and things like that.

Those customers have seen dramatic cutbacks in activity and it's a rather regionally focused phenomenon. So we work through our branch system and in the South-Central and South parts of the country we've seen some slowdown in those kinds of accounts. But beyond that the statistics we look at still seem to show a healthy and robust climate. I think that you talked about the lag we saw last time we went through a significant recession and I think we learned some things as we went through that. The most dramatically lagging part of our business is our drum waste management because there we're picking up the hazardous waste that our customers produced a quarter ago or two quarters ago and so that's really the slowest or last place we see a change.

In parts cleaning and some of the other services we think that change is visible more quickly and we just haven't seen anything yet that shows up on our radar that looks like things are deteriorating out there. So we remain cautiously optimistic that the customers we service are still doing okay other than those that are dependent on the oil industry.

Got you, okay, very good, nice quarter, thanks.

Thank you, Ryan.

Thank you, our next question comes from the line of David Manthey with Robert W. Baird. Your line is open.

Thank you, good morning. First off, on the fact that your pay-for-oil situation has changed to charge-for-oil in September, should we assume that in coming quarters that will continue to be the case? And the reason I'm asking, I'm just wondering how sensitive your charge-for-oil situation will be relative to Group II prices going forward. And I don't know if you have any comment on local demand dynamics for used oil over the past year, if you could talk about it in reference to that question.

Yes, in driving our costs down for what we pay for used oil, when we were paying for used oil now that we have an average, the charge in driving that further, there's a lot of factors we look at and lube oil is just one factor. The demand for used oil is split between lube oil and the production of vacuum gas oil. There is quite a bit of volume of oil collected in the United States that goes into the VGO market. And we track that and then we also track the price of the number six, the fuel, the RFO version product and the recycled product goes as a percentage of it.

So these are the factors, and we look at competitive forces. If the price of oil stays the same where we are right now, regardless of where the lube oil is going, our plan is to continue to put more customers into a charge mode and increase the charges of these customers. We've been working hard at getting every week statistically here more and more customers into a charge mode without losing productivity on our route trucks and it's a very fine line. And so we're happy as we said by the end of September that our weighted average volume we collect is already at a charge. But we have a very meaningful percentage of our customers that are paying for it stop fee.

I can add that we've talked about wanting to have our Oil Business be stronger and more successful even in difficult environment and we're not there yet. And one way we improve on this is to increase the amount that we're charging. Over a very long period of time now the decline in product prices for our whole industry has been more significant than the decline in the cost of this used oil. We've not moved our price to generators as far as what we've suffered and reduced prices and that's led to this margin compression.

So we're committed to trying to change the price further. But as Joe said, we don't want to suffer material market share losses that hurt our efficiency. It's not about ego, it's about just not giving up everything we're gaining on an economic basis. And as I think we've spoken about in prior calls, around the zero point it's very delicate in pricing. If we're charging a small amount and our customers are presented with an offer from a competitor who is picking up for free or even paying a small amount, that has an appearance psychologically of a big difference.

And so we're going to keep pushing pricing and hope that the rest of the industry does continue to be disciplined, and like we do, want to improve the margins of the business to where there is a return on capital.

And Greg, that speaks to the question here. I am wondering about that competitive environment. It would seem to me that given where used oil prices have gone, the smaller players out there that are just collecting and then reselling this product for Btu value, that has to be a failed business model at these prices. And I'm wondering, the longer this persists I would imagine more of those smaller players will go out of business. But it would just seem to me that at these levels, if you don't have a re-refinery, you are severely disadvantaged as it relates to staying in business. And just wondering if you can give me a read on have you seen some of your smaller competitors evaporate in the markets you're competing in.

Well, we've seen in the last couple of months third-party collectors knocking on our door to supply volume, people we haven't seen for some time. But answering your general statement about the current market, it's a difficult market for the collectors that are in the fuel. This has been an evolution over the last several years, even before the price of crude collapsed, just the natural gas prices being lower, a lot of these local [ph] actual plants (31:59) decided to move away from used oil burning into natural gas.

So that has been evolving over the last several years and continues in this difficult market. So we feel good – it's taking time but we feel good that we can improve our spread. Remember, we came down from a price of $0.90 a gallon paid down to where we are now. And as we said earlier, every $0.10 a gallon improvement is $7.5 million of EBITDA for us.

Another comment, Dave, that Joe's pointed out in the past is that when you think about sort of exits or barriers to exits for competitors in the used oil collection business, while some of the larger, more consolidated guys have obviously transacted and sold, as we bought FCC, as Clean Harbors bought Thermo Fluids. But a lot of the smaller, local, regional mom-and-pop kind of guys, even when their business gets to breakeven or small losses just march on forward and they don't take a dividend or a salary and they have family members working for the company that take less money and they continue in business rather than exiting.

So there is sort of – because it's quite entrepreneurial at the small scale, there is sort of some inherent barrier to exit. Now you would think that transaction prices, if you want to go out and buy these people, are more attractive to buyers and I think generally that's true, but they also have been through cycles in this business before and are inclined to wait it out and hope that crude goes back to $100 and they can sell their business for a much more attractive price. So you don't often see people just packing it in and saying we are done unless there is such a dramatic down cycle that people get caught in liquidity crises or have too much inventory and a problem that way. But other than that, there is a pretty solid sustaining sort of trend to just stay in the business and work through the tough times. So I don't know if that's helpful color for you.

Yes, it is, yes, thanks, Greg. And just last question on the increased capacity here. Were there any startup or shakedown costs in the third quarter? Do you expect to see some in the fourth quarter then? And could you tell us how you expect the capacity to come online? Will you get some incremental capacity in the fourth quarter or is it just you are planning on full run rate in the first quarter of 2016?

Well, definitely in the first quarter of 2015 it's clear that – 2016 that the capacity will be there, we'll be running at the higher capacity. Just to give you a little bit of flavor, in the third quarter that we just finished there were two sections of the plant we had in the third quarter we had commissioned, the hydrotreater, new hydrotreater, extended hydrotreater and that's why we made a comment about our reduction in catalyst costs. So that's already in place and capable of running at the higher rate. And in the beginning of the fourth quarter we have taken a regular shutdown and expanded it to make all of the tie-ins required to complete the expansion and our current plan is to be able to get some higher production run in the second half of the quarter.

And so that's not too many weeks quite frankly in the quarter. So we see between the shutdown and the expended volume where we end up in the quarter there, but definitely by the beginning of next year, the first quarter, we should have it at the full 75 million gallon rate.

Yes. And we will have – I don't have the exact number here and if I can't get it now we can touch base later, but in Q3 there wasn't a big CapEx item for the expansion. There will be more in Q4 and that's when we will probably spend the bulk of what's left to get the expansion completed.

Okay. All right, perfect. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you, Dave.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Sean McHannan (sic) [Hannan] (36:48) with Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Thanks. Sean McHannan here.

Hello Sean Hannan.

Good morning. A question going back to oil side, what are you assuming in terms of any lost customers or volumes as you continue to implement the charge-for-oil effort? And then what are you seeing or getting as the understanding from the generators in terms of feedback or resistance? And then observations of what competitors are doing, how uniform that's occurring and the pace they are making changes. So just a little bit more context I guess with those embedded questions around the charge-for-oil environment.

Good question, Sean. This is Joe here, I will answer it and Greg can add anything more that I haven't well defined. This is an interesting question and also a pretty complex because it depends on the nature of the generators. And what we have seen when we got – and we have been doing now here for been several, two months, three months trying to put the charges in place. We got different-sized generators acting differently and basically you go to a small customer and you are going to do a 100 gallon, 150 gallon pick-up and his tank is not full. And so he could tell you, I mean there is a relationship between direct and the customer, in some cases they would agree to have a charge, in other cases you don't need to have a lot of these cases if a third of the customer tell you don't pick this up, come in when my tank is full, I don't want to pay the stop fee or cents per gallon and it's really more of a stop fee.

And in our case that's what we have seen and so you have really lost productivity. You've got expensive truck with a route person going in and getting no volume. But as we go back to the same customer four weeks later and explain our situation, eventually when we get more and more people into a charge mode this becomes the new reality. And the larger customers have always had the luxury to negotiate. I am talking about a quick lube that has 10 locations that generates 100,000 gallons a year, so these are a little bit more tricky and take a little bit more time. But we're focusing on the small customers and it's the vast majority of our volume. So we're working this as we're moving ahead. Greg?

I think you started, Sean, asking sort of how much we're willing to lose. And I think I put this in the context that there is some price for playing the leadership role that we've played on the price side. Over a year, a year and a half as we've been driving price down, we've probably given up approximately 10% of our total combined volume to people who were willing to try and chase improving market share instead of bringing the margins back to where they should be.

And I think that we feel we've done enough there, and we've given up enough and we're not interested in giving up any more market share because at some point, as we've said, that starts to deteriorate the efficiency of our trucks and routes that we've worked hard to deliver. So we're not in a position with an expanded plant to say we're going to give up a lot more volume to keep pushing price lower.

Having said that, we think that recently we don't feel like we're way out ahead of the market and that as we've been driving our price in this direction we think that others are behaving in a similar fashion. And our volumes seem to be fairly stable. So we're not worried or panicked right now. But we can never predict how competitors will behave, and if one of them decides that they want to chase market share all of a sudden at the expense of margins then we may find ourselves forced to respond in time, but we're not there today.

Our customers are gradually going to get used to the reality that the pricing is shifted into the charge environment. And once they get acclimated to that, then after a period of time of six months of being in that zone, then customers stop being as price-sensitive again. And a few pennies difference between a company and a competitor stops being quite as important and permanent and we'll have more flexibility on getting prices or margins where we think they should go.

And keep in mind our argument for customers, which really does resonate with many accounts, that they may not like the fact that their used oil is not worth as much to us or to other collectors, but there is two things for them to be reminded of to mitigate that. One of them is many of these customers are in the vehicle aftermarket, service aftermarket. They are car dealerships and quick lubes and people that are doing truck maintenance. And many of them are still implementing and maintaining charges to the vehicle owner for oil disposal, for proper management of used oil that date back 20 years to the last time that the typical norm for our industry was paying to get rid of used oil. So they've been charging those fees and have not done away with them and now they're in a situation where they need to use that source of revenue that they've had all along to pay for proper disposal of the used oil.

Secondly, anybody who is involved in the whole closed loop and is buying and changing lubricants knows that their clock for the new lubricants is down dramatically by a lot more than the fees that we're imposing for picking up the used oil. And that mitigates the fact that we have to charge something to provide the service.

So we've got strong arguments. Customers will generally accept those arguments and the limiting factor will be some competitor who says, well, I still want to pay for used oil. And if that happens on a broad scale we've got a problem. If it happens in a small, local area, we're not too worried. As you know we've got hundreds of trucks now, we're operating in 80 branches. And so we don't worry too much about what a guy does in a single local market.

So it sounds like right now outside of any extreme circumstances that could otherwise shock the dynamics around collections that there has been the official fundamental paradigm shift within the industry to move back to traditional charge-for-that-dirty-oil scenarios. Do you think that we have officially crossed over that line in a sustainable fashion? It certainly appears that we have, and wanted to get your thought.

We clearly, in our mind, we clearly – we have an [ph] after presentation (44:47) out there and pickups that I can clearly say that we have crossed that. And for the people that haven't been in this industry for a long time, this is a scenario that occurred roughly 30 years ago where the industry went in from a consistent pay-for-oil to a charge. And at the end of the day, the oil – our industry is the service industry. Yes, we sell a commodity product but the removal of oil is a service industry and then the oil service in the mid-1980s stayed on for 15 or so years out of increased charges back in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

That's helpful. All right, let me ask a question on the Environmental Services side and I'll hop back into queue. Can you talk more about the efforts in terms of same-branch sales growth and the ability to keep that going in double digits? At what point or how far out does that start to really become difficult in terms of comparisons without you folks notably expanding route territories and perhaps adding a larger group of branches, perhaps even M&A as a part of that? Can you give us some context around that thought? Because it's been a very good anchor, you know, piece of the business, of the overall business for you. Thanks.

Well, we feel pretty good about sustaining this double digits in the same percent range that we experienced this quarter, 10%, 12%, 9%, in that range. And it's not one single bullet. We've got still plenty of room to add resources in our existing branches and we're growing in really every Environmental Services line of business within that segment, whether it's parts cleaning or drum waste or collection service or antifreeze services and now after that we see the FCCE acquisition, we're offering field services remediation at our branches and that's another big business. But it's a growing business and quite profitable so we're happy with that and the additional branches. And not every location has offered all of these services but we have room to add services and then we have the mix or change from the parts cleaning, our biggest block of business, from solvent to aqueous and this has started several years ago. The aqueous business is growing faster, and then finally price increases. Mark, do you want to add?

You know, I would say also it's somewhat deep in the weeds but when you look at even what we've reported the last couple of quarters when we say branches that weren't affected. We did a great job in integration as a company I believe with the FCC Environmental deal, but even to get that done there were many branches that weren't in the region or geography of overlap that didn't maybe acquire a lot or maybe even any FCC Environmental customers but our focus on getting the integration done sometimes took some of those people temporarily to help. And then in addition to that we weren't on our standard I would say rollout plan with some of our incubation stage businesses or even some of our businesses like vacuum or whatnot, so that statistic that we quote with branches that weren't affected, really they are. Again, it wouldn't have taken that 10% or 12% where we've been to 15% or 20% by any means, but that has been tempered because our focus to try and make sure we did a great job with FCCE.

So we've started to get back, since the integration's over, we're starting to get back in that mode of adding at the incremental rate the new resources that we were doing prior to the FCCE transaction.

You asked about M&A and I think that while it's a complex measure that we don't report and doesn't show up neatly, but one reason that we've had steady, good growth in Environmental Services and have kept it in this 10% range and expect to continue to do that is that it's not unrelated to our Oil Business. Many customers want the full menu of services that we offer and so we're more successful in selling when we can deliver all Environmental Services.

And over the last several years as you know not just with FCCE but prior to that with our Universal RS transaction, our Warrior transaction, we've added thousands and thousands of customers who were primarily used oil accounts and we continue to prospect and develop that captive customer base to add other Environmental Services. And so that's all been sort of a nice tailwind for us to keep growing Environmental Services and sustain this growth rate. And you know so we think that the 30,000 customers we added from FCCE is going to give us a lot of room to keep expanding Environmental Services in years to come, not just in a 12-month time horizon.

That's great feedback, thanks, folks.

Sure.

Thanks, Sean.

Thank you, our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone, wanted to follow up on the used oil discussion a little bit more here. I know last quarter you were talking about how you were really leading the industry there, but it seemed you had kind of run into a bit of a point there where others weren't following along. And now we're at the point where end of September you're achieving a small average charge for pickup and that happens to coincide with the announcement at the end of August of your largest competitor that they are going to go to charge-for-oil across their entire customer base. So I am just wondering relative to that specific competitor, your largest competitor, if you've seen the follow-through on that announcement and that's what is really starting to change the dynamic in the environment overall.

Yes, I would rather really not, sorry, Kevin, get into the specifics. But people see our announcement and see the other player's announcement. I think we answered the question. Maybe I'll give you a little bit more color. It's a fine line in here. We answered earlier by other questions we had earlier that we have seen the industry shift into that mode, maybe not everybody. As Greg has explained, there is a lot of small independents that haven't thought to follow. But I think the industry in general, some of the larger players have done that. That's what we're seeing in the marketplace. So this is a needed thing for our industry. I mean we haven't restored the spreads and we are confident that it will be restored.

The other thing to say is, to be brutally frank about it it's very hard for us to gauge average price levels of competitors in the market. We're talking about 100,000 customers we serve and competitors serve a single multiple of that. And we hear every day from our reps in the field about accounts that they lost to a competitor who is still paying a lot for used oil, and they'll identify the competitors and we'll look at it and we'll say, well, we know that maybe they're paying somebody and maybe they're charging somebody else and it's hard to ascertain where they are on average other than if we start to see substantial net volume losses we might conclude that we were not priced at the market level.

But it's a very active market and we probably don't have as good an idea as you would about what the average price level of a competitor is out there right now. And we've learned over the years not to overreact to the anecdotal information because it's very easy to do that and inexperienced companies do that all the time and say, oh, I just heard we lost an account at this price and so I am going to respond accordingly. But it's a big market with lots of dynamic effects. Sometimes competitors might pay a high price for the used oil because other aspects of the account are really important to them and we don't want to presume that that is their effort to set a general price level that we should be responding to.

Okay, thanks, that's helpful color. In terms of the Environmental Services business, how much of a year-over-year benefit were lower fuel and solvent costs?

It was in the 2% to 3% range, similar to last quarter.

Okay, and so we discussed this a little bit already. But I guess going forward, excluding that benefit, do you feel like you can continue to drive the growth and still maintain the underlying margin excluding that benefit? Or I mean are there significant investments in sales head count or something that you feel like you have to make say over the next year or so to sustain the growth or gain greater penetration of the FCC customers? I mean just trying to get a sense for how much investment is needed to sustain ES growth and sustainability of margins ex the fuel benefit.

Well, there is very little. I think overall the message is it is sustainable, continuing the top-line growth while not only sustaining the margins but as we leverage our infrastructure more we would expect to see continued improvement in margin. Remember, when we acquired some of the lower-margin FCCE business, we didn't go to those customers and if you weeded those out of our database you would see that they're probably not delivering the same margin that the legacy HCC customers are delivering yet. And that's a multiyear story in some cases that gradually, whether it's through price adjustments or other means, to get that business there.

I also mentioned as part of an answer to another question that we had held off but are starting to rekindle our normal incremental resource addition. And outside of a big program which we don't have any plan to do at this point we have done back let's say at the beginning or mid-2011 we did through early 2012 we had significant investment in some of these sales resources. But we are probably going to be sticking to the more incremental approach that we have done. And while that is really not capital investment but investment in operating losses and will, if we went to the extreme, might have a negative impact we think we are going to do it at a pace we can balance, still get the top-line growth but not have margin deterioration, should have incremental margin improvement because that's on top of our normal program of annual price increases which at this point we would expect to have something in this quarter.

This is a discipline we have put in place several years ago to fuel the growth by adding incremental resources. The beauty of the ES business, we can do that branch-by-branch, area-by-area, business lines of business within the segment. And so our objective is to continue to grow but also not lose our margin as we are adding that stuff.

Okay, perfect. That's helpful. And in terms of just the overall regulatory environment driving demand for your Environmental Services business, have you seen any meaningful changes? I mean are things tightening and making customers more willing to outsource or is it kind of steady-state? I am wondering just how much of a driver regulatory environment or enforcement actions are helping you or is it just it's pretty much the same as it's been for a while?

Yes, Kevin, this is Greg speaking. The quick answer is it's pretty much the same as it's been for a long while. In the early stages of the development of our environmental industry, regulatory drivers and enforcement actions that you are talking about as well as CERCLA our Superfund liability were all things that woke up generators and made them really think about how they were managing their waste. But that's not a big driving force in the last decade and nothing is really changing on the horizon.

The other corollary observation is that from time to time as they are reviewing and rewriting the regulations, EPA at the federal level or more rarely states decide to address something that was previously diverted to landfills and to make it something that needs more careful management. And when those situations arise that creates opportunities for us and our business. And so 15 years or 20 years ago it was oil filters that all used to go to the landfill that now we pick up a lot of oil filters. 10 years ago it was fluorescent light tubes that used to go to landfills that contain mercury and now we pick up and send off for recycling a lot of light tubes.

And maybe in the last five years sort of a new, small but growing slice of the pie is discarded electronics and we pick up more and more of that every year, but it's a very small slice of everything that we do. When the regulations are expanded in that way and we can help with the reverse distribution, the collection and proper recovery and recycling of these things, it just expands our business capabilities and gives us one more service that we can potentially offer to 100,000 customers, so we like it. But we don't play any significant role in trying to influence the development of those regulations; we kind of take what comes.

Okay. Just last from me, a housekeeping question if you have these numbers on hand, just the capacity utilization of the re-refinery in the quarter as well as the number of gallons of base oil that you sold in the quarter.

Yes, I will go reverse order, our base oil sales were a little more than $8.6 million in the quarter. We really operated, and again we talked before, Kevin, about how we determine our [ph] need for (1:01:42) capacity. It's a little bit of a moving target but technically based on the 65 million gallon we level 100% at about 107% utilization in the quarter, so it was a great quarter from an execution standpoint.

Okay, great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you, Kevin.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Stifel. Your line is open.

Thank you very much. Joe, Greg, Mark, thank you for taking my questions. If we could start with Environmental Services, there was an ever-so-slight dip in revenues sequentially. What's accounting for that?

Yes, revenue was pretty consistent. When you look at our working days, they are relatively consistent. I think really what's happening is we mentioned that we were kind of at the tail end of the FCCE integration that we hadn't continued for the past year or so our investment in some of the new resources in an incremental way like we traditionally had done. So we were probably – and we have restarted that now but we were probably – and again it's tiny, tiny difference but that could be part of the reason we were kind of in between that still getting some of the last boost from the FCCE investment and gearing up for this additional incremental investment that again we typically made on an ongoing basis every quarter up until we did the deal. But we don't think there's anything. Greg mentioned a tiny bit about some of the things that are in the oil patch and affecting us, but other than small things like that we really don't see any big difference.

Okay, so following through that and you sort of set up my second part of that question. I was somewhat anticipating that now that the integration's done that we'd start to see this focus on incremental growth in the aggregate. And so we could see some of that walk back up as people's energies are redirected.

I would agree. And I did speak in error, there was one less working day, I apologize, in Q3. That again, it's minor as you said.

Yes, no, this is a tiny number. I just wanted to sort of understand it. The 15.7% year-over-year growth number, how do I think how that's calculated so I understand what it's telling me?

For the same-branch sales in the quarter?

Yes, it's the one that includes...

Yes, as we tried to try to articulate. So if we take all the branches that were established, whether they had new FCC business or not, if they weren't a new branch and they hadn't been – or they'd been in place for more than 13 periods, or one full year by our reporting or accounting cycles, and we take all those branches and we just measure their revenue from the prior – in this case third quarter 2014 – versus the revenue they did in third quarter of 2015.

Okay, so how many branches would fall into that pool versus the 70?

I think it was 73 we said.

Oh, that 73, okay. So it's a smaller number that's just old legacy that has no FCC that has the 10% then. It's less than 73.

Yes.

Okay, just wanted to understand how to put all those numbers together. And then shifting to oil, how many gallons did you collect in the quarter?

We're collecting at a rate of almost 76 million, so it was up 17.5%.

Okay, and then on the RFO sales, how many gallons of sales was that?

It was about 7 million – it was a little heavier than normal, so it was about 7.7 million. We had an issue where we load some of our large-volume RFO sales down in New Orleans. At the end of the second quarter there was an incident where a third-party ship had damaged our dock. So we actually got – Q2 sales were a little lower than they would have been. We missed one barge at the end of the quarter, so that slipped into Q3 and thus that's why the number is a little bigger.

Okay, and then is it an accurate statement Joe, Mark, Greg, that the RFO market is getting long supply for a couple of reasons? There is less residuals to blend. There is a movement towards Mexico moving to a pipeline away from RFO. And that's one more factor that helps – the case may take time, but helps the case in continuing to shift to this is a regulated industrial waste and I need to charge you for it.

We haven't seen – I mean Greg got, I don't know how – we haven't seen, we've heard about this. We haven't seen dramatic – mind you, these things are never dramatic in any case – but recently a number of small collectors have approached us and I think this is perhaps part of the three. We have some long-term arrangements ourselves in that market and that appetite continues, but I see on the – maybe not here in 2015 but historically that plan has been there. I mean there's less and less burning in many states of not only residual used oil but even residual [ph] bunker seats (1:07:46), or putting restrictions like we said of New York and so on, so some of the stuff has been going overseas.

And anyway it's a trend line that we're seeing but nothing dramatic here in the fourth quarter or in the first quarter something has happened or will happen. Greg?

Yes, I agree with Joe that we see it as part of a much longer-term trend that has been going on for more than a decade with reduction in the number and types of outlets that want to burn used oil and a corresponding increase in the cost to get to market to the remaining places that want the used oil, which changes the competitive cost structure a little bit. The biggest factor probably through that period of time is the decline in natural gas prices, which has sort of set the bar for cheap Btus and for a period of time caused a traumatic rotation in the types of customers that small used-oil collectors could sell to; where they used to have two or three nearby asphalt plants, all the sudden they had zero and they had to find new markets and ship their oil further and change their margin structure. But we have to keep in mind that the world's consumption of Btus and hydrocarbons is immense. And so while one slice of that pie may from time to time be difficult to get to, sort of the innovation of the entrepreneurs is they're going to find another place that needs Btus and if they can blend their used oil into those other streams, they still have these massive pools of hydrocarbon to blend into and can keep selling a lot of product. There's just not that much used oil compared to huge volumes of other types of fuel sold.

So your thesis may be right. Eventually we may get to the last existing you know slice of the pie where when that slows down the other collectors say, gee, now what do I do with my used oil. But it doesn't seem like they've run out of options or ideas yet. And of course there's been some small increase in the capacity of re-refiners and of BGL producers who can take that used oil and so there's still places for a collector to go with their collected material. It's not like they're out of options. But just every time that this happens the options become slightly less attractive economically it seems and it's a little bit tougher and the margins have the potential to get better for people who have a vertically-integrated business.

Fair enough, although the anecdote of third parties showing up is interesting, isn't it. That you can fully supply yourself and yet you've got third parties calling, so clearly their options are narrowing.

Yes.

How should we think about the gallon number we should be using as input for 4Q based on the timing of the tie-ins and roll-ins? Should we just use 65 million and assume 100% for the moment or will you in fact do better than the 65 million because it came online? How do we think about that so we – I'm assuming that's why the range given on the guidance, $345 million to $360 million, is it's sort of the timing when some of that hits.

It is tough. We told you what we expect. Michael, by the way, it's Mark.

Hi, Mark.

I would use the number somewhere between 65 million and 70 million. I certainly wouldn't assume 75 million. We can't sit here and tell you right now it's done. And other than that I can't give you much guidance but that's where I would peg it.

Okay, fair enough. And then, Joe, thank you very much for giving the data point about what happened on your landed price since the beginning of the year. And then you gave us a comparison for the selling price in the period. Could you frame the selling price difference over the same period as the landed price difference?

We have this – the selling price is roughly around, I think we had it in the press release year-over-year; I don't have it from Q1. It's probably a little more – it's probably a little different, or a little more of a decrease than the 40% I think we had in there.

I don't have that – this is Mark – I don't have that exact number, or we don't have it right now.

Okay, so obviously my sense is is you did better, meaning you managed the spread better, that's why the business is starting to show some profitability versus on that ...

Well, part of this, Michael, in this process since late last year is we've also improved the efficiency of our routes with the FCC and the addition of FCC, so we are expecting a better spread then what we're seeing now because of this efficiency improvement of the routes. And that's why we said earlier now that we're in that mode of service fees and we've got a pretty efficient plan and we shouldn't be looking at these kind of relatively weak margins. But to give you a specific answer maybe, Mark, you can look at this and Mark can get back to you.

I think we're talking in an hour, so last question, now that you've shifted to CFO how's the accounting world going to make you treat that? Is that an offset to a cost or do you have to show it as a revenue?

We will plan on showing it as revenue and we've been there in a small way when we really weren't into used oil collection, but even at times back in, before we built the re-refinery, we generated some revenue. So that will be a revenue item for us.

Okay, so does that account also for part of the difference between $345 million and $360 million as you continue to walk up, call it 17 million, 18 million gallons, to being charging that shows up in helping that gap that difference between $345 million and $360 million?

That would be a small piece, but that would be part of it.

All right, last question then, what is the driver of why you would do $360 million versus $345 million?

Depending on where oil goes and our success. We think we're in or just past hopefully an inflection point with PFO and you know, so that could be part of – charge-for-oil, that could be part of it. And where base oil goes, depending on the reaction to some of the positive price moves, and it could be other moves; we have a long fourth quarter. Seasonally typically we see a downturn in our periods 12 and 13 or near the end of the year from a base oil standpoint, but it's hard to predict.

Okay, because if you take this overly simple rule and take 3Q divided by 12 and multiply by 16, you get to like $359 million. So that by definition suggests that you're concerned about some macro issues mostly around oil related to what you just suggested.

Yeah, we do have on the ES side our price increase you've got to factor in there as well. So I'm saying at the end of the quarter timing near the end is a factor.

And we don't typically, because of the working day issue, you're right in your math on the two-third, the three-quarters and multiplying by four. But you get the Christmas and New Year's and we've got fewer working days and sort of the quarter is not quite as linear as we wish it was.

Fair enough, I just wanted to understand because it's wide at the sales, tighter in the EBIT, and I just wanted to gain a full, better appreciation. Thank you for the question. And then, Joe, I think it's terrific you took a leadership role on talking about the landed price change. I think that is a big help for the market because there is a base oil number every week if we want to look at it as a trend and there is no frame of reference to what that landed price looks like. So thank you.

You're welcome. Michael, I don't know where the market is going to be, it should be over time.

We might not have to do it again.

But we thought we needed to clarify it.

We'll try and nudge it a little bit here and a little bit there. We'll see what happens.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. I am showing no further questions at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.