Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Media Relations, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Ryan Merkel — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Luke L. Junk — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets
Sean K. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Richard H. Wesolowski — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you'll have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask question. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers to limit themselves to one or two question.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please not that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.

For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our fourth quarter 2012 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the fourth quarter and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our fourth quarter sales were $77.6 million, compared to $54.9 in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting a growth rate of 41%. Fiscal 2012 sales increased 65% to $252 million, compared to $153 million in fiscal 2011.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we continued to gain comfort with our new re-refinery. I am satisfied with our operations during the quarter, which allowed us to produce 7.9 million gallons of re-refined base oil. This volume represents 85% of nameplate capacity for base oil production. During the quarter, we were successful in selling virtually all of this production; 7.7 million gallons of base oil.

Unfortunately, the downward trend in lube oil prices continued in the fourth quarter and this led to our achieving lower revenue and profit that we had anticipated. When we entered the oil business, we recognized that we would be exposed to commodity price swings and have ups and downs through the cycle. However, we believe the current base oil pricing and the resulting spread between crude oil and lube oil prices reflect conditions that are not sustainable in the long run for the virgin production of lube oil from crude. We remain confident that this is a good business that will provide attractive returns over the long run.

Within the last two weeks, we have seen several major refiners implement price increases on base oil. We have – and we are hoping that this helps us get back to more normal pricing and margins.

At the end of the fourth quarter, we had 151 oil collection trucks in service. Many of these trucks were not as productive as we would have liked. In an effort to improve our productivity, we are focusing on improving the route density while also limiting our deployment of new trucks and in some cases combining existing routes.

We are pleased to announce that earlier this month we secured the air permit that will allow us to expand the capacity of our Indianapolis re-refinery to 75 million gallons of used oil annually. When implemented, this expansion would allow us to improve the profitability of our Oil Business by leveraging our substantial fixed cost. The resulting increased profit would help us offset the reduced profitability caused by the compression of the lube to crude spread.

In our Environmental Services segment, we are pleased with our double-digit sales growth. More importantly, we are pleased with the improvement in our Environmental Services segment margins, which increased to 22.8% in the fourth quarter.

We expect that our margins in this segment will be positively impacted during the year as we more fully implement our fourth quarter price increase. We expect that the new resources we've invested over the past year will allow us to continue to meet our growth goal for this segment.

For several years, we have enjoyed good growth in the aqueous segment of our parts cleaning business. To enhance this, at the beginning of fiscal 2013, we acquired our new aqueous chemistry business and we created a new subsidiary called Mirachem, LLC to hold its assets.

We feel that these aqueous cleaning products are superior to others on the market and are already proven with the – our customer base. Together with our patented equipment, we feel that our aqueous parts cleaning offer is the best in the business.

During the fourth quarter, we entered into a patent license agreement granting a third party certain rights to use one of our parts cleaning patents. Under the terms of this agreement, the third party paid us a fee of approximately $1.2 million for fast use of the patent and agreed to pay us royalties for ongoing use of the technology.

Our consistent growth is made possible by our ability to add new customers. At the end of the fourth quarter, we served over 86,000 individual customer locations. We served those customers from 71 company branch locations, compared to 67 branches a year ago.

While our results in the latest quarter were disappointing, we are resolved to improve the performance of our business. We are taking steps to help mitigate the negative impact of current market conditions, especially the very narrow lube to crude spread.

Our Environmental Services business remains strong. We have achieved a meaningful recovery of our margins in recent quarters, and this segment continues to grow. Our newer Oil Business presents opportunities for improvement and we are working to gain efficiencies while simultaneously working towards an expansion of capacity.

I have previously spoken about how 2012 would be a transformative year for Heritage-Crystal Clean as we started up our re-refinery and expanded into this significant new line of business. During the past two years, we have overcome many challenges. I think it is important to reflect on the fact that in just two years, we have successfully designed, permitted, build and started up our re-refinery, the second largest in the United States, and we continue to run it at a high rate on a daily basis.

We have grown our used oil collection business from almost nothing to become one of the 10 largest used oil collectors in North America. We are well-positioned to continue our growth in this segment, and we have the team and the tools to add value for years to come.

Both Environmental Services and Oil Business teams are engaged and look forward to the opportunities ahead of us.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results. And then, we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with your investors today for HCCI's fourth quarter 2012 conference call. I'm pleased with the fourth quarter revenue growth, as outlined in last evening's press release. Revenue has continued to grow at double-digit rates in both of our segments.

In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $6.3 million or 16.6% in the fourth quarter and $19.6 million or 16.4% for the year. Fourth quarter revenues included $1.2 million in past and current quarter revenue from the patent licensing agreement referred to earlier in this call.

Excluding the licensing revenue, segment revenue increased by $5.1 million or 13.4% during the fourth quarter compared to the year-ago quarter. Of the 66th branches that we're in operation throughout both the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011, the growth in same-branch sale is 9.3%.

For the fiscal year, same-branch sales in our Environmental Services segment increased 11.9%. However, if we exclude the impact from those existing branches which gave up territory and customers to new branches, the growth in same-branch sales was 12.8% for the fourth quarter and 14.9% for fiscal year 2012.

Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $570,000, compared to $555,000 in the third quarter of 2012 and compared to $495,000 in the fourth quarter one year ago.

Operating cost in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $2.5 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and $14.2 million compared to fiscal 2011. Our operating margin excluding licensing revenue of approximately $1.2 million was approximately 22.8% during the quarter, which is up from the year-ago quarter. We continue to work to recover the impact of higher solvent and diesel costs experienced over the past few years.

In the Oil Business segment, sales for the fourth quarter grew $16.4 million or 98% as a result of continued sale of base oil products and byproducts from our used oil re-refinery. For the fiscal year, sales in the Oil Business grew $80 million or 240%.

In the fourth quarter, our Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.4 million compared to a loss of $1 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. For fiscal 2012, the Oil Business experienced income before corporate SG&A of $1.8 million compared to a loss before corporate SG&A of $0.7 million in fiscal 2011.

As was mentioned earlier, lower base oil selling prices negatively impacted our revenue and operating margin during the quarter. In addition to the impact of lower base oil prices, we also continued to experience higher-than-expected cost for transportation, payments to used oil generators and internal collection costs. All of these factors negatively impacted margins during the quarter.

During the first quarter of 2013, we are working to lower our costs in the aforementioned area. We have undertaken several initiatives to reduce our transportation costs. We have [ph] info managed (13:48) solutions to better control the amount paid to used oil generators. We have reduced overhead and are working in compensations changes to drive improved oil collections results.

In addition, we experienced higher-than-expected operating cost at our re-refinery. During the fourth quarter, we took an extended shutdown to change catalyst and to make some process improvements at the re-refinery. This shut down resulted in lower production for the quarter and also increased maintenance cost approximately $0.9 million compared to the year-earlier quarter.

We don't have much influence on the price of base oil, which is a key factor influencing the profitability of the Oil Business. However, there are other facets of the business that we believe we can improve. This include increasing the loading of our used oil collection trucks, better controlling the prices paid to used oil generators, increasing the efficiency of our transportation network and increasing operating rates at the re-refinery. Our team is committed to making improvements in each of these areas.

Obviously, the largest impact on profitability of the Oil Business remains the margin between crude oil and lube oil. Although it is difficult to forecast exactly when it will happen, we believe the lube crude spreads will eventually improve from the current low level.

For the latest quarter, corporate SG&A was 11.3% of sales excluding licensing revenue, down from 11.8% in the year-ago quarter. For the year, corporate SG&A was 10.4% of sales excluding licensing revenue, down from 13.6% in fiscal 2011.

During the fourth quarter, we incurred $1.1 million associated with the evaluation of an unrealized acquisition. Excluding these costs, corporate SG&A as a percentage of sales was 9.9% for the fourth quarter and 10% for fiscal 2012.

At the end of the quarter, we had $47.8 million of cash and $19.5 million of bank debt, so our balance sheet remained strong. We incurred $140,000 of interests expense for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $14,000 of interests in the year-ago quarter. In 2012, we incurred $585,000 of interests expense compared to $37,000 in 2011.

Only in this month, we entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate bank led by Bank of America. The agreement provides for borrowings of up to $40 million and matures in February 2018. The credit agreement contains an accordion feature which allows up to $60 million in additional borrowing, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions.

For the fourth quarter, we experienced an after-tax loss of $0.3 million compared to a loss of $0.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Our basic and fully diluted loss per share for the quarter was $0.01 compare to loss of $0.01 in the year-ago quarter.

For the fiscal year, our net income available the common stock holder was $2.3 million compared to $1.5 million in fiscal 2011.

For the year, our basic and fully diluted earnings per share is $0.13 compared to basic earnings and fully diluted earnings per share of $0.10 in fiscal 2011 when we had fewer shares outstanding. The increased number of shares is a result of our April 2012 offering.

Fiscal 2012 included some important successes. We began operation of our [ph] full (17:20) re-refinery and we began producing and selling on-spec Group II base oil.

During 2013, we expect to increase our internal collection of used oil, increase the efficiency of our transportation network and take advantage of economies of scales as we increase throughput at our re-refinery. Progress in our Oil Business will complement our continued growth plans for Environmental Services business.

The motivation of our team to improve the results in our Oil Business segment and continued growth in our Environmental Services segment remain strong and we have confidence in our ability to take advantage of the opportunities we see before us.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn control of the call over to our operator and she will advice you of how the – of the procedure to submit your question.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Merkel from William Blair.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So first question I have is, is the lower lube spread 90% of the issue in the Oil Business, or is execution on price paid for used oil and higher cost at the plant a bigger issue than I can see? I just want to try to understand how much of the recovery in Oil Business profit is in your control versus commodity price and market control?

Well, certainly, the base – the lube crude spread is the biggest piece. I wouldn't say it's 90% of the story, but it is at least half the story in the segment. We do have those other areas that we have; some a lot of control, some are moderately in our control. Used oil pay for instance is influenced by our competitors and there's market factor there. But we do feel we have at least more control over that than we do over some of the other factors, like the base oil selling price which is much more commoditized.

And I would like to add here, again, it depends to what level the spread is. If the price of base oil today were where it was a year, year and a half ago, there's been a drop of $1.20 a gallon and you know our production is 30 million gallons a year, so that's a big – it's a big chunk. We had planned as we – we were rolling out the used oil trucks that the first few years we would not be running at full capacity. And so, we're obviously – now, with a very thin margin on that spread, we're working hard at trying to reduce our cost everywhere we can.

Okay, okay. And then, second question, the decline in the lube spread since last summer has been pretty severe as far as I could tell, so I have a two-part question. Where is the spread today versus what you view as normalized and equates back to the 20% EBIT margin? And I'll just – I'll let you answer that, then I'll ask the second part.

Yes, there's two – we referred to the spread – Mark, do you have the numbers in front of you – but there's two issues. We refer to the crude to lube. We refer that in our presentation discussion in here.

There's also another factor. It is the spread between vacuum gas oil and lube. And today, the vacuum gas oil and lube spread, I'm going to refer to it as the spot market which is the market we're dealing with on a day-to-day basis, is none. There is no spread between these. I have not seen it in my industry, not only the re-refining industry. I haven't seen it when I was in the oil business – side of my career. Very unusual situation and it's typically the differential between vacuum gas oil and lube oil. It's typically over $1 a gallon, $1, $1.50 a gallon, so you can get a feel of what that magnitude is.

Yes. It really depends on how you measure it. If you look at spot prices, which tries to approximate what business is actually being done at, as of – some of the information we get. And even then has only ranges – you're talking about, depending on if crude's $110 for Brent or around that. You're in the $0.70 ranges, $0.60 ranges, depending what type of Group II product you're talking about.

To crude.

Yes, to crude.

And this, we don't feel this is sustainable – publications that give weekly reports on lube – on the lube business. And clearly, if you go through these indicators, these numbers are not sustainable for the major oil companies but it may take some time before it gets adjusted.

Well maybe I should be a bit more specific. This part I'm talking about is this price with which you can sell the base lube oil on the market versus what you buy it – what you're buying the used oil for plus transportation cost to the refinery; what is that spread today versus what you view is normalized? I'm just trying to get a sense of how far below we are on that spread.

Well, we don't typically get into the actual – deep in the read on what are costs on those different areas.

Let me give some – let me give you a bit of color on this one. We historically, when we've seen the price of lube come down, lube had come down primarily because of crude coming down. And although the spread between crude and lube is a factor, but by far, the biggest factor when the price of lube comes down is we had a lower price of crude. So when that happens, people pay less for the oil that – that pay the – the crude oil to the generators. And we have not seen – despite the major reduction in the price of lube, we have not seen much of a reduction on the payment to the generators. And so, that did not help our results. And we're driving some of that – these payments down as we speak, but they're not in the same range as what we structured with the lube. Greg, do you want to add anything?

I think you've covered most of it. I think that when we think about the spreads that Ryan brings up, about sort of our delivered cost of feedstock compared to what we can sell our products slate for lube oil for, which is the main driver of that, we're working with a thinner spread than usual due to the lower lube price without crude and feedstock cost coming down which is part of the equation and higher than sort of our long-run expected collection cost because we're inefficient in our own collection business. And those two factors are similar in magnitude. Probably the spread on the pricing side that we don't control is a little bit bigger, but we have quite a bit still of room to drive our own internal collection costs and get more transportation efficiencies to help us improve the spread.

And as Joe said, we expected that that would be not be optimized in our first full year of production and operation, as I think many of you heard. We knew we were building out our collection business and we have less efficient trucks and routes as we were growing rapidly. And now, we're sort of revisiting this and saying, okay, can we take a pause in our growth of the roll-out of trucks and get a little bit more efficient and cut away some of that excess costs since other market conditions are making it challenging for us. We want to try and do that now even if it means that our total growth in collection volume on a long-term basis may be slowed while we're prioritizing efficiency gains.

Okay. Well, that's great color. I'll give others a turn here. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line Luke Junk from Robert W. Baird.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure, Luke.

Good morning, Luke.

My first question would be in the Environmental business. And I know, Joe, you mentioned some comments on pricing in your prepared remarks. Just curious on what benefit pricing was here in the fourth quarter. I know that you start to implement those increases late in the year. And then, as we look to 2013, if you can maybe talk a little bit about what the run rate benefit should – from pricing should be, and maybe relative to what you've experienced in recent years here.

The pricing – in the fourth quarter, the pricing impact, we don't implement – begin, I should say, implementation typically till the second half of the quarter. It's a four-period quarter longer than the other ones, as I'm sure you remember. And the affect there was minor as far as our impact, probably 1% or so. The real uptick should be in – from a margin standpoint, should be in subsequent quarters. And the ramp-up, we usually will fully – or almost fully experience the price increase impact in Q1. I mean not quite, but pretty much most of it will be – more than 80% of it most likely will be felt in Q1 of 2013. And then, you have that same – on a year-over-year basis each quarter, you see that same impact. The actual increase in price that we've typically seen, the 6% to 7% range, our actual – again, talking about last year's price increase, we had in pricing that same impact quarter-over-quarter from Q4 2012 versus 2011, in that 6%, 7% range. And we think we'll realize probably at least that much. In 2013, we might be able to get slightly better than that.

But [ph] this – this isn't (28:29) in the parts cleaning, we have other segments in the Environmental Service that don't have that same increase. But we're confident that we're going to see continued improvement in our margins as the year develop.

Yes. And even in Q4, even in waste year-over-year for Q4, which is the second biggest piece, Joe mentioned parts cleaning, [ph] HVAC, (28:55) we even started to see that. We started to see some of that in Q4 as well, that's one of the areas. Vacuum service, other biggest singular piece in that segment, has been the one that's been probably the most challenging to get – putting on a price increase.

So we're anxious to see how we perform there. We believe we're going to increase our effectiveness in 2013 with this most recent price increase in that business as well. But that one, our track record is not as strong.

Okay, that's very helpful. And then, moving to the Oil Business, a couple of questions, if I could. First would be on the re-refinery expansion. Now that you've received the air permits, could you maybe talk a little bit about the initial steps that we're going to see over the next quarter or two here and just the timeline in general there?

Yes. We've – we have started to purchase the long-lead equipment and we've done some of that last year. And we are now proceeding to purchase the balance of the long-lead equipments and some of that equipment is coming in during the year.

At the same time, we are completing the engineering and capital cost estimate for our internal review and approval process. Our expectation is to see some increase in capacity, but then get to the full 75 million gallons once we get internal approval and announce it by early next year.

Perfect, that's helpful. And then, just a real quick last question from me would be, to the extent that we do see the spread increase from here, and I know that, like you said, that we have seen some improvement over the last couple of weeks here, just curious relative to some comments that you've given previously, specifically the rule of thumb that on a declining price for every $0.10 a gallon, that's equal to about $3 million of operating income, as prices rise from these lower levels, can we think of that same rule of thumb on up-side, or is there something else at play that's changing the dynamic?

Yes, Luke. In general, that's the right way to think about it. The one caveat I'd offer here, and this is a hard thing for – I appreciate for our analysts and investors to follow, but what's really important for us is our real selling price of our lube base oil. And the process of pricing our product includes posted prices from majors that are used as our reference and then spot prices, and then discounting off of spot prices.

And there's been – particularly in downturn in the last four or five months in the market, there's been real choppiness with their being more discounting off of posted prices or reductions relative to even industry published spot prices. And so, you don't get an exact picture of what we're selling for if you look what the published postings are. But as we make improvements in our realized price, which will tend to move with these postings or published spot prices, I think you're right, we're selling – we're producing, as you heard in the latest quarter, 85% of our capacity and that 100% of capacity $0.10 equals $3 million of operating profits. So you could apply maybe 90% to that number and what we'd expect to see flow through assuming that the price change is simply a price change and not correlated with some other factors that we have to talk about. And by that, I mean if lube prices go up by $0.10 but it's because crude price went up a lot and, therefore, our cost of feedstock may be going up, that's going to have a negative side effect as well as a positive side effect, obviously.

Okay, that's very helpful. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Sean Hannan from Needham & Company.

Yes, thanks, good morning.

Good morning, Sean.

Good morning, Sean.

So just – if I could ask a few questions around the Oil Business, the first to start with, and I think you've had mentioned this in the release as well, we've all seen pricing decline for base lube during the quarter and that extended into 2013. But as declined about 5% in December, it looks like if you adjust the business on a weekly base – because I think you have more weeks than a quarter, correct, that business may have declined more notably. So, I'm just trying to reconcile is a pricing plus only and that shutdown for the process improvements, for how you saw that decline in December quarter-to-quarter, or can I get a little bit more clarity around what occurred there?

That's most the business. When we talk about changes in spot pricing, Greg had mentioned some of the choppiness there. So our actual price is – well, directionally, overtime, they're moving in concert with that, there can be – and when you're talking about in couple of weeks here or there, there can't be times where we're moving at slightly ahead or slightly behind of those movements.

But in general, I think you're accurate; transportation was an additional area that we've had some struggles in and we did see some – a slight deterioration in that and it's defiantly an area where we need to improve as far as the Oil Business goes.

Okay. But you're talking about on the margin, Mark, correct? On the transportation piece?

Yes, yes.

Yes, okay. I'm really focused more on – from a revenue standpoint, but that's helpful. Kind of part two to that is, is there a way – I'm not sure if I had missed it during the call. Is there a way if you can clarify for us what the volumes were that you took in for – remind us on September versus December?

As far as from third parties or total collection or...

Total collection.

It was – for the quarter, it was over $11 million, $11.8 million I think it was.

Okay.

Yeah, $11.9 million, almost $12 million actually.

Okay.

For the quarter. But it is for a period quarter, so...

Right. So, [ph] 16... (35:55)

If you average it down, there was a decline there, seasonality, especially in our collection so.

Yes. Okay, great. And then in terms of the expansion, was hoping that perhaps all of you, or not sure, Joe, if you'd like to really focus on this. But if you can help to expand on the logic for potentially being aggressive with the expansion versus being conservative and in thinking about how much operating leverage you think you can really get out of this considering where pricing pressures have been and some of the other operational headwinds that you're trying to work through at present. If there's any clarity there that you can provide us, that would be helpful?

Yeah. There is no question that the company will benefit financially with the expansion even under today's tight margins. Because based on what we're actually paying for the oil throughout our network or buying from third parties compared to the price of lube oil, we still have some spread in here. And what really happens is there is a lot of [ph] caution (37:20) – the refineries that are fixed, there's some variable cost. But the vast majority of the cost – I shouldn't say vast majority – over 50% is fixed and you do get some efficiency even on the variable cost. At the same time, we get efficiencies in our total network, including the rail car utilization. And so the more we collect from the branches, we would get additional efficiencies on our transportation as well.

So we're thinking of – or planning to go ahead with this expansion. But we're taking the steps by completing the engineering and putting together capital cost before we get board approval now that we have the permit in our hand.

Okay, that's very helpful. Last question if I can for the moment. On the Environmental Services side, nice work on the margin improvement there, I know that last quarter you talked a little bit about solvent and disposal costs, which in a manner were a bit of a headwind. It seems that perhaps some of this was maybe mitigated in the December quarter and a little bit of a pricing impact perhaps helped that margin. Can you give us a little bit more of an explanation around how sustainable these current margins are and the degree we should be thinking about any type of volatility in a given quarter?

Well, the volatility is – the potential for volatility is going to be there. It's inherent in the business when we have such a large portion of our parts cleaning service on the mineral spirits-based program, that being a petroleum product. So swings in crude are definitely potential to have impact. As they impact our inventory over the long haul, it passes through the P&L. But in any one quarter, it can. Now, we haven't had a lot of that noise recently and some of the sustainable things that we had; the price increase, we talked about that.

We've been able to – again, that's going forward, it's going to be barely be the biggest piece but we've been able to, in the fourth quarter and the second half of the year, get better at charging more as far as fuel surcharge, trying to use that as another mechanism and pass on the higher costs we've experienced over the last few years. We have done some work that is sustainable related to disposal costs as well, that we saw some of the benefits of in Q4 in the Environmental Services segment. So there are, I think, good signs in all and it doesn't mean that if there is some big movement in solvent prices, driven most likely by crude, that there wouldn't be some noise in the subsequent quarter. But I think you're seeing a trend as you average out the figures quarter-over-quarter-over-quarter that we're headed in the right direction, we'll continue to move that way, outside of any extreme external commodity changes.

Great. Thank you very much for all the detail.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti & Company.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning, Rich.

You had echoed yesterday's comments from your competitor and that both companies aim to cut prices in the pay-for-oil operation. And I'm wondering if you can give us an idea of how those discussions are typically undertaken at the customer level. And if you would choose to walk away from any one customer, what their next best option is likely to be for that waste.

This is Joe here. I'll give you a shot at this and maybe Greg and Mark can add. We have – just a little bit of history, back in the middle of last year, we have moved the price down on what we're paying as we've seen the price of lube oil dropped. And we had taken steps to do this and we're successful. We were successful in reducing it. And – but it is a balance between wanting to increase productivity and pay less for oil. And within that industry – or actually, the industry, [ph] the customer mix (42:06), there is a whole range of generators. And the one that would be more sensitive are the large generators of oil, such Wal-Mart. And then – and we have generators that generate less than 1,000 gallons a year.

And so, we've been focusing on establishing relationship with the smaller customers to give us a base that – where people value the service more than looking at this as a commodity. But it is now clear to us that we have to move to the next segment and deal a little bit more aggressively on the pricing side, with – I'll give you one segment. This would be the quick lube industry. We've been on the side line in trying to service that group, and so we would be moving into their group as a way to add incremental volume on the existing trucks.

Now, we have 80-plus-thousand of our customers that we are collecting oil from. And it's a step-by-step, but we do have a terrific branch organization. We've been able to get where we are in the Environmental Service and feel we have elasticity in moving pricing and affecting our margins. It's going to take us some time before we get that same kind of performance in oil, having started these things within the last couple of years. But it's being managed by the same people and we feel we have the best in the industry.

To add a little color to that, I think our used oil collection business is very similar to many other highly-competitive businesses or industries where historically, over the many years I've been in the business, you expect to see a market-leading, high-market share competitor lead price changes, and we haven't seen that initiative yet. And so, as Joe said, by middle of, I guess, the third quarter last year, we started moving prices even though we're a very small player in many of the markets where we compete. We began to attempt to reduce what we were paying generators because we felt that was sort appropriate to get back to the more normal spreads versus crude or lube oil prices.

I think you're a little bit asking about mechanics, and there are very poor or limited information sources available to generators about what people are paying or charging for used oil collection. And so, this becomes really very much an on-the-street exercise where we go to a customer that we were paying $0.60 a gallon to and we say, today, we can only offer you $0.50 a gallon. And typically, they'll have us pick up his oil on that day. But then, if a competitor shows up a week later offering to pay them $0.60 or $0.70 a gallon, they'll contemplate switching to make more money or sell his used oil for more.

And so, where we're trying to drive prices down, it's a constant often-repeated statistical exercise of testing the market, pushing prices down, and then observing whether we think we're able to hold that or we're losing significant business and share, which obviously offsets the benefit we get from paying less if our truck becomes less efficient. And so, it's an economic assessment in each local market. And we think that the market is overdue to push back on generators and pay them less in the current environment, and we're trying to lead that initiative and hope that it will be successful. And as Joe said, our focus on smaller customers that we've had helps us a little bit and that we're dealing with accounts that maybe aren't as much in the fray of market information or communications that are less likely to be targeted by competitors. But that only works so far before if we lose volume or we do this, we have to reconsider how much we can drive price down.

Extremely helpful. Thanks for that. What were the compensation changes for the used oil collection that were noted in the prepared remarks?

I think we're taking – well, first of all, when you bring a lot of new people on, we brought a lot of new especially oil shales and service reps that we brought on throughout the past year, a year and half, to get those people on, it's not always an easy solution to decide how you pay those people when you want to motivate them. Initially, per gallon and they don't have a lot on their truck. So we struggle with it and I think we've found a good system to address different levels of maturity in a route. We had somewhat of one-size-fits-all approach before and we had very mature routes in some of our markets, especially in the Midwest where certain compensation system is going to be more effective and drive the behavior we want, versus one where we have a brand new route, we have hardly any oil volume that is on the truck. And to get to that at least [ph] a number of (47:38) ways to start off with, you have to have a varied approach. And without getting too deep into the weed, that's really have; one that's focused on what the maturity of the route is and tailing the compensation to meet that individuals' need.

Just one more thing, Mark, when you start a new route, you got to pay the rep a guaranteed income. Otherwise, you couldn't keep them on. And so, we've had plenty of new routes and we had plenty of guaranteed income. And so, now that we've loaded so many trucks, we're taking different program, it's incentive-driven, so it's going to be productivity driven and away from the guarantees at least for a large number of routes.

Would you comment – if you haven't already, and if you have, please skip it – on the recent trend in spot prices versus posted for Group II relative to the historic difference that you've observed, and also comment to what degree is the company still forced to sale at a discounted spot on account of your need to establish a relationship with the additive producers?

Quite frankly, the spot prices and posted prices have been all over the map. I'm going to give you some color on where we are compared to the spot price. And again, we have two different publications, the [ph] ISIS (49:16) and....

I can talk about this week's one. I mean it's usually in the 20% – we think, 20%, 25% historic range in posted and spot. And if you go based on – again, it's just one of the sources...

$0.25...

$0.20 to $0.25 per gallon. And I calculated this morning, it was almost $0.40. So – and at other times in the fourth quarter, it was back in that range than normal range. It just floated. But then, other times, it was back in the $0.40 range to just put numbers behind the choppiness Joe described.

And I can add a little bit here, which is that if you think like a buyer of our base oil, as prices were expected to come down early in Q4 of last year, the buyers weren't willing to buy at postings or at spot. They were looking for discounts off of spot and prices – posted prices kept moving down and buyers were very patient. And were willing to wait for further discounts because they expected prices to keep moving down.

As prices just recently in the last week or two, started to move back up, we saw buyers feeling like maybe the really cheap oil was behind them and prices would be directionally moving up. And so, there's a little – a greater sense of urgency for them now to get orders in and to buy product while prices are on an upward trend. I think it's just common sense on the part of buyers. But I think that it won't be surprising if we see discounts off of reported spot prices being reduced and maybe even seeing over time some reduction in the spot to posted spread so long as buyers think that directional pricing is likely to be upward.

Mitigating all that is, obviously, really big macro effect that we have a very hard time forecasting, like increasing demand from Asia and how that will affect the world supply and demand balance for lube base oil. I think you also know that there's both occasional refinery shutdowns or closures. There was a fairly large one in the last quarter in the U.K. of a closure of a lube plant, but there's also a new lube plant slated to open in Pascagoula, Mississippi in the U.S. towards the end of this year, we believe, they'll probably bring more supply in. And that's important not only because it affects the supply/demand balance, but also because it affects buyers' psychology and expectations about pricing which leads to the phenomena I'm talking about, about how much discounting they expect to get in order to put product in their tanks versus wait.

That actually, Greg, dovetails in just my last question, is that I've – the initial price, actually, we've seen the last week are a good signal of a short-term bounce, but I've read a lot about excess supply on globally all grades of base stock and Chevron swing coming on. Has anyone done any math on the supply/demand balance to put anything other than hope on the idea that prices would come back over a period of years and not just in the coming months?

I will add one more thing, not to complicate the thing further, the lube production and manufacturing in the United States, North America, is about over 2 billion gallons. The price dropped by $1.20. Crude hasn't changed – at least, the base crude and residual fuel and all of those haven't changed. That's a lot of money for half-a-dozen players. And so, as we talk to industry people and if you follow the oil industry, currently, this crude spread – they call it crack spread, taking crude oil and making distillates and gasoline. And so, the majors are making plenty of money on their major businesses. And we think there has been imbalance and over-reaction as far as how far the prices have come down on the lube side. And so – and we think regardless of whether you're running [ph] at 80% or 90% (53:47), it's hard to justify these big moves in the price of lube. And although we don't control it, we're hoping that we see relief in the coming quarters.

What – a lot of the things I read that are general lube industry reports suggest that the industry expects is that, yes, there is some new production of group tube slated and expected to come in not only in the U.S. but in other parts of the world, as well as some Group III production, and the industry expects that that will be balanced by closures of old less-quality Group I plants. And the shakedown we've gone through in the last few months, which really drove margins for all producers down, is perhaps the starting point of that process. We aren't setting the prices, the majors are, but if they're trying to create a low-margin environment that will make it difficult for some of the less-efficient operators to continue to run or give them thoughts about closing instead of maintaining plants, that wouldn't be surprising.

And so, it's very hard to give you sort of the optimistic answer that prices will get back to some level at a point in time. We said we don't control that, but we know that the new capacity that gets added by majors is done based on some assumptions of spreads between VGO, which is sort of a marketable intermediate product, and the lube oil that they produced from the VGO. And when that's spread is zero, as it has been recently, nobody running this plant is making anything on it, so sort of everybody in the industry is assuming that that's going to get back to a meaningful spread that allows virgin producers to make money. And we'll see if they're right, but we've got some unique advantages in running our business even if they're not right in terms of our ability over time to drives down our feedstock cost to substantially less than what a virgin refinery sees.

Right. I learned a lot in your call, I appreciate your time and best of luck in 2013.

Thank you.

Thank you and appreciate your questions.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

Hey, with the planned re-refinery expansion in 2013, what does that mean for the pace at which you roll out new used oil collection trucks and the potential impact on margins there?

Yes, we've – our plan – internal plan this time is to hold off any additional route – trucks in the first half of the year, as we are working in improving the productivity of the existing trucks that we have, and then start rolling out these additional trucks in the second half the year. We are currently buying the additional volume that we need to run the refinery from third party.

Okay. So we shouldn't really think about much of an impact in the first half but maybe in the second half as you roll out new trucks?

Yes, we have plenty of capacity to – or efficiency gain on our current fleet, so.

Okay. Now, the re-refinery shutdown in the fourth quarter, was that something that was planned or unexpected? Should we just think about that as a kind of a one-off event, and then capacity utilization kind of trending towards 100% in the first half of the year now?

Yes, the shutdown, we typically have several shutdowns during the year, either to change a catalyst or to clean up the heaters on the vacuum distillation unit or other equipment. And the – but the shutdown we had in the fourth quarter included some process improvements, so it was longer and costs more. I would say that the magnitude of the cost of the shutdown was higher in the last – the last period of last quarter. But as we are going through the expansion, we're would need – we're going to be needing maybe shorter shutdowns to put equipment in as the equipment are going – will be super-imposed on the existing facility. And eventually, once we get this in place, we should be able to get to the 60 million gallons and beyond. But it's going to be a gradual development during the year.

I think it's safe to say, Joe or Greg can correct me, that while we might have dealt with that process, we might have some productivity decline in short timeframes, that at least from a expense standpoint, those are going to be capital costs as far as expanding. So the impact, let's say, for maintenance costs or what not shouldn't be as great in that type of process as opposed to the one we went through before.

And responding to another part of your question, it was a planned shutdown. It was coordinated in order to make some changes to configuration in equipment. And so, it was not something where we suddenly one day have some interruption and said, the plant has to be shut down. It was planned weeks in advance in order to make changes and to replace a catalyst.

Okay, great. And then, I don't know if you ever got to this in one of the previous questions, but where do you stand now on lubricant formulation approvals and progress on that front?

We've, at the end Q3, we're at a point where we had most of what we needed from three of the four major additive suppliers and we've not – we've made a tiny bit of additional progress on that. We got some – without getting too deep in the weeds, some critical heavy-duty engine approvals from one of the major supplier – or additive supplier that we didn't have at the end of Q3. So we're inching towards kind of a complete approval profile, I guess. I don't know if you guys have anything else to add.

I think that's fair. And I think the majority of our customers can now use our base oil in a broad range of their product formulations, where they'd like to use it. So it's still – we still don't have all the boxes ticked, as Mark was saying. Somebody who's been making base oil and selling it for 10 years will have some more approvals than we do, but I think we've got most of the important ones in hand and that will allow us to continue to make progress on adding customers. We've been really pleased with our ability of our – the ability our sales and marketing group to keep the plant sold-out and finding customers who like what we're making and value the quality, and that trend continues.

Okay. On the Environmental Services side, what's your plan for new branch openings in 2013 and could that have any potential impact on margins?

We have a process to add routes and then graduate routes into satellites. And then, at some point in time, call them a branch and add additional resources. We have graduated in the first quarter three additional satellites. They are now branches.

What we have also decided that we will defer for the next couple of quarter, adding significant cost and special routes. We've started improvement in margins for the Environmental Service and we want to see that happen by – hopefully, by the middle of the year, and before we invest additional resources.

Now, I don't know how much of that we've stocked but we put potential resources. About a year and a half ago, we started by adding sales management of the branches and additional resources to grow the business. We have these in place. We're benefiting from this and as we continue to grow on double-digit. But we've slowed down these additional costs on the basis that we want to see the margins continue to improve.

Okay, great. Well, thanks for all the information.

Our pleasure.

Our pleasure.

Thank you. And we have no further questions. Thank you for your time and interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call.