Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph Chalhoub — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Media Relations, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gregory Ray — COO, Secretary & VP-Business Management, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
David Mandell — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Sean K. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Richard H. Wesolowski — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Michael E. Hoffman — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Heritage-Crystal Clean, Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, all callers' microphones are muted and you'll have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your question. We ask that all callers limit themselves to one or two questions.

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally, the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, are non-GAAP measured. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Chalhoub; the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Greg Ray; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Chalhoub. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to our conference call. Last night, we issued our first quarter 2013 press release and posted it on the Investor Relations page of our website for your review. This morning, we will discuss the financial statements and our operations in the first quarter and we will respond to questions you may have relating to our business.

We are pleased to report that our first quarter sales were $60 million, compared to $50.5 in the first quarter of 2012, reflecting a growth rate of 18.8%. I'm pleased with the operation of our used oil re-refinery during the first quarter of 2013, which allowed us to produce 6.4 million gallons of re-refined base oil. This volume represents 92% of nameplate capacity for base oil production. During the quarter, we sold 6.6 million gallons of base oil.

Unfortunately, the downward trend in lube oil market prices, which we experienced during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012 continued during most of the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The continued decline in lube oil prices negatively impacted our Oil Business segment revenues and profits for the quarter.

Fortunately, the market price for lube oil began to improve from recent lows before the end of the first quarter. This price recovery was consistent with our expectation as the extreme low lube prices relative to feedstock cost were viewed throughout the industry as unsustainable, particularly for operators of traditional refineries.

At the end of the first quarter, we had 140 oil collection trucks in service. Instead of adding new routes during the quarter, we focused on identifying inefficient routes and formulating plans to increase the efficiency of the unproductive routes. As a result of this work, we determined that we would be better served by idling a small number of collection trucks and adding the customers previously serviced by the idled truck into existing routes.

We are pleased to announce that our Board of Directors has approved our plan to expand the annual input capacity of our Indianapolis re-refinery to 75 million gallons of used oil from its current 50 million gallon level. We expect that this expansion will improve the profitability of the Oil Business by allowing us to better leverage our fixed cost and improve utilization throughout this segment.

The increased margin anticipated from this additional capacity should help us to fight – partially offset the reduced profitability caused by the decline in lube prices. We expect the additional capacity to be added incrementally over the remainder of 2013 and the first half of 2014 with the entire amount of additional capacity in place by mid-2014. While the engineering is not yet complete, we anticipate the capital cost of the project would be up to $25 million, including some logistical improvements.

In the Environmental Services segment we are pleased with our double-digit same branch sales growth. We expect that our margins in this segment will continue to be positively impacted during the year, as we more fully implement our fourth quarter 2012 price increase. We expect the new resources we've invested in over the last year-and-a-half would allow us to continue to meet our growth goals for this segment.

For several years we have enjoyed good growth in the aqueous segment of our parts cleaning business. To enhance this, at the beginning of fiscal 2013 we acquired the assets of our main aqueous chemistry supplier and created a new subsidiary called Mirachem, LLC, to hold these assets. We feel that this aqueous cleaning product is superior to others in the market and has already been proven with our customer base. Together with our patented equipment, we feel that our aqueous parts cleaning offer is the best in the business.

We added three new branches during the quarter to bring our total number of branches to 74 at the end of the quarter compared to 71 branches a year ago. In addition our growth was made positive by our ability to continually add new customers. As of the end of the first quarter we served over 88,000 individual customer locations.

While the lack of profitability in our Oil Business in the latest quarter was disappointing, we continue to take steps to improve our efficiency in this segment in order to help mitigate the negative impact of current lube oil price conditions. The continued strength of our Environmental Services business provides stability to help us through the current negative cycle in the Oil Business.

Our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita, will now further discuss the financial results. And then we will open the call for your questions.

Thank you, Joe. It's good to be with our investors today for HCCI's first quarter 2013 conference call. I am pleased with our first quarter revenue growth as outlined in last evening's press release.

Revenues continue to grow at double-digit rates in both of our segments. In the Environmental Services segment, sales grew $4.3 million or 14% in the first quarter. Of the 69 branches that were in operation throughout both the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, the growth in same-branch sales was 11.8%. However, if we exclude the impact from those existing branches which gave up territory and customers to new branches, the growth in same-branch sales was 12.4% for the first quarter.

Our average sales per working day in the Environmental Services segment increased to approximately $580,000 compared to $570,000 in the fourth quarter of 2012 and compared to $515,000 in the first quarter one year ago.

Operating costs in the Environmental Services segment increased approximately $1.2 million compared to the first quarter of 2012. Our operating margin was 23.5% for the quarter, up from 17% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to work to recover the impact of higher solvent and diesel costs experienced over the past few years.

In the Oil Business segment sales for the first quarter grew $5.2 million or 26% as a result of continued growth in sales of base oil products and byproducts from our used oil re-refinery. In the first quarter our Oil Business experienced a loss before corporate SG&A of $2.1 million compared to income of $1.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.

Lower base oil selling prices negatively impacted our revenue and operating margin during the quarter. In addition, seasonally lower collection volumes like the decreased leveraging of our internal collection costs during the quarter. We expect our collection volumes to increase during the second quarter based on typical seasonality.

We have begun to see positive results from our effort to reduce cost and increase efficiency in a few areas. We saw a decrease in our production cost at the re-refinery from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2013 of almost 20% on a per gallon basis. The primary driver of this improvement was the fact that our re-refinery shutdown during the first quarter was not as extensive as our shutdown during the fourth quarter of 2012.

We also made some progress in reducing our transportation cost on a per-gallon basis during the first quarter of 2013, compared to the fourth quarter of last year. We achieved this reduction even with the seasonal decrease in internal collection volume. While we have made some progress, we continue to work on several initiatives in the area of oil collection and transportation with the goal of increasing our efficiency and improving the profitability of the Oil Business segment.

We had a favorable year-over-year result in the area of SG&A as a percentage of sales. Corporate SG&A was 11% of sales, down from 11.4% in the year-ago quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had $22 million of total debt and $44.5 million of cash on-hand. We incurred $106,000 of interest expense for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $187,000 of interest expense in the year-ago quarter, when we were drawing on our revolving loan.

On February 5, 2013, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with a syndicate of banks led by Bank of America. The agreement provides for borrowings of up to $40 million and matures on February 15, 2018 – February 5, excuse me, 2018. The agreement also contains an accordion feature, which allows for up to an additional $60 million in borrowings, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions.

As of March 23, 2013, we have borrowed $20 million under the agreement in the form of a Term A Loan. We can borrow up to an additional $20 million under the agreement as a revolving loan, subject to limitations.

For the first quarter, we experienced an after-tax loss of $0.4 million compared to income of $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2012. Our basic and fully diluted loss per share for the quarter was $0.02 compared to income of $0.02 in the year-ago quarter.

During the remainder of 2013, we expect to increase our internal collection of used oil, increase the efficiency of our transportation network, and take advantage of enhanced economies of scale as we ramp up and expand our re-refining capacity.

Our team is focused on the portions of the Oil Business we can control, with the goal of improving the overall results in this segment. We are equally focused on continuing to grow our revenues and increase our margin in our Environmental Services segment. And we have confidence in our ability to take advantage of the opportunities we see before us.

Thank you for your continuing interest in Heritage-Crystal Clean. At this time, I will turn the call over to our operator, and she will advise you of the procedure to submit your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Mandell from William Blair.

Good morning everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning, David.

So, you guys mentioned that lube prices improved at the end of the quarter and I was just trying to get a sense for where they are now versus maybe the fourth quarter? I imagine they're still below the fourth quarter level is that true?

Yes, that's accurate. David, we have seen some improvement wherein we figure – we talked about the market price and how we figure at the products we produce fits into what's posted and what the spot prices are. So, they've gone up slightly since there was the post to price increases in February and March, and spot prices started to increase following that. So, we've seen increase overall in the market price since the end of the quarter. And certainly, we have room to go to get to where we were for our fourth quarter, because remember, our fourth quarter goes all the way back 16 weeks into the year. So...

All right. And then, on the other side of that spread equation regarding kind of your collection prices, how did those right now – how have those trended since the fourth quarter into the first quarter and kind of where you are now?

Well, it's been a focus of ours to try and improve on those and we really didn't see the improvement we were looking for. It's still a goal of ours and we think while a big portion of it is commodity driven, driven by things like the price of number 6 fuel oil. There are some aspects to that where we think we can control and see improvement and we have delivered that in the past, but we weren't successful as we would've hoped. And we really didn't see any gain at all in – or we didn't see any reduction in used oil pay during the quarter compared to Q4.

If I could add to that this is Greg Ray speaking. It remains our strong belief that our average price paid to generators is at the very low end of the range of sort of market competitors. And we still haven't seen market competitors in aggregate or individually react significantly to the declines in the crude price and the recycled fuel oil prices that we've experienced in the last few months.

So we're hopeful that, that'll change soon. Usually, competitors have some inventory and can afford to wait a little while, but we're hoping that they start reacting more to changing market price conditions for end-products and that we can take advantage of that opportunity as well.

And then, my last question was, if you guys do the expansion, is there likely to be more extended plant shutdowns or can you guys do the expansion without shutting down the current capacity?

Yes. We would be – this is Joe. We would be minimizing the shutdown. We have our typical shutdown four times a year for regular maintenance. And we'll be taking advantage of these to make the tie-ins and – so that we can put this additional expansion with minimum additional interruption.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, David.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Sean Hannan from Needham & Co.

Guys, good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes.

We can hear you, Good morning, Sean.

So, just a question going back to the lower pay for oil programs, so as you look to implement price decreases, what's the process really that you're going through, number one. And number two, what are the results that you're seeing or I mean, how are those results materializing in terms of some of the more localized regions? Are you having a little bit more success in some territories than others or any color there would be helpful. Thanks.

Well, we haven't on a company-wide basis, we haven't seen, as you heard earlier, we haven't seen a change in here. There's some markets that are not as competitive than others, but at the end of the day, overall, first we're setup here pretty well centrally controlled. We have our regions and branches that are out. They're trying to increase their productivity of the route trucks and pay as little as possible. We have not – as Greg said, we have not seen any changes, unfortunately in the market to allow us to do it. We have our eyes open and as we see changes there, I'm sure we'll take advantage of it.

And I can add to that, I mean your question was a little bit about mechanics too. And we do provide specific suggestions to our field reps both in aggregate for what their price level is and how we'd like them to drive it down and also on a customer-specific basis, we just said we're centrally controlled.

And so we're able to say to them, we'll pay this much and not more or we want you to push price down on this account. But we're in a delicate position, because as you understand, our trucks are relatively new and under-utilized. And if you think about the cost to us of losing volume to a competitor, it's somewhat more expensive for us than somebody who's got to fully loaded and efficient route.

And so we're willing to try and push prices down. That's what we've been working on, but if our customers sort of push back and say, now you've gone too far below the market price and I'm going to leave you and go shop, I think I can get more money from somebody else, we don't necessarily want to lose a lot of customers. And so, we give our guys a little attitude to try to hang on the business at the same time. It's a delicate balancing act. And we think that if the industry price level moves down, that will be well positioned to achieve our goals of dropping our street price as well.

Okay, that's helpful. And Greg, you actually hit on an interesting point and something relative to a question that I do have for you is, as you're looking at expanding the facility and getting some better leverage out of this facility. But then, as your account for – you now will have to be – find a way to bring in more oil. And the capacity of those trucks and rail cars are already not at the levels from an efficiency standpoint that you'd like them to be. So, how does that improve without really derailing the model or are you going to have to find ways or are you in the middle of finding ways of extending partnerships for external providers?

You want to go or you want?

Yes. Well, it's a good question and it's a balance. Remember, we started with the facility with practically no oil a couple of years ago. So we've ramped it up and we're currently supplying the plants which is pretty close to its capacity at 50 million in a combination of our own collection of volume, and also third-party collectors. We've established these relationships and today, we have adequate supply. As we continue to grow our collection and improve our route trucks, its efficiency, we will bring more volumes to our own 140 route trucks.

We also have the ability to add more route trucks and this expansion is not something that will happen overnight. We were talking about the middle of next year, so we have a little bit over a year to do it. And together with third-party supply, we should be able to accomplish that goal.

Greg, do you want to add?

Yes, I would just add that while it's obviously our goal to be able to collect our own oil and to supply the plant at its capacity, both with our own volume and with third-party purchases. In a sense, I think we're going to feel a little bit less pressure to ramp it up to maximum rates, because we're – when we built the plant initially, we wanted to get it up to capacity very quickly.

I think here we view this as more of an incremental exercise, so if took us a year-and-a-half or two years to build the volume from our own supply and third-party supply, we're still getting consistent incremental improvement and profitability from each new gallon run through the plant. And it may even take us time to get all the logistics moved out or the product sales in place in order to keep ramping up to that volume.

So, I think there will be a driver for us to go quickly, but we'll be balancing that, as Joe said, with the value of being methodical about where we get the oil from and the cost of that feedstock, and making sure that we don't sort of overspend to buy feedstock just for the sake of running the plant at high rates.

Okay, that's great. And then, last question if I may, you've talked about plans for moving toward a little bit more blended products. Just wanted to see if we can get an update there? That'd be helpful, thanks.

We continue to look at this. It's going to be a long-term process. One of the things we're looking at is getting a relationship with existing blender and compounder that already have operations, sales and plant capabilities rather than us starting this from a grass root basis.

I appreciate all the color.

Thanks.

Thanks, Sean.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti & Company.

Thanks, good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Rich.

Good morning, Rich.

Would you mind dissecting to the degree that you like to, the environment margin performance in terms of service price increases, changes to the fuel or your solvent cost and any solvent inventory evaluation, benefit or charge that may have been incurred?

A big part of it is price increase. We've been very successful in not only our particular range, as far as our parts cleaning business, but we've had renewed focus or new focus, if you want to call it that, in the other two named services, they are ones we talk about, Vacuum and Waste Drum are containerized waste in that segment, so that's been a big part of it. And then, we've just been able to – with volume growth leverage the existing network and we saw improvements on an overall basis compared to the volume increase in disposal and transportation with the two biggest pieces to drive the margin improvement.

I was under the impression that the vac and the drum price increases were something that were expected to benefit you, if successful later in the year. Has something changed in either of those service lines that enables you to raise price now whereas you haven't historically?

It's focused. Typically, if we were doing things as we do it in the parts cleaning service, we would see the timing of it, it'd be exactly the same in those two businesses.

Well, we have historically had as you noted an easier job and upping the prices for the parts cleaning, because of the equipment and customers that we have. And traditionally we've had more difficulty with the drum business. And we have put in place systems to support the price increases that we've put through on the drum side and that we did not have before.

And we've put also some additional staffing to help us make implement these different pricings for different type and size of drums in the field, rather than leaving it to the regional – the branches or regional basis. So, we've provided some additional help from a system point of view and from staffing here at corporate. And it has been quite successful for us.

Yes and when we talked – if you want to get real deep in the weeds around this time first quarter 2012, there were some delays, but a lot of that was more just some lack of execution on our part to get – we are maybe a month or so beyond of what we normally would be. But typically, if we're doing what we want to do, the timing of the increase or the impact should be felt at the same time across those three service lines.

Shifting to the Oil Business, when you perform the capital budgeting analysis ahead of the investment decisions, I can't imagine the projected returns meet your minimums at today's prices. So, I'm curious what returns the target and how high would prices need to go in the products you sell in order to get there?

If your question is about the capacity expansion we've just announced, then we think that that does meet our minimum return criteria even at today's market conditions. The margins on incremental production are inherently better than our base of business. There's a significant fixed cost component with respect to operating the re-refinery. And so, we're just not able to effectively leverage that within increased volume and that's why the incremental capacity investment has a good return.

That was actually part of my next question. As I imagine the benchmark is quite lower for today's expansion, than it would be for you to launch a new re-refinery?

Exactly.

Okay. Is the company in the market or even potentially in the market for West Coast re-refining assets that I read had recently come on to the market?

Well, we are looking at it, and we have some interest and we are not in the West at all, with other than in the Los Angeles market. We have one branch and we think there is a possibility of getting into the environmental service through that operation. And otherwise, it will be a long road for us. So, we are looking at it and including the Oil Business and we're just not focusing on oil in California by itself.

Right. A beachhead to extend the entirety of the business.

Yes. And then California is – especially Southern California is very strong with the aqueous, because of regulatory issues. And as we said in our discussion here, we have the best in the business and equipment combo with chemistry. We've been very successful growing that business and that's adding a nice – better margins than our typical solvents. And so we're intrigued about that possibility and we're looking at it.

And then lastly, even for a limited period of time would you remind us how high management is comfortable taking debt, either as an absolute figure or a share of capital or in relation to your EBITDA? Thanks.

Well you've seen us sitting on cash for a long time, so we're not rushing to spend the money. And even with this expansion, the cash would be going out over a period of time and as we returning some cash from the business. We would look at debt if it makes sense and working with our banks. And if we have the right ratios and it makes sense, we would consider it.

I appreciate it a ton. Best of luck with the rest of the year.

Thank you.

Thanks, Rich.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research.

Good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

How many gallons of used oil did you collect in the quarter internally versus what you bought from third parties?

We were roughly two-thirds, one-third as far as what we fed into the plant. Two-thirds of it being from our collection and roughly a third of it being from third parties.

Okay.

And that is up a little bit from previous quarters. But part of that is the ramped-up feed. We fed more in not on a gross basis, because Q4 was a longer quarter, but on a comparable basis. So that and the seasonality factor, I think you have to factor all those in if you really want a perspective – take a longer term perspective on where our internal collection versus external needs fit for our...

Okay. Just to get a sense of the magnitude of the seasonality of collection, I think last quarter, the last couple of quarters you were collecting at an annualized rate of about 36 million gallons. Do you know what that figure was in the first quarter on an annualized rate?

Well it's tough to – it depends when you annualize it. And usually we were looking at – if you look at one of our accounting periods, we have these four-week accounting periods. From a normal seasonality standpoint, you can debate what that is. We were in the roughly 30 million, 31 million gallon range for the quarter. So that – you got to adjust that then based on the normal seasonality factor. And that could be 15%, 20%. It really depends.

Yes I think that – stating that a different way, we think that our sort of customer retention and account retention was fine. And we think that that 15% to 20% decline or rather differential between Q4 and Q1 almost entirely reflects the normal seasonality we'd expect in the business.

The seasonality is in part driven by when consumers typically change their motor oil. And you could get some similar information if you talk to people at Valvoline or Pennzoil. Their sales are typically quite high in the spring and fall months, and moderate in the summer, and low in the winter. And so the used oil generation is going to, to a degree, mirror that pattern.

It's not necessarily a seasonality that plays through our entire Oil Business segment, because our plant can run at the same high rates even when we're not collecting high volumes of oil, provided we can source it from other collectors who have it available. So we should be able to run the plant. And sell lube oil in general at good rates with a little bit less seasonality than we experience in our collection volumes is what I'm trying to say.

Sure. That makes sense. But obviously the lower seasonal collection volumes will impact your margins in terms of just lower capacity utilization, but you can still run the plants at good rates I guess, right?

Yes.

That's right.

Okay. Well just lastly on this, do you have the actual number of gallons collected internally in the quarter?

The internal collection was, on a wet basis about 10.5 million. Total? No that was total fed to the plant. It was about a little less than 7 million internal, 6.7 million.

Okay thank you. Now I believe on the last call you said you were planning to perhaps roll out new used oil collection trucks in the second half of 2013 if the re-refinery expansion started up. Is that something you would still consider? Or given that you're consolidating routes and trying to improve efficiency, would you hold back on rolling out new trucks?

This is still on the table. The timing is as you described in here, is based on how we see the improved efficiency coming along. And we're back the first quarter and in the second quarter, we're seeing some nice trends. And we'll look at it at the end of the quarter and decide how many trucks we want to add and where. So really our main focus is we have 140 trucks and our main focus is to add productivity on these.

Okay I guess moving on to the market price of base oil. As you said it has come up a little in the last couple of months here in line with your expectations. Just based on your industry experience and knowledge and what you're hearing in the market, is that rate of improvement in line with what you would expect? Would you expect it to move more quickly? Or are there any factors out there that perhaps are holding back more price increases? I think you referenced last quarter perhaps crude oil refiners holding back on price increases to perhaps drive out some group one capacity in the market?

Yeah we really haven't seen any – and let me just clarify our expectation. At the end of the day we don't control the pricing.

Right.

In some [ph] cases we (37:44) don't fully understand, but one thing we know for sure is that the spread between vacuum gas oil, which is a basic component produced by the refiner and can either be turned into gasoline and fuel – number 2 fuel. And the refiner have an opportunity to either direct it to that user or into their high capital [ph] lube line (38:20) and we had not seen that – in our experience we haven't seen that margin drop to next to nothing.

And to the fact that this now has widened, that spread has widened and as a result, the price of base stock has moved up was not a surprise to us. How fast and how much is an unknown for us. And the same factors that were around a couple of quarters ago, they are still here. And so it's really – and these are decisions by in our minds, a couple of big players, Exxon, Shell, and Chevron.

Okay but it sounds like you did see an improvement in the spread between VGO and lube, as well as perhaps some lessening of those abnormal spreads between posted and spot prices?

Yeah we have seen an improvement between lube prices and VGO. And when things are tight in the market the selling price compared to posting or spot, listed spots improve about $0.10, $0.20 a gallon. And so we've seen that happening as we are right now and that's helpful compared to where we were at the bottom of the cycle.

Another way you might think about this if we're trying to read the tea leaves of where prices are going is that as lube oil prices were dropping, customers demanded discounts off of postings that were quite large.

And as the market started to turn and there was a sense throughout the industry that prices were recovering, those necessary reductions or spot price relative to postings, the gap closed there. And that gap has stayed fairly tight now for a couple months, which I would say could be read that the market thinks that further price declines are less likely than further price increases.

Okay yeah that makes sense. Just lastly on the ES side of things, the three new branch openings in the quarter, any particular geographic markets that you would highlight there? Or I guess you said you still only have one on the West Coast, is that correct?

Well we had the one in Los Angeles. They were primarily in the Southeast so we – they are – all the openings were based on our traditional satellite model, as we call it, where we take an area or a branch that is established and start by sending one person to the outskirts of that area and beyond the existing territory and build a branch over time. So there weren't any branches that were added where they were kind of a grassroots effort that didn't have a base of business already there. So it was a lot more of our traditional approach.

Great. Thanks for answering my questions.

Okay.

No problem.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman from Wunderlich.

Good morning and thank you for making time for my questions.

Good morning.

Good morning, Mike.

The 6.6 million gallons sold, that was all base lube or did it include other byproducts?

That's all base lube.

So can you frame what the residuals and volumes?

Let me get that for you. Or maybe go to your next question. We'll dig that up real quick.

Okay. And then could we talk about what you actually were able to get as an average price for your base lube sale in 1Q and how that compared to 4Q in actual dollars per gallon?

We don't typically express that information. It was obviously a negative trend just like the market was. So we saw a decline there. And again I think I mentioned in one of the earlier questions, with our somewhat unorthodox calendar, you have – our Q4 goes all the way back 16 weeks back into the year. So you're going back into – since there was a somewhat steady decline in base oil prices, you're getting into some parts of that where it was still at a halfway decent price at least compared to now. We might not have thought so back then, but it's still lower quarter-over-quarter.

Okay. So asking it a different way, if I looked at the Lube Report trailing price list that they give, which category should we focus on as the number that most reflects that that's the number you would get a discount to it and be able to sell to?

Yeah.

Well we're – go ahead.

Sorry Mark. Yes the spot, I would look at the spot prices for Group 2.

In aggregate?

Well...

Well the one, the 100 – the average of the 100, and 120; and the 200, 250.

Okay.

So, if you take these and go add these and divide it by two, it's the average and our 150 is kind of tracked that. And...

And, Joe, let me in on it. Because, Rich asked specifically about the Lube Report, which I think is the weekly online publication. I don't – Michael, excuse me. And I think that does not show the spot prices. Michael, we subscribed to a weekly publication that the Lube Report draws their data from and it shows a much richer dataset that includes indicative spot pricing as well as the major posted prices. And so, that's what Joe was referencing. But if you don't subscribe to that, you won't be able to see their published spot prices.

I was talking earlier about the delta between spot and postings and how that's changed over time. It's not a uniform number where we can say, spot is always $0.30 less than posting. But there's times when spot price is $0.40 or $0.50 below posting, sometimes when it's $0.15 or $0.10 below posting. So it's sort of an important indicator and it's just not – a number they don't choose to put in the free weekly Lube Report.

And adding to the confusion, even the spot information if you had it, it comes in ranges depending on no matter who actually you get the information from, there's a couple of publications you can subscribe to. And then, business, spot price determination is usually just based on inquiries of people in the business, so it's not like they're showing them actual invoices or what not. So, even that is, I wouldn't say fuzzy, but it's not something if you want to do perfect modeling you'd ever be completely satisfied with.

But the trend is an important indication of where the pricing is, then...

Yes.

...if you had that spot, if you had that publication, you can track it that way through the spot prices. And when, the market is tight, people get close to spot prices and when the market is long, and it can get a further decline from the spot prices. But generally speaking, the trend would tell where this is going.

And we do have, to your earlier question, we had about 1.3 million in our asphalt extender byproduct and our other byproduct, our distillate fuel was about 700,000 gallons during the quarter.

Okay, all right. That's great. Can I ask a price question differently, if I may, just so I have an understanding of sort of how to think about it, what the discount might have been? Were you above or below $3 a gallon on base lube in 1Q?

That's pretty clever, Mike.

So, you and I have known each other a long time. I've been doing this for 25 years. I asked you the same question when you used to be at Safety-Kleen. Well, you can't fool a guy for trying.

No.

Collection prices, there is – one of the public players has talked about a $0.90 number at collection. Is that where you are – are you in around that $0.90 number or higher or lower per gallon?

Greg talked about us being lower than the market, and I think we're comfortable not that we get to survey the market every day on a macro basis, but based on when we talk to people. We think in general, we're on the, I'd say, competitive and from what we have to pay to get oil. I don't know if Joe or Greg want to add any more color to that, but...

Well, I will leave it. Mike, I'm going to leave it to Greg. He is the guy who is wearing the legal hat in the company. And I don't know what you want to talk about the collection prices.

Yes. I mean we're not going to create a precedent here that we're going to kind of disclose our street prices. But as a one-time thing, I'll tell you that we're less than $0.90 a gallon.

Okay. That's helpful. Joe, you mentioned a 92% on nameplate. What's a practical – that ratio given four shutdowns a year and let's – whether it's a 50 million or 75 million gallons. What's the practical capacity utilization?

Well, the actual – which is really, you got the stream day and you got the calendar day of production. And in the 50 million gallons is for the calendar year. And so, with the shutdowns, you can imagine that you need to run it above the run rate of the 50 million gallons to take the shutdowns in and that's typically – we typically look at about 340 days of operation.

During the year, some of it has scheduled shutdown for maintenance and some of it is power failures and power dips and mechanical, not too many of these for us, because we got spare equipment pumps and so on.

And so, what's really important here is a typical quarter, as long as you have the supply and you move the product and the rest is plant operation. So, we do expect our plant to do the $50 million on a calendar basis, which would be a little bit higher on a stream basis, because of the stream factor.

Okay, that's helpful. And then, help me a little bit understand, you had a significant volume improvement, I get the price delta, but the volume improvement far outweigh the price delta? So, why wasn't the business profitable? What can you do based on, if nothing was any different in 1Q, going forward to run it differently. What can you pull out that gets the business profitable? This is on new store.

Well, as we get to the run up to $50 million and get out of the first quarter, as we said it from a collection point of view, it's seasonal lower productivity quarter. So, we expect an improvement in the second quarter. And then, as we said earlier, that we have other measures, transportation that we're looking at and other efficiency factors.

Yes. When we measure our quarter-over-quarter, yes we didn't – I don't think we've reached our maximum benefit from some of the areas we said we improved. But we saw an improvement some time in many instances it wasn't large, but improvement in many areas. There was one additional negative area basically other than base oil selling price and we did have a write-down of one of our byproduct inventories.

And some of that is a function of the seasonality of the asphalt extender. That was about $400,000 to the negative and we'll recoup that since we are now the lower basis to – as we sell that. And that's a product that has a fair amount of seasonality to it as well. So, we should be selling more of that here in the non-winter months and we'll recoup the cost, the benefit from that lower carrying cost as we move through that material.

Yes. I'm going to amplify our price and extend on what Mark was saying about inventory charge, because we have times in our business with our hydrocarbon products and byproducts where we have inventory charges that are real and reflect an economic change. And this one I'd characterized a little bit differently, because there's a seasonality to the sales of asphalt products that's linked to the road paving industry and the paving is heaviest in late spring or early summer. And the product that we make our asphalt extender, this byproduct is sold almost entirely into that paving industry.

And so, you can imagine that if you're supplying customers when they need it, it's valuable and they'll pay you a good price for it. And if you try and sell it to them in October and November and December, they're only willing to take it at a discount, because they're going to have to store it for six months.

That's sort of the characterization of the industry. And so, when we have to mark to lower our cost per market, their inventory we are largely holding, we do sell a little of it during the off months, but we're selling at prices that we know are lower than we expect to get for the bulk of our production. And yet, we have to mark down the lower of cost per market.

So, this is what Mark was saying is that, we expected even though we took that charge, we should be able to sort of sell the product for better prices in coming months. And so, we're going to get some recovery of that write-down and if that makes sense. And so, that's one reason that Q1 was particularly soft and one thing that we ought to get back in Q2 and Q3.

And to add to what Greg said, it's something a phenomenon that you might expect to reoccur in this timeframe in future years.

But Mike, I want to maybe try to make an additional statement regarding your question about, where do you see profitability of the business. And to a large extent, although we're making all of these steps to improve the profitability of the business, and there's a lot of variables. By far, the biggest variable is that spread between crude and lube.

I mean we got 30 million gallons of lube are put out so that 50 million gallon trend, and $0.90 for a $1 is $30 million. And it's hard to fill that hole even with productivity in our collection and so on. But we're working hard at getting into the black and the expansion and incremental capacity of this facility would help us there. And the efforts on the collection will help us as well.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Great. Thanks, Mike.

Thank you for your time and your interest. We are grateful for your support. We invite you to join us for our next conference call.