Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brian J. Recatto — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Mark DeVita — Chief Financial Officer, Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc.
Gerard Sweeney — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners, LLC
Sean K. F. Hannan — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Paul A. Dircks — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Brian Joseph Butler — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Heritage-Crystal Clean Incorporated Second Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all callers microphones are muted and you will have an opportunity at the end of the presentation to ask questions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking. Generally the words aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intent, may, plan, project, should, will be, will continue, will likely result, would, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views on these in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we may use on this call such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. Please see our website for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. For more information about our company, please visit our website at www.crystal-clean.com.

With us today from the company are the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Recatto; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark DeVita.

At this time I will now like to turn the call over to Brian Recatto. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to everyone joining us this morning. Last night, we reported our second quarter 2018 results. We recorded diluted earnings per share during the quarter of $0.26 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.30 in the second quarter of 2017. While we are down $0.04 from Q2 2017, it's important to note that our second quarter 2017 results included a non-recurring settlement award that favorably impacted diluted earnings per share by $0.11.

Our revenues for the second quarter increased 16.1% compared to the second quarter of 2017 to $100.3 million driven by 17% growth in our Environmental Services segment, and 14.6% growth in our Oil Business segment.

Mark will provide more financial details in a moment, but I would like to discuss other areas of our business. I would first like to discuss the results in our Environmental Services segment. From a revenue standpoint I'm proud of the fact that we delivered strong double-digit growth through our continued focus on industrial customers, cross-selling initiatives, and additional sales and service resources. All of our lines of business in this segment experienced growth on a year-over-year basis.

Our revenue growth in 2018 has been aided by the five new branches we added during 2017 as well as the sales and service resources such as branch sales managers and antifreeze sales and service reps, vacuum sales and service reps, ESP specialists and field services reps we added throughout 2017. The costs incurred in the first half of 2018 associated with the new branches and resources added during 2017 was approximately $5.2 million, from which we generated $5.7 million in additional revenue.

Looking forward, we plan to continue to add new branches as well as sales and service resources in this segment. We estimate that we will incur $1.7 million of new costs for resources to be added during fiscal 2018. We anticipate these additional resources will generate $1.6 million of revenue during the year.

Our Environmental Services operating margin in the second quarter of 2018 was 25.6%, down from 30.3% in the same quarter a year ago. Despite the decrease from the prior year, this result represents a 2.5 percentage point increase compared to the first quarter of 2018 and we moved more than halfway to our goal of returning the operating margin in this segment to the same range we achieved during the second half of 2017. As expected, disposal costs continue to be a headwind during the first part of the second quarter. But we showed progress in controlling these costs as the quarter progressed.

All-in-all, we are very excited about the record revenue our branch sales and service team produced during the second quarter. As anticipated, we also generated sequential improvement in our operating margin in the Environmental Services segment compared to the first quarter of 2018. We continue to work toward our goal of bringing operating margins back to the level experienced during the second half of 2017.

Moving on to our Oil Business, in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, Oil Business revenues were up $4.6 million or 14.6% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase in revenue was driven by improved conditions in the base oil market, in part due to rising crude oil prices as well as record sales volume. Our base oil netback increased by $0.18 per gallon during the second quarter compared to the first quarter.

On the feedstock side of the business, the higher crude oil prices, I mentioned earlier, continue to impact the price we have to pay for generators for their used oil. The price we pay to generators to collect their used oil continue to climb during the quarter. We experienced an increase of $0.07 per gallon in our pay-for-oil during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of this year.

On a positive note, during the second quarter, we increased our collection gallons on a per truck basis by 7.7% compared to the second quarter of 2017. This result also represents a record high for overall oil collection route efficiency.

We are very excited to report that our re-refinery demonstrated its potential during the second quarter by producing record breaking results. The re-refinery ran at a 105% of our nameplate production capacity during the quarter compared to 94% during the second quarter of 2017. This level of production allowed us to take advantage of the higher base oil netbacks as well as better leverage the fixed cost of our re-refinery. The net result was a record breaking operating margin during the second quarter of 13%.

As we do each year, we expect to have one longer planned shutdown of the re-refinery. Typically, these longer shutdowns last roughly 8 to 10 days. We expect we will take our longer shutdown either at the end of this quarter or the beginning of our fourth quarter.

In addition to normal maintenance items, we expect to complete several capital projects during this upcoming shutdown. As a result of [ph] our award (00:07:54) during this planned downtime, we expect to increase our efficiency and consistency of operations at the re-refinery.

On the acquisition front, we continue to pursue opportunities of various sizes. In addition to the antifreeze business, we discussed during our first quarter earnings conference call, we also closed a small environmental services acquisition in the western U.S. during the second quarter. We are optimistic that we will be able to close additional acquisitions during the second half of 2018.

Mark will now walk us through our second quarter financial results in detail.

Thanks, Brian. I'll start by discussing the Environmental Services segment. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, Environmental Services revenue has increased by approximately $9.4 million or 17% from $55.1 million in the second quarter fiscal 2017 to $64.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced higher revenue in all lines of business in this segment led by our field services and containerized waste businesses. The revenue growth was a result of price gains in some of our businesses and volume increases in others.

In the parts cleaning business, we experienced price gains and volume increases, resulting in solid growth for the business. In our containerized waste business, we experienced strong volume growth, while price and service mix declined slightly. The vacuum services business had favorable increases in our price and service mix, but volume was down slightly.

Same branch revenues grew approximately 14.4% on a year-over-year basis during the second quarter. Profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Environmental Services segment was $16.5 million. This result represents a 4.7-percentage point decline in our second quarter operating margin compared to the year-ago quarter. As Brian mentioned, the decline in operating margin compared to last year was primarily due to higher disposal and labor costs during the quarter.

In the Oil Business segment, the increase in revenue was due to stronger base oil pricing and higher volumes of base oil gallons sold as a result of record base oil production at our re-refinery during the second quarter of 2018.

During the second quarter of 2018, we produced 11.4 million gallons of base oil compared to 9.8 million during the second quarter of 2017. During the second quarter of 2018, we sold approximately 10.7 million gallons of base oil compared to 9.8 million gallons during the second quarter of 2017.

Profit before corporate SG&A expense in the Oil Business segment increased $1.6 million in the second quarter from $3.1 million in the second quarter 2017 to $4.7 million in the second quarter of 2018. This represents a 3.1-percentage-point improvement in operating margin on a year-over-year basis. As Brian mentioned, our operating margin of 13% is not only a record high since we began operating the re-refinery, but is the first time we have generated double-digit operating margin in this segment.

Our overall corporate SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue is 12.3% compared to 13.2% from the year-ago quarter, mainly driven by higher revenue, partially offset by higher severance and share-based compensation expense.

The company's effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 26% compared to 36% in the year-ago quarter. The rate difference is principally attributable to the decrease in the federal income tax rate.

Second quarter EBITDA was $12.2 million compared to $15.6 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in EBITDA was mainly due to the fact that our second quarter 2017 EBITDA was inflated by a $3.6 million settlement we received in that quarter related to our acquisition of FCC Environmental. Second quarter 2018 adjusted EBITDA was $13.7 million compared to $12.8 million in 2017.

Turning to the balance sheet, cash on hand at the end of the quarter stood at $41.8 million compared to $37.6 million at the end of the second quarter of 2018. Total debt stood at $28.8 million compared to $28.7 million one year ago.

During the second quarter, we generated $13.4 million in cash flow from operations. This represents an increase of over 12% compared to the second quarter of 2017, if you exclude the $4.3 million payment we received as a result of our settlement related to our acquisition of FCC Environmental. We intend to use our excess cash balance to seek conditional acquisition opportunities as well as pursue capital projects to help drive revenue growth and improve operational efficiency.

In summary, we had a strong second quarter during which we achieved record revenue and profitability. We are excited about the opportunities in front of us and our team is focused on continuing to improve during the remainder of 2018.

And with that, I'll turn control of the call over the operator to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Gerry Sweeney from ROTH Capital. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning, Brian and Mark, congratulations on...

Hi, Gerry. How are you?

Hey, Gerry. How are you?

I'm doing well, thanks. I want to just focus in on the Oil side and I think, Brian, you even mentioned it you're going to do some capital investment to increase efficiency, but I think even more importantly consistency. As we look at the quarter, obviously, you were running above nameplate capacity. I think – I'm not sure if some of that was from the first quarter where you had downtime, maybe you had some extra product to put through the system. But as we look at the re-refinery, how much of this performance was maybe catch-up from the first quarter? How much ability is this, just past investments, and can you keep it running at this type of level and consistency going forward and taking into account maybe some of these investments you're going to make later this year?

Yeah, obviously, our goal is to continue with this production rate. No, it was not catch-up, this was kind of the new normal, provided we don't have any unscheduled downtime for the re-refinery. I think we've been guiding our overall capacity from that 45 million to 47 million gallon range. And we're fairly confident that we'll achieve those numbers in Q3. And the work that we're going to do in Q4 is going to – we're looking at the first week in Q4 to do this capital project and the maintenance work and we fully expect that to add to the consistency. We're going to be replacing a couple of critical pieces of equipment that we had trouble with. During the harsh winter months, we're also going to do some mechanical integrity work which will keep us from having issues on a non-routine basis going forward.

So we think of the new normal for the plan as we see it would be one long turnaround a year of roughly 10 days and two shorter turnarounds of 5 days each with a capacity of 47 million gallons a year at just a normalized run rate. That's kind of what we're expecting without any unscheduled downtime. So we're pretty optimistic and the work that we're going to do in the four quarters can also enhance our cost structure a little bit. We're going to improve the system that we talked about last year, which aids in allowing us to extend the life of our catalyst. And that'll help us continue to control the cost and then we're adding a piece of equipment that will reduce some labor costs which will save us another $0.015 on our cost structure. So overall, we're pretty optimistic with our performance in Q2 and Q3 looks good as well in terms of production. We expect similar production numbers in Q3.

Okay. Great. And then switching over, I guess, to the base oil. Obviously, it looks like pay-for-oil was up $0.07 in the quarter, but more than offset by, I think, pricing which – I have it here in my notes – was, what, I believe, $0.19 around that area. As we go into the second half...

I think it was $0.18, yeah. It was $0.18.

$0.18. Okay.

Yeah.

Okay. [ph] Very good (00:17:13). As we go into the second half of the year, any thoughts on base oil prices? There's obviously, I believe, some seasonality, et cetera, but base oil has been doing very well for an extended period of time. Any thoughts as to how we should look at that on a go-forward basis?

Yeah. We don't expect any material changes in base oil price and as we look out into Q3, the market has certainly been a little bit softer, the second quarter and the third quarter, but overall pricing was relatively flat due to the fact that that crude oil is trading in a fairly tight band. So we're not forecasting much of a spread change as we look at Q3.

And obviously it's harder as you get out into the out quarters because I would need you to tell me where crude oil is going to be in Q4 for me to give you some guidance on where we think base oil is going to be and it's very dependent on feedstock costs.

Got it. Okay. I appreciate it and I'll jump back in line. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Sean Hannan from Needham. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question here. Just wanted to follow up as well on the oil side of the business. So just to think about that pricing for base lube oil, let's consider we have some general consistency in terms of where crude is as we extend out. There typically is some seasonal pricing that will pull in a little bit toward the end of the summer.

And then you guys are also going to have some – an extended downtime, as telegraphed here. So just trying to get a sense on a quarter-on-quarter basis, I would suspect that revenues, as well as margins might come back perhaps a little bit quarter-on-quarter. Just from a logic standpoint, not necessarily from anything that's going wrong and just wanted to check the logic on that with you folks.

Yeah. Sean, I don't think your logic is that far off. I mean, obviously, in Q3, we do typically see some seasonal weakness and a lot of the refineries had a pretty mild turnaround season as you look at the first quarter and the second quarter. We didn't have any extended shutdowns of some of the virgin base oil producers. So I think, directionally, you're accurate, but we still expect to have a nice Q3 in the Oil Business.

Yeah. I think margin-wise though, I agree with Brian and your outlook kind of mirror's mine. We've seen trends in Street price, shifting [ph] to BFO (00:20:11). For us this year, obviously still going up, went up another $0.07 as Brian mentioned. So that's – while we think that that's going to level off, again, that's somewhat crude dependent as well. [indiscernible] (00:20:26) we're still up quarter-over-quarter, and certainly year-over-year big time. So if we have that type of environment, then it's easier for us to get closer to the performance, the record performance we generated. If we don't, then maybe you do see a slight movement back.

Okay. And then in terms...

One other thing...

Sorry, go ahead.

The only thing that could impact Q3 is if we pull the turnaround into Q3. At this point, we're not forecasting it. But it's always based on our pegging cycle, and right now, everything looks pretty good for us to do it in the first week. Our plan right now is to do it in the first week of Q4.

Okay. That's fair. And then when commenting on the – if there's an element of market softness, I'm just trying to make sure that I understand that that's on a relative basis versus a lot of what had been well seen as some production tightness that really had some kind of artificial impacts on demands coming out of last year's late summer-fall season or is there anything else to really interpret there?

No, we're not seeing anything else that you should be interpreting differently.

Okay.

The market is very well balanced. It's a good market right now. We don't expect that the index changes.

Okay. That's very good. Thanks so much for addressing my questions.

Thank you.

Yeah. You're welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Paul Dircks from William Blair. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Nice quarter.

Hey, Paul. Thank you.

Thank you, Paul. Appreciate it.

So just a couple for me. On the Environmental Services business, first of all, organic growth was quite strong in the quarter and certainly above the high single-digit target that you guys had set out. To the best of your ability, can you sort of parse out how much of this is from some of your early stage businesses, how much is from your empowerment of branch managers, and perhaps how much might be attributable to outperformance in any select industrial markets that you guys are targeting?

I think the first part of your question, we can – answer is yes. First part of your question, I think you hit on one of the big drivers. I mean overall we were ecstatic with the growth, the same-branch sales growth especially. And one of the biggest drivers that stands out versus other quarters is our field services business. It had a tremendous growth in the quarter on a year-over-year basis or even sequentially. And Brian, can maybe add some commentary when I'm done here about, I wouldn't call it a shift in strategy but just how we're varying our approach.

Again, we've only been in this business as Heritage-Crystal Clean for a couple of years. And as you might expect we're learning how to attack the market a little better. So Brian can talk to the strategy in a little bit; but from a numbers standpoint, we had one particularly large project, if you would strip that out, where our close rate from a same branch sales basis was about 8.5%.

So again, still strong, still high single-digit, we're still ecstatic. But having these early-stage businesses and thanks for using my terminology, having them contribute in the way that field services did is great. But again, you still have the same themes other than this. Parts cleaning, we're still getting a little bit of growth on volume and price, very strong with down double-digit for containerized waste – excuse me, double digits of volume growth and all the other usual [ph] actors (00:24:22). But Brian, do you want to talk about field services?

Yeah, Paul, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we've added some field services reps. We also have our branch sales managers and then our professional sales people called ESPs that are kind of on-site environmental specialists, they're out there pursuing these types of projects. As you all know, we have 95,000 customers, so we're out there aggressively pursuing one-off project work that we think with our capabilities to manage and disposal, the ability to manage an environmental project, we're chasing it harder than we used to.

I've had exposure in my past career to the environmental response, remediation, field services type activity, so it's become more of a focus item for us and we're allowing our guys to be more aggressive when it makes sense.

And I think one more...

And we think the work will continue is – the point that I think we want to drive home is that we're going to continue to pursue that. So we'll see good growth in that area.

One other thing, I don't know that you specifically asked it, but I'd imagine or I just want to make sure that the investors and our analysts understand that we mentioned during our last call about the middle – it was basically the middle of the quarter, we had done antifreeze-centric acquisition. And as Brian mentioned, we did a tiny one at the end of the quarter as well. Those, in general, didn't have much of an impact. I mean, they were about 1.5% of revenue growth or less than $1 million in the quarter. It will be a little higher on a run rate basis due to the timing we just mentioned, but it wasn't a big driver at all, but it did help get us up to that 17% level.

No, that's very helpful. I appreciate the color. Just to piggyback on one of your comments in there about the one particularly large project, could you offer any more color on the nature of that project? Is it a customer or perhaps a market where you can follow up with those kind of projects? Should we expect there to be a little bit more lumpiness in the business now that you guys are shifting your strategy a little bit and targeting some of those projects?

I don't think – our focus is not on large projects. This happened to be an existing customer and we took advantage of an opportunity and performed the job extremely well. They're very happy. We're going to continue to do ongoing work for them, but I don't expect to see the lumpiness in this business. [ph] If you've seen (00:26:52) in Q2, because we historically have focused on smaller projects and we'll continue to focus there because we don't want the exposure, and I like certainly the positive margin impact of the smaller job versus the larger job. So, I don't think you'll see a lot of lumpiness in this business, one quarter...

Okay. No, that...

Yeah.

Got it. No, thank you. And then just one more from me. Within ES, the underlying margin was robust in the quarter and really just want to ask your thoughts on the sustainability of it. Of course, if you're not going to have the same kind of lumpiness each quarter, we can ratchet down our expectations on the amount of pull-through there. But specifically want to talk about your thoughts on higher disposal and labor costs during the quarter. How do you see them trending over the balance of the year, and how should we think about the underlying margin in Environmental Services over the next couple of quarters?

Great question. It's front of our mind; it has been all year and will continue to be. Disposal, we made headway during the quarter and we had talked [indiscernible] (00:28:01) you directly, Paul, but – to the investors in general about the fact that we were going to have some bleed into Q2 from some of the problems that we had identified. But since some of this is somewhat of a large shift that's hard to turn, if I can use that analogy, that it wasn't going to be instantly gone, the headwind, that is, in areas like disposal in Q2. But our goal is to continue to improve and get back to that 27% range as far as operating margin and then go from there.

On the labor side, we should continue to see better leverage. Again, it's from adding those resources. Brian made reference to specific positions. Those resources need to produce. And in fact, I don't want to get too granular, but in a few cases here and there, some of them, if they don't produce, we make decisions on personnel. So either way, we should be getting more efficient with that spend and thus that should become less of a headwind from a margin standpoint.

Got it.

Yeah. [ph] But I would agree (00:29:08) with Mark. I do want to add to what Mark is saying. Inflation is real. We're going to have to continue to work hard to get to those margin numbers and not due to any operational issues we're having like we did in Q1, but inflation is real in the marketplace. You're going to hear from all of the companies that you cover. Transportation, ELD standards have reduced, the amount of hours that a truck driver can run, for example. We all know there's a shortage of drivers out there. Overall, you're seeing cost creep in general in the industry and we're having to work hard as a senior leadership team and Mark made the comment that we're very laser focused on it because we have to be.

Yeah. No, absolutely. Something we've heard from many others as well. Just to follow up on one of your comments there, this is last question from me. On the on the additional resources side, can you just remind me when was – was it about a year ago that you guys started to more diligently add head count to Environmental Services and appreciating why you may continue to add head count next year? Should we not be anniversarying some of those extra costs as we look forward here into the third quarter and fourth quarter?

We did start adding these, maybe even technically some of them at the end of 2016. And we should start to anniversary somebody, to your other point, but as far as the actual magnitude, most of it – or not most of it, more so on the new branches side, I guess, that's one. There's two pieces to it when we say new resources. We've been talking about, call it, new branches and new personnel in existing branches.

So new branches were heavily weighted towards the back end of last year. So those, we're not going to anniversary until a lot of them in the fourth quarter. I mean some of them are literally kind of we just plan to flag the last week or two of the year. The actual head count resources were a little more spread out, so we'll start to anniversary those sooner.

Got it. That's helpful color. Thank you, guys.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Kevin Steinke, Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Hi. Just following up on the Environmental Services growth rate, spiked up a bit due to the large field services project. So, I mean, going forward, should we expect that to normalize to more of a high-single-digit growth rates in the second half?

You know, Brian mentioned, we're going to continue to do projects. So while we might not expect to have the same magnitude that we did of a project because this one is pretty material, the impact in Q2 is pretty material. I think the real baseline without any contribution from field services is basically that 8-plus-percent. So whether it's – this job in the quarter was over $3 million, whether you get that that will shoot you up into the mid-double digits. But we should expect with our new strategy, it's not like we just stumbled across this. This is – we've been investing in new resources. This, I think, actually happens to be one in an area in the Midwest where we did add a new field service rep within the last year.

So we should expect something here. We don't have a long track record to give you a lot of detail there, Kevin, that I can give you an actual number there, but it's somewhere probably in between that range going forward.

Okay. Yeah. And I guess on top of that then the next couple of quarters, you have contribution from these acquisitions you made, maybe there's a couple points on top of the organic growth.

Yeah. That [indiscernible] (00:33:10).

Okay. Also, Environmental Services, you mentioned in the prepared comments, continued focus on cross-selling. Can you just give us an update on your cross-selling efforts and maybe any successes there? I think you had been trying to maybe formalize that program a little bit more. So just how is it going overall?

Yeah. And again, it's been formalized. It's like anything, it needs to have continual attention and that – this is something that, as Brian mentioned, most of the people that I've talked to over the past year plus, since Brian's been on board, when he has his periodic and routine calls with branch managers, reminding them about things like this and some of those calls is one of the benefits.

When you look at what we did in Q2, our cross-selling initiatives for first-time revenue was up 6.5%. So that really is the type of continued focus that we want. And you could probably make an argument before we got more formal on this a couple of years ago that we had something. I know we did; we just didn't track it. But I can guarantee you that we're doing a better job at it now and with more focus, the numbers, just like they have been in the last six quarters, have been better than our more ad-hoc approach that we used to use.

Okay. Good. And do you plan to open any new Environmental Services branches in 2018?

Yeah. We are planning to open some and it's going to be – once again, it'll be back loaded. So the goal at the start of the year was 3 to 5, and I still think that's going to be achievable, but it will be back loaded this year, fourth quarter.

And some of that might be within that range, organic, inorganic.

Yeah, correct.

But a small acquisition that we did was basically added a new branch for us. So that is one into that kind of 5-ish total.

Okay. Okay. That's helpful. Just on the nameplate capacity, when you're producing at 105% nameplate, is the nameplate capacity still defined as 45 million gallons or is it now 47 million gallons? Just wondering how you get there.

Yeah, it's more in the 47 million gallons range. But I really don't want to go there yet. I'd like to get this turnaround done, the capital projects completed and then let's run this refinery for six months to a year and then we'll make a formal change of the nameplate capacity once we know a little bit more. As I've talked about, we're making some significant changes in the Q4 turnaround, which we think will have an impact on our ability to perform at a higher level. So let us get through that, let us run for a couple of quarters and then we'll give you our new nameplate capacity.

I think in the interim though, this quarter, last quarter, as I've stated in the last couple calls, we are doing – if you do the math, the math we do to get to those numbers, is 47 million gallons a year right now. And like Brian said, we hope to see benefit from [indiscernible] (00:36:33) and whatnot, the capital projects we're going to be conduct here in the next extended shutdown. So...

The really...

...we need to run it after that. These are living creatures in a way, I hate to romanticize it, but that's what these plants are. And you don't really know until they're lying down and running for a while.

Yeah, the exciting thing for us is we – everybody is aware that the 20-day issue we had in Q1, we're going to – at the pace we're on right, the way the plant is running, barring any unforeseen shutdowns, we should exceed 2017's production in 2018, in spite of the fact that we lost 20 days to an unscheduled downturn – I mean, turnaround. So very positive performance for the re-refinery in Q2 and we're forecasting good performance in Q3 as well.

Okay. So then mathematically, the 105% is calculated off of 45 million or 47 million gallons, I guess is what I'm partly trying to get at?

Yeah. 47 million gallons, Kevin. Same as last quarter.

Okay. All right.

It will continue to be that way for several quarters until we get a few quarters past the work Brian outlined.

Yeah.

All right. Just lastly, you had a little bit more elevated severance expense in the quarter, which pushed up corporate SG&A a bit sequentially. I mean is that an indication that we should expect SG&A expenses to come down going forward, not only because of the absence of severance expense or maybe you've taken some actions there to bring down costs?

Yeah, that's intentional. I've talked about this a little bit because – not a ton, it wasn't a huge number. You can see it in our press release, it's like $500,000, but that is really an extension of the new organization and just tweaking it that Brian has [ph] helped lead (00:38:37). So we're – we still have a little bit left to do probably this year, but it's not going to be probably much more from a dollar standpoint than what you've seen. So – but that is – it's really part of a strategic plan. Some of it has to happen sequentially.

Yeah, in a perfect world, the day after Brian walks in the door, you do it all, but that's not realistic. So – but this is intentional and we think it drives continued efficiency in SG&A. Now if we continue our growth rate at above expectations on revenue, then from an absolute dollar standpoint, you're going to start to see that go up.

Yeah. Okay. Okay, that makes sense. All right. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you very much.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Butler from Stifel. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions.

Hey, Brian. How is it going?

Hey, Brian. How are you?

Good. The first one, do you have any number on the impact from the third-party disposal that was expected to trail a little bit into the second quarter?

I don't have that. It's part of – I mean, it was...

Yeah, let's just follow up with him on that.

Yeah. It was the biggest driver, but yeah, I don't have how much of that is kind of excessive versus ongoing if that's where you're going, Brian?

Yeah. I'm just trying to understand the magnitude versus the first quarter. All right. Then, I guess, on the Oil Business, can you give us some thoughts on, I guess, the flexibility on the pay-for-oil and the charge-for-oil and if base prices move from here, what impact can be seen on the margins?

I guess what I'm trying to get at is what – how much of the margin right now is dependent on base oil prices being where they are versus if prices came down and you're able to flex back to lower pay-for-oil or change back to charge-for-oil? Can the margins be maintained based on how the how the plants are running now?

Yeah. I mean, our expectation would be under the under that scenario if we begin to see a declining base oil environment that means crude oil prices, feedstock costs are going down, which is changing the index pricing. Our assumption would be that our charge-for-oil is going – our pay-for-oil is going to change along with the change in the crude oil pricing. So yeah, we would expect to build and maintain the spread.

But you remember, Brian, there's always a lag, especially we've done a great job, as Brian highlighted in his prepared remarks, growing volume especially on a per-truck basis. We've had success in doing that or one of the ways you do that. We certainly haven't done it by going away from our bread and butter and we call them local accounts, but growing some larger volume accounts has definitely been a piece of that.

And if those – a lot of those are on indexes that have an adjustment that trails whatever it was last month, then it gets adjusted to next month. So there is usually – if you add maybe even an extra month or two, there's a couple month lag minimum. And you usually just don't snap your fingers and all of a sudden on the way up or down and that's why rising is always better in this industry and declining price environment is a little tougher temporarily.

Okay. And then just one last one on the cash flow side. Can you give detail on the CapEx spending growth and growth in maintenance CapEx as well as what did working capital do?

On the – I can get to the detailed working capital. And the CapEx, you'll see it when we file our Q today, it's about $3.8 million from a cash standpoint. So if you do the math, there's about $9.6 million in free cash flow which is something we're very happy with.

If you look at for the year, we spent about the same amount in CapEx in Q1. And we do have some projects, Brian mentioned, on the re-refinery side and whatnot. Most of those are maintenance that we have coming. We spent a couple million bucks this year in parts cleaners which is probably two-thirds growth and then the rest has been some SG&A-type spend.

Okay. Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Yeah. No worries.

Thank you. And this concludes our Q&A session. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.