Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter J. Majeski — Manager-Investor Relations & Finance, Hersha Hospitality Trust
Jay H. Shah — Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Hersha Hospitality Trust
Ashish R. Parikh — Chief Financial Officer, Hersha Hospitality Trust
Neil H. Shah — President & Chief Operating Officer, Hersha Hospitality Trust
Chris J. Woronka — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Anthony Franklin Powell — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Ryan Meliker — Analyst, MLV & Co. LLC
Shaun C. Kelley — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
David Loeb — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Wes Golladay — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session toward the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Pete Majeski, Manager of Investor Relations and Finance. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Kim, and good morning to everyone participating today. Welcome to Hersha Hospitality Trust's full year and fourth quarter 2014 conference call on this 19th of February, 2015.

Today's call will be based on the full year and fourth quarter 2014 earnings release which was distributed yesterday. If you have not yet received a copy, please call us at 215-238-1046. Today's call will also be webcast. To listen to an audio webcast of the call, please visit www.hersha.com within the Investor Relations section.

Prior to proceeding, I'd like to remind everyone that today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance or financial positions to be materially different from any future results, performance or financial positions. These factors are detailed within the company's press release as well as within the company's filings with the SEC.

With that, it is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. Jay Shah, Hersha Hospitality Trust's Chief Executive Officer. Jay, you may begin.

Great. Thank you, Pete, and good morning to everyone.

Joining me this morning are Neil Shah, our Chief Operating Officer; and Ashish Parikh, our Chief Financial Officer. 2014 was a solid year for the lodging sector. The 4.5% increase in industry-wide demand derived from a combination of robust corporate and leisure transient demand, increased international inbound travel and improving group business driven unprecedented mid-cycle reacceleration of RevPAR growth to 8.3%. This is significant from a historical perspective. Since 1987, the lodging sector reported only three years of 8% plus growth with each of those instances occurring earlier in their respective cycles.

More importantly, these significant tailwinds benefited Hersha's high quality urban transient hotels, allowing us to significantly grow our same-store earnings while harvesting first year EBITDA from our newly acquired assets and recently opened development projects.

From an investor perspective, the sector's positive underlying trends led to stock market outperformance in 2014, as lodging topped most of the commercial real estate subsectors. Hersha generated a total return of 31% inclusive of dividends for the year, as our free cash flow generation driven by industry leading margins aggressive asset management and the collaborative management structure came into focus.

In 2014, Hersha's returns outperformed those of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average by 17% and 21% respectively. As we move forward, major decisions will continue to be clearly aligned with long term and sustainable value creation, consistent with our demonstrated absolute return philosophy and commitment to total shareholder return.

As we have explained, the culmination of our recycling program which included the sale of 39 stabilized assets and purchase of 12 high growth hotels since 2012 and the successful completion and delivery of our development pipeline in large scale renovations has allowed us to create a focused urban transient portfolio differentiated from the others within our peer set. The combination of our clearly defined strategic initiative provides a clear path to growth at an advantageous point in the current lodging cycle. We continue to target acquisitions with in-place cash flow that fit our urban transient strategy. However we'll remain discipline and only pursue assets that meet our criteria in terms of markets and growth profile that exceed our portfolio average economic return metrics.

During 2014, and in line with this criteria, we acquired four high quality well located hotels in markets that possess long-term growth prospects that exceeded our portfolio average for $216 million. In March, we closed on the purchase of the Hotel Milo in Santa Barbara for approximately $42 million. In May, we purchased the Parrot Key Hotel & Resort in Key West for $100 million. Both of these investments provided exposure to high barrier to entry markets and a high RevPAR transient guest mix. As a result, our consolidated EBITDA contribution continues to materially shift.

Our South Florida portfolio contributed 11% of consolidated EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 6% in the fourth quarter of 2013. While our West Coast portfolio contributed 11% of consolidated EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 10% in the fourth quarter 2013. In late May, we closed on a recently developed 205 room Hilton Garden Inn, Midtown East an early cycle undertaking for $74 million. Post acquisition, the hotel was appraised for $112 million, a clear indication of the quality and inherent value of our fee-simple Manhattan portfolio.

In June, we also opened the brand new 81 room Hampton Inn Downtown Financial District, our fourth hotel in the financial district. Both hotels were in the process of stabilizing and have been immediately accretive to our earnings.

While adding high quality hotels to our portfolio, we also recycled out of stabilized select service assets in suburban markets and capitalized on the strength of the New York real estate market in 2014. During February, the company closed on the sale of the remaining four hotels within our noncore portfolio, and we further demonstrated the value of Hersha's Manhattan portfolio by selling the 70-room Hotel 373 in April, to an offshore investment group for $37 million. The pricing on the sale of Hotel 373 was indicative of Manhattan's highly sought after real estate market and a significant international interest from public and private groups seeking to acquire cash flowing real estate in top U.S. gateway markets.

In terms of large scale renovations, we have created significant portfolio value by entering into timely ROI projects earlier in the cycle. We completed work at the Rittenhouse earlier this year in the spa, salon, and fitness center and pool area, successfully completing and implementing the final pieces to what is truly a unique urban luxury resort. Significant renovations were undertaken and completed in the hotels in Boston, Miami and Los Angeles in 2014, with each property benefiting from enhanced market positioning post renovation.

With 70% of the portfolio fully renovated in the past three years, we're well positioned to leverage the earnings potential from young, stabilizing assets and full year contributions from completed acquisitions and development. As a result, we reported a 26.4% increase in hotel EBITDA to $157.4 million in 2014 while our consolidated portfolio RevPAR rose 8.3% to $155.19. Our full year 2014 consolidated RevPAR and hotel EBITDA were new highs for the portfolio in our 15-year history.

In terms of our performance during the fourth quarter, our consolidated portfolio delivered 8.6% RevPAR growth to $161.37, driven by a 4.9% increase in rate and a 275 basis point increase in occupancy to 81.3%.

Fourth quarter performance was positively impacted by our West Coast and Boston portfolios, which reported RevPAR growth of 17.1% and 10.1% respectively. With regards to performance in Manhattan, our completed Manhattan portfolio delivered full year 2014 RevPAR growth of 5% driven by a 1.3% increase in rate and a 330 basis point rise in occupancy to 94%.

During the fourth quarter, 2.6% occupancy driven RevPAR growth outperformed the 1% RevPAR growth in the Manhattan market. Our comparables Manhattan portfolio reported fourth quarter occupancy of 95.3%, approximately 650 basis points above the broader Manhattan market which demonstrates our unique approach to revenue management and that new supply is in fact being absorbed in the market.

Based on our internal estimates, Manhattan experienced supply growth of 4.8% in 2014 which was below internal and industry projections. As a result, Hersha estimate supply growth of 4% to 4.5% in 2015 and 2016 with the anticipation of continued delays pushing projects and openings into 2017 and beyond. While demand is sufficient, new supply deliveries will have a greater impact in slow demand quarters such as the first quarter. We feel confident that as we move beyond the first quarter of 2015, demand growth in New York City will continue to outstrip supply deliveries.

As of December 2014, Manhattan trailing 12 month occupancy levels remained above 85% for 31 consecutive months, resulting in an all-time high of 87.3% in December 2014. Overall, demand has increased at a 6% CAGR from 2009 to 2014 versus a 4.2% CAGR in supply. These dynamics bode well for future ADR increases given average rate in Manhattan was 4.7% below the 2008 peak as of December 2014, indicating that a runway remains for rates to rise.

Further supporting our constructive view of New York is the city's robust off this market. 2014 was the strongest year for the office market since the financial crisis with steep declines in vacancy, positive absorption – with steep declines in vacancy, positive absorption and a 10-year high in new large block leasing activity. Since the prior peak, New York City's corporate base has meaningfully diversified from financial services to technology, advertising, media and information. The emergence of what is known as the TAMI enterprises is transforming the office market with migration to submarket south and west in Manhattan where we have a significant presence with assets that meet the current taste and preferences of TAMI workers. Additionally, the expected delivery of 16 million square feet of additional office space in Downtown and at Hudson Yards through 2018 which is approximately the same amount of office space in Boston's Back Bay and Financial District's total inventory will generate substantial additional room night demand to absorb new hotel supply.

While Ashish will discuss our Manhattan portfolio's 2015 performance to-date in his remarks, I want to touch on the strengthening dollar and its related impact on international demand in our New York City portfolio. Overall, the international contribution to our total room revenue in New York City during 2014 was 18.5% which represented a 2.4% decline year-over-year as international business was displaced by higher rated domestic leisure and corporate transient business. Canada and Brazil continue to command the highest share of international demand at our New York properties followed by France and Great Britain. However, what is important to keep in mind is that no one country represented more than 2.1% of our total room revenue in the New York City with Eurozone countries accounting for only 3.1% of total room revenue in our New York portfolio.

Much has been said with regards to a stronger U.S. dollar negatively impacting inbound international travel to the United States. While we are cognizant of the potential slowdown in international travel in the short term, our long-standing view on the significance of international travel is firm, as international visitation to the U.S. continues to be – expected to increase at a 4.5% CAGR through 2019.

A subject often lost within the discussion of new supply in Manhattan and the impact of the stronger dollar on operating metrics but one that is especially a meaningful for our Manhattan portfolio is the market's rising the real estate values. There's significant international private capital targeting well located cash flow and real estate in top U.S. gateway markets. Foreign investors purchased $45 billion of U.S. commercial real estate in 2014. Second only to $47 billion purchased in 2007.

This interest has led to recent select service transactions in excess of $650,000 per key which remains below prior peak and certain full service hotels trading north of $1 million per key. Despite the noise surrounding supply growth and headwinds from the stronger dollar, these factors have not affected the values of hotels in Manhattan. The land now accounts for approximately half of the value of a hotel in Manhattan and new construction of a select service hotel [ph] implies (13:31) a cost base of approximately $500,000 per room depending on location.

These metrics supported net asset value for our Manhattan portfolio that continues to meaningfully rise in a truly deep and recognizable global gateway market. We entered 2015 with a bullish view of the lodging cycle and our high quality urban trends in hotel portfolios growth potential. Our year will be focused on harvesting the EBITDA embedded in our young and ramping hotels while taking a very disciplined approach to external growth in markets in which we have strong conviction and where we can truly create operational advantage.

While the first quarter in New York City is seasonally the weakest, the year faces a difficult comparison from last year's Super Bowl and its related activities and reduced citywide activity. As in prior years, performance in Manhattan is expected to stabilize in the latter part of the first quarter and into the second quarter. These factors while a short term challenge do not change our long-term conviction given Manhattan's continued preeminence as a financial, cultural and technological hub, its rising real estate values and demand that continues to outstrip supply.

With that, we'll bring my portion of the call to a close and turn to Ashish to provide additional color and context to our financial results. Ashish?

Great. Thanks, Jay. Good morning, everyone.

At the close of 2014, for the first time in 10 years, Hersha did not have any development loans outstanding, assets held for sale or ground-up construction in progress on our balance sheet. Completion of these multi-year initiatives allowed us to more clearly demonstrate the EBITDA run rate potential for our high quality urban transient portfolio going forward.

For the full year 2014, we delivered adjusted EBITDA of $162.5 million, adjusted FFO of $102.8 million and portfolio-wide consolidated RevPAR of a $155.19. In each case, the highest levels reported on an annual basis in the company's history. Cash flow growth from the ramp-up and stabilization of strategic acquisitions and development projects delivered into the company's consolidated portfolio allowed us to increase our common dividend in September to $0.07 per share, representing an annual dividend of $0.28 per share.

During the fourth quarter, comparable hotel EBITDA increased 8% or $3 million to $39.8 million aided by contributions from our newly acquired and developed assets in South Florida and on the West Coast.

In the fourth quarter, Parrot Key Hotel & Resort in Key West and Hotel Milo in Santa Barbara, delivered approximately $2.5 million in hotel EBITDA while results of the Cadillac Courtyard Miami Beach continued to benefit from the opening of the new Ocean Tower and ongoing stabilization of the existing hotel. The Cadillac generated an incremental $1 million in EBITDA during the fourth quarter as a result of 13.7% ADR driven RevPAR growth and 540 basis points of margin expansion.

In Manhattan, our two new assets: the Hilton Garden Inn Midtown East and the Hampton Inn Downtown Financial District, collectively produced $3.1 million in EBITDA in the fourth quarter. Both properties continued to stabilize as expected, reporting very strong occupancy of approximately 97% and 90% respectively in the fourth quarter.

Moving now to our EBITDA margins. For the full year 2014, we delivered very strong absolute margins of 37.7%, an increase of 80 basis points. In the fourth quarter, our New York City portfolio reported robust EBITDA margins of 43.5% however the fourth quarter EBITDA margin growth in New York was challenged, as our quarterly RevPAR growth was primarily occupancy driven.

Fourth quarter occupancy in our New York City portfolio reached 93.5% as a result of strong demand in both Manhattan and the outer-borough. However, there was limited ADR growth from mid November through the end of the year which is one of the strongest leisure demand periods in the city. And as we have seen historically, leisure demand is much more price sensitive, as compared to business transient and travel. In addition, increased property taxes, specifically at Hyatt Union Square, which was reassessed from a development asset to an operational asset, negatively impacted margin performance.

Offsetting margin performance in New York City was solid EBITDA margin growth in our Boston, West Coast Philadelphia and Washington DC clusters, which all registered more than 200 basis points of margin expansion during the fourth quarter.

Moving to CapEx. Our total 2014 CapEx spend was approximately $38 million with normal [ph] hip renovation (18:18) and maintenance CapEx totaling approximately $23 million while large scale redevelopment projects such as the Rittenhouse and Residence Inn Coconut Grove accounted for the remaining $15 million. Each of these properties have shown positive results to-date in 2015, benefiting from enhanced market positioning in competitive set share gains post renovation. At present, we have standard renovations ongoing at Hotel Milo, the Hilton Garden Inn Tribeca and the Sheraton JFK, and have nearly completed major renovations at our Residence Inn Coconut Grove.

At this point in the cycle, all of our large scale return on investment initiatives are complete, with our total CapEx spend expected to decline significantly to between $18 million and $22 million in 2015. Our balance sheet remains in great shape, providing us ample flexibility to capitalize on opportunities in the market while executing our business plan. We finished 2014 with approximately $22 million in cash with minimal debt maturities in 2015.

As we've discussed in our third quarter call in November, we are actively working on refinancing portions of our debt at attractive terms from a rate, proceeds and duration standpoint. At the end of 2014, we refinanced debt at our Hilton Garden Inn in Tribeca. The new $46.5 million floating rate mortgage which matures in 2019 was priced at 30-day LIBOR plus 230 basis points or approximately 2.5% on an all-in basis. This compares very favorably to the assets previous fixed rate mortgage of 8.25%. We also completed the financing of the Capitol Hill Hotel in January at similar terms and we'll continue to pursue opportunities to refinance our existing secured debt to take advantage of current market conditions.

Prior to discussing our 2015 guidance, let me first discuss what we're currently seeing across our portfolio and our major markets. Quarter-to-date as of February 15, our comparable hotel portfolio has seen RevPAR increase by 6.5% while our total consolidated portfolio registered 9.2% RevPAR growth. On a market specific basis, our comparable New York portfolio, our Manhattan portfolio reported RevPAR decline of 7.5%, negatively impacted by the difficult comparison to last year's Super Bowl, in addition to reduced citywide activity in January where we do not see two major citywide repeat this year.

We noticed an improvement of our trends in February compared to January results in New York, and our forecasting improvement as we move through the remainder of the quarter especially in March. Our best performing markets quarter-to-date have been our West Coast, South Florida and DC Metro properties which registered comparable property RevPAR of 33%, 20% and 17%, respectively.

Taking together and despite headwinds in New York City, we feel very good about our portfolios, first quarter trajectory and look forward to providing additional detail in terms of our performance on our next quarterly conference call.

In terms of our guidance, we presented our detailed 2015 guidance in the earnings release published yesterday. I won't repeat all of the guidance provided but a few of the highlights include consolidated RevPAR growth of 6% to 8% with 75 basis points to 125 basis points of margin growth and a comparable store RevPAR growth range of 5% to 6% with 50 basis points to 100 basis points margin growth. We've also initiated EBITDA guidance to be in the range of $176 million to $180 million with FFO per diluted share between $0.56 to $0.58 per share. So as we've done in the past, we'll continue to monitor our portfolio performance and the economic outlook as we progress through remainder of the year and we'll update our guidance accordingly.

This now concludes my portion of the call. We can now proceed to Q&A where Jay, Neil and I will be happy to address any questions that you may have. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go to our first question from Chris Woronka of Deutsche Bank.

Hey good morning guys.

Good morning.

Want to ask you on the New York exposure, what is your kind of lead time on those bookings? I know the inherit nature of your assets is a little bit shorter term relative to some of those bigger box with a group component. So I'm trying to get a sense as to – on your international visitors, how far do they typically book out?

Chris, this is Neil. Our booking window is pretty short in our kind of highly transient focused portfolio but international demand often is booked far in advance. A lot of it is leisure oriented, a lot of it is pretty value oriented. And so there are – in certain kinds of leisure, tour groups [indiscernible] (23:46) booking as far as six months in advance.

So I think we will see – we're still sensitive to seeing impacts for the summer. I don't think we've been able to gauge that or access that just yet. It's the short-term that we've seen very little impact from any kind of international demand. But moving out into the summer period, it's something that we continue to look for and watch.

Okay, understood. And then just as a follow up. I think you guys did really nice job with the sales of [ph] 370 (24:18) last year. Can you comment on whether you kind of as a routine matter of businesses are getting inbound calls about other New York assets?

Chris, there's a lot of interest today in the marketplace for New York City lodging assets. And I think select service assets in particular are one of the kind of favorite investment opportunities in New York for a wide range of buyers. I think that's what's been interesting across the last few years, is to see not only kind of other public REITs active in the space, private equity, family offices, non-traded REITs and increasingly just international buyers from Asia. So, it's a pretty wide marketplace of buyers for it.

We have been getting a lot of inbound inquiries from a range of those kinds of groups. And I think it's a pretty liquid market. I think that's what makes us – we don't push to sell button easily because we do expect that market to remain robust for some time. And so we're trying to judge whether an asset has the ability to generate outperformance in its submarket whether there is any eminent kind of capital needs or anything to kind of inform our judgment.

So on 373 Fifth Avenue, it's a pretty clear and easy decision. As we think of other assets within our New York City portfolio, [indiscernible] (25:48) that we're absolutely open to. But unless we had a very compelling use of proceeds or something sensitive in a particular sub market, it's not something that we're actively pursuing today.

Okay. That's it from me. Very good. Thanks.

And we'll move on to our next question from Anthony Powell of Barclays.

Hi, good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Anthony.

On your guidance, first of all, your year-to-date performance on a comparable basis was pretty good. Given the 6.5% increase so far and a very tough operating environment, your 5% to 6% growth for the rest of the year seems pretty conservative. How do you look at rest of the year trending on a quarterly basis given your performance so far this year?

Sure. As I mentioned, we've had a strong 45 days in most of our markets. And as we look out through the rest of the year, I think it's important to recognize usually our first quarter only accounts for about 12% of our FFO for the full year. So there are some headwinds that the industry faces with FX that maybe weren't there last year but the demand-supply outlook overall looks very good for the country that overall business transient, travel, leisure transient for our portfolios continues to be very strong.

So I think that at this point, we feel comfortable with our guidance range and certainly if we at the end of the first quarter and during our second quarter call we feel that the trends have improved materially, we'll adjust it at that time.

All right, great. [indiscernible] (27:33) on New York, the occupancy rates keep climbing up at your hotels year-over-year. What customer segments are you seeing visiting your hotels more? And what's been driving the overall just growth and demand on the customer segment basis? Thank you.

I think we're getting to the point in our ramp-up at a lot of our newer hotels and even on our more stabilized properties where we're starting to now move kind of market mix at our hotels and attract more corporate demand during the week, attracting a higher end leisure guest during the weekends where we used to rely a lot on foreign international travel groups and tour groups. We can now find shorter booking windows, less value oriented and more compression oriented business. There isn't a kind of – I can't give you one or two segments that are the clear outperformers but we're just getting to the point in demand in some of these markets and where our occupancy levels are that we can be choosy with the customers we get, reducing our reliance on discount channels on the OTAs and the like and going for more corporate and other brand-related domestic leisure.

Got it. A quick follow-up to that. So on average, what rate is international customer paying relative to, say, a corporate transient or a high-end leisure traveler? And that's it from me. Thank you.

Such a hard one. That's really hard. At the lowest end of the international leisure market there can be group tour series as low as [ph] $129 (29:23) at times but there's also higher end international groups and there's also a lot of just international transients. So, I can't give you a lot of color there.

Yeah. As Neil said, it really varies by season time and the week and with whatever else is going on in the city. But New York will do close to $220 RevPAR. And so we kind of look for where everything converges into the RevPAR number and kind of juggle mix accordingly.

Okay. And we'll move on to our next question from Ryan Meliker of MLV & Company.

Hey. Good morning, guys. First of all, thanks for the color on the 1Q today trends. I think that's really helpful. I know there are lot of guys out there that are particularly concerned surrounding the New York numbers that have been coming in.

So with that backdrop I guess, can you guys give us a little bit more color or at least the breakup of within your 5% to 6% same-store RevPAR guidance where you're expecting New York to come out over the course of the year. I know, Ashish, you gave some good color that you think that the worst is behind you and things will get better from here. But how much better?

We're looking at it, Ryan. Similar to last year, if you remember New York City for our portfolio, the entire New York market was down 5% in the first quarter. The Manhattan was down just about 50 basis points. And as you mentioned, we ended up, up 5% RevPAR growth for the Manhattan market for the year.

I think that the first quarter is going to be trending similar to last year from a RevPAR perspective or RevPAR loss perspective. So we would anticipate that if New York is kind of low-single digit this year that we can continue our outperformance by 200 basis points to 300 basis points. That's how we are looking at the city.

Okay. That's helpful. And then with regards to your other markets. Obviously, you've had a very strong quarter to date. Were there any soft comps in there or onetime items that really whether it be big conventions that really drove some of those numbers that you wouldn't expect to recur throughout the rest of the year, or are you really looking at that type of robust level of growth in the other core markets that are not in New York?

Sure. We had some renovation activity last year that we're benefiting from, something like the Courtyard Miami with the new Ocean Tower, the Courtyard Los Angeles; some of that just was displaced last year. So we're getting a benefit but at the same time we're seeing renovation activity that's impacting our portfolio at Hotel Milo at Hilton Garden Inn Tribeca, at Sheraton JFK.

So I think that's a little bit of an offset. We think that the trend in the rest of our portfolio remained strong this year. Although they may not be as strong as the first 45 days, as some of the comps get more difficult.

And then shifting back to New York with regards to top line. You guys gave some good color on longer term bookings for some of the international guests that you tend to accommodate. Have you seen any trends, slowing in those international bookings over the past few months? Obviously, that won't necessarily show up in your numbers in the next couple of months but maybe as you look into the summer and fall timeframe.

Ryan, as of now, we've had no really discernible impact from the dollar in New York City or throughout our portfolio. New York is our most international – our hotels in New York have more international bookings, close to about 20%, than any other part of our portfolio. And so it's the only one that we've seen any kind of impact but it's been very, very minimal.

I think any kind of slowdown in any of the kind of European booking patterns has been offset when you look at [ph] employment data (33:58) has been offset by Asian and South America travel as Jay and Ashish mentioned. Canada and Brazil are actually our biggest contributors in New York City. So we are cautious but as of now there has been no discernible impact from the strong dollar.

I think overall the U.S. is increasing its share of the global travel market from all over the world and that's going to continue to be a secular trend, that's going to be a tailwind for us generally and broadly across New York, Miami and LA.

Okay. That's helpful. And then one last one from me. Yesterday Sunstone mentioned that they're expecting property margins at their New York assets to be down materially and impacting their 2015 overall portfolio margin by 30 basis points. I know their assets are full service and have more union-type cost structures but any thoughts on how you're expecting your margins in New York to play out this year?

Ryan, as we look at New York, I think that for us it is difficult to push our New York City margins. As I mentioned, we are well into the 40%-plus range for New York City EBITDA margin. What we see now is a greater percent of our mix in 2015. It's expected to be rate base. We rent 94% occupancy year-round in New York last year.

So even if we wanted to, there is no room to push occupancy. And we certainly don't want to at this point. So we're going to try our best to push rates as much as we can to drive margins. The offsets are not so much on the operating expense side for us but really it's impacts property taxes that will continue to make it a challenge to push margins in New York City.

Got you. But you're not necessarily expecting them to be down materially either, doesn't sound like?

Yeah. Not outside of the first quarter. I think the first quarter with a lot of the loss being rate base loss in New York, we would expect them to be negative, but certainly not after that.

Ryan, this is Jay, I'll give you just an added piece of color. In the last two months of 2014 when we started seeing ADRs to wane a little bit on a year-over-year basis – and what I wanted to do is just highlight a little bit of our asset management strategies and our collaborative approach with our operators – so I think December maybe that's probably the easiest example, so in December we started noticing that we weren't going to be coming in at the rates we had expected.

So we had in New York a 4.4% sort of ADR slowdown. So in response to that, on a real time basis, we were able to reduce our [ph] A&G and A&P (37:02) expenses in the market, totaling close to 100 basis points of revenue. And that's something that we can do by consolidating positions, leaving certain positions open, retiming of advertising and promotional initiatives that we're doing in the marketplace.

We were also able to drop in December our cost per occupied room on a rooms labor basis by $1.42 in New York. And so I guess the point I'm making is we've got enough scale in New York and we've got a strong relationship with our operators, and our asset managers worked very closely with them to really monitor where we're going to come out on margins on a quarter-by-quarter basis. And so I think that very, very close focus on a portfolio with scale and synergies allows us to manage that, as about as well as you might be able to in a market that's facing some challenges.

That's really helpful color. Thanks a lot, Jay. I appreciate that. That's all from me.

And we'll take our next question from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Jay, Ashish, I was curious, you guys do a lot of detailed supply work in terms of what you're seeing in your own forecasts for New York. So I was just curious if you could give us a little bit more color on what you think the mix of limited service hotel openings are going to be versus more boutique independent that you may not compete with as directly as we sort of think about 2015 and 2016?

Shaun, this is Neil. I think from what we've seen from research and from what we're looking at that most of the new supplies, 40%, 42% of the new supply until 2017 is limited service. And so, today's Manhattan marketplace is about 35% limited service or select service that compares to national levels that are around 50%. You'll remember how much that's changed across the last 10 years. But now it is nearly 35% of the inventory is Manhattan, it's limited service, 55% across the U.S., 43% of the new supply coming in is limited service.

I'm not sure – I think any supply in a submarket is competitive to a certain extent. I think we're getting to a place in the industry and how consumers look at these hotels where it's very hard to -unless you're comparing to a large group hotel – I think that whether it's limited service, whether it's lifestyle, whether it's a full service hotel but just not one with lot of conference and meeting space, it's competitive. But that's the data that we've seen so far.

That's helpful, Neil.

I think Shaun, Neil, one thing I'd just add I think it's the submarkets where they come that is what's most kind of telling in terms of performance and the like, where we've seen most of the supply in the last several years come into the Times Square market, nearly 65% to 70% of the new supplies come into that market generally or broadly speaking. And that has made it much more difficult in the Times Square market to push rates.

Other markets, the other submarkets like Midtown East haven't had nearly that level of supply. Lower Manhattan in the coming couple of years is expecting more supply but hasn't had as much across the last several years. And I think it's really the location of where the supply is coming that has the greater impact than the segment of supply that's entering.

Got it. That's all very helpful. And then just thinking about your -I guess the behavior of other competitors in the market. So in each year, you start to run into a lot of new competitors that may not be as familiar with the seasonal vagaries of New York. So are you seeing meaningful rationale discounting in Q1 driving some of the underperformance, or would you actually characterize the market as decently rational and then some more because of just the convention comp, Super Bowl, et cetera?

Maybe rational, but it is – they're trying to get to a fair share of occupancy sooner than they think about their fair share of rate. And I think that's just a natural tendency when you're opening a hotel in New York. It's just so significant, the impact of it. But in the first six months to a year of a new hotel's opening, a lot of the new operators and new hotel owners are pushing for occupancy. It makes it very difficult to push rate in those first years of new openings.

Got it. Last question would be, I've heard one or two guys who do focus on New York exclusively, actually mentioned Airbnb. And I was curious at the highest level, and I know it's kind of impossible to analyze, but do you actually think that's an impact on New York or any specific submarkets in New York?

I don't believe so at all. At least in Manhattan, it's not a major impact. I think there's a lot of Airbnb inventory in Brooklyn and Queens. And I think there might be some impact there that might be measurable but in Manhattan we don't believe it's an impact today or even likely to be.

It's a much more value oriented consumer. It's a consumer that is booking out three months in advance generally. It's a consumer that usually requires accommodation for multiple people. So it's two or three people in a party, not really the Manhattan hotel customer base. And most of the inventory is again in Queens and Brooklyn and in areas outside of the core New York City hotel locations.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

And we'll take our next question from David Loeb of Baird.

Good morning, everybody. I wanted to go back to some of the comments that Neil you made at the beginning of the Q&A about values in New York. And really just ask you in that context where values are for your portfolio where prices are as you look for acquisitions in your target markets and where your stock price is relative to the value of the portfolio. How are you looking at the trade-off between acquisitions and stock buybacks? And what are your latest thoughts about what level you might be interested in buying back stock?

I can start with the first of it, David. I think in terms of just the acquisitions market generally – well, let me start with the very first part of your question which was New York City. Well, there's been a significant amount of trades now across the last six to 12 months in Manhattan's select service assets trading between $500,000 and $650,000 per key. We feel that there will be even more trades in that neighborhood across 2015 and we do expect there to be significant EBITDA growth in New York City. And so we see that continuing to increase across the next several years.

On the full service side in Manhattan, we're seeing trades or assets being marketed between $800,000 a key on the low side and as high as $2 million a key for the Baccarat recently. And we're expecting to see a lot of product in the market in that way in trading and transacting. I think broadly speaking about the acquisitions market generally, we think of it as being kind of in this fourth, fifth inning of the lodging market. And at that point in the market and the cycle, I think it's great to be an owner, really strong internal growth.

For acquisitions, it's a little bit more difficult. I think low interest rates are driving a lot of leverage buyers and so there's some opportunity in highly financed transactions. I don't think the cost of capital advantage is driving acquisitions for public REITS or for folks like us. So there's always some kind of redevelopment or value add to create value from acquisitions at this point from what we're seeing.

We're in an environment where we're preparing somewhat maybe for interest rates to go up. I think there's – a lot of the private equity buyers out there, they're really focused on the high yield select service kind of assets or a lot of them are now chasing opportunities in Europe where they're earlier in the cycle and the like. So I kind of feel like there could be an opportunity on the single asset side for pricing to get more attractive as the year goes on in the acquisitions market. But at this stage, transactions remain pretty complicated. There's lots of other kind of mixed use real estate to it. There's ground leases often encumbering these new opportunities, a lot of them require pretty significant disruptive repositioning place.

So in that kind of environment, we remain active in our six markets looking at opportunities but we continue to hold a very high threshold for external kind of growth. We feel really good about our existing portfolio and the embedded growth in it. And so for us to do something, to acquire something we're looking for, as Jay mentioned we're looking for it to be accretive to cash flow almost immediately and for it to have an EBITDA growth profile that looks like our existing portfolio, which is generating kind of 10% plus kind of EBITDA growth. And we're looking for higher quality assets. If we're going to make an acquisition today, I think as the cycle goes on, it's higher quality assets will give better store value.

So in that environment we're looking but holding a very high threshold. Last year, we were in a very similar position. And we looked at the market in a very similar way. We were able to find a handful of acquisitions that met our criteria. So we're hopeful that there could be opportunities this year but nothing imminent today. And as you said, we do think of buying back stock or returning capital to shareholders through dividends and other strategies for creating value just as well as acquisitions.

David, this is Jay. Relative to your question regarding stock buybacks following up on what Neil said, we last bought back stock in that $5.80 to $6 range when we felt that we were at a material discount to where we thought our NAV should be. I think as we kind of look ahead here, if we find that the market possesses less confidence than we do, and the math makes sense, we are still very open to buying back stock. We kind we take a look at that on a very regular day to day basis. I don't know that we have a specific set plan on how much to buy back or one that we are prepared to share. It is something that we continue to look at very closely here. Certainly stock buyback right now for Hersha looks fairly attractive, so I'll leave it at that.

So just to kind of follow up and then maybe try to pinch in for corner a little more, Jay. Given the context Neil just described where acquisitions are expensive, there could be opportunities but your stock looks attractive relative to the opportunities that you see; at $6.50, all of the things being equal, do you think your stock is a better buy than what you're seeing on the acquisition market today?

Yes, certainly it's better than most acquisitions we're seeing out there today. Yes.

Okay. And it doesn't necessarily mean you would be a buyer at $6.50 but all of the things being equal you do see that as an attractive alternative and it sounds like you're considering that regularly, is that fair?

Yes, that's fair, yeah.

Okay, great. Thank you. I appreciate the clarity.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from Wes Golladay of RBC Capital Markets.

Yeah. Good morning, guys. With all this focus on New York, is there any other pockets of weakness we should be aware for the rest of the year?

Hey, Wes, this is Ashish. Pockets of weakness from a portfolio standpoint?

No, not just for the industry [indiscernible] (51:00) on a weekly basis, and we all have this worry about the international travel slowing, so we'll probably extrapolate any kind of weakness which could be related to a convention that was not reoccurring as potential weakness because of the dollar slowing travels. So I just wonder is there any other bogies out there for the rest of the year that is material in nature?

This is kind of a unique one maybe – but maybe the package tour operators and the package tour kind of segment of the business. Just with consolidation and the Expedia-Orbitz of the world, maybe there's some pressure on hotels that rely on that marketplace.

Okay. But no big large conventions last year there or seasonality, holidays that we should be aware of in any particular month this year?

Our markets it's actually, we have some good confidence for this year. The DC submarket both the urban and the suburban market is strong. The convention calendar is going to get stronger across the next several years in DC but it's starting to produce and government spending is clearly on a significant rebound. And we're seeing that really our suburban DC hotels is really taking off.

In San Diego, the convention calendar isn't great but we've been able to show some very significant growth based on the conventions that are there and how you can compress on those as well as attracting other business.

San Diego has been getting more international travel than it ever has before. It's been the highest growth international travel market. A lot of their travel comes from Canada but they also get some European business. It's still less than 5% of our revenue. But there is some international demand there. But I think that, again I think it's the kind of secular growth and international travel will offset any kind of dollar impact in that kind of market.

The Boston market has a very strong both convention outlook as well as – just general business trends there very strong both in the Downtown area as well as in the few suburbs that we're in there.

Most of the news is very positive around the country. Generally, corporate trends has continued to be strong and we don't see any real bogies that aren't offset by just continued demand increases. Bay Area are also quite strong for us. So yes I guess the short answer to your question is no.

Okay, that's good. And what do you think the appetite to start new development is in Manhattan? You mentioned the delays are pushing out some projects, and the rising land costs and somewhat offsetting that is the rising price that can sell the asset at. But how do you see the dynamics of the rising costs versus the asset price appreciation playing out for a pipeline at 2017 and 2018?

Yeah, no, that's a good point. I think the land prices continue to increase in Manhattan. They've been on steep increasing trajectory for the last three or four years. And today it is very difficult to find any development opportunities where you can deliver for less than $500,000 per key. And that's really hard and soft cost. You really have to add a significant premium on top of that for risk or time, bandwidth and the like.

So I think it's at least $500,000 a key to build a mid-block select service asset, to build a full service or even kind of lifestyle kind of asset. On a corner in a good submarket, it's $1 million kind of a key, kind of value. So I think that on one hand, the value of hotels in New York, we believe is going to continue to increase because there is such a deep buying group and increasing new formation of capital in Asia that are aggressively targeting New York City opportunities.

So I think the values will continue to increase. But what will mitigate the ability for developers to keep chasing them is that the values for retail office and residential are growing at an even faster rate than lodging values. And so the competition for sites, for the few remaining sites that are in Manhattan less than – I read something six months ago, it was less than 3% of the buildable land, available sites in Manhattan were still available for land for development.

But for those few sites that are available, there is the competition from residential developers or from retail developers who will usually be too much for hotel developers to compete we believe. So there is a bunch of projects that are in the ground or have already been financed and secured and equity and those will continue. They will go through the usual construction delays of major projects in New York City. We generally take three to five years from start to finish to complete. But we believe that there will be a significant fall-off after this current pipeline of projects delivers. So we've experienced close to 5% new supply in 2014 which we view as kind high-water mark. And we see supply falling off in the next couple of years to around 4%. And then after that point for it to fall back to traditional New York City supply levels of 2%.

All right. Thanks a lot, guys. Appreciate all the color.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I will turn the conference back to Mr. Jay Shah for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you all for being with us this morning. Neil, Ashish and I are in the office all day. So if any questions occur to anyone afterwards, please feel free to call us. Thanks again. Have a good morning.

And that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation.