raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust


Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Following today's presentation instructions will be given for the question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded Monday, August


8, 2005. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Daly, Vice President of the Daly


Group Public Relations.


Chris Daly, Vice President of Daly Group Public Relations


Thanks Matt. Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2005 conference call for


Hersha Hospitality Trust. Earlier today Hersha Hospitality Trust released its results, and I hope that


each of you has had the time to review them. If you have not received the copy of the press


release, please free to contact my office at 703-435-6293, and we will be happy to fax or email your


copy immediately. Today's conference call is being transmitted live via telephone. A recording of


this call will be available via telephone beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today


through midnight on August 15, 2005, by dialing 800-405-2236, reference number 11035813#. This


conference call is a property of Hersha Hospitality Trust. Any new redistribution, retransmission or


rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Hersha Hospitality Trust


is prohibited.


Before we begin today’s discussion of 2005 second quarter, management has asked me to make a


cautionary comment regarding forward-looking statements. This conference call may contain


forward-looking statements that reflects Hersha Hospitality Trust plans and expectations, including


the company's anticipated results for operations, joint ventures and capital investment. These


forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that


may cause the company's actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to be


materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position


expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are detailed in this


morning's press release and time to time in the company's SEC filings. For any additional


information on the company, please free to visit their website at www.hersha.com.


It is now my pleasure to introduce the senior executives from Hersha Hospitality Trust participating


in today’s call. Making formal remarks are Jay Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer and


Ashish Parikh, Chief Financial Officer. Also available during the question-and-answer period will be


Neil Shah, Executive Vice President of Acquisitions.


At this point, I would like to turn it over to Jay Shah. Jay?


Jay Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Chris, and good morning everyone. The second quarter of 2005 was an active one at


Hersha. We acquired [ph] seven hotels, formed a joint venture to acquire nine more and laid the


ground work for $60 million follow-on preferred stock offering, which successfully closed on August


5. We reported strong operating results for the quarter with portfolio wide double digit revenue per


available room or RevPAR growth of 13.3%. System wide, our occupancy increased 8.3% with an


average daily rate or ADR improvement of 4.6%.


We achieved portfolio wide gross operating profit margins of 47.2% in the 2005 second quarter, an


increase of approximately 600 basis points from the same period prior year. This represented a
raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


62.1% flow through of incremental revenue to operating margins. The significant margin gains are


indicative of the embedded value in the portfolio that we continue to realize with the ramp up of our


young same store portfolio. The margin growth was further supported by the acquisition of several


stabilized properties since the second quarter of 2004.


Our acquisitions team had a particular productive quarter, as we closed on or contracted to


purchase 17 properties. We completed the acquisition of five hotel portfolio, consisting of 480


rooms here in the Philadelphia and Wilmington metros. We purchased or just opened 136-room


Hampton Inn, Manhattan-Herald Square, which had virtually no ramp up, moving almost


immediately to peak operations. It produced excellent returns in the second quarter. We also


acquired the 188-room Courtyard in Brookline, Massachusetts, driving submarket of Boston.


All seven acquisitions were accretive in the second quarter. The Manhattan-Herald Square asset


will leverage the already robust market there and the Boston and Philadelphia metro acquisitions


are particularly timely, considering that our experience is showing that both markets typically lag


New York City and Washington DC in recovery.


All of our second quarter acquisitions will deliver strong upside going forward. During this period we


also sold two hotels that we identified as having less long-term market viability. We divested the 79-


room Holiday Inn Express in Long Island City, because we felt that the hotel had achieved most of


its growth potential, and we also saw the potential for new competition on the drawing board and


felt that this was a good time to exit that market.


We also sold the 110-room Doubletree Club at JFK Airport. We ultimately decided that, that


although the market is currently performing well, the single airport demand generator justified


limiting our exposure there to our $13.85 million mortgage loan on the market leading 196 room


Hilton Garden Inn where we have a first right of refusal of the purchase.


In June, we ended into a joint venture with Waterford Hospitality Group to form Mystic Partners,


LLC which will acquire our portfolio of nine Hilton and Marriott branded hotels totaling 1,707 rooms.


The properties are located in the West Connecticut and Rhode Island markets with very hard


barriers to new competition. Hersha is acquiring a two-third preferred equity interest in the seventh


stabilized properties which includes three Residence Inns, two Courtyards, and one SpringHill


Suites at a value of $115,000 per key. The four-year old Marriott Hotel in Mystic, Connecticut round


up the stabilized portfolio.


The stabilized portfolio has an average age of four years and is being acquired as an approximately


8.5 year one cap rate or 10.5 times forward EBITDA multiple. We expect to close on this portion of


the portfolios also dimensionally perhaps as early as today. We acquired a 50% interest in two


newly developed properties that are also part of the Waterford portfolio. The newly build 409 room


Marriott Convention Center Hotel Hartford and the 392 room Hilton Hartford which underwent a


deep turnaround renovation.


The Marriott is a part of the Adrian [ph] Landing Mix Use project which includes retail and


residential components in addition to being connected to the newly constructed Connecticut


Convention Center, which opened just a month ago. The Hilton is connected to the Hartford Civic


Center. The Convention Center Marriott is expected to open this month and the Hilton open in the


spring of this year. We will be closing on these two assets in the third or early in the fourth quarter


of '05.


In our development loan program Hersha currently has $50 million in construction loans with an


average annualized interest rate of 10% on seven separate hotels.


As I have mentioned before our development loan program has two very valuable features, first it


allow us to deploy capital at accretive levels and secondly it offers us a first right of refusal on off