corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust Second


Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We


will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator


instructions]. As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.


With that, I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference, Mr.


Brad Cohen. You may proceed.


Brad Cohen, Integrated Corporate Relations


Thank you, Doris . I wanted to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking


statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section


21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and as amended by the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995.


These forward looking statements reflect Hersha Hospitality’s plans and expectations, including the


company’s anticipated results of operations, joint ventures and capital investment.


These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors that may cause the company’s actual results, performance, achievements, or financial


predictions to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements, or


financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are


detailed in the company’s press release and from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings.


With that, let me turn the call over to Mr. Jay Shah, Chief Executive Officer. Jay?


Jay H. Shah, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Brad. Good morning, everyone. Joining me today on the call are Neil Shah, our


President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ashish Parikh, our Chief Financial Officer.


Let me begin by discussing four areas in which we made progress in the second quarter. First, we


saw some stabilization in our markets as the year-over-year decline in RevPAR improved from our


experience in the first quarter. Secondly, we started to benefit from the cost initiatives that we


implemented late in 2008. We also strengthened our balance sheet positioning us – balance sheet


positioning us well to ride out the remainder of this down cycle. And finally, we forged a relationship


with a strategic partner that gave us some financial flexibility in the near-term and a partner for a


joint venture and other alternative opportunities for the long-term.


The persisting economic recession continues to make this a very challenging operating


environment and this caused hotel demand to remain negative. However, there are some signs of


slight moderation and we remain confident that our strategic positioning with limited service hotels


in attractive urban markets combined with our cost containment efforts will help to mitigate the


stress of the current economic turmoil.


Our operating margins are among the highest in the industry and we expect that our performance


will continue to improve as the year progresses. Furthermore, we’ve executed on a multi-faceted


plan to generate liquidity and fortify our balance sheet with carefully targeted asset sales, timely


refinancings and the sale of stock to a strategic partner.
corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our top line results still reflect the operating environment and the many challenges that have been


negatively impacting the entire lodging sector. These results are a reminder of the ongoing difficult


year-over-year comparisons that we’ll face through the third quarter of this year.


Consolidated hotel RevPAR for the second quarter, including new acquisitions completed in 2008,


declined 17.4% as occupancy declined by 4.8 percentage points and rate fell 12%. Total


consolidated same-store second quarter RevPAR declined 19.2% in the quarter, and 19.6% year-


to-date. The quarterly RevPAR decline was comprised of a decrease in rate of 13.2% and a 5.4


percentage point reduction in occupancy.


Despite these challenges, our dramatically improved margins and the higher cash flow that we


delivered in the second quarter of 2009 relative to the first quarter are reflective of the expectations


we conveyed on our last earnings call.


In our most important market, New York City, we had a difficult year-over-year comparisons to the


second quarter of 2008, when our New York RevPAR was up 14.4% on a rate increase of 11.5%


and occupancy increase of 2.5%. In the second quarter of this year, our same-store New York


RevPAR was down 28.7% on a rate decline of 28.8% and a 10 basis point occupancy increase to


91.3%.


We think that it is a meaningful performance indicator. Despite the overall negative bias still


surrounding the New York urban market year-to-date, we’ve maintained more than a 91%


occupancy in our properties in New York. We’ve been able to continue to generate demand during


this downturn with our value – value-oriented brands and solid locations and are benefiting from our


selected limited service hotels from an operating perspective.


Despite an almost 29% decline in same-store RevPAR in the second quarter, we delivered an


EBITDA margin of 40.4%, and if you exclude property taxes, it was 47.9%.


The remainder of the portfolio is benefiting from our diversified market exposure. The Washington


DC region is currently one of the strongest in the country and we showed slightly positive year-


over-year occupancy. Occupancy at our Boston urban properties and our DC properties were


above 80% for the quarter. And in four of our regions, New York City, California and Arizona,


Boston and Philadelphia, the rate of year-over-year RevPAR deteriorations slowed from what we


experienced in the first quarter.


While occupancy has turned positive in some of our key markets and some of our properties, it is


not across the board yet. We were encouraged as we progressed through the quarter that the


occupancy stabilization trend continued and in the month of July we had positive occupancy


increases at many of the hotels. As this extends, we will continue to test our pricing power over the


next several quarters.


Furthermore, our cost containment efforts continue to contribute as we work to align them with


current revenues. We have successfully been implementing cost realignment efforts since the


beginning of 2008, the efficiency of our operations, our limited service portfolio, and our relatively


stable level of occupancy results and margins, both gross operating margins and EBITDA margins


that are well above the industry average.


Looking at our consolidated portfolio, gross operating margins were 48.5% in the second quarter,


which we believe is near the high end of the peer lodging rates with similar RevPAR.


Our second quarter EBITDA margins for the entire consolidated portfolio declined by approximately


304 basis points to 39% from the comparable quarter. The decline was driven in large part by


property tax increases as many of the properties had record performance in the first three quarters