raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust Third


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.


Following today's presentation, instructions will be given for the question and answer session.


[Operator instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday November


8 of 2005. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Daly, Vice President of Daly


Gray Public Relations. Please go ahead sir.


Chris Daly, Vice President of Daly Gray Public Relations


Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2005 conference call for


Hersha Hospitality Trust. Earlier today Hersha Hospitality Trust released its results. And I hope that


each of you has had a time to review them. If you did not receive a copy of the press release,


please contact my office at 703-435-6293 and we will be happy to fax or email you a copy. Today's


conference call is being transmitted live via telephone. A recording of this call will be available via


your telephone beginning at approximately 1 PM Eastern Time today through midnight on


November 15, 2005 by dialing 800-405-2236, reference number 11041651 followed by the ‘#’ sign.


This conference call is the property of Hersha Hospitality Trust and any redistribution,


retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express return consent of Hersha


Hospitality Trust is prohibited. Before we begin today's discussion of the 2005 third quarter,


management has asked me to make a precautionary comment regarding forward-looking


statements. This conference call may contain forward looking's statements that reflect Hersha


Hospitality Trust’s plans and expectations including the Company’s anticipated results of


operations, joint ventures and capital investments.


These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors that may cause the companies actual results, performance, achievements or financial


position to be materially different from any future results performance, achievements or financial


positions expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are detailed in


this morning’s press release and from time to time the companies SEC filings.


Allow me to please introduce the senior executives from Hersha Hospitality Trust participating in


today's call. Making formal remarks are Jay Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer; and


Ashish Parikh, Chief Financial Officer. Also available during the question-and-answer period will be


Neil Shah, Executive Vice President of Acquisitions.


Now, let me turn the call over to Jay Shah. Jay.


Jay H. Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Chris, and good morning everyone. For Hersha the third quarter of 2005 was one of our


most active since our IPO. We close in our joint venture investments in eight hotel properties with a


wide range of full and select service Marriott, Hilton-branded assets. Seven of these properties


were in the previously announced Mystic Partners JV with the Courtyard Marriott and South Boston


SBA.


Year-to-date we have acquired out right or acquired an interest in 18 properties in the Northeastern


corridor, a region that we continue to believe has a greatest long term potential for hotel ownership.


The median age of these properties is less than four years, creating a young portfolio with a
raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


balance of stabilize and ramp-up properties; great potential for growth through market expansion


and affective synergies in economies of scale. We experienced strong operating results for the


2005 third quarter. Our full portfolio enjoyed double digit RevPAR growth at 13.2% over the same


period last year. just a wide our occupancy increased 4.6% with average daily rate or ADR


improving 8.3%. Our full portfolio had gross operating profit margin of 46% in the 2005 third quarter,


up 50 basis points from the same period a year earlier. Overall margin improve due to strengthen of


our adjusting portfolio and due to the stabilization of several low assets margin were however


adversely impacted it some of our airport location due to write off-set related to airline bankruptcy


during the third quarter.


Our portfolio wide flow through was a strong 47.1%, and Ashish will provide more details shortly. As


previously mention, we added to our joint venture programs this quarter we believe that our partner


relationships often give way to future deal before they reach market. By affiliating with hotel


companies with strong ties and experience in their respective markets, we feel we participate in


very attractive markets with premium assets which solid developers and operators while


maintaining valuable downside protection for the rainy days. The Mystic Partners joint venture


announced in the second quarter is nearly complete.


In addition to closing on seven hotels during the third quarter, we have consummated the closing


on the 392-room Hilton Hartford in downtown Hartford Connecticut in the fourth quarter. We expect


to close on the final property in the Waterford portfolio the 409-room Marriott Hartford to downtown


before the end of this quarter. Also in this period our South Boston joint venture platform acquired


the 164-room Courtyard by Marriott that I mentioned before.


During the fourth quarter to date, we also completed the acquisition of the 118-room Holiday Inn


Express adjacent to the Courtyard in the same joint venture partnership. Hersha has purchased a


50% interest in both with Jiten Management our JV partner remaining in place of the operator. This


type of relationship allows us to acquire and develop premium brand hotels and high barrier


markets through partnerships with other experienced developers and operators. And we believe


these collaborations allow us to penetrate markets in identified properties where we might


otherwise not have had the opportunity. In this sellers market, our JV program has given us a leg


up on finding promising potential acquisitions before they reach the open market.


We continue to aggressively seek acquisitions, joint ventures and development opportunities


because we believe we still have considerable upside in this stage of the hotel cycle. Our hotels are


living up to our expectations and we believe all the acquisitions made this year will be accretive if


not immediately within the next 6 months to a year as they ramp up. We continue to have an active


pipeline focusing on premium branded properties in the North Eastern Corridor both in the select


and full service segments.


Let me just take a moment to share some RevPAR statistics on recent acquisitions, acquisitions we


made in the last quarter. Most of you are familiar with our Macintosh portfolio acquisition of five


properties which included a Marriott courtyard, three newly converted Holiday Inn Express’s and an


independent limited service hotel all situated in the Philadelphia metro area. These portfolio posted


an average RevPAR growth this period over the last period of $13.27 representing a growth of


RevPAR of 23% over the same period last year. Similarly the Brookline Marriott courtyard achieved


approximately a 6% increase in our first four months of operations which we believe will climb to


double digits in very short order. The third quarter on the year-to-date have been very strong for


Hersha and our outlook for 2006 is considerably stronger. Full year ownership of the portfolio that


we have gradually assembled this year and part of last year combined with ongoing ramp up of the


newer properties and overall industry strengths suggests substantial FFO growth for 2006.


Now let me turn the call over to Ashish Parikh to provide additional detail on third quarter


performance of ‘05, Ashish?