corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust, Third


Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We


will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator


instructions].


With that, I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference,


[inaudible]. Please go ahead.


Company Representative


Thank you. Good morning everyone. I want to remind everyone that this conference call contains


forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of


1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect Hersha


Hospitality Trust’s plans and expectations, including the company’s anticipated results of


operations, joint ventures and capital investment.


These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors that may cause the company’s actual results, performance, achievements, or financial


position to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements, or financial


position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are detailed in


the company’s press release and from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings.


With that, let me turn the call over to Mr. Jay Shah, Chief Executive Officer.


Jay H. Shah, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Joining me today on the call are Neil Shah, our Chief


Operating Officer; and Ashish Parikh, our Chief Financial Officer. I’m pleased to report that we’ve


made progress with our previously announced plans to enhance our liquidity and capital position in


addition to our ongoing asset management initiatives.


Let me first focus on our core operational results. On a relative basis, we delivered industry-leading


result with respect to both RevPAR and EBITDA margins. Although, the economic environment


remains challenging, the initial stabilization we started to see in the second quarter continued in our


key markets as the year-over-year declines in RevPAR moderated further during the second and


third quarter of this year.


Consolidated hotel RevPAR for the third quarter, including new acquisitions completed in 2008,


declined 14.8% as occupancy declined by 2.8 percentage points and the rate fell 11.6%. Total


consolidated same-store RevPAR declined 17.1% in the quarter and was comprised of a decrease


in rate of 12.9% and a 3.7 percentage point reduction in occupancy.


Turning to our most important market, New York City, the year-over-year rate of decline also


improved in the third quarter, compared to what the company experienced in the second quarter. In


the third quarter of this year, our same-store New York RevPAR was down 22.7% on a rate decline


of 26.7% and a 4.7% occupancy increase to 91.6%.


The key is that for the third quarter in a row we have posted occupancy in excess of 91%. By


sustaining strong occupancy, we have positioned the hotels to be able to drive rate ahead.
corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This speaks volumes are the benefit of owning select service assets in one of the strongest growth


markets in the country. Our hotels have been able to continue to generate demand, demonstrated


by the solid occupancy that we posted for the last three quarters.


Additionally, we have a number of newer properties, with still growing market share, which has


further contributed to our industry leading RevPAR results. We are well positioned to benefit from


continued demand stabilization and the initial return of pricing power, because of our exposure to


transient business. 90% of our market mix consists of transient business versus group business,


avoiding the need for us to displace low-rated group business that many of our peers have layered


into their hotels as a defensive measure when the consumer has had overwhelming bargaining


strength.


We have the ability to reprice almost all of our inventory on a daily basis. The advantageously high


transient mix in this environment, combined with the smaller sizes of our individual hotels and our


yield management efforts will allow us to respond efficiently to even slight fundamental recovery in


the markets in the months ahead.


Additionally in our same-store New York portfolio, despite an almost 23% decline in same-store


RevPAR, in the third quarter we delivered an EBITDA margin of 39.1%. Excluding the impact of


property taxes, we limited the year-over-year margin decline to a 158 basis points.


Looking beyond New York City, our diversification geographically is contributing to our results. Our


properties in the California, Arizona, Connecticut, Rhode Island and the Mid-Atlantic markets


outperformed the rest of our portfolio during the quarter with RevPAR declines in the 8 to 10%


range.


In seven out of our nine markets, we maintain occupancy levels that are approximately 70% or


higher in the quarter led by New York, New Jersey, Boston, California, Arizona, Central


Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic.


We are encouraged by the start of what we hope will be a trend, as we experienced stabilization in


occupancy that has continued through October at many of the hotels. As this extends, we still


anticipate that over the next few quarters we will begin to test our pricing power.


Furthermore as I mentioned earlier, our total portfolio of products mix is heavily weighted towards


transient guests, approximately 90% of the portfolio. And with transient leading recoveries


historically, Hersha is well positioned to benefit early from a recovery in demand.


One of the key attributes of selected limited service hotels is that they experience less cash flow


volatility during downturns and the limited fixed cost structure allows us to react quickly to the


environment to mitigate margin erosion.


As we have discussed previously, our asset management team has worked very closely with all of


our operators in implementing cost containment strategies to limit our operating margin erosion.


Helping to drive our industry-leading margin is our focus on high barrier to entry urban and


suburban clusters in the Northeast that benefit from multiple demand generators and drive high


occupancies for our portfolio.


These markets are well leveraged to the recovery and will see strong growth rates. Additionally, the


smaller size of our hotels, relative to big box hotels is a distinct advantage that allows us to yield


manage more effectively.


Taken together, our relatively stable level of occupancy, combined with a property-by-property cost


containment program is resulting in margin, both gross operating and EBITDA that are the highest