corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust First


Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We


will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator


instructions]


With that, I would now like to turn the presentation over to you host for today’s conference, Brad


Cohen with ICR. You may proceed.


Brad D. Cohen, Senior Managing Director, ICR


Thank you very much, Sunny. I want to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is amended by the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect Hersha Hospitality’s plans


and expectations, including the company’s anticipating results of operations, joint ventures, and


capital investments. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,


uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company’s actual results, performance,


achievements, or financial position to be materially different from any future results, performance,


achievements, or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.


These factors are detailed in the company’s press release and from time to time in the company’s


SEC filings.


With that, let me turn the call over to Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jay Shah. Jay?


Jay H. Shah, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Brad. Good morning, everyone. Joining me today on the call are Neil Shah, our Chief


Operating Operation, and Ashish Parikh, our Chief Financial Officer.


The first quarter of 2009 was a particularly challenging one for the company and the industry at


large. However, we don’t believe it to be reflective of our expectations for the remainder of the year.


The challenges were caused by a number of factors: the first is the difficult economic environment


which has been negatively impacting the entire lodging sector; second was the difficult year-over-


year comparisons to a record quarterly performance last year for the company; and third was the


impact of seasonality on our first quarter.


In terms of the economic environment, the impact on our business was quite clear in our first


quarter revenue per available room or RevPAR, which was down 20.9% year-over-year on a same-


store basis. The year-over-year decline was also due in part to strength of the first quarter 2008,


which was one of the company’s strongest first quarters ever, particularly in New York City, Boston


and Northern California.


Since these markets typically account for approximately 50% of total company EBITDA, they had a


meaningful impact on our performance. For example, in the first quarter of last year, our New York


RevPAR was up 19.4%, on a rate increase of 13.7% and an occupancy increase of 4.2%. In the


first quarter of this year, our New York RevPAR was down 31.4%, on a rate decline of 22.6% and


an occupancy decrease of 9.8%.


It’s also helpful to look at the first quarter RevPAR trends over the past few years. From the first


quarter of 2006 to the first quarter of 2008, our portfolio RevPAR increased from $119 in 2006 to a


$136 in 2007 and up to a $164 in 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, our portfolio RevPAR was
corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


approximately down to the level of 2006 at a $114. We believe that this trend should start to


reverse as we’re beginning to see early signs of stabilizing demand trends and expect to see


improvement from these levels.


Additionally, our first quarter performance was driven by the seasonality of our business. The


seasonal nature of the company’s revenues, due to our concentration in northeastern corridor, limit


our ability to control operating margin in the first quarter due to its lower revenue contribution for our


full year results. While we expect the economic environment to remain challenging, we also expect


that our performance will improve as the year progresses. We believe that the occupancy trends


that our industry has been experiencing are showing signs of stabilizing. For instance, in April, our


urban Boston portfolio achieved more than 80% in occupancy as compared to 60.3% for the first


quarter. And our urban New York portfolio in April, achieved more than 90% occupancy as


compared to 72.6% for the first quarter. Although our rates are certainly lower than in 2008, as the


demand trends continue to firm up in our markets, we are beginning to test our pricing power.


Additionally, though we acknowledge that we are operating with limited visibility, we are also


confident that our strategic positioning combined with our cost containment efforts will help to


mitigate some of the stress of the current economic turmoil. As revenue continued to deteriorate in


the quarter, we increased our vigilance on the cost side to better align our expense structure with


current revenues. We’ve successfully been implementing cost realignment efforts since the


beginning of 2008, and in the first quarter we worked with all of our managers to put forth additional


expense control measures to limit margin erosion. Due to the implementation of these programs we


are anticipating close to an additional $5.3 million of savings just at our Hersha Hospitality


managed same-store hotels across the remaining 10 months of 2009.


Cuts are focused on limiting margin deterioration and driving as close to a negative 50% flow-


through target as possible. Some examples of cuts at this level include a restructuring of the


engineering function portfolio wide, in the rooms department we’ve renegotiated labor contracts and


most service contracts, reduced complimentary shuttle costs and reduced food labor and food cost


for both for-sale and complimentary food service.


Additionally, salary freezes, combinations of positions, suspension of 401(k) contributions,


reduction in HR program fees, and reductions in forces will yield significant savings for the


company. Restructuring of the sales and marketing function portfolio wide, without elimination of


any customer-facing associates, and the reduction in associate travel and meeting expense will


also generate meaningful savings.


We are encouraged that our latest cost containment programs, implemented late in the first quarter,


combined with the higher revenues as the quarter progressed, due to our traditional seasonality,


resulted in a meaningful margin improvement of more than 200 basis points in March, as compared


to January and February.


We take a close look at every cost-cutting opportunity to determine its potential impact to the guest


experience and work to ensure minimal negative impact. While we have implemented measures on


the cost side to help minimize margin erosion, we are also focused on driving revenue and


continuing to gain share.


In terms of strategic positioning, our portfolio of valuable limited-service hotels is located in some of


the country’s highest barrier to entry locations. We have a solid portfolio of high quality, newly built


assets in both urban and stable suburban markets. These are markets with good travel


infrastructure that are attracting both business and leisure travelers during this time. Additionally,


the smaller size of our hotels relative to the big box conference hotels in the marketplace is a


distinct advantage that allows us to yield manage very responsibly and effectively.