raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust's


Fourth Quarter Year 2004 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Following today’s presentation instructions will be given for the question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this call is being recorded today, Tuesday March 8,


2005. With that I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Daly of Daly Gray Public


Relations. Please go ahead, sir.


Chris Daly, Public Relations


Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter year 2004 conference call


for Hersha Hospitality Trust. Earlier today, Hersha Hospitality Trust released its results. I hope that


each of you has had time to review them. If you do not receive a copy of the press release, please


contact my office at 703-435-6293. We will be happy to either fax or e-mail you a copy. Today’s


conference call is being transmitted live via telephone. Recording on this call will be available via


telephone beginning at approximately noon Eastern Time today through midnight on March 15,


2005 by dialing 800-405-2236. Reference number11025038. This conference call is a property of


Hersha Hospitality Trust and any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any


form without the expressed written consent of Hersha Hospitality Trust is prohibited.


Before we begin today’s discussion of the fourth quarter and full year 2004, management has


asked me to make cautionary comment regarding forward-looking statements. This conference call


may contain forward-looking statements that reflect Hersha Hospitality Trust's plans and


expectations, including the company’s anticipated results of operations, joint ventures and capital


investment. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and


other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance, achievements or financial


positions to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or financial


positions expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are detailed in


this morning's press release from time to time in the company's SEC filings. It is now my pleasure


to introduce the senior executives from Hersha Hospitality Trust who are participating in today's


call. Making formal remarks are Jay Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer and Ashish


Parikh, Chief Financial Officer. Also available during the question-and-answer period will be Neil


Shah, Executive Vice President Acquisitions. Now I'll be turn the call over to Jay. Jay?


Jay Shah, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks Chris and good morning everyone. 2004 was a positive year for the Hospitality industry


overall as most markets continued to see tangible signs of recovery. Occupancy in average daily


rate numbers approached 3, 9, 11 levels with certain markets even surpassing those. Demand from


the important business travel segment continues to grow augmented by strong major demand. In


light of these positive trends, we believe the recovery is firmly entranced here to stay for at least the


foreseeable future.


During the 2004 fourth quarter, Hersha Hospitality Trust portfolio occupancy for all properties


reached 65.4%, up 10.8% compared to the 2003 fourth quarter. Average daily rate or ADR rose to


$98.21 an 8.6% increase over the prior year. Together these results produced system wide


revenue for available room or RevPAR of $64.20, an increase of 20.3% over the previous year's


fourth quarter. One of the best increases in the hotel REIT industry. With the 2004 full-year, all


property RevPAR increased 18.4% to $65.61 based on a 3.7% increase in occupancy to 67.2%


and a 14.2% rise in ADR to $97.62. Same store results for the 2004 fourth quarter showed a 4.7%
raw transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


increase in RevPAR to $50.61 and occupancy increase of 3.9% to 60.3% and a 0.8% increase in


ADR to $83.89. On a same store basis for the 12 months ended December 31, 2004, RevPAR


improved 5.2% to $56.89 on a 0.5% decrease in occupancy to 65.2% and a 5.7% increase in ADR


to $87.30.


And now I would like to take a moment to update everyone on our acquisition program. We


continue to aggressively pursue hotel acquisitions both for our own account and in joint ventures.


We continue to target premium and limited service hotels with strong national franchise affiliations


in primary and secondary markets near major metropolitan centers in Eastern US. In the last 14


months, we have purchased the required interest in eight hotels for total investment of $95 million.


Here how the detail works out. In 2004 we acquired five hotels and interest in two preferred equity


joint ventures with an aggregate asset value of approximately $87 millions including, first, 120-suite


Residence Inn by Marriott-Greenbelt in Maryland, near Washington, D.C.; the 88-suite Hilton


Garden Inn, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania; the 125-suite Residence Inn by Marriott


Boston/Framingham, in Massachusetts; the 72-room Comfort Inn, Frederick, Maryland and the 96-


room Holiday Inn Express in Hartford, Connecticut, where we have also assumed the underlying


ground lease.


The two preferred equity joint ventures include the 180-room Four Points by Sheraton


Boston/Logan Airport in Massachusetts and the 130-room Courtyard by Marriott Ewing Hopewell in


New Jersey. Already in 2005, we have completed the acquisition of 109-room Fairfield Inn Laurel in


the D.C. capital region. Additionally, we have entered into purchase agreements with the Hampton


Inn, Manhattan, Madison Square Garden area as well as for two hotels in Virginia, 108-suite


Residence Inn Williamsburg and the 120-suite Spring Hill Suites Williamsburg. As per the joint


venture arrangements for the two Virginia transactions. Hersha will own 75% preferred equity


interest in the hotels and LCD management that is a leading Marriott developer and operator will


own the remaining 25%. LTD, which developed the two properties will remain as the operator for


each. The transaction are expected to be completed in the first month of the second quarter, in


addition to targeting national franchise premium limited service hotels in markets with high barriers


to competition, we continue to seek our ample opportunities under our cluster strategy that focuses


on hotels and define geographic areas where they can benefit the management and marketing


synergies. Our portfolio had very solid quarter up performance growth due to improved operations


and despite the short-term lag of our newer hotels, which continue to mature and always speaking


up the portfolio is quite young with 50% of our hotels less than 24 months old and a median age of


only three years. As a result of our acquisition to new assets in markets with high burriest in the


competition, our portfolio is well-positioned to benefit in the stabilization of these assets in 2005 and


2006. We are also well-positioned to benefit from the timing of all of our acquisitions, which we


acquired in the early stages of a major recovery in the hotel industry.


Additionally, we believe that new margin supply particularly in our market it's expected to remain at


low levels during the near-term, which will further enhance the performance of our portfolio. We had


approximately $34 million in development line financing outstanding as of year end 2004 including


the first rights of refusal on several New York city hotels in addition to several others in core market.


This development line financing provided us with the first right to acquire the Hampton Inn, Madison


Square Garden area and is the unique way for us to participate in future acquisitions, we also have


extended our development line financing for such project as the 194 rooms Hilton Garden Inn at the


JFK International Airport in New York, the 65-rooms Hampton Inn, Seaport in Manhattan, New York


and two boutique hotels in Manhattan.


During the third quarter of September 2004, we completed an offering of 3.9 million shares with net


proceeds of approximately $36.3 million. Although the offering impacted our 2004 results and will


be diluted for 2005 the net proceeds from the offering will allow us to take advantage of the many


attractive acquisition opportunities that we believe will be brought to market in 2005, which has


provided us with an opportunity to create scale with stabilized acquisitions throughout developing a