corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Hersha Hospitality Trust Fourth


Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We


will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator


Instructions].


With that I would like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference Mr. Brad


Cohen. You may proceed.


Company Representative


Thank you, Coleen. I wanted to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking


statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section


21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect Hersha Hospitality’s plans and


expectations, including the company’s anticipated results of operations, joint ventures and capital


investment.


These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other


factors that may cause the company’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial


position to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or financial


position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors are detailed in


the company’s press releases and from time to time in the company’s SEC filings.


With that, let me turn the call over to Mr. Jay Shah, Chief Executive Officer. Jay?


Jay H. Shah, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Brad. Good morning everyone. Neil Shah, our COO and Ashish Parikh, our CFO are


both on the call with me. On today’s we’ll be talking about some of our margin preservation


strategies that we put in place to position Hersha to perform well as possible during this time and


highlighting some of the attributes of the portfolio and the company that are particularly relevant in


this economic climate.


Although Hersha is not immune to this challenging environment, our hotels and our capital situation


provide defensive qualities that are critical right now. Our portfolio of category killing brands has a


significant upscale, extended-stay component and is comprised of primarily select and limited


service hotels, which historically experience reduced cash flow volatility during downturns. Our


portfolio platform combined with our franchisee managed operations model allows us to react


quickly to the environment to mitigate margin erosion. Over the last several years we focused on


acquiring high quality newly built assets in both urban and stable suburban markets.


This complimentary mix is characterized by a broad range of demand generators, good travel


infrastructure which results in a lower correlation between employment and hotel performance while


also providing a good mix of corporate and leisure travel.


Nonetheless, industry wide demand deterioration has been alarming and to that end we are


focusing a great deal of our attention on controlling costs with the denoble approach to our


business models insisting that our managers create new operating paradigms to address the


dynamics in the markets in which we do business. One of the misperceptions about the select and


limited service segment is that there are fewer levers to pull to cut costs as the service offering is


limited.
corrected transcript


Hersha Hospitality Trust
 
HT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On the contrary, the studies of cost structures in our portfolio by our asset management team have


led us to conclude that 50% of the costs at our hotels are controllable variable, such as portions of


room labor, complimentary food and labor, administrative and general costs, sales and marketing


costs and repairs and maintenance costs. 30% of our current cost structure is categorized as non-


controllable variable and includes costs that are driven by revenues generated at the hotel such as


franchise cost, credit card commissions, travel agent commissions as well as a portion of the utility


cost. Only 20% of our cost structure is fixed and it includes minimum FTEs such as general


managers, executive housekeepers, night auditors and some portion of the utilities cost and basic


repairs and maintenance.


Using this approach in our target of achieving a negative 50% flow through for the portfolio we’ve


completed a study on a majority of our consolidated hotels to show all of the cost cutting


opportunities that our hotels have to achieve the negative 50% flow through target. Substantial


achievement of this target will allow us to outperform our peers in margin erosion keeping the


deterioration in the 200 to 300 basis point range. Our franchisee model allows us great flexibility


and quick response times to market changes.


We began making cuts at the beginning of 2008 in anticipation of the impending slowdown; the


results of what we term the Tier I cuts were property specific and were focused on increasing


efficiency in operations while at the same time continuing to drive incremental demand. The


success of these initial cuts in this approach was evident in the strong flow throughs and the


resulting margin growth for the first three quarters of last year when our portfolio was still


generating market leading RevPAR growth.


As our growth slowed in the third quarter relative to the growth of the prior two quarters, we initiated


our Tier II cuts, which were more aggressive but still property specific. The outcome of these cuts


are evident in our same-store numbers for the fourth quarter of 2008 which reflect an 8.1% drop in


RevPAR but a limited 200 basis point margin erosion. January and February trends are even less


encouraging and we have now implemented our Tier III cuts, which are in the form of broad


portfolio-wide policy changes. At this level of cuts, the operators are charged to be primarily


focused on limiting margin erosion and driving the negative 50% flow through target. We are


anticipating close to an additional $5.3 million of savings just at our Hersha Hospitality managed


same-store hotels across the remaining 10 months of 2009.


Some examples of cuts at this level include a restructuring of the engineering function portfolio-


wide which results in more than $1 million dollars of savings. In the rooms department we’ve


renegotiated all labor contracts and most service contracts, reduced complimentary shuttle costs


and reduced food labor and food costs and this includes both food that is for sale and


complimentary food and these changes are as granular as reducing the breakfast meat offerings on


the complimentary breakfast bars during low demand and low rate periods. All of these rooms


department policy changes results in a savings of $763,000.


Additionally, salary freezes, combinations of positions, suspension to 401K contributions, reduction


in human resource program fees and the rift produces savings of an additional $2.3 million.


Restructuring of the sales and marketing function portfolio-wide without the elimination of any


customer facing associates generated savings of $850,000 and reductions in associate travel and


meetings expense saved $320,000.


Similarly to what Hersha Hospitality management has done, LodgeWorks Waterford in Japan have


launched comparable cost containment initiatives at their managed hotels. Cost cutting of this


magnitude, typically begs the question of what impact it will have on guests and how does it affect


the hotel’s ability to drive share. Though the cost cutting measures are significant, most of the


reduction should have relatively nominal impact to the guest experience. A guest may have to


wheel their own bag into the hotel where bellmen have been eliminated or wait to have someone