Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gavin A. Bell — Vice President-Finance & Investor Relations, Hibbett, Inc.
Michael E. Longo — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hibbett, Inc.
Jared S. Briskin — Executive Vice President-Merchandising, Hibbett, Inc.
Robert J. Volke — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Hibbett, Inc.
William G. Quinn — Senior Vice President-Marketing & Digital, Hibbett, Inc.
Benjamin Knighten — Senior Vice President-Store Operations, Hibbett, Inc.
Mitch Kummetz — Analyst, Seaport Research Partners
Justin E. Kleber — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Alexander Perry — Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Cristina Fernández — Analyst, Telsey Advisory Group LLC
Sam Poser — Analyst, Williams Trading LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings. Welcome to Hibbett Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to Gavin Bell, Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you and good morning. Please note that we have prepared a slide deck that we will refer to during our prepared remarks. The slide deck is available on hibbett.com via the Investor Relations link found at the bottom of the homepage or at investors.hibbett.com and under the News & Events section. These materials may help you follow along with our discussion this morning.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the management's comments during this conference call are forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance, are made in reliance on the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to uncertainties and risks. It should be noted that the company's future results may differ materially from those anticipated and discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause or contribute to such differences have been described in the news release issued this morning and are noted on slide 2 of the earnings presentation and the company's annual report on Form 10-K and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We refer you to those sources for more information. Also to the extent non-GAAP financial measures are discussed on the call, you may find a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on our website.

Lastly, I'd like to point out that management's remarks during this conference call are based on information and understandings believed accurate as of today's date, March 15, 2024. Because of the time-sensitive nature of this information, it is the policy of Hibbett, Inc. to achieve the – to limit the archived replay of this conference call webcast to a period of 30 days.

The participants on this call are Mike Longo, President and Chief Executive Officer; Jared Briskin, Executive Vice President, Merchandising; Bob Volke, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Quinn, Senior Vice President of Marketing and Digital; and Ben Knighten, Senior Vice President of Operations.

I'll now turn the call over to Mike Longo.

Good morning and welcome to the Hibbett fourth quarter earnings call. For those of you following along the slides, I'm on slide 3 entitled Overview. Hibbett delivered a solid financial and operating performance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, capping off another year of profitable growth. We're especially proud to reach $1.73 billion in annual sales for the year, surpassing fiscal 2023 sales and setting a new company record. Throughout the year, our team did an outstanding job of consistent execution of our strategy as we continued to win market share. Notably, we've achieved these results in what has continued to be a challenging retail environment. Consumers are still facing inflationary pressures of high prices on many essential items and are therefore being more selective in their discretionary spending. A distinct competitive advantage for Hibbett is the quality and variety of our product mix. We've worked hard to offer a compelling range of trend-relevant brands and products that are in line with current spending patterns. Our results for the fourth quarter were boosted by holiday sales, which were in line with expectations. Additionally, our superior customer service, a best-in-class omni-channel shopping experience, strong vendor relationships and strategic store placement in underserved markets are distinct competitive advantage – advantages that allowed us to continue gain market share in fiscal 2024.

Footwear sales continued to be the key driver of our sales, especially for our premium brands. During the fourth quarter, we had a robust schedule of new product launches, which continued to generate excitement from our brand loyal customers. This was also the first full quarter under our new Connected partnership connecting Hibbett and Nike's loyalty programs. Our loyalty customers now benefit from an enhanced retail experience when they purchase Nike and Jordan products, whether in one of our stores or online. Our loyalty programs have also been extremely popular with our customers, adding value to the overall shopping experience and driving more traffic to our stores and our omni-channel platform.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2025, we expect to follow the same growth trajectory and continue to gain market share. Our sales guidance for the upcoming year reflects this confidence, testament to our proven ability to execute our strategy. At the same time, we intend to make significant capital investments in our infrastructure, which will affect our short term profitability. However, as always, we're investing for the long term. We believe these investments will further enhance our strong value proposition and drive sustainable, profitable growth. We'll also be intentional about adding new stores in underserved markets with a goal to add 45 to 50 stores in the year ahead. Our sophisticated omni-channel platform remains a key competitive advantage, and we will continue to focus on providing the latest technology and functionality to improve the overall customer experience.

Before turning the call over to Jared, I'd like to thank our approximately 12,000 team members across the organization for their dedication and hard work in a challenging environment. Whether across our nearly 1,200 stores, our omni-channel platform, our logistics facilities or the store support center, they proudly represent Hibbett with an unwavering commitment to the integrity of our brand and outstanding support for our loyal customers.

I'll now turn the call over to Jared.

Thank you, Mike. Good morning. Please turn to slide 5 entitled Merchandising. The fourth quarter opened with a strong start to the holiday season, but faded at the end of December and in January. Footwear was our strongest category during the quarter with comp sales down mid-single digits. Strong trends were seen in lifestyle, basketball and running. This was offset with some weakness in the performance of some launches in the latter part of the quarter. Apparel and team sports were both negative comps for the quarter, down high single digits and low-30s, respectively. Seasonal categories were weak due to the warm and dry weather patterns. Apparel also continues to be affected by promotional activity due to elevated levels of inventory in the market. While apparel was a challenge, overall, socks and accessories continued to be strong performers.

Specific to footwear and apparel, comp sales in the men's business were down mid-single digits with kid's business down high single digits. Women's was our best performer, up low single digits. Men's was affected by high single digit declines in apparel with footwear down mid-single digits. Kid's was down low-20s in apparel while footwear was down mid-single digits. Women's was up low single digits, driven by a high single digit increase in footwear, offset by a low-20s decrease in apparel results.

As expected, we ended fiscal year 2024 with a high teens decrease in inventory compared to the end of fiscal 2023. Inventory levels declined in the low teens from the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2024. Promotional efforts as well as support from our key brand partners aided in achieving our inventory reduction goals.

I'll now hand it over to Bob to cover our financial results.

Thanks, Jared, and good morning. Please refer to slide 6 for an overview of Q4 results. As a reminder, all financial results are reported on a consolidated basis that includes both the Hibbett and City Gear brands. I would also like to call out that the fourth quarter fiscal 2024 was a 14-week quarter and fiscal 2024 was a 53-week year. Comp sales figures for the current quarter and the year exclude this extra week. Total net sales for the fourth quarter fiscal 2024 increased 1.8% to $466.6 million from $458.3 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. Overall comp sales decreased 6.4% versus the prior year fourth quarter. Please note that we had a very strong fourth quarter performance last year, generating overall 15.5% comp. Brick and mortar comp sales declined 9.2% compared to the prior year's fourth quarter, while e-commerce comp sales actually increased 6.9% compared to the same period in fiscal 2023. E-commerce sales accounted for 18.9% of total net sales during the current quarter compared to 17.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023.

Gross margin was 34.5% of net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 compared with 35.2% in the fourth quarter of last year. This approximate 70 basis point decline was driven primarily by lower average product margin of approximately 125 basis points, an approximate 55 basis point increase in store occupancy, freight, shipping and logistics – excuse me freight, shipping, logistics costs and shrink have improved as a percent of sales on a year-over-year basis, partially offsetting the unfavorable average product margin and store occupancy performance. Freight was favorable by approximately 60 basis points, logistics was favorable by approximately 30 basis points and shrink was favorable by approximately 10 basis points.

SG&A expenses were 23% of net sales for the fourth quarter fiscal 2024 compared with 21.6% of net sales for the fourth quarter of last year. This approximate 140 basis point increase is primarily the result of higher store wages and the related benefit costs driven by inflation, a growing store base and increased data processing costs associated with ongoing investment in cloud-based back-office systems and technology.

Depreciation and amortization in the fourth quarter fiscal 2024 increased approximately $1.4 million in comparison to the same period last year, reflecting increased capital investment on store development, technology initiatives and various infrastructure projects over the last three fiscal years. We generated $40.6 million of operating income or 8.7% of net sales in the fourth quarter this year compared to $50.7 million or 11.1% of net sales in the prior year's fourth quarter.

Net income for the 14 weeks ended February 3, 2024 was $30.9 million or $2.55 per diluted share compared to $38.4 million or $2.91 per diluted share, 13 weeks ended January 28, 2023. We ended the fourth quarter fiscal 2024 with $21.2 million of available cash, cash equivalents on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet and $45.3 million of debt outstanding on our $160 million unsecured line of credit. Net inventory at the end of the fourth quarter was $344.3 million, an 18.2% decrease from the beginning of the year.

Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were $20.7 million, with approximately 73% attributed to store development projects including new stores, remodels, relocations and new signage. We opened 11 net new stores in the fourth quarter, bringing the store base to 1,169 in 36 states. Paid recurring quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter in the amount of $0.25 per eligible common share for a total outflow of approximately $2.9 million. There were no repurchases of shares during the fourth quarter similar to the prior year fourth quarter.

Moving on to slide 7 to discuss full year results, total net sales for the 53 weeks of fiscal 2024 increased 1.2% to $1.73 billion while full year comparable sales decreased 3.1% versus the equivalent 52 weeks in fiscal 2023. Brick and mortar comp sales declined 4.4% and e-commerce comp sales increased 4.1% compared to the prior year.

Full year gross margin was 33.8% of net sales versus 35.2% of net sales last year. This is an approximate 140 basis point decline. The decline in year-over-year gross margin was primarily due to lower average product margin of approximately 210 basis points and higher store occupancy cost of approximately 40 basis points. On the positive side, we experienced year-over-year improvement in freight, shipping and logistics cost as a percent of net sales. Freight was favorable by approximately 70 basis points, logistics was favorable by approximately 30 basis points and shrink was favorable by approximately 10 basis points.

SG&A expenses were 23% of net sales for the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2024, compared to 22.8% in the 52 weeks ended January 28, 2023. The approximate increase of 20 basis points was primarily the result of increased store wages and data processing costs, partially offset by lower professional fees and advertising.

We generated $137 million of operating income or 7.9% of net sales during fiscal 2024 compared to $168.4 million or 9.9% of net sales in fiscal 2023. Net income for the current year was $103.2 million or $8.17 per diluted share compared with $128.1 million or $9.62 per diluted share in the prior year.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 were $57.9 million compared to $62.8 million in fiscal 2023. Current year capital expenses were predominantly related to store initiatives including new store openings, relocations, expansions, remodels and technology upgrades. For the year, our store count increased by a net of 36 units comprised of 44 new locations and 8 closures. Our total store count stands at 1,169 at the end of fiscal 2024.

On a full year basis, we repurchased approximately 1.16 million shares under our share repurchase plan at a total cost of $53.2 million. We paid four recurring quarterly dividends throughout fiscal 2024 for a total outflow of $12.4 million. 53rd week in fiscal 2024 resulted in net product sales of approximately $22.9 million. This incremental week contributed approximately 26 – or sorry, $2.6 million to $2.8 million in net income to both the fourth quarter and the full year. On diluted EPS standpoint, the 53rd week impacted the fourth quarter by approximately $0.21 to $0.23 and impacted the full year by approximately $0.21 to $0.22. In addition, we recorded a $3.5 million increase to revenue in the fourth quarter due to a change in our estimate of gift card breakage. This change in estimate was supported by the historical redemption pattern of gift cards outstanding is applied prospectively. The impact to the fourth quarter EPS was approximately $0.23 and the full year impact was approximately $0.22.

I'll now turn the call over to Bill Quinn to discuss consumer insights.

Thank you, Bob. In Q4, loyalty sales grew high single digits. This was driven by more member shoppers and average ticket growth. New member shoppers grew low double digit and existing member shoppers grew high single digit. Higher average unit retails drove increases in average ticket. There was a lot of energy around our loyalty program in Q4. This was the first full quarter under our new Connected partnership connecting Hibbett and Nike's loyalty programs. Customers have been receptive to the program and we are pleased with the results we are seeing. We are seeing healthy sign-ups as well as favorable purchase behavior. In FY 2025, the continuation of Connected membership will advance the ways in which we engage and delight our members across all omni-channel touch points.

During Q4, we also made investments in our digital channel to acquire more loyalty customers. Those efforts helped fuel our overall loyalty program sales growth and drove online sales. In Q4, total online sales increased 10.5% versus last year. E-commerce represented approximately 19% of total sales for the quarter versus last year's 17%. Online traffic, conversion and average ticket all increased in Q4, driven by key footwear [ph] styles (00:16:12), marketing investments and customers utilizing more online services, including online – buy online pickup in store, buy now pay later.

Lastly, for the overall business, we are continuing to keep a pulse on how our customers are feeling. This quarter, customers [indiscernible] (00:16:27) spend more on athletic footwear and apparel than last year. However, there has been some uncertainty from customers around the size and timing of their tax refund. Also, customers continue to have elevated concerns around inflation. Based on our research, we expect a more cautious and selective consumer going into FY 2025.

Now hand the call back to Bob to discuss fiscal 2025 guidance.

We're now moving forward to slide 9 to talk about the guidance. Please note that fiscal 25 – fiscal 2025 will end on February 1, 2025, and will be comprised of 52 weeks versus the 53 weeks we just experienced in fiscal 2024. A number of business and economic challenges we faced in fiscal 2024 will continue to impact our business in fiscal 2025. These challenges include the potential for inflation and interest rates to remain elevated, the continued use of selective promotional activity to drive traffic, ongoing wage pressures, a more cautious and selective consumer and ongoing geopolitical conflict. These factors contribute to the complexity and volatility in forecasting fiscal 2025 results.

Our estimated full year guidance for fiscal 2025 is as follows. Total net sales in fiscal 2025 are anticipated to be flat to up approximately 2% compared to our full year fiscal 2024 results. Through the transition from a 53-week year in fiscal 2024 to a 52-week year in fiscal 2025, comparable sales for fiscal 2025 to be compared to Weeks 2 through 53 in fiscal 2024. We anticipate the most material impact to the shift will be associated with the back-to-school selling season. We expect a larger portion of back-to-school sales will land in our second quarter this year. On the flip side, the third quarter will have a smaller portion of back-to-school sales. The quarterly impact of the week shift on reported fiscal 2024 comp sales and net sales is highlighted in the table on the last page of this morning's press release. Total comparable sales are expected to be flat to negative low single digits for the year. Brick and mortar comparable sales are also expected to range from flat to negative low single digits. Both total e-commerce revenue for the full year and comparable e-commerce revenue adjusted for the one week shift is anticipated to be up in the mid- to high-single-digit range.

Net new store growth is expected to be approximately 45 to 50 stores. First quarter is projected to have the lowest growth with net new units anticipated to be more evenly distributed across the remaining quarters. Gross margin expectations include a less impactful promotional environment and small leverage gains in freight and logistics, partially offset by headwinds in store occupancy. These factors are expected to drive approximately 40 basis points to 70 basis points of improvement in the gross profit percentage in comparison to fiscal 2024 result. Expected full year gross margin is anticipated to be in the range of 34.2% [indiscernible] (00:19:16) of net sales. SG&A as a percent of net sales is expected to increase by approximately 90 basis points to 120 basis points in comparison to fiscal 2024 due to new store growth, wage inflation, increased incentive compensation, transaction fees and data processing costs. Data processing costs include incremental investment in cloud-based technology solutions. Expected full year SG&A expense range is estimated to be 23.9% to 24.2% of net sales.

Operating profit is expected to be in the range of 7% to 7.4% of net sales, a net decline of approximately 50 basis points to 90 basis points in comparison to fiscal 2024. It is anticipated there will be debt outstanding on our line of credit for much of the year, although we expect average daily borrowings to be lower than fiscal 2024. We believe peak borrowings will be tied closely to the timing of receipts [indiscernible] (00:20:09) peak selling seasons. Interest expense for the full year is projected to be approximately [indiscernible] (00:20:14) basis points of net sales.

Diluted earnings per share are anticipated to be in the range of $8 to $8.75, using an estimated full year tax rate of between 22.9% [indiscernible] (00:20:27) and an estimated weighted average diluted [indiscernible] (00:20:30) 11.6 million to 11.7 million. Capital expenditures are anticipated to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million, with the largest share of this investment [indiscernible] (00:20:41) focused on new store growth, remodels, relocation, new store signage and improving the consumer experience. Our capital allocation strategy continues to include share repurchases, recurring quarterly dividends in addition to the capital expenditures noted previously.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, please open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mitch Kummetz with Seaport Research. Please proceed.

Yeah. Thanks for taking my questions. So maybe I missed comments in the release, but did you give your fiscal 2025 sales outlook by quarter? I believe in the past you've kind given the breakout by percentage of the year. Do you have that?

Hey, Mitch. It's Bob. Yeah, we kind of pulled that out this year. I think with week shift it gets a little bit more challenging. We don't think there's a huge amount of change within the quarters [indiscernible] (00:22:00) we mentioned on the prepared comments as far as back-to-school, but it's still expected Q1 and Q4 to be relatively similar to what we saw last year [indiscernible] (00:22:11) right at the end of Q2, right at the beginning [indiscernible] (00:22:13) effectively.

Okay. And then on the footwear side, down mid-single this quarter; I think last quarter, it was up low single. How do you explain that sequential softening? I'm curious how much of that might have been seasonal versus anything else that you were seeing in the assortment between those two periods?

Yeah. Hi, Mitch, it's Jared. Good morning. Yeah, so I think first and foremost, obviously, we were up against a very significant comp [indiscernible] (00:22:53) really strong footwear results, first and foremost. Seasonal business was a challenge for the footwear and primary driver was weakness at the end of the quarter. We got to the [indiscernible] (00:23:04) consumer even more selective than they have been [indiscernible] (00:23:12) something we've been seeing here for the last couple of quarters. Once we got out of holiday, it was pretty clear they were being super selective. And unfortunately, some of the parts of our assortment and some of the things in the launch calendar were somewhat repetitive, and it really didn't cut through. That was the real driver of what happened in footwear [indiscernible] (00:23:34).

And then my last question, maybe just as a follow-on to that, the weakness that you saw at the end of the quarter, is there any way you can kind of maybe parse [indiscernible] (00:23:47) maybe by month or maybe talk about how January performed versus November-December and I'm curious that maybe some of that weakness at the end of the quarter is carried over into February.

Yeah, I mean obviously we don't really comment on the inter-quarter, but certainly the November and December time period, we felt pretty good about our business and particularly strong. And once we got out of holiday, things started to materially slow down for us again end of December and into January.

All right. Thanks, guys. Good luck.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Justin Kebler with Baird. Please proceed.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. It's Justin Kleber. Thanks for taking the questions. Bob, first, just the revenue related to the change in gift card redemptions, can you just walk through those numbers again you cited? I want to make sure I got those correct. And then just was that always in the guidance or was that not in the guidance?

Yeah. So, the absolute dollar amount that impacted revenue was $3.5 million, go back to make sure I just [indiscernible] (00:25:00) correctly here. So again, as I said earlier, not to get into too much accounting mumbo jumbo, but obviously we looked at some historical patterns and felt that we were under-recognized in that gift card breakage, so the $3.5 million was recorded in Q4, impacted the quarter by about $0.23, impacted the full year by about $0.22. And by the time we issued our third quarter results and guidance, we were already working on that, so we had a pretty solid estimate [indiscernible] (00:25:25) would be going into the fourth quarter.

Okay. Got you. And then the view that the promotional environment, I guess, in this upcoming year is going to moderate, obviously, the fourth quarter seemed quite promotional and I guess what gives you confidence that promotions will lessen this year? Is that just what you're seeing not only within your inventory, but also inventories across the channel? Just any color there would be helpful.

Justin, good morning, it's Jared. Yeah. So two parts. I mean, the first and foremost, our team worked incredibly hard last year and in particularly during the back half of the year [indiscernible] (00:26:09) get our inventory levels rightsized and to get us in position to have [indiscernible] (00:26:14) throughout fiscal 2025. So we feel great about that. So while there's still some inventory that's elevated in the marketplace and largely [indiscernible] (00:26:26) based on where our inventory is, the work that was done, how clean the inventory has become, the support we're getting from the vendor community, we feel like our ratio of full-price selling will be much higher where we still might have some promotions from a competitive standpoint in the marketplace, but we'll have significantly less markdowns that we're dealing with [indiscernible] (00:26:50) inventory.

That's great color. Thanks for that, Jared. And the last question for me, guys, just on the – maybe, Mike, or can you just expand on some of the investments you alluded to specifically the customer-facing technologies, what changes are going to be visible to the consumer? And then you talked about these enhancing your profitability longer term [indiscernible] (00:27:14) bending the curve on profitability?

Yeah, I think there's a couple different – this is Bob, by the way. There's a couple different aspects to this. One is certainly the stuff you see more front of house, which would be the digital experience and some of the technology that we've got in the stores [indiscernible] (00:27:33). Another big chunk of this is what we've done in the back-office. So we've added more sophisticated financial/human resource systems as well as now we're upgrading all of our merchandising systems. So the expectation is that we're still kind of in that investment mode. We're starting to get some benefits from some of the things we've invested in over say 12 to 18 months ago, but [indiscernible] (00:27:58) some of those things in place. We expect the [indiscernible] (00:28:02) fiscal 2026 [indiscernible] (00:28:05) forward.

Got it. Thanks, guys. Best of luck.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Next question is from Alex Perry with Bank of America. Please [indiscernible] (00:28:16)

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to follow up on the first question that was asked. Sort of within the [indiscernible] (00:28:25) just wanted to maybe clarify some of your comments, Bob. So did you say that 1Q and 4Q similar to last year [indiscernible] (00:28:35) you're sort of thinking about those [indiscernible] (00:28:38-00:28:44) then maybe 3Q a bit worse is [indiscernible] (00:28:47) guide for the year?

Thinking more about the percent of sales that falls into each of the quarters. So wasn't really referring [indiscernible] (00:29:01) obviously some alignment with those numbers [indiscernible] (00:29:07) really just looking more at how that revenue's going to spread across [indiscernible] (00:29:11-00:29:21)

Got you [indiscernible] (00:29:24) and then I wanted to ask about the store opening a bit more. Maybe just talk about what you're seeing in terms of your new store performance if you look at some of the stores you opened in 2023, for instance? Are you seeing those sort of ramp in the same way as previous cohorts? Maybe talk a little bit about where the new stores are concentrated. Are these new markets for you guys or sort of mostly [indiscernible] (00:29:55)? Thank you.

Hey, Good morning, Alex, it's Jared. Yeah, look, we're really pleased with our new stores. The performance has been exceptional. I mean they're ramping up faster than we've seen historically. One of the challenges we've had is getting them [indiscernible] (00:30:12) delays within permitting, inspections, things of that nature has presented a lot of challenge. [indiscernible] (00:30:20) incredibly hard to redefine our timelines and processes [indiscernible] (00:30:25) year and then grow that number over the next [indiscernible] (00:30:33) markets and infill, we tend to target one new market a year.

Two years ago, it was the Las Vegas market, not on the script. Last year, it was Milwaukee [indiscernible] (00:30:47) market again this year as well. And then the rest is infill. And as we've said before, we've had significant opportunity to grow the chain. We still feel that we can double the chain over time. But very, very pleased with our new stores and the way they're performing.

That's incredibly helpful. Best of luck going forwards.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Cristina Fernández with the Telsey Group (sic) [Telsey Advisory Group]. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I wanted to ask about the product trends. You mentioned [indiscernible] (00:31:26) of some of the launches late in the quarter where [indiscernible] (00:31:30) customers. So how do you feel about the level of newness coming in this year in [indiscernible] (00:31:39) or doing better currently?

Yeah, so I think two – I'll try to separate the question a little bit. It's Jared, good morning. I think first and foremost with regard to partnerships and vendors, our access points, our allocations, we feel great about where we are. Obviously, we've reduced the inventory significantly, 18%. We expect that we can maintain inventory about [indiscernible] (00:32:07) level but with a much higher concentration of the best product and [indiscernible] (00:32:12). So we feel great about that. Still feel overall from an innovation pipeline, things are going a little bit slower than we like. There are certainly some things that [indiscernible] (00:32:23) that we're seeing some nice results in. Whether some of those things are scalable or not is still things that we're trying to determine. And more and more of those will come in throughout the year. So we're starting to feel some of the innovation start to kick in a little bit more. We have more things that we can make investments in [indiscernible] (00:32:44) really aggressive in trying to find some of those new things that we can get good tests on and then hopefully scale as we get into the latter part of this year and into next year. So things are starting to materialize. We'd like to see the innovation pipeline go a little bit faster, but again feel good about where we're positioned and our partnerships with all the key vendors.

Thanks. And then on the apparel side that's been [indiscernible] (00:33:16) many quarters now. How do you feel about the level of inventory there, potential stabilization in that category?

Yeah. I think overall our inventory in apparel is in great shape. Teams worked incredibly hard at that. So we're very confident in the level [indiscernible] (00:33:35) marketplace still feels heavy. So we're still fighting some of that, but we were absolutely seeing some things starting to materialize, particularly in our streetwear business and in our denim businesses, as examples, that we feel can become significant drivers for us as we get into the second half of the year.

And one more, if I can. I wanted to ask about the SG&A increases. Is there any way you can bucket sort of the categories that's more within the 90 basis point to 100 basis point increase, what are the biggest chunks just to understand if it's incentive comp or the investments in the stores, maybe you can break it down for us a little more?

Yeah. Again this is Bob, Cristina. So I think again when you look at kind of the biggest headwinds we're dealing is still fighting a lot of wage inflation at the store level. So we came off a year where [indiscernible] (00:34:40) estimating somewhere in the neighborhood of 6% of wage increase. We think that number is going to be relatively close to that, maybe slightly lower than that as we move forward. So that is still something that we're obviously accounting for going forward.

The other thing is we are investing, like I said, in some of the back-office technologies and those things are bringing in SG&A costs. Traditionally, those might have been things you invested capital dollars in and went through depreciation, but because they're cloud-based systems, the accounting rules require us to run that through our operating expense. That's why we refer to this data processing bucket. And that would be things like our ERP systems and our merchandising systems.

And the last piece you did mention is, we set ourselves some pretty aggressive targets for internal compensation purposes. We have obviously tried to live up to those expectations. We have had a little bit of a shortfall the last couple years. We're putting a full value back into that, and that's why we talked about incentive compensation. We've also restructured a lot of targets within the store operations group, again, to make this much more aligned with what our goals are. So we do feel that there's going to be some upside opportunity for the employees to have some additional incentive compensation.

And this is Mike. So I have a couple of comments on the labor side and I'll be followed by Ben, but it's the second largest expense on the P&L aside from cost of goods sold. So it does occupy a lot of our time, but it's more than just cost, it's also the consumer experience. So, Ben, do you want to add some flavor to this?

Yeah. And I'll tag on, Cristina, again this is Ben Knighten, to some of what Bob and Mike said. We have seen that wage pressure kind of throughout the year and continued in Q4 at about the same pace really as we saw in the first three quarters. But one of the ways we [indiscernible] (00:36:23) continue investing in our mobile environment. That has contributed to an increase in productivity, but it also improves the consumer experience and that's where our real focus has been. We do think wage will soften a bit this year, but it will be similar to last year. That mobile platform has really helped us in a couple different ways and really has taken the form of moving work to the mobile devices that we have in our stores. That includes the tasks that we have to do with sales associates on the floor, but it also includes additional tools to really help the customer.

At the end of the day, the customers are used to having access to their devices in their day-to-day life, and we are simply kind of extending that to our store environment. That allows us to do a couple of things. Number one, it allows us to hire, train and retain the right associates in our stores while also improving the store experience for the consumer. That continues in the current year, will continue in the future, and we do expect to see dividends even more so in the future, particularly around productivity and the customer experience.

I appreciate all the color. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Sam Poser with William Trading (sic) [Williams Trading]. Please proceed.

Good morning, everybody. I have a handful, please. I'm just going to start with the easy stuff. Can you give us – Jared, just what were the comps by months in general, specific...

Yeah, Sam, we don't give the comp – we don't give the comps by month, but again, as I said, November, December were pretty strong. We felt pretty good about it, and last week of December and January really were very difficult and the primary [indiscernible] (00:38:06)

Well, I mean are we talking about like low- to mid-single-digit comps falling off to down doubles in that last six weeks?

I would say more flattish. Again, we're up against the plus-15%. So it certainly had a big hurdle to get over from a comp standpoint.

Flattish and then it went [ph] the wrong way (00:38:26). Okay. Your e-commerce business is very good, but your store comps aren't as good and you're sort of guiding for that to continue. Is there more you can be doing using your digital omni-channel work to drive more people into the stores to help the store comps?

Short answer is yes. Bill, do you want to give a little more detail on that?

Yeah, absolutely. Hi, Sam. Good morning. This is Bill. So,...

Morning.

Yeah, definitely, omni-channel can drive a lot of traffic to the stores. I'll give you a few examples. Buy online pickup in store that definitely drives traffic and we see a good attachment. We saw that increase and that continues to increase. So that's one example. Our loyalty program is by far our largest omni-channel program and that drives over 60% of our sales. We're making significant investments in that, so in terms of acquisition as well as retention and that will drive store traffic as well. Another thing that we're making investment in this year is around mobile, in particular around our launch process and how to make that even better on day one and then the following day. So that's another investment that we're making to drive store traffic.

And you might want to mention some of the innovation [indiscernible] (00:39:51) giving too much away.

Yeah. Yeah. Certainly there is, on day one, depending on the launch, certain amount of unsold items and so we're putting in new processes as well as with our customers new marketing that are going to increase sell-through on that day one and then the following day. So more to come on that but we have a lot of exciting innovations around the launch process. There's still customer friction there, and that's something that's very important to our customers and something that we're going to invest in.

Thank you. And then the – you – this is just not directly related to business, but there was a lot of moving around with your earnings dates and – I mean I wonder are you – is there – are you working or involved in any M&A right now?

So we don't entertain those sorts of questions. But to your first part of the question, the moving of the earnings date was my decision. We were trying to collect additional data aside from what we normally get. Last year we probably went a week too early and this year we backed it up. So that was the origin of it.

Well, I mean, we had originally heard that it was going to be on the 28th and then it seemed to move towards the 15th, so I'm just trying to understand.

[indiscernible] (00:41:13) changed my mind.

Ah, okay. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to management for closing comments.

Thank you very much for your time and attention today. We always appreciate the opportunity to talk about our business and to say thanks to our sales associates in the stores, the people who have worked so hard in our distribution center and the people who worked in the store sports center. They're the reason we get in here every day and work as hard as we do, so we can do a good job for our consumers. So, thank you again. We look forward to seeing you in Q2.

Thank you. This will conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.