corrected transcript


Hibbett Sporting Goods, Inc.
 
HIBB
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this Hibbett Sporting Goods, Incorporated


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr.


Mickey Newsome. Please go ahead sir.


Michael J. Newsome, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. I am Mickey Newsome. I have with me also Gary Smith, our Chief


Financial Officer; Jeff Rosenthal, our VP of Merchandise; and Brian Priddy, our President. We


appreciate you being with us today and your interest in Hibbett Sporting Goods. Before we start,


Gary Smith will cover the safe harbor language.


Gary A. Smith, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer


In order for us to take advantage of safe harbor rules, I would like to remind you that any


projections or statements made today reflect our current views with respect to future events and our


financial performance. There is no assurance that such events will occur or that any projections will


be achieved. Our actual results could differ materially from any projections due to various risk


factors which are described from time to time in our periodic reports with the SEC. It should also be


noted that earnings per share presented in this press release are on a fully diluted pre-stock split


basis.


Michael J. Newsome, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Gary. As you know from our press release late yesterday, Hibbett Sporting Goods had


its most outstanding second quarter ever. Earnings per share increased 75%, net income


increased 66.9, sales increased 15, comp store sales increased 3.1 with three less major


promotions versus the second quarter last year. For instance last year in late April, we distributed


coupons, bounce-back coupons, to be redeemed in May. We got a lot of sales out of that but it


really hurt our margins, and then our margins further got hurt in June with the pro-licensed products


problem. With this year with our inventory very clean, we went for product margin and I think it


worked. We got our earnings. Product margin was up almost 200 basis points.


Now for some comments on second quarter sales. May was in the mid-single digit range, positive


in spite of going against the bounce-back coupon promotion. June was in the mid-single digit


range, and July was in the low-single digit range. Now last year in July, we had two major


promotions the last two weekends of the quarter and the last two weeks of the quarter are 20% of a


quarter’s sales. This year we did not repeat the BOGO sales that we had one year ago. In other


words, on all footwear last year, two consecutive weekends, we had a buy one shoe at regular


price get a clearance shoe at half price. Again, we got a lot of sales out of that but our margins


were not good, so we think that hurt July.


Now also something that was not good for July, people are absolutely waiting longer to buy back-


to-school just like they are Christmas. Also in the state of North Carolina for instance, school is


starting two to three weeks later, and that is not that way in many states, but in some states it is


that way in our area and that affected July some. Now to prove that this did affect July, August has


started very strong. We are over 7% comps the first 19 days of August and this is very important


because the first two weeks of August are 25% of the business for the third quarter.
corrected transcript


Hibbett Sporting Goods, Inc.
 
HIBB
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


August, the four weeks of August are 42% of the third quarter, so we have gotten off to a great start


in the third quarter. Footwear is very strong, reflecting later back-to-school purchasing. New stores


are performing well. The number is well ahead of last year. We have added to our staff and will


continue to add at a faster rate than in the past to support our ongoing goal of 15% new store


growth annually.


Now Jeff Rosenthal, our VP of Merchandise, will comment on our comps related to specific areas of


our business.


Jeffry O. Rosenthal, Vice President of Merchandising


We have three major areas of business: apparel, footwear, and hard goods and when we talk hard


goods, it’s team sports – football, baseball, soccer, and fitness. Let’s start off with apparel, which is


broken into two parts: branded and licensed. We were up single digit in overall apparel. Branded


was up, led by Nike and Under Armour, which are technical fabrics. Urban brands such as Enyce


and Dickies and large graphic tees led the way in branded apparel. Ladies and urban were up


double-digits in apparel. Licensed was down double-digits; however, college for the month of


August is a positive trend and we are on plan.


Also, headwear in these particular categories are running up very positive as well as branded


headwear. Footwear was up single-digits, led by kids and cleats up high-single digits. Nike Shox,


Nike Impax, and Nike Cleats have been very good for this quarter. Technical shoes such as ASICS


and Mizuno, FILA basketball shoes. Some of the slowdown has come and classics have slowed


down somewhat but price points have continued to run up.


Hard goods are up single digits led by football, Under Armour, and Nike receivers gloves, Shock


Doctor mouthpieces, which range from $10 to $20, and all miscellaneous accessories in football.


Fitness continues to be up single digits. Fitness accessories, Ab Loungers and boxing which has


been good since the Olympics. So as we continue, our strategy of higher price points continue


cleaner inventory and better turns.


Michael J. Newsome, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jeff. Gary Smith, our Chief Financial Officer, will now comment on our financials.


Gary A. Smith, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer


For the second quarter, total sales increased 15% to 94 million, while comp store sales grew 3.1%.


The company opened 16 new stores and closed one. There are now 508 stores in operation as of


quarter end. Gross profit increased approximately 200 basis points due to improved margins in all


three areas, due to reduced markdowns, improved sell-throughs, higher turns, and a slight shift in


mix. Occupancy in warehouse costs also leveraged positively.


For the period, selling and admin cost increased 14 basis points year-over-year, due in part to cost


of sales which came in below our internal plan, a higher bonus accrual as the company’s


performance improves, increased new store costs due to lease accounting, and increased store


transportation cost. Operating income was 7.7% versus 5.6 for the same quarter last year. The


company also received a tax benefit for the quarter as we adjusted to our anticipated annual run


rate of 37%. Net income for the quarter was 4.9 million versus last year’s 2.9. Earnings per diluted


share came in at $0.21 versus a restated 12 the previous year.