Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Investor Relations Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard L. Voliva III — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Holly Logistic Services LLC
Mark A. Plake — President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Theresa Chen — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Parisa Alizadeh — Analyst, Simmons & Company

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Holly Energy Partners Second Quarter 2016 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Craig Biery. Craig, you may begin your conference.

Thanks, Marcella. And thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners. Welcome to our second quarter 2016 earnings call. Joining us today are Mark Plake, President, and Richard Voliva, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This morning we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending June 30, 2016. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before Rich and Mark proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, statements made regarding management expectation, judgment or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provision of federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings.

Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today August 2, 2016. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript. Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that I'll turn the call over to Rich Voliva.

Thanks, Craig. And thanks to each of you for joining the call this afternoon. On July 22, Holly Energy Partners announced its 47th consecutive quarterly distribution increase to $0.585 per unit. This distribution, which will be paid on August 12 to unitholders on record as of August 1, represents an acceleration in year-over-year distribution growth to 7.3%, and continued progress towards our 8% distribution growth rate target.

For the second quarter of 2016, HEP generated distributable cash flow of $55.7 million, an increase of $8.4 million or 18% over the same period last year. Distribution coverage for the quarter was very strong at 1.17 times. Net income attributable to HEP for the second quarter was $39.1 million compared to $30.2 million for the same period in 2015. This increase was driven by recent acquisitions, including interest in the Frontier, Osage and Cheyenne pipelines, the Tulsa crude tanks acquired in March, and a refinery processing unit's drop-down in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Operating expenditures in the period totaled $27 million, including $1.7 million of OpEx reimbursed by HollyFrontier. Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $14 million, including approximately $2.8 million in maintenance CapEx and $4.1 million of reimbursable CapEx. For the full year of 2016, we expect to spend $65 million to $85 million in total CapEx excluding acquisitions. This includes $10 million to $15 million of maintenance capital and $15 million to $20 million of reimbursable CapEx.

As of June 30, HEP had approximately $1.1 billion of total debt outstanding, comprised of $300 million of 6.5% notes due in 2020, and approximately $786 million drawn on our credit facility. Interest expense was $11.3 million in the second quarter, representing an increase of $2.2 million over the same period in 2015.

In July, HEP issued $400 million of 6% unsecured senior notes due in 2024 to repay borrowings on its revolving credit facility. We were very pleased with this issuance and are well positioned for long-term growth. On May 10, 2016 we established a continuous offering program where HEP may issue common units representing limited partner interests, up to an aggregate gross sales amount of $200 million.

As of June 30, HEP has issued approximately 445,000 units under this program, providing $15 million in gross proceeds. For the second quarter of 2016 we recognized roughly $300,000 of deferred revenue from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. As of June 30, HEP carried $4.8 million in deferred revenue on our balance sheet.

In the third quarter of 2016, we anticipate recognizing approximately $250,000 of deferred revenue. Following the July 1, 2016 FERC and PPI tariff adjustments, long-term minimum commitment contracts will result in consolidated annualized payments of approximately $300 million.

Now I'll turn the call over to Mark for a few comments.

Thanks, Rich. We're pleased to report a strong financial performance for the second quarter. As Rich mentioned, we recently announced a $0.01 increase to our quarterly distribution, marking the 47th consecutive distribution increases since our IPO in 2004. We continued to execute on our distribution growth strategy, and remain confident in our ability to continue to grow while maintaining our long history of delivering solid financial results.

On June 3, 2016 we acquired a 50% interest in Cheyenne Pipeline LLC, owner of the Cheyenne Pipeline. The 87 mile – 80,000 barrel per day crude oil pipeline runs from Fort Laramie to Cheyenne, Wyoming, and supplies HollyFrontier Cheyenne refinery with Canadian crude. Following the closing, HFC and Cheyenne Pipeline LLC executed a long-term extension and increase of HFC's minimum volume commitment on the Cheyenne Pipeline.

Also, it is important to note that the pipeline has spare capacity, allowing for future potential growth once the connection to the Saddlehorn Pipeline is complete. We continued to leverage our logistics capabilities and HFC's refining footprint to create unique third-party acquisition opportunities, as evidenced by our recent purchases of the Cheyenne Pipeline and Tulsa crude tanks. In addition to third party opportunities, we are targeting a second-half 2016 dropdown of certain assets related to the Woods Cross refinery expansion, which was completed last quarter.

With the recent launch of our at-the-market equity program, newly issued bonds, and liquidity from our revolver, HEP is in a great position to capitalize on future growth opportunities.

We are now ready to turn the call over to Marcella for questions.

The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Theresa Chen from Simon & Co, your line is open.

Hi, this is Theresa Chen from Barclays. My first question is related to the broader topic of refinery run cuts in the industry in light of excess supply in the market. Can you just comment on if that is something the parent is thinking of doing in the second half, just in the context of the fact that there's a portion of volumes tied to the parent but that is currently above MVC's. And I'm trying to gauge how much downside there might be for the partnership is HFC decides to lower its utilization.

Hey, Theresa, this is Rich. What I'd say is, obviously, this is really a question for HollyFrontier and not HEP. That said, obviously HollyFrontier's refineries are generally in advantaged markets, so we feel very good about our customer in general. And obviously, our downside, as long as these plants are running, is pretty limited. I'd direct you to tomorrow's call of HFC.

Okay. On HEP's planned drop-down for the second half, can you comment on your plans for financing and what valuation multiple we should expect?

Sure. On financing, obviously we're really pleased with the bond we just got done in the month of July. So, generally speaking we're trying that we're planning and trying to fund our capital on our acquisitions 50-50 debt and equity. Obviously, our debt side of our book is in great shape right now.

We had the ATM program in place, so we'll expect to continue to operate that. And, really, as we get to, then, the drop-down timing, there's still a little bit of flex obviously, it will be later this year. And the size, we'll see where we are with respect to credit metrics and everything, and take a look at if we need additional equity beyond the ATM program.

With respect to valuation, I think we continue to guide you – it's a refinery dropdown asset and we expect this to look very much in line with that peer group of dropdown multiple.

Okay. And then just following up on your comment on size, you had in your investor day previously about a $200 million number annually of drop-downs. Is that still a good number to model?

Yes. I think the one thing I would say there is it's going to be lumpy. So obviously, we're going to have a larger number this year and then we'll kind of come to next year as we go. I think that's what we had targeted on a smoothed out basis, if you will. So I think that will be a little more erratic than that, but broadly speaking, it's probably reasonable.

Great. Thank you. And, lastly, would you mind just giving some color on your pipeline and third-party terminalling volume metrics, just any incremental information about will costs decline sequentially? That would be great.

Sure. And terminals, in particular, yes, I was going to say, obviously we executed that transactional deal with HollyFrontier of the Osage drop down in El Paso. So, I think the terminal volume, the need decline there is primarily related to that.

Then on the pipeline?

The pipeline side, sure, obviously we saw some good growth in a couple different spots, thanks to UNEV. What I would say is then on the crude and intermediate pipes that tie into HollyFrontiers in Navajo refinery, roughly they're going to be flat around this area. Last quarter, there was not much movement either way. Generally, we would expect that to be pretty flat in this range going forward.

Great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Parisa Alizadeh from Simmons & Company. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon. My first question is around the acquisition of the 50% interest in Cheyenne. Could you maybe quantify the cash flow uplift from the asset that you are expecting over the second half of 2016, and maybe in 2017 with all the future growth opportunities coming online, once Saddlehorn is connected?

Sure. So, Parisa, I think what we'd say there is HollyFrontier Cheyenne refinery is the primary customer currently on that line. Generally speaking, HFC runs about 40,000 barrels a day of Canadian crude. There's a published tariff in there, last I looked it was around $0.96, so you can quickly back into a revenue number of $13 million, $15 million, obviously were 50% of this pipe.

Saddlehorn is just about to get started up. So we would expect that then to be upside over time. Obviously right now, with crude prices where they are, there is not a lot of incremental drilling – in the Bakken, for example. So that's – then in the long-term, though, we're optimistic that we will see some volumes come down to Cheyenne and get on.

Okay, great. And then moving over to UNEV, at the Q1 call, I remember you talked about UNEV and third-party volume growth would be expected to bring on about $10 million to $15 million of incremental revenue over the following six months. Could you maybe talk about approximately how much of that was recognized in Q2 and how much more you could expect in Q3 in the second half of 2016?

Sure, that $10 million to $15 million is less than an annualized number.

Okay.

We saw, I'd say a little bit of it in the second quarter, not an enormous amount. We fully expect UNEV to remain a very seasonal pipeline. So the fourth and first quarters will see much higher volumes than the second and third. And really that – we expect to really feel that impact in the second half as the HollyFrontier expansion is online and moving product ultimately, whether it's HollyFrontier or third-party on the UNEV.

Okay. And along the lines of the third-party volumes on UNEV, how is that trending so far? What can we expect through the course of 2016?

Sure. We continue to see some growth there. We are finishing up a connection with the last refiner in the Salt Lake Valley that was not connected to UNEV. So, we'll have everybody online. That said, obviously it's – UNEV is a little bit in arbitrage play. And with some of the downtime we've seen in the Salt Lake City market, Salt Lake City cracks had been pretty attractive.

So we have seen growth on third-party volumes on UNEV, not an enormous amount, just given the economics currently. And we'd expect to see some more in the second-half. Again, really the winter time is when we would expect to see it.

Okay. And then, I guess, my last question kind of a follow-up to that, with the Torrance refinery back up over the past two weeks, do you see Calnev pipeline as a potential determinant to demand on UNEV over the remainder of the year?

Yes, potentially. Obviously, at the end of the day, the play for UNEV, and the market it's capitalizing on, is the fact that Salt Lake City barrels are lower cost than LA basin barrels into Las Vegas, ultimately. And those economics remain in place. So, yes, there's no question, though, that what's going on in LA and Calnev does impact UNEV ultimately.

Okay. Great. That's it for me. Thanks a lot. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you all for joining us on the call today. If you have any follow-up questions, please reach out to Investor Relations. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our third quarter results with you in November.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.