Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Director-Investor Relations, Holly Energy Partners LP
George J. Damiris — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard Lawrence Voliva III — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Theresa Chen — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Justin S. Jenkins — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners' Second Quarter 2017 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Craig Biery. Craig, you may begin.

Thanks, Emily, and thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Director of Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners and welcome to our second quarter 2017 earnings call.

Joining us today are George Damiris, President and CEO; and Richard Voliva, Senior Vice President and CFO. This morning, we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending June 30, 2017. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before George and Rich proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, it says, statements made regarding management expectations, judgments or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings.

Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, August 1, 2017. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript. Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to George Damiris.

Thanks, Craig, and thanks to each of you for joining the call this afternoon.

On July 27, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.6325 per unit, an 8.1% increase over the same period in 2016. This distribution will be paid on August 14, the uniltholders on record as of August 7. This distribution marks the 51st consecutive increase and exceeds our distribution growth target of 8%, while still maintaining a coverage ratio greater than 1.

In the second quarter, HEP's total volumes increased by 6% over the same period last year. This increase is primarily due to an increase in intermediate shipments, and additional volumes associated with our refinery process units in HollyFrontier's Woods Cross Refinery, which were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2016. Further, unit volumes were 20% higher than the comparable period in 2016, now that the majority of the Salt Lake City refiners are connected and HFC's Woods Cross Refinery expansion was complete.

While most of HollyFrontier's annual maintenance – I'm sorry, with most of HollyFrontier's annual maintenance completed in the first quarter, we remain optimistic about our volume growth outlook for the remainder of this year. We are very pleased with our solid financial performance. We will maintain our focus on growing the business. We continue to leverage our logistics capabilities and HollyFrontier's refining footprint to explore third-party acquisition opportunities. With the quality and location of our assets, talented employee base and supportive general partner, we remain confident in our growth strategy.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rich.

Thank you, George. For the second quarter of 2017, Holly Energy Partners generated distributable cash flow of $60.9 million, an increase of $5.2 million or 9% over the same period last year. Distribution coverage for the quarter was 1.03 times, in line with our target coverage ratio of 1 to 1.2 times.

Net income attributable to HEP for the second quarter was $41.3 million compared to $39.1 million for the same period in 2016. This increase was driven by recent acquisitions, including the Woods Cross Refinery processing units dropped down in October 2016 and 50% interest in the Cheyenne Pipeline acquired in June of 2016.

Operating expenditures in the period totaled $34 million, including $2 million of OpEx reimbursed by HollyFrontier. Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $8.6 million, including $2.2 million in maintenance CapEx and roughly $300,000 of CapEx reimbursed by HFC. In 2017, excluding CapEx reimbursed by HFC, we expect to spend approximately $10 million for maintenance capital and approximately $30 million for expansion capital, excluding any acquisition.

As of June 30, HEP had approximately $1.2 billion of total debt outstanding comprised of $400 million of 6% notes due in 2024, the balance have funded on our credit facility. Interest expense was $13.7 million in the second quarter, representing an increase of $2.4 million over the same period in 2016. On July 27, HEP's credit agreement was amended increasing the size of our facility to $1.4 billion from $1.2 billion and extending the maturity to July of 2022.

During the second quarter, HEP issued approximately 400,000 units under our continuous offering program providing $13 million in net proceeds. We are confident that our current liquidity and the ability to access the capital markets will enable to achieve future growth both organically and through acquisitions.

In the second quarter of 2017, we recognized roughly $600,000 of deferred revenue from prior shortfall billed to shippers. And as of June 30, HEP carried $8 million in deferred revenue on our balance sheet. In the third quarter of 2017, we anticipate recognizing approximately $750,000 of deferred revenue.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Emily for any questions.

The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Theresa Chen from Barclays. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, there. In terms of the growth guidance you reiterated, do you think you'll need to execute another transaction later this year either another dropdown or a third-party acquisition to achieve that 8% growth guidance or are you comfortable with your existing asset base and then possibly just having thinner coverage for the year?

Hi, Theresa. We are anticipating some better volumes in the back half of the year. And no, we don't see the need for transaction this year. We feel comfortable with our guidance.

Okay. Thanks. And in terms of just the base business then for the volumes and the average fee per barrel that showed up in Q2, is that a pretty good run rate currently building on some additional volumes for the back half just because the first quarter was affected by the downtime and [indiscernible] (08:08) numbers look a little volatile from quarter-to-quarter?

Yeah. And there's always seasonality with UNEV in particular, right. That's going to filter in here. But yeah, to your point, first quarter was probably exceptional in that sense, so – and I think year-over-year, kind of per barrel number should look comparable for a better way to think of it, right.

Got it. And speaking of UNEV, can you give us any indication how those volumes are running in the third quarter?

So far, a little bit better. We expect that seasonality that always existed on UNEV is going to continue. So, much stronger shipments in the fourth and the first quarter than the second and the third.

Sure, but on a year-over-year basis.

Year-over-year basis, it's definitively up a little bit, not a huge amount.

Got it. And just turning to the more strategic outlook for HEP. Where do think the next wave of growth or the next wave of spending is for the partnership, where do you see the opportunities?

Yeah. I think we're going to continue to leverage our existing asset base for organic growth. I think you're going to see additional volumes associated with activity at HollyFrontier. We're running at about 12 refineries. We're going to continue to leverage our strategy of finding opportunities for HEP to participate in systems that HFC is currently using from an incumbent. And we think the Permian should present some opportunities as well as the other acquisition opportunities.

Got it. And George, I'm very glad you've bought up the Permian and potential acquisition opportunities. As a Permian operator, granted on the downstream side, but can you comment on the competitive dynamics for assets in the base and closest to well ahead, particularly as a rather large and expensive gathering asset has come to market recently in a more public way?

Well, this question is very competitive in the Permian. There's a lot of money chasing deals in the Permian. So, we're not going to [ph] secure the away (10:31) emotionally to do something in the Permian, it was to make sense. But we have a strong asset based to which to leverage and we'll take advantage of that, will makes sense.

Okay. And can you just remind us what your internal criteria is for acquisitions?

Theresa, we're kind of have fairly standard, right. We look at this kind of cash flows and returns versus cost of the capital and are obviously also always mindful of accretion and dilution to our limited partners. So, it sort of forms two criteria at the end of the day.

Okay. But is there like a numerical hurdle that you have to meet for every acquisition or just it depends?

No. it depends, right. The possible transaction comes with a different risk profile and so to set one hurdle and we ignore that fact.

Fair enough. Thank you very much.

You're welcome, Theresa.

Our next question comes from the line of Justin Jenkins with Raymond James. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Okay. Thanks. Good afternoon, everybody. I think, Theresa hit on a bit what I had, but maybe thinking about the IDRs, George, I know you said last quarter, it makes a lot of sense to look at, but there was a lot on your plate with integrating PCLI into the HollyFrontier family. Is there any update you can share on the current thinking as it relates to cost to capital and the IDR structure?

Hi, Justin; it's Rich. So I think we would just say the same thing that we've been saying basically, which is we're aware of the market and the cost of capital issues and it is on our list of things to work on this year. So, we're working on it.

Fair enough. Looking at housekeeping – looking at maybe a housekeeping item on the lines of operation, it seems like refinery processing units, sizeable drop in revenue in 2Q from 1Q even as throughputs went up. Is it something in particular that cause that or should we look at maybe a run rate at the balance of the two quarters or how should we think about that?

Yeah. I think we had some operating issues in the second quarter, and I would probably view the first quarter as being more indicative than the second. But I think, even a little bit higher than the first quarter wouldn't be the question as well.

Perfect. I appreciate it. Again, I'll leave it there. Thanks. [Operator Instructions] [indiscernible]

(13:56) do we have any other questions. It looks we may have lost. But thanks again everyone for joining the call today. If you have any follow up questions, please reach out to Investor Relations. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our third quarter results with you in November.

My apologies for that. That concludes today's call. You may now disconnect. Thanks for joining and have a great day.