Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Director-Investor Relations, Holly Energy Partners LP
George J. Damiris — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard L. Voliva — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Theresa Chen — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Justin S. Jenkins — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Gabriel Moreen — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners' First Quarter 2017 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Craig Biery.

Craig, you may begin.

Thanks, Kirk. And thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Director of Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners and welcome to our first quarter 2017 earnings call. Joining us today are George Damiris, President and CEO; and Richard Voliva, Senior Vice President and CFO. This morning, we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending March 31, 2017. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before George and Rich proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, if the statements made regarding management expectations, judgment or predictions are forward-looking statements, these statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings.

Today's statements are not guaranteed of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, May 2, 2017. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript. Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to George Damiris.

Thanks, Craig. Thanks to all of you for joining us this afternoon. We're very pleased with our first quarter results which demonstrated our ability to produce solid distributable cash flow despite headwinds during the period. Our financial performance enabled us to increase our distribution for the 50th consecutive quarter and continue progress towards our distribution growth target of 8%. HEP's fee-based business model supported by long-term minimum volume commitments provides us with a strong foundation for continued growth.

In the first quarter, the Salt Lake City crude pipeline experienced an outage which reduced overall crude throughput at Salt Lake City refineries. The 28-day interruption in February impacted our equity earnings as we are a 25% owner of the pipeline. The Salt Lake City pipeline is currently fully operational and running at normal rates.

Despite the Salt Lake City pipeline outage, HEP's unit volumes saw only a slight decrease over the same period last year aided by a healthy arbitrage into the Las Vegas market in January. Our outlook remains positive for UNEV's organic growth potential, now that the majority of Salt Lake City refineries are connected and local refinery expansions are fully operational.

Also in the quarter, HollyFrontier's Navajo refinery conducted a major plant maintenance turnaround, which reduced the refinery's crude throughput and product output. As a result, HEP's assets in the southwest region saw a decrease in transportation and terminal volumes.

Going forward, we'll continue to leverage our logistics capabilities and HFCs refining footprint to pursue organic growth, third-party acquisition opportunities.

With the quality and location of our assets, talented employee base, and supportive general partner, we remain confident in our growth strategy.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rich.

Thank you, George. On April 27, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.62 per unit, a 7.8% increase over the same period in 2016. And as George mentioned, we are on track to meet our 8% distribution growth target. This distribution is scheduled to be paid on May 15 to unitholders on record as of May 8.

The first quarter of 2017 HEP generated distributable cash flow of $57.3 million, $1.9 million higher than the same period last year. We ran a distribution coverage ratio of 1.0 times in the quarter, despite both planned and unplanned maintenance surrounding our asset base.

Net income attributable to HEP for the first quarter is $25.6 million, compared to $43 million in the same period in 2016. The decrease is primarily due to a charge of $12.2 million related to the early redemption of our $300 million 6.5% senior notes due in 2020, as well as a reduction in pipeline revenues of $12.4 million, primarily driven by the turnaround at HollyFrontier's Navajo refinery. Excluding the loss from the early extinguishment of debt, net income attributable to HEP for the quarter would be $37.8 million.

Operating expenditures in the period totaled $32.5 million including $1.3 million of OpEx reimbursed by HollyFrontier. Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $8.3 million including approximately $800,000 in maintenance CapEx, about $900,000 of CapEx reimbursed by HFC. 2017 excluding CapEx reimbursed by HFC, we expect to spend approximately $10 million for maintenance capital and approximately $30 million for expansion capital, excluding any acquisition.

As of March 31, 2017, HEP had over $1.2 billion of total debt outstanding comprised of $400 million of 6% notes due in 2024 and approximately $850 million drawn on our $1.2 billion credit facility. I mentioned earlier on January 4 of this year, we redeemed our 6.5% notes with revolver borrowings, reducing our quarterly interest expense by roughly $2.6 million.

In the first quarter, we raised $40.3 million from the sale of LP units via our continuous offering program. Including cash and revolver availability, we had approximately $360 million of liquidity at the end of the quarter. We are confident that our current liquidity and ability to access the capital markets will enable to achieve future growth, both organically and through M&A.

In the first quarter of 2017, we recognized $2.1 million of deferred revenue from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. And as of March 31, HEP carried $6.2 million in deferred revenue on our balance sheet. In the second quarter for 2017, we anticipate recognizing approximately $600,000 of deferred revenue.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Kirk for any questions.

The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Theresa Chen from Barclays Capital. Your line is open.

Hi, there. On the topic of turnarounds, looking to your parent some guidance, how much of an impact should we see on the HEP level from the Tulsa turnaround scheduled for fourth quarter of this year?

Hey, Theresa, it's Rich. I don't think it will be substantial – where I'd probably frame that as look, the area of the asset base that has probably the most headroom, if you will, over minimum volume commitment is in and around Navajo. So, I think that's where you're going to see the outsized impact of a turnaround.

The other thing to keep in mind with Tulsa is that we turned that refinery around essentially in two pieces, if you will. So, the full plant doesn't come down or as much of the plant doesn't come down similar to what we just had with Navajo. So, it mutes the impact.

Got it. And then just looking at the quarterly results, the fee per barrel on the terminaling side looked as there was an uptick and looked higher than the run rate over the past few quarters, is there anything to call out there or is it sustainable?

Bear with us. One second, Theresa. We're just fishing the number out, so we'll make sure we're looking at the right thing.

No worries.

So, long story short, I don't think there's anything in particular to call out this quarter. Again, I'll point you to the fact that we did have Navajo down, so several of the terminals that were impacted in the system [ph] of Tucson (10:02) passed obviously [indiscernible] (10:06). So there's a few of them that were down and disproportionally down this quarter, so I think it's nothing to point there than that.

Okay. So following the Q1 results, do you still expect to achieve your general coverage target of 1.1 to 1.2 times for this year?

Yeah. I think were – we talked about our target 1 to 1.2 times, and we feel very comfortable with that range.

Okay. Thanks. And can you just remind us what your long-term leverage target is?

Sure. I think long-term we target 4 times debt-to-EBITDA. Actually, we're running a little bit over that right now, although we brought that down a little bit this quarter. Given our business model, we're comfortable running a little bit over that, but again our target is 4 times.

Thank you very much.

Sure thing. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Justin Jenkins from Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Just a couple, maybe strategic ones for me. You talked about the opportunities maybe in the M&A market, curious what you think maybe from a regional perspective, simply building upon HollyFrontier's asset-base seems to make the most sense. Is that the goal at least from an overarching perspective in terms of M&A?

Yeah. I think that's a good way thinking about it. We have the most competitive advantage in most sense to grow both organically and by M&A in the areas where we already have an asset base.

Okay. Great. And then one of your customers is in the process of an M&A transaction. I know you probably don't want to talk about anything specific related to that customer, but any concerns there or opportunities that might arise from that transaction unfolding?

Yeah. Like you say, it's not right for us to speak for somebody else. But from our perspective, we don't see anything changing.

Okay. Just want to make sure. Thanks, guys.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Moreen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

Hey. Good afternoon. Two broader questions on my end. One is just an update on I guess Permian organic growth opportunities to the extent where you find yourself in those? And number two would just be around the whole GP IDR restructuring and to what extent that's on your minds at this point?

Sure. On the Permian, we continue to look for opportunities. The growth continues. In many case, it exceeds what is in the public domain. Having said that, as you've probably seen from various recent M&A transactions, there's a lot of money chasing deals in the Permian. It was very competitive. So, we're going to continue to look and continue to believe we have opportunities in the Permian. But again, it's going to be very competitive, but we feel confident we're going to find our fair share of the opportunities.

Regarding the IDRs, we continue to work it. We've been a little bit preoccupied with our PCLI acquisition and integrating that into HollyFrontier. So, a lot of the people and resources we needed to address the IDRs are just not being freed up from the PCLI activities. We'll continue to evaluate it and we'll probably be in a position there further address in subsequent quarterly calls.

So, let me just follow-up on that, I mean, is it the view point that it seems like, I mean I understand the personnel bandwidth. But is it the view that considering how many others are moving, I guess, to address the IDRs I guess [indiscernible] (14:26) feeling that this is an issue that now kind of has to be dealt with or?

We think it makes a lot of sense to look at it. At the end of the day, it's going to have to be something that's right for both the GP and the LP obviously. But it seems to make a lot of sense, but we have a lot of Is to dot and Ts to cross before we get to the point where we can make a call on this one.

Got it. Thank you.

If there are no further questions, I'll turn the floor back over to Craig for any closing remarks.

Thanks again for joining the call today. If you have any follow-up questions, please reach out to Investor Relations. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our second quarter results with you in August.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining and have a great day.