Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Director, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Herriet Qu — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Alex Chang — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Asia Ltd.
Bo Yong Liu — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd.
Patrick Xu — Analyst, Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the HollySys Automation Technologies Fiscal Year 2017 First Quarter ended on September 30, 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, November 15, 2016, Beijing Time.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations Director of HollySys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of HollySys Automation Technologies; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of HollySys; and myself, the IR Director of HollySys. On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the quarter; and Ms. Qu will discuss our performance from a financial perspective, and our whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of HollySys' future product introductions, the mix of products in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and expectations of HollySys' management are subject to risk and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements. Business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia continued compliance with government's regulations; legislation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which HollySys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuations in customer demand; management of rapid growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation and control system technology; timing approval and market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes as well as other relevant risks detailed in HollySys' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. HollySys does not assume any obligation to update information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollar unless otherwise noted.

I'd now like to turn the call to Mr. Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and greetings to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. Due to continued uncertainty of macroeconomic, the pace of industry automation is still slow. However, we are actively taking action to ramping the impact of challenging markets. The new contract turns to be positive. We got several significant contracts from power and chemical sectors. For example, in power, we signed the contract to provide products for Fujian Luoyuanwan 2X1000MW power units and Guohua Ningdong 2X660MW power units. In chemical, we will provide the DCS and SIS for Xinjiang East Hope Company, as well as DCS and Batch for ASIA CUANON in its west Waterborne Coatings Project. In after sale, we signed some upgrading contracts of power units like Guohua Jinjie 2X600MW power units.

Additionally, we signed the DCS contracts to number 5 and number 6 units of Tianwan Nuclear Station, as well as number 3 and number 4 units of Fangchenggang Nuclear Station. In abroad, we signed a contract with Indonesia Qingshan to provide products for their 2X350MW Coal-fire power units. We also got a contract from Lanco to provide PLC to them in deal.

For factory automation, we integrated international resource to do customized turkey solutions. In this quarter, we signed a contract with Haier to help them improve the level of automation and intelligence of their Tianjin-based factory which focuses on washing machine. Our goal is to make each project into a demonstration project to create value for the customers.

In high-speed railway, as it is the first year for the 13th five-year-plan, the infrastructure of new planned railway just starts. In short term, there will be fluctuation both on order and revenue. However, for long run, we are confident that the high-speed railway's performance will as good as before since China is continuously investing a certain scale on supporting high-speed railway sector for the next even 10 years, plus the increasing in the product sale, after-sale and expanding of the rail products such as track circuit, we believe to achieve the yearly target and maintain steady revenue contribution in railway. For subway business, we will continue to actively expand domestic market and looking for opportunity to keep steady growth.

In the mechanical and electrical installation services, although Concord and Bond are facing some difficulties because of the local political and economic uncertainty in South East Asia and Middle East area, they are still hard working to develop businesses. As one of the strategies to expand overseas market, we will ensure a healthy development of Concord and Bond and take use of their advantages such as good customer relations and sales channels to find more international opportunities.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Arden Xia who will review the financial results analysis on behalf of CFO, Ms. Herriet Qu.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I would like to share some highlights for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2016. Comparing to the first quarter of the prior fiscal year, the total revenues for three months and September 30, 2016 decreased from $125.1 million to a $103.5 million, representing a decrease of 17.2%.

Broken down by the revenue types, integrated contracts revenue decreased by 16.2% to $93.1 million. Product sales revenue decreased by 27.3% to $8.3 million, and services revenue increased by 17.9% to $2.1 million. In July 2016, the company's interest in HollyCon were diluted from 51% to 30% and the company lost the control of HollyCon.

As a result, HollyCon's financials would not be included in the company's consolidated financials from July 2016. If HollyCon's revenue was excluded from the comparable figure for the first quarter of the prior fiscal year, the product sale revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 should be increased by 45.7%. The company's total revenue can also be presented in segments: Industrial automation, $45 million; railway transportation, $33 million; M&E solutions $25.3 million; miscellaneous $0.1 million; total $103.5 million.

Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 29.6% for the first quarter as compared to 39.3% for the same period of prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and service rendered were 25%, 70.5%, and 69.7% for the first quarter as compared to 37.3%, 52.6% and 65.5% for the same period of prior year, respectively.

The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin. The GAAP overall gross margin which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 29.5% for the first quarter as compared to 39.1% for the same period of prior year. The GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 24.9%, 70.5%, and 69.7% for the first quarter as compared to 37.1%, 52.6%, and 65.5% for the same period of prior year, respectively.

Selling expenses were $5.6 million for the first quarter representing a decrease of $1 million or 16.2% compared to $6.6 million for the same quarter of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 5.4% and 5.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2016, and 2015, respectively.

G&A expenses excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $9.7 million for the first quarter, representing an increase of $0.8 million, or 9.0%, as compared to $8.9 million for the same period of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 9.3% and 7.1% for quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

The GAAP G&A expenses which includes the non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $10.6 million and $9.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

R&D expenses were $7.7 million for the respective quarters ended September 30, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 7.4% and 6.2% for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $9.6 million for first quarter as compared $5.1 million for the same period in prior year, representing a $4.5 million or 88.7% increase which was primarily due to increase of the VAT refunds of $2.2 million and the government subsidies of $2.3 million.

Gains on dilution and divestment of the company's interests in HollyCon was $6.1 million for three months ended September 30, 2016. During the period from June 2016 to July 2016, HollyCon received cash injections of $30.9 million from two outside shareholders, and the company decided not to make the additional cash investment proportionally. As a result, the company's interests in HollyCon were diluted from 51% to 30.6%. Then, the company sold 0.6% interests of HollyCon to one of HollyCon's shareholders in a cash consideration of $464,000, and the company interests in HollyCon were further decreased to 30.0%. The company recorded a gain of $6.1 million for the series of the transactions. As the company lost the control of HollyCon, HollyCon's financials would not be included in the company's consolidated financials from July 2016 on.

The income tax expenses and the effective tax rate were $3 million and 12.2% for the first quarter, as compared to a $4.7 million and 12.9% for comparable prior-year period.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to HollySys, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustments and the convertible bond related fair value adjustments was $22.7 million or $0.37 per diluted share based on 61.1 million shares outstanding for the first quarter. This represents a 16.7% decrease over the $27.3 million or $0.45 per share based on 60.6 million shares outstanding reported in the comparable prior-year period. On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to HollySys was $21.7 million or $0.36 per diluted share representing a decrease of 28.3% over the $30.3 million or $0.5 per diluted share reported in the comparable prior-year period.

Contracts and backlog, HollySys achieved $116.2 new contracts for the first quarter. And the backlog as of September 30, 2016 was $525.2 million. The detailed breakdown of the new contracts and backlog by segments: industrial new contracts, industrial automation, $61.5 million; railway transportation, $31.5 million; M&E Solutions $6.2 million; total $99.2 million. Backlog, industrial automation, $132 million; railway transportation, $218.7 million; M&E, $174.6 million; total, $525.2 million.

Cash flow. For the first quarter, the total net cash outflow was $16.8 million. The net cash provided by operating activities was $17.8 million. The net cash used in investing activities was $34 million, mainly consisted of $20.4 million time deposits placed with banks, and $16.7 million outflow as a result of that HollyCon would not be included in the consolidated financials from July 2016. The net cash provided by financing activities was $0.4 million.

The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $260.9 million, $271.5 million, and $234.9 million as of September 30, 2016, June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015, respectively. As of September 30, 2016, the company held $212.3 million in cash and cash equivalent and $48.6 million time deposits with original maturities over three months.

For the first quarter, DSO was 207 days as compared to the 179 days for the comparable prior-year period and 147 days for the last quarter. And inventory turnover was 48 days as compared to 42 days for the comparable prior-year period and 37 days for the last quarter.

Outlook for fiscal year 2017, given our strong backlog currently on-hand and sales pipeline envisioned so far, we reiterate our guidance for fiscal year 2017 with revenue in the range of $565 million to $600 million and non-GAAP net income in the range of $130 million to $140 million.

At this time, we'd like to open up for Q&A session. Please note that for Chinese speaking participants, we can also do the Q&A in Mandarin and will provide the translation.

[Foreign Language] (19:04-19:17) Operator, please.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Alex Chang from Citigroup. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (19:43-21:06)

The first question is about the first few, the IA new order is increasing. Is there any – please introduce by industry which areas we see the recovery and how much percentage?

The second question is about the railway. The revenue is declining, but the after sale revenue is also declined. In my perspective view, the installation base and – the after sale revenue based on installation base, actually the rail sector, you have a very good installation base, wide after sale revenue still declining.

The third question is on the HollyCon, the HollyCon business is what kind of specific business? And why management team considered not [indiscernible] (22:04) for HollyCon?

[Foreign Language] (22:11-22:55)

The first question answer is about is the power industry. Coal fire is still very strong. Even on their well regulations of limitation promise to government, but this part still increased very good. And we found a lot of challenges opportunities to raise large capacity projects. And also, after sale revenue is increasing within this part. But, however, it is not a kind of recovery [audio gap] (23:36-23:41)

[Foreign Language] (23:44-24:16)

[Technical Difficulty] (24:23-26:28)

Sorry the line was off. And I will translate again. And the first question answer is also beyond the coal fire industry is increasing and also after sales revenue is increasing. But it is not bad as the recover. We think there are still a lot of [indiscernible] (26:55), so we have to see in future.

[Foreign Language] (27:01-28:46)

The second question tends to focus on not just the rail, at the whole business, why the revenue and also after sale revenue declined. The integrated contract revenue has been affected a lot by the declined rail transportation revenue. The product sales decrease was due to the HollyCon Company's revenue including. If eliminated this factor, the first quarter of product sales should be increased even more than 45%, and services revenue decrease was because of the time difference on the point of recognized revenue. Some of our service contracts, for example, are based on completed contract method. So there will be a lumpiness biquarterly, but no disruptive effect on a yearly basis.

[Foreign Language] (29:45-31:28)

HollyCon's main revenue stream is coming from TCM dispensing machines and that the business is too unitary. For better developed market businesses specially the ones close to machine or a healthcare rather than automation, we chose to cooperate with new partners which are more professional in medicine or healthcare areas. New business developed will also bring more risks or uncertainties to balance the risks and the incentives partners we adjusted equity from 51% to 30%.

The last one I want to emphasize, this does not means we jeopardize the medical automation but define more clearly. If the business feature close to medicine or healthcare, we will do it like the HollyCon. If the business is focused on automation, we will like the relevant team to do that. There are also example that we currently do in factory automation like on Chinese medicine extraction with the [indiscernible] (32:43) pharmaceutical factory. We signed a contract provided automation side control products and solutions.

[Foreign Language] (32:56-36:57)

[Foreign Language] (32:57-36:58)

Operator, next one.

Your next question comes from Kevin Luo from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, sir.

[Foreign Language] (33:11-34:47)

The first question is about the revenue structure. Is it possible to divide it by IA, Rail and M&E separately to provide the proportion of the revenue and also compare the prior year of the same period increased or declined, and how much? The second question is about the gross margin. The gross margin jumped down a lot, this is because of the last year, the one-time discount within the hybrid rail ATP contract. Is that for this launch? If yes, what about the effects in the next quarter? And the third question is about HollyCon. The TCM traditional dispensing machine, this machine currently is within the HollyCon or within the HollySys Automation side?

[Foreign Language] (35:58-38:14)

The first question and second question combined together to answer. Industrial automation take this quarter around the $45 million take around 43.5% of total revenue; railway transportation $33 million take around 31.9% of total revenue; M&E $25.3 million take around the 24.5% of total revenue. Compared last – the same period of last year, the industrial automation take around the 39.6% of total revenue, rail take around 43.4% of total revenue, M&E maybe 12.4% of total revenue. So, answer to the second question is about the gross margin is not because the onetime ATP contract, the discount contract, because that why we're already close to [indiscernible] (39:22). And actual the dropdown of our gross margin reason is that mix result.

You can see this quarter the mixed results collectively rail which has taken, take a last percentage of total revenue, but it contribute the gross margin revenues higher than the others. And we recognize M&E and also the subway sector, the other things would be taken more the time than the same period of prior year, so that's why the gross margin goes down to 30%. This is the we call it out mix.

[Foreign Language] (40:07-41:50)

The second question, let me answer that. The contribution of this quarter revenue 40% from the subway and manufacturer, so this partnered gross margin, but lower than the average. But I want to emphasize for each segment, i.e., rail or M&E, there was no change within the gross margin, but the whole gross margin for this quarter down to 30% is really because of the mix result. As I said, a large percentage of recognized revenue from subway and M&E sector. And – but this is just [ph] a corporate lumpiness (42:37) for the yearly base, we think is going to ask what we announce between 35 to 40 for the total business of the gross margin.

[Foreign Language] (42:51-42:56)

The last question about the TCM traditional dispensary machine is belongs to joint venture, not just HollyCon.

[Foreign Language] (43:12-43:30)

The question is about the dispensing machine, the gross margin is what kind of level? The answer is about close to the product sale, more than average gross margin.

[Foreign Language] (43:42-43:44)

Your next question comes from Bo Yong Liu. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (43:53-45:25)

The first question is about the 2017 fiscal year's second quarter already past half. So, what about the landscape about right now revenue? Can you introduce a little visibility about this part? And also, during the Investor Day, it seems like the whole management had very good confidence with the company. So, what about the next revenue or the other performance?

And then the second question about the HollyCon, the other partners and their background. It seems like not really too close to the medicine area so how about to explain? And the third one is about the coal fire. Coal fire even you get a lot of new contracts and orders but the central government regulation is very tough on this area. Do you meet any difficulty or delayed under – on the implementing projects?

[Foreign Language] (46:54-48:49)

CFO focus on first question and third questions. The revenue recognition followed by percentage of completion. So, it is really hard if you are at the vision on the current performance based on Q2 2017 fiscal year. But from the new order side, we think this is a good sign at least.

The third question is about coal fire. There will be delay or even extend the period of the execution time. This has not just happened within the coal fire, also happened with the other industries like the petrochemical, metallurgy, those kind of areas. So, the analyst concerned about even your new order is increasing, but if the period of kind of execution of contract extend that would be a fact that they recognize revenue.

So, this part, we said the large part – currently the after sale revenue is increasing. The new contract from after sale like product sales for this vendor is increasing the structure, is changing. So that would be reasonable we could think in the next 10 to 12 months, the contract is still okay to secure the revenue contribution. And but also there are a lot of uncertainties within the IA, but at least there will be good performance, better than the last fiscal year 2016.

[Foreign Language] (50:45-51:23)

The second question is about the partners background. Actually, they have the experts inside it focused on the matching area. And also they have the resources to introduce to us, not just a sell background. And also, one of the partner help us to expand our current product to abroad. They have very good resources in abroad. So this is a good challenge for our product to deliver to that area. So that's why we cooperate with the new partners.

Thank you, Bo Yong.

[Foreign Langauge] (52:05) Thank you.

Due to the time constraint, the last question. Operator, please.

Your last question comes from Patrick Xu from Nomura. Please ask your question.

Hey, good morning. My first question is regarding the Southeast Asia business and you mentioned that it has seen some difficulty. But we are not really seeing any weakness in the numbers, so it seems that the revenue in your contracts backlog, all are fairly good. And so, why are you saying Southeast Asia has seen some difficulties. Could you just elaborate on that, please? That's the first question.

And second question on [ph] hire (52:49) project. You mentioned that you're doing automation project for hire. Could you tell us that you probably the revenue margin or return of the project please? Thanks.

[Foreign Language] (53:02-55:19)

The first question is about M&E sector. Their business is focused on Southeast Asia and Middle East, especially for example Singapore, Malaysia, and recently for example, BOND. Their business in Malaysia, Johor area, that contract and new order and also a project execution relatively good. And also with the Concord, recently got a very large contract of [ph] $50 million (55:51) on Doha project. So, that's why the performance currently within M&E is good than before.

However, the difficulties, for example, the Singapore economics is slowing down is very sharply, and right now we meet the new order, everything delayed or even [ph] top end (56:16) the environment, your bidding [ph] top end (56:18) before, so also the [ph] 8% (56:21) rate obviously would affect our business. So, there will be a lot of uncertainties of potential risks for this area.

And the second one about hire, we provide – we signed a contract that we've hired, helped and improved the level of automation intelligence of their production line and we want to – there are useful exploring that HollySys raised digital and intellectual abilities. And – but the contract side is not very large. It's just a several million China yuan level.

So we want to – this part it will not bring very supportive contribution for the revenue, but this part we hope to make achievement to satisfy customer need to continue to find more project to do it into a demonstration project to get more contract or potential opportunities cooperate with the customers.

Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (57:33-57:34)

Thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today. If haven't got a change to raise your questions, we're pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We look forward to speaking with you again in near future. Thank you.

Thanks.

This concludes our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.