Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jennifer Zhang — Investor Relations Director, Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Herriet Qu — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Ge Jin — Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Saiyi He — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd.
Nick Zheng — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd.
Baiding Rong — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Hollysys Automation Technologies Fiscal Year 2015 First Quarter Ended on September 30, 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, November 14, 2014.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Jennifer Zhang, the Investor Relations Director of Hollysys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Ms. Zhang.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Dr. Jianfeng He, Chairman of Hollysys Automation Technologies; Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of Hollysys; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of Hollysys; and myself, the IR Director of Hollysys.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the quarter, and Ms. Qu will discuss our performance from financial perspective and the financial outlook for fiscal year 2015, and the whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of Hollysys' future product introductions, the mix of products in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Hollysys' management are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; legislation or regulatory environments; requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which Hollysys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuations in customer demand; management of rapid growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation and control system technology; timing, approval and market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes, as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call or its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. Baiqing Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Jennifer, and greetings to everyone. During this quarter, we continuously insisted in executing our strategies to vertically penetrate in the high-end industrial automation market. And we had won several high-end projects in chemical, thermal, food beverage and the new energy industries. We were also focusing on building strong after-sale department and set long-term goals on improving after-sale service.

Our solution in reducing waste emission and environment protection proved successful. In recent operation, we have won a significant bidding to provide our proprietary DCS for 1 gigawatt Guangdong Yuedian Bohe thermal power plant.

We also had a contract win of the [ph] top 2X (04:29) 800 megawatt thermal power plant DCS reconstruction project for Liaoning Suizhong Power Plant, which marks our footstep on largest scales of power plant reconstruction area in China, provided (sic) [proved] (04:53) that our leading technology and total solution has won the trust of our client to replace the foreign player's control technology and products.

With China [ph] is going into (05:10) aging society and the labor shortage tends to be a bigger problem, China is putting more efforts in automation to replace labor and improve efficiency to reduce emission and protect environment. We believe we will financially benefit more in the long run.

Going forward, we will continue to expand our sales force and allocate more resources to high-growth industries, penetrate further into high-end market, increase market share in the low to mid-end market, expand our products supply such as software and safety protection solution, increase our overall market share, and grow the business in the industrial automation leveraging our advanced technologies, experienced professionals, profound industry expertise, and customization and innovation capability.

In rail transportation, during this quarter, we feel excited of the significant subway supervisory control and data acquisition system, SCADA, bidding win in Tianjin Subway Line 5, which is scheduled to be in operation by the end of 2017, leveraging our previous successful subway SCADA experience in Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen subway lines. We will continue to deliver quality works and work closely with the subway authorities in the future to promote our SCADA and future subway signaling technologies.

Besides in the high-speed railway, we continuously make remarkable achievements and market share increase. Currently, we are tightly executing quite a few railway line include Qingdao-Rongcheng Line, Guiyang-Guangzhou Line, Shenyang-Dandong Line and bidding for new projects. We also work to expand our rail products supply, such as track circuit. We have finished one-year testing of this product on line authorized by the Beijing Railway Bureau, and soon, we are going to finish the official admission progress.

With China's tremendous rail and subway construction nationwide, there is going to be an exciting prospect for Hollysys. As a well-recognized rail signaling system provider, we are confident that with our strong R&D capability, solid execution and reliable products, Hollysys will continue to penetrate China's vast rail and subway construction market and achieve significant results.

In the mechanical and electrical solution segment, Bond and Concord delivered solid growth during this quarter given their solid local market position, abundant customer resources and strong execution in Southeast Asia. For the overseas industrial automation and railway transportation expansion, we are sending qualified and experienced engineering from China to overseas, and recruiting local engineers to expand our overseas team.

With our proprietary technology and products, industry expertise and strong competitive advantages, together with our expanded local channel through Bond and Concord, we will continue to make exciting achievements in the international market in both industrial and rail transportation fields, and creating value for our shareholders.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Jennifer Zhang, who will read the financial results analysis on behalf of our CFO, Mr. Herriet Qu. Jennifer, please.

Thank you, Shao zong. In nutshell, Hollysys financial and operational result for fiscal year 2015 first quarter ended September 30, 2014, the company reported solid financial results. Comparing to the first quarter of the prior fiscal year, the total revenues for this quarter increased from $113.2 million to $140.7 million, representing an increase of 24.2%. Broken down by the revenue types, integrated contracts revenue increased by 21.8% to $128.5 million, products sales revenue increased by 27.8% to $8.9 million, and services revenue increased by 332.6% to $3.3 million.

The company's total revenue in segments are as follows: industrial automation, $57.1 million; rail transportation, $40.8 million; mechanical and electrical solution, $40.1 million; miscellaneous, $2.7 million. Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 39.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to 36.6% for the same quarter last year.

The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and services rendered were 36.3%, 79.2% and 61.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to 34.8%, 62.3% and 49.5% for the same period of the prior year respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin.

The GAAP overall gross margin, which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles, was 38.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to 35.7% for the same quarter last year. The GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and service rendered were 34.8%, 79.2% and 61.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to 33.9%, 62.3%, and 49.5% for the same quarter last year respectively.

Selling expenses were $6.8 million for this quarter representing an increase of $0.2 million or 2.6% compared to $6.6 million for the same quarter last year. As a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 4.8% and 5.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

For this quarter, the G&A expenses were $9.3 million, representing an increase of $1.1 million or 13.7% as compared to $8.2 million for the same quarter last year. As a percentage of total revenue, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 6.6% and 7.2% for the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The GAAP G&A expenses, which include the non-cash share-based compensation expenses, were $9.8 million and $8.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Research and development expenses were $8.8 million for this quarter, representing an increase of $0.8 million or 10.5% compared to $7.9 million for the same quarter last year, mainly due to the increased R&D activities. Represented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 6.2% and 7% for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $6.4 million for this quarter, as compared to $4.5 million for the same quarter last year, representing $1.8 million or 40.6% increase, which primarily due to the increase of VAT refunds of $1.9 million.

The income tax expenses and the effective tax rate were $7.4 million and 21.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to $3.8 million and 15.7% for the comparable prior year period. For the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, the company adopted the statutory tax rate of 25% to calculate the current and deferred tax for Beijing Hollysys & Hangzhou Hollysys as opposed to 15% used in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014.

These two entities are in the process of reapplying their High and New-Technology Enterprise certification. Upon reapplication, Beijing and Hangzhou Hollysys will be qualified for the preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% for calendar years ended December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2016.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to Hollysys, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles and acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustments, was $27.2 million or $0.46 per diluted share based on 59.1 million shares outstanding for the three months ended September 30, 2014. This represents a 33.4% increase over the $20.4 million or $0.35 per share based on 58 million shares outstanding reported in the comparable prior year period.

On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to Hollysys was $27.1 million or $0.46 per diluted share representing an increase of 35.3% over the $20 million or $0.35 per diluted share reported in the comparable prior year period.

Hollysys' backlog for integrated contracts as of September 30, 2014 was $495.7 million, representing an decrease of 10.8% compared to $555.5 million as of June 30, 2014, and an decrease of 3.9% compared to $515.9 million as of September 30, 2015 (sic) [2013] (17:48). The detailed breakdown of the backlog for integrated contracts by segment is industrial automation, $161.9 million; rail transportation, $244.4 million; mechanical and electrical solution, $89.4 million.

For the three months ended September 30, 2014, the total net cash inflow was $0.7 million. The net cash used by operating activities was $0.8 million. The net cash used by the investing activities was $15.8 million, out of which $14.6 million was used to settle the third cash consideration in connection to the acquisition of Bond Group. The net cash provided by financing activities was $17.3 million, which primarily made up by the $20 million convertible loan received from International Finance Corporation.

The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $191.1 million, $190.5 million, and $129.4 million as of September 30, June 30, 2014, and September 30, 2013, respectively. As of September 30, 2014, the company held $162.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $28.2 million in time deposits with original maturities over three months.

For the three months ended September 30, 2014, days sales outstanding was 176 days, as compared to 175 days from the comparable prior year period and 148 days from last quarter; and inventory turnover was 41 days, as compared to 44 days from the comparable prior year period and 31 days from last quarter.

Given our strong backlog currently on-hand and sales pipeline envisioned so far, we reiterate our guidance for fiscal year 2015 with revenue in the range of $565 million to $600 million and non-GAAP net income in the range of $94 million to $98 million.

At this time, we'd like to open up for the QA. Please know that for Chinese-speaking participants, we can also do the QA in Mandarin and we will provide translation. [Foreign Language] (20:34-20:46) Operator, please.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Jin from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good evening, management. Can you hear me? Hello?

Hello, David.

Hi, yeah. Yeah, thank you for your time and congratulation on a solid quarter last quarter. So I have three questions here. The first question is regarding gross margin and I saw a pretty strong gross margin this quarter. However, if you look at the revenue breakdown, actually M&E contributed higher portion compared to last year. Can you elaborate more on why margin came out so fast, and is it sustainable? That's my first question.

And second question is on automation. It seems that new orders is relatively weak this quarter, and when does the management expect to see the pickup in new orders? And do you think your full year 8% to 15% revenue growth is achievable? That's my second question.

And third question is on rail. I think that rail was pretty strong and considering the acceleration of high-speed rail build-out and multiple unit tendering, do you think your flattish railway revenue is too conservative at this moment? Thank you very much.

Thank you, David, for the questions. [Foreign Language] (22:40-23:45)

[Foreign Language] (23:46-24:53)

Okay. For the first question, for the gross margin even though M&E takes about a percentage of our revenue, but the M&E segment also has higher gross margin. The gross margin of the M&E segment used to be 15% to 16%, but in this quarter, it reached to 20% in gross margin. In fact, IA and rail also had very good gross margin performance through our efforts in the better control the – taking more quality contracts and better cost control in the implementation and [ph] because (25:31) we also have a higher gross margin in IA. Besides, in rail, because rail is always a high gross margin business, we also believe that all efforts in the next one year to two years, the rail also has better gross margin.

[Foreign Language] (25:50-26:21)

Thank you, Shao zong. For the second question, yes indeed, we have the new orders increase in IA during the past quarter, well actually, that is within our expectation. The first reason is because of the external environment, which caused the delay of the implementation period of our project.

[Foreign Language] (26:46-27:30)

Okay. Secondly, because of the industry restructure of the whole society two years ago, we're also focusing and spending more effort in the new growth industries, such as the environment protection-related industries, now that we have a very good growth from the medical industries as well. And certainly because we also [ph] develop (28:00) solution providing the IA route to provide more higher gross margin businesses such as service, such as the software, such as the safety protection solutions. And also in the meantime, we controlled our low gross margin businesses, which also caused the new order decrease during last quarter. But it's actually beneficial for the long-term growth of the whole business.

[Foreign Language] (28:25-28:44)

Okay. We still maintain our whole full-year guidance in fiscal year 2015 for the whole company that is around [ph] 115% (28:55) growth. In number, that is $565 million to $600 million in revenue for fiscal year 2015. And for the IA, we are still working hard to achieve our original guidance for 8% to 15% growth in this fiscal year. Thanks.

[Foreign Language] (29:16-29:55) [indiscernible]

(29:58) given China is investing more in the rail construction and given the new orders tendering in the multiple units and some high-speed rail line construction, well usually after two months to three months, we will sign the contracts for the signaling system providing. So we expect that we are going to have good new orders taken in the near future. So overall speaking, we expect we will have the relatively like a flat revenue performance in the rail transportation in this fiscal year. Thanks. Okay.

Your next question comes from Saiyi He from Macquarie Capital. Your line is open. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (30:54-31:00). The first question is about the VAT refund. If we exclude the overseas M&E business, the proportion of VAT refund in terms of our China-related business is significantly increased compared to previous years and previous quarters. And I just want to check if in this quarter we have included some of the delayed rebates from the previous quarters and if in terms of China's VAT refund we're receiving this year, should remain in line as previous year. So that's my first question.

My second question is, continue to be about our industrial automation segment and Mr. Shao just now have given quite a detailed explanation and on your confidence of maintaining the 8% to 15% original full-year guidance. Could you just share some light with us where you get the confidence from? Are there some potential big contracts in the pipeline from some – the customers that we have tried to establish over the past couple of years?

And also, can you give us some update on the company's commercial launch of the PLC business, and if we do expect some revenue contribution, albeit how small it is towards the end of this fiscal 2015 year? And lastly, my question is about the company's SG&A cost, especially the selling expense this quarter is significantly low. I want to ask is this going to be one-off for this quarter or we should actually forecast the SG&A cost, it is a similar percentage of sales as the previous years, or we do have a trend that required you to reducing those expenses. Thank you.

Okay, thank you, Saiyi. [Foreign Language] (32:51)

[Foreign Language] (32:54)

[Foreign Language] (32:54-34:19)

[Foreign Language] (34:20-35:49)

[Foreign Language] (35:49-35:56)

[Foreign Language] (35:57-36:17)

[Foreign Language] (36:19-36:25)

[Foreign Language] (36:25)

[Foreign Language] (36:28)

[Foreign Language] (36:32)

[Foreign Language] (36:33)

[Foreign Language] (36:36-37:00)

Xièxie.

Okay. For the first and third question, first question is about the VAT refund because it's a little bit difficult for us to project how much VAT refund we are going to take [indiscernible] (37:17)...

Yes.

...we think it will be more than $20 million because yearly we take – we'll leave it to the cash. We recognize the VAT refund. So for the third question, the G&A expense percentage decreased in this fiscal [indiscernible] (37:38) year compared to last year. We think we are going to maintain the similar percentage in the full fiscal year. And also for the selling expenses, it takes about 5% and the same situation is going to maintain that about 5% in this fiscal year and going forward. Thanks.

Thank you, Jennifer. [Foreign Language] (38:04-38:14) to the $6.4 million?

[Foreign Language] (38:15)

[Foreign Language] (38:16)

[Foreign Language] (38:17)

[Foreign Language] (38:18)

[Foreign Language] (38:20)

Okay, thank you.

Okay. Just to reconfirm that we're going to have more than $20 million of VAT refund in the full fiscal year in 2015 including four quarters.

[Foreign Language] (38:37-39:17)

Okay. As the chemical and the petrochemical takes the largest percentage of our revenue in the process automation within the whole IA, well, three years ago, we started to invest more resources and grow our business in the industries, such as medical industry, food beverage, new energies and wind power, et cetera. So by our efforts, we have a significant growth from this abovementioned industries.

[Foreign Language] (39:55-40:17)

Okay. We'll continue to see our results after our investment in the new growth industries and benefit from the trend from the long term. And also, the other sales, service is going to be another significant driver of our [ph] high (40:36) growth. Probably, it takes about 5% to 8% of our revenue before it's going to increase in the future.

[Foreign Language] (40:45-41:16)

Okay. We're now going to increase our market share in the mid to low-end market, but also recruit the industry experts to provide total solution targeting to the high-end customers. The total solution will include the DCS, the advanced software solutions, Safety Instrumented Systems and et cetera. And that's going to increase the single contract value from the single customer, and to increase our efficiency of the whole company.

[Foreign Language] (41:53-42:10)

Besides since our K series, our new generation DCS was launched to the market. We have won the full recognition from our customers. Besides we also provide more products and solutions to the customer, which are also going to benefit for the revenue growth in the long term.

[Foreign Language] (42:36-42:54)

And for the PLC business, we have spending more energy in doing the research and the development in the discrete automation area. So in the future, we think the PLC or the discrete automation is going to take a lot of percentage in the whole IA business.

[Foreign Language] (43:19-43:36)

In that stage, we not only to provide the product in the [indiscernible] (43:43) automation, but also to provide further solutions and service to our customers in this industry to increase [indiscernible] (43:52) influence and the revenue growth.

[Foreign Language] (43:59)

[Foreign Language] (34:01)

Thank you, Saiyi.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Nick Zheng from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (44:16-46:37)

Okay, thank you, Nick. The first question is regarding railway transportation. Recently, the CRC [ph] won (46:44) the bidding for the high-speed trains in the C2 and C3 segment. So when will Hollysys get the order for the signaling providing for this batch of high-speed trains?

The second question is regarding the gross margin. We have noticed that the M&E takes another percentage in the revenue this quarter. So for the gross margin increase in the M&E segment, is that temporary or is that sustainable? Is that caused by the mix of the projects or in the future, are you going to have a similar gross margin in the M&E segment?

The third question is regarding the tax rate because in this quarter, the September quarter, and last quarter, June quarter, we all take 25% in doing the tax calculation in a conservative way. So when we got the High-Tech company Enterprise certification, so how much tax value we are going to take back into this fiscal year and your expected timeline? And also, what is the effective tax rate for this fiscal year?

And fourth question is regarding the new products. For the company, Mr. Shao had mentioned the PLC and the factory automation solution. And also you have a subway signaling technology, and in the rail, you have the track circuit, you have mentioned in your press release. So when are you going to expect is the earliest contribution and the most significant contribution or which is the most meaningful for the company from the new product segment? Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (48:34-49:14)

Okay. For the second question, the gross margin of M&E. The M&E segment gross margin is between 15% to 20%. In the past two years, the gross margin was relatively low. Well, in this past quarter, because the project has a high gross margin during this quarter when it's booked into the revenue. So we also expect the gross margin is – higher gross margin, I mean, is [ph] definitely (49:51) sustainable in this full fiscal year.

[Foreign Language] (49:54-51:34)

Okay. For the tax rate, it's currently because we haven't got the High-Tech Enterprise certification, we haven't finished the renewed [ph] program for (51:49) applying the certificate and so we are currently using a 25% tax rate in the calculation. But once we got the certificate, we will use 15% and definitely we will to take the tax expense back into this fiscal year. But for the time and the exact value is hard to give you, but for the time, if – because we have finished the preparation of [ph] regional (52:21) work and had already entered into the later stage in granting the certificate. So if everything goes well, we may get a certificate by the end of December 31 or at least we can get a certificate by March 31, 2015.

[Foreign Language] (52:43-52:57)

For the effective tax rate yearly, it was between 16% to 17% while this year, because the influence of the certification issue, so we expect to have around lower than 15% effective tax rate in this fiscal year. And for the...

[Foreign Language] (53:18-53:46)

For the first question, yes, CRC has finished the bidding for the high-speed trains. Usually, it will take three months later for them to sign the signaling contracts. So for the contract value and time, sorry, it's not appropriate to tell you now.

[Foreign Language] (54:08-54:35)

Okay. For the new product development, that is for the future sustainable growth of the whole company, for example, we have medical growth from the traditional Chinese medicine industry. We have a lot of successful application track record. So this industry is – [ph] continue to get (54:53) more revenue contribution and even higher growth in the future.

[Foreign Language] (55:00-55:27)

So for the subway, we have finished the development of the subway signaling system, and we are also finishing the testing of our subway signal systems in Shanghai Tongji University. In the future, we are going to combine SCADA and subway signaling technology into one solution to enhance our industry competitiveness. Besides, in both China and abroad, we will increase our sales efforts to create more revenue contribution from this sector.

[Foreign Language] (56:01-56:18)

For the track circuit in the rail segment, now we are finishing the process in getting the official permission progress by the central rail authorities and in the next year, in 2015, we are going to have revenue from the track circuit.

[Foreign Language] (56:43)

Okay. That's...

[Foreign Language] (56:46-56:52)

Xièxie, Nick. Okay. Due to the time constraint, we will now take one last question from the queue. Thanks.

Your last question comes from Baiding Rong from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (57:08-58:05)

Okay. Thank you, Baiding. [Foreign Language] (58:08)

[Foreign Language] (58:12)

Okay.

[Foreign Language] (58:15)

Baiding Rong from Credit Suisse has two questions. The first question is regarding the new order and revenue performance in the IA segment during the past two months in October and in November. And the second question, because the last quarter we had a little bit decrease in the IA revenue, but we still maintained the full-year growth guidance, around 10% in IA. So that means that you are going to accelerate the IA growth, are going to have the accelerated growth from IA in the next few quarters? And also, you mentioned that you have a slower growth from the chemical industry. So where is the new growth from? Which industries?

Okay. [Foreign Language] (59:15-59:47)

Okay. As I've mentioned, we have solid growth from the thermal power, food beverage and medical industries. And I also mentioned that in this fiscal year, we are still working hard to achieve the 8% to 15% growth in the IA segment.

[Foreign Language] (01:00:12)

Okay. Thank you, Baiding. And thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today. If you haven't got a chance to raise your questions, we'll be pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We look forward to speaking with you again in the near future. Thank you. Xièxie.

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation. You may all disconnect.