Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Investor Relations, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Herriet Qu — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Kevin Luo — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.
Baiding Rong — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Patrick Xu — Analyst, Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the HollySys Automation Technologies Fiscal Year 2016 First Quarter Ended on September 30, 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, November 12, 2015.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations of HollySys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of HollySys Automation Technologies; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of HollySys; and myself from Investor Relations of the HollySys Automation.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including the highlights for the quarter, and Ms. Qu will discuss some performance from our financial perspective and the financial outlook for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, and then the whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of HollySys' future product introductions, the mix of products in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements, based upon the current beliefs and expectations of HollySys' management, are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors amongst others could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; legislation or regulatory environments; requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which HollySys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuation in customer demand; management of rapid growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation and control system technology; timing, approval, and market acceptance of the new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes; as well as other relevant risks detailed in HollySys' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. HollySys does not assume any obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call or in its filings.

Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

I'd now like to represent Mr. Shao to discuss some key events during this quarter.

In industrial automation business, during this quarter, we continuously insist in executing our strategies to maintain the gross margin by penetrating the high-end industrial automation market and providing more highly customized solutions such as power, chemical, food, beverage, pharmaceutical and environmental protection related industries, while offering diversified value software packages to end users, both saving the cost and improving their efficiency.

Additionally, we were focusing on reducing waste emission and environment protection area, building a strong after-sale department and set long-term goals of improving after-sale service while control the contracts qualities internally, which all contribute to keep our profits running in relatively healthy growth cycle. Even though in the short term we are under pressure, given the current weak external environment, we will still try our best to gradually recover and perform better in the future.

Going forward, we will continue to expand our sales force and allocate more resources to factory automation, benefit further into high-end market while increasing market share in pharmaceutical industry, expand our products supply such as software and turnkey solution, leveraging our advanced technologies, experienced professionals, profound industry expertise, and customization and innovation capability.

In railway transportation, we signed contract to provide ground-based high-speed rail signaling system and equipment to Chongqing-Wanzhou high-speed rail line. We also won the bidding to provide ground-based high-speed rail signaling systems and equipment to Xi'an-Chengdu high-speed rail line, Xi'an-Jiangyou Section Sichuan Area. We are quite confident of steady rail revenue and backlog performance. As China is continuously investing large scale on building railway for the next five years, we will still benefit from the policy of 13th Five-Year Plan.

Furthermore, we also worked to expand our rail products such as track circuit AND interlocking system. We have finished one year testing of track circuit and got the official permit from authority to enter track circuit market which is another sizable market with potential revenue contribution from track circuit in the coming years.

For subway business, we recently won the bidding to provide supervisory control and data acquisition system, SCADA, to Kunming Subway Line 3 which shows our next step of penetration into second tier cities. We are also following both domestic and overseas opportunities in both SCADA and subway signaling projects. We will continue to deliver quality works and work closely with subway authorities in the future to promote our SCADA system and future subway signaling technologies both in China and abroad.

With China's tremendous rail and subway construction nationwide as well as one belt one road initiative, there is going to be an exciting prospect for HollySys both domestically and abroad. As a well-recognized rail signaling system provider, we are confident that with our strong R&D capability, leading technologies, solid execution and reliable products, HollySys will continue to penetrate into China and the world's vast rail and subway market and achieve significant results.

In the mechanical and electrical solution segment, revenue declined for this quarter due to the projects delay in particular area and with impact on seasonal lumpiness. However, we are still tracing some large new orders and hope this business sector could be performance better.

In long run, we achieved solid local market position, promoting directly sales with more offices and service centers expanding overseas and doing more EPC projects. We are also setting up joint venture companies to develop our business, as well as cooperate with large enterprises, plus abundant customer resources and strong execution in Southeast Asia, Middle East, and expanding into India and other regions of the world.

For the overseas industrial automation and rail transportation expansion, we are sending qualified and experienced engineers from China to overseas, and recruiting local engineers to expand our overseas team. With our proprietary technology and products, industry expertise and strong competitive advantages, we will continue to make exciting achievements in international market in both industrial and rail transportation fields, and to create value for our shareholders.

Now, I'll also represent CFO, Ms. Herriet Qu to review the financial results [indiscernible] (08:59)

I would like to share some highlight for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 ended September 30, 2015. Comparing to the first quarter of prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the three months ended September 30 decreased from $140.7 million to $125.1 million, representing a decrease of 11.1%. In this quarter, the M&E revenue decreased to $15.6 million due to unbalanced nature of project progress. However, we do not expect the trend to continue based on the current M&E backlog level and the potential contracts.

Broken down by revenue types, integrated contracts revenue decreased by 13.6% to $111 million, product sales revenue increased by 28.9% to $11.4 million, and service revenue decreased by 19.9% to $2.6 million. The company's total revenue can be also presented in the following segments: industrial automation, $49 million; railway transportation, $54 million; M&E $15.6 million; miscellaneous $5.7 million. Total, $125 million.

Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 39.3% for the first quarter as compared to 39.6% for the prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales and services rendered were 37.3%, 52.6% and 65.5% for the first quarter as compared to 36.3%, 79.2% and 61.6% for the same period of prior year, respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin.

The GAAP overall gross margin, which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 39.1% for the first quarter as compared to 38.2% for the prior year. The GAAP gross margin for the integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 37.1%, 52.6% and then 65.5% for the first quarter as compared to 34.8%, 79.2%, and then 61.6% for the prior year, respectively.

Selling expenses were $6.6 million for the first quarter, representing a decrease of $0.2 million or 2.2% compared to $6.8 million for the same quarter of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 5.3% and 4.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2015, and 2014, respectively.

General and administrative expenses, excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $8.9 million for the first quarter, representing a decrease of $0.4 million or 4.3% as compared to $9.3 million for the same period of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 7.1% and 6.6% for the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The GAAP G&A expenses, which included non-cash share-based compensation expenses, was $9.8 million. That's $9.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Research and development expenses was $7.7 million for the first quarter, a decrease of $1.1 million or 12.2% compared to $8.8 million for the same quarter of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 6.2% and at the same percentage for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $5.1 million for the first quarter as compared to $6.4 million for the same period in prior year, representing a $1.3 million or 19.8% decrease which is primarily due to the decrease of VAT refunds for $1.2 million.

The income tax expenses and effective tax rate were $4.7 million and 12.9% for the first quarter as compared to $7.4 million and 21.2% for comparable prior-year period. When excluding the impact of non-GAAP adjustments on income before income tax, the effective tax rate would have been 14.1% for the current quarter and 21.2% for the comparable prior-year period. The variance was due to different income tax rates were applied for two comparable quarters. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, Beijing Hollysys, Hangzhou Hollysys are in the process of applying their high-tech certification, which once received, will permit the two companies to use the preferential income tax rate of 15% for calendar years ended December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2016.

The high-tech certification was later received in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015. Hence, for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, the company applied the statutory tax rate of 25% to calculate the current and deferred tax for Beijing Hollysis & Hangzhou Hollysis as opposite to 15% used in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to Hollysis, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles and acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustment was $27.3 million or $0.45 per diluted share based on 60.6 million shares outstanding for the first quarter. This represents a 0.5% increase over the $27.2 million or $0.46 per share based on 59.1 million shares outstanding reported in comparable prior-year period.

On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to Hollysis was $30.3 million or $0.50 per diluted share, representing an increase of 11.7% over the $27.1 million or $0.46 per diluted share reported in the comparable prior year period.

Integrated contract backlog highlights. Hollysys' backlog for integrated contracts as of September 30, 2015 was $490.4 million, representing a decrease of 13.8% compared to $568.5 million as of June 30, 2015 and a decrease of 1.1% compared to $495.7 million as of September 30, 2014.

The detailed breakdown of the backlog for integrated contracts by segment is shown below. Industrial automation, $127 million; rail transportation, $245 million; mechanical and electrical solution, $117 million; total $490 million.

For the three months ended September 30, 2015, the total net cash outflow was $17.4 million. The net cash provided by operating activities was $6.9 million. The net cash provided by investing activities was $1.6 million. The net cash used in financing activities was $15.6 million, the majority of which is used to repay short-term bank loans amounting to $16.5 million. Besides, the effect of foreign exchange rate changes was a cash outflow of $10.3 million due to the U.S. dollar appreciating rapidly against the currencies of the countries we operate in, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016.

The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $234.9 million, $257.5 million and $191.1 million as of September 30, June 30, 2015, and September 30, 2014, respectively. As of September 30, 2015, the company held $190.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and the $44.4 million in time deposits with original maturities over three months.

For the three months ended September 30, 2015, Days Sales Outstanding was 179 days as compared to 176 days from the comparable prior-year period and 176 days from last quarter; and inventory turnover was 42 days as compared to 41 days from the comparable prior-year period and 43 days from last quarter.

Given the strong backlog currently on-hand and sales pipeline envisioned so far, we reiterate our guidance for fiscal year 2015 with revenue in the range of $565 million to $600 million and non-GAAP net income in the range of $110 million to $120 million.

At this time, we would like to open up for the Q&A session. Please note that for Chinese-speaking participants, we can also do the Q&A in Mandarin and we will provide the translation.

[Foreign Language] (20:56-21:11)

Operator, please.

We'll now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin Luo from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two questions. The first question is about order backlog as we can find industrial automation's order backlog further decreased by 5% quarter-on-quarter to $127 million. Can we break down this backlog into DCS and the PLC? If there's no detailed breakdown, can you let us know through our backlog from pharmaceuticals and the nuclear? Or maybe percentage is okay.

My second question is about M&E segment. As we can find M&E's revenue declined by 61% year-over-year to only $15.6 million. Can you let us know the backlog by your three overseas subsidiaries, Bond, Concord, and Hollysys International? Thank you very much.

The first question is about industrial automation at the macroeconomic still – growth rate still slow and also we meet some difficulty in this area. But from – the good thing is from new order, it's gradually getting better and we [indiscernible] (25:36) that it is just a temporary – I mean, right now, the backlog goes down, and actually, we have confidence to achieve the target.

The second about M&E, Malaysia or [ph] tax (25:48) that comes from Malaysia. And that area right now, no matter [indiscernible] (25:53) political side and economic side [indiscernible] (25:55) not stable. So, it will affect the other potential opportunities. But we will [indiscernible] (26:04) to change the backlog to improve that and also to get some potential targets from that area. We will finally achieve the whole target of the guidance.

And this [indiscernible] (27:40) of demand, the pharmaceutical, we want to emphasize that backlog right now just to represents the integrated contracts, not including the product sale and service. For example, like pharmaceutical area, the product sales not in the backlog and also nuclear power.

Nuclear power, right now, the revenue comes from two main parts. One is from joint venture company, and the second is from the product sale, that with sale to, for example, CGNPC or China Nuclear National Corporation. So, this is the difference. And also, the [indiscernible] (28:19) about – in the past, the joint venture company from that side, the network is negative. But right now, it turns to positive.

Okay. Operator, next one.

Your next question comes from the line of Bai Ding Rong from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

The first question is on the [ph] ADP (30:20). Right now, their official website announced that we win the contract and [indiscernible] (30:28) that contract signed. And to compare with [indiscernible] (30:24) to compare it to, in the past, the market share of [ph] P3 (30:27) is increasing. So what about the total amount, maybe increasing?

And the second question is about Malaysia. The [ph] bond (30:38), the target is now changed. So that represents the first quarter revenue, and we think that we see it already goes down. So what about the next quarters, it will concentrate in the next quarters about the revenue side?

And the third question is about revenue and the backlog. And right now, the industrial automation, the revenue from that backlog is going down. And maybe the execution cycle and the revenue [ph] recognition (31:27) will accelerate, and also the products, they are not including in the backlog. So almost everything is going down, so, what about trend in future?

The last one is about dividend. What about dividend policy in future?

The first question answer that this [ph] rate (32:57) is announced, and the good news right now, this time, we – the past few years, we just provide [indiscernible] (33:04).

But right now, this contract including B&B type and it is significant contract. But we are under discussion right now, so we cannot be disclosure the size of the contract.

The second answer is about Malaysia [indiscernible] (33:16) The product is delaying and we will continue to try our best to accelerating the speed and also get new contracts to support the energy part in future.

About the backlog and also revenue, it's gradually turned down and we think in the future, it's going to achieve this status. And for more turnover other that some project and maybe we'll recognize revenue quickly, that part, the percentage of the – in the whole structure of the backlog, right now, it seems not too detailed to disclose and also, it's not this part problem to make to turn the whole backlog. And also, we need a long time to make for relatively stable model in the future.

So generally speaking, [indiscernible] (35:33) goes down in these phase but not [indiscernible] (35:39) like more contracts like that. It's really hard to give you data right now. And then the last one is about the dividend. The dividend policy really we will consider to pay the dividend, but right now we have no solid dividend policy.

And the last question is how to turn the [indiscernible] (36:49) status that have relationships about the new order and the revenue and backlog seems a little gap inside.

And in the future, will increase like the after-sale fixed revenue, also product sale, and also the other seems to gradually [indiscernible] (37:10) situation.

Okay, operator, next question.

Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Xu from Nomura. Please go ahead.

The first question is about PLC. How much percentage of the PLC in IA?

The answer is right now we have no very accurate statistic but it's relatively 10%. The second question is about the other income – come from the other income. The other income seems to have very large flat rate without the trends in future. The answer is now that other income because the fair value adjustment and also have exchange rate changed sharply. So, it has kind of affected the whole other income.

And the third question is about the tax rate. It seems like out of luck [indiscernible] (41:24) and that the answer is now that the tax rate because last year, we applied for the [ph] high-tech (41:32) certificate and also at the end of 2014, we got the certificate.

And before that, we just applied by 25% of income tax. But for this year, it all takes it around 15% of the income tax. And also beyond that is in addition that we [indiscernible] (41:58) also attach the tax. So, generally speaking, each year, each fiscal year, our effective tax rate should be 17% to 19%.

The last question is about the net income guidance and what about the non-GAAP and GAAP depreciation. And the answer is about because the fair value adjustment and also [indiscernible] (42:32) so it's very hard to give the specific difference between them. But I can tell you it's similar.

Okay. At the time, we'd like to open up – thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today. If you haven't got the chance to raise your questions, we will be pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We're looking forward to speaking with you again in near future. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (43:10)

[Foreign Language] (43:14)

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation. You may all disconnect.