Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Investor Relations Manager, Hollysys Automation Technologies, Ltd
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Herriet Qu — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiding Rong — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Alex Chang — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Asia Ltd.
Jacqueline Du — Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group
Bo Yong Liu — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Hollysys Automation Technologies' Fiscal Year 2016 Third Quarter ended on March 31, 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, May 16, 2016.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations of Hollysys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of Hollysys Automation Technologies; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of Hollysys; and myself, from Investor Relations.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the quarter and Ms. Qu will discuss our performance from financial perspective and financial outlook for the third quarter of fiscal year 2016 and the whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of Hollysys future product introductions and the mix of products in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements, based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Hollysys' management are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; litigation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which Hollysys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuation in customer demand, management of rapid growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation and control system technology; timing, approval, and market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes, as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys' filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollar unless otherwise noted.

And now I'd like to turn to the call to Mr. Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and greetings to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. For industrial automation business, we have insisted in executing our strategy to review the potential needs of the market in upgrading and reforming projects to mitigate the revenue which is continuously declining from new construction in current situation. Industries like petro-chemical, metallurgy and building materials still perform weak. However, as supplement, power industry is maintaining stable, we have signed several new DCS contracts in coal fire power, especially in high levels, the supercritical coal fire generating units, such as Jiujiang Shenhua [ph] two unit 1052 megawatts (4:48), Guohua Ningdong two unit 660 megawatts and Xinjiang two unit 660 megawatt power units.

Nuclear side, we are providing DCS for Hongyanhe Unit 5 and Unit 6. In factory automation, we work continually to expanding our sales force and allocate more resources to this area and to make an effort raise our uniquely customized turnkey solutions. As mentioned above, even though industrial automation revenue is declining, we will always try our best to minimize the impact, including adjusting internally to better cope with external environment and to keep a sustainable long-term healthy development.

In high-speed railway, as China is continuously investing a certain scale on supporting high-speed railway sector for the next five years, we are still benefit from the policy of 13th five-year-plan. As new products and technologies contribute in the next, we have confident that the high-speed railways' performance will be remaining stable.

For subway business, we won the new biddings for Chengdu Line 10 and Wuhan Subway Line 8 SCADA contracts. Meanwhile, the SCADA for Beijing Subway Line 14 Middle Section and the Beijing Changping Subway Phrase II are both in operating stages. We gained consistent favorable reputation by the customers. This is encouraging us for seeking opportunities to work with more local transportation bureaus from the first tiers cities down. We will continue to deliver quality works and work closely with subway authorities in the future to build up our SCADA and subway signaling businesses.

In the mechanical and electrical solution segment, Concord and Bond have mainly focused in further development of South Asia and the Middle East markets. Even they are facing difficulties such as worsen market competitive environment, the lack of the new-built projects and projects delay, rising cost and seasonal lumpiness, they are persevering in hard working. For this quarter revenue and backlog are both increased compared to the same quarter last year. For long-term, we think the market still have much potential demand, and we will strengthen internal control and adjustment to keep M&E development in the future.

Lastly, for extending international business, we are in the process of setting up local service centers in abroad. In India, we won the bidding to provide DCS and SIS to Lanco Solar Power Polycrystalline Silicon Project. In Southeast Asia region, we won the bidding to provide DCS and DEH for Indonesia Qingshan two unit 350 megawatt coal-fire power units. Through accumulating track record in the targeting area, we are enhancing our brand name recognition overseas. With our proprietary technologies and products, well industry expertise and customized solution, we will continue to create value for our shareholders.

With that, I'd like to return the call over to Arden Xia, who will read the financial result analysis on behalf of CFO, Ms. Herriet Qu.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I would like to share some highlights for this quarter of fiscal year 2016 ending on March 31. Comparing to the third quarter of the prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased from $118.2 million to $118.8 million, representing an increase of 0.5%. Broken down by the revenue types, integrated contracts revenue decreased by 6.2% to $99.8 million. Products sale revenue increased by 64.7% to $16.2 million and service revenue increased by 39.6% to $2.9 million.

The company's total revenue can be presented in segments: industrial automation, $38 million; rail transportation, $56.2 million; M&E, $17.1 million; miscellaneous, $7.5 million; total $118.8 million.

Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 31.7% for the third quarter 2016 as compared to 46% for the same period of prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and services rendered were 27.1%, 55.5% and 59.1% for the third quarter, as compared to 43.4%, 71.7% and 56% for the same period of prior year respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin. The GAAP overall gross margin which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 31.7% for the third quarter, as compared to 46% for the same period of prior year. The GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and services rendered were 26.9%, 55.5% and 59.1% for the third quarter, as compared to 42.8%, 71.7% and 56% for the same period of prior year respectively.

Selling expenses were $5.2 million for this quarter, representing a decrease of $0.5 million or 8.3% compared to $5.7 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 4.4% and 4.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

G&A expenses excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $8.7 million for the third quarter representing a decrease of $0.3 million or 3.2%, as compared to $9 million for the same period of prior year. Presented as percentage of total revenues, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 7.3% and 7.6% for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The GAAP G&A expenses, which included a non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $9.8 million and $9.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively. R&D expenses were $8.4 million for this quarter, a decrease of $1 million or 10.7% compared to $9.4 million for the same quarter of the prior year.

Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 7% and 7.9% for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $4.3 million for the third quarter as compared to $6.6 million for the same period in prior year, representing a $2.3 million or 35.1% decrease. For the nine months ended March 31, 2016, the VAT refunds and government subsidies were $20.1 million, an increase of $2.1 million compared to $18 million for the same period of prior year respectively.

The income tax expenses and the effective tax rate were $3.4 million and 12.4% for the third quarter, as compared to $6.6 million and 16.9% for comparable prior year period. When excluding the impact of non-GAAP adjustments on the income before income taxes, the effective tax rate would have been 11.9% for the current quarter and 18.1% for the comparable prior year period. The effective tax rate fluctuation was mainly due to the different pre-tax income mix with different tax rate, as the company subsidiaries apply to different tax rates.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to Hollysys, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles and acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustments was $23.1 million or $0.38 per diluted share based on 60.6 million shares outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2016. This represents a 20.2% decrease over the $29 million or $0.49 per share based on 59.2 million shares outstanding reported in the comparable prior-year period.

On a GAAP basis, net income attributable for Hollysys was $21.9 million or $0.36 per diluted share, representing a decrease of 31% over the $31.6 million or $0.53 per diluted share reported in a comparable prior year period. Hollysys backlog for integrated contracts as of March 31, 2016 were $498.5 million, representing a decrease of 5.4% compared to $527 million as of December 31, 2015 and almost equal to $498.7 million as of March 31, 2015.

The detailed breakdown of the backlog for integrated contracts by segments is industrial automation $107.8 million; rail transportation, $259.8 million; M&E, $130.9 million; total, $498.5 million.

For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the total net cash inflow was $10.8 million. The net cash used in operating activities was $16.7 million. The net cash provided by investing activities was $29.8 million, mainly consisted of $52.2 million as maturity of time deposits with original maturities over three months, which was partially offset by $20.4 million in time deposits over three months placed with banks.

The net cash used in financing activities was $3.8 million, mainly due to repayments of long-term bank loans of $5.4 million, which was partially offset by proceeds from short-term bank loans and long-term bank loans of $1.2 million. The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $256.4 million, $275.6 million, and $179.7 million as of March 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and March 31, 2015, respectively. As of March 31, 2016, the company held $199.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $56.9 million in time deposits with original maturity over three months.

For the three months ended March 31, 2016, DSO was 181 days, as compared to 228 days for comparable prior year period and 138 days for the last quarter, and inventory turnover was 40 days and as compared to 66 days for the comparable prior year period and 34 days for the last quarter.

Given our strong backlog currently on hand and sales pipeline envisioned so far, we reiterate our guidance for fiscal year 2016 with revenue in the range of $565 million to $600 million and non-GAAP net income in the range of $110 million to $120 million.

At this time, we'd like to open it up for Q&A session. Please note that for Chinese-speaking participants, we can do Q&A in Mandarin and we'll provide translation.

Operator, Please.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We will pause for just a moment to allow everybody to signal. Our first question today comes from Baiding Rong with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

The first question is about the gross margin relatively declined. What about the [ph] rates (21:16), is it caused by ATP? Last time the one-time ATP contract cutoff the price. This is maybe the one of the reasons, but what about the others? And what about after this quarter, in the next trend will effect in the future?

The second question is about the coal-fire. Right now, we hear about some information that Chinese government in some provinces stopped to pass the new project in coal-fire station, what about the fact that with Hollysys in the next fiscal year? And what about the net income -

So the third question is in the longer term, are we able to maintain say 10% EPS growth in the future, given that the process automation still has a lot of headwind going forward. Thank you.

The gross margin decline for this quarter was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin. For example, in IA, the low margin project take more percentage. In high-speed rail, the onetime reduced price ATP contract besides the whole revenue is increasing take around at 17 to 18 percentage of the total rail transportation revenues, so the gross margin relatively lower than the other business.

These factors account for the gross margin temporarily falling to like around the 31.10% for this quarter. However, at the whole fiscal year, the gross margin will remain between 35% to 40%. And right now, for nine months, the gross margin is 37.2%.

And also, another question relate to the – in future trend, about ATP contract. Last time, the reduced price ATP contract, we already make – recognized a revenue in this quarter a much percentage than the others. So in the next quarters, it will affect relatively small.

Recently, the news related to the central government continue to stop to sign [indiscernible] (26:47) the new project in the coal-fire power station. This is not affect our business in fiscal year 2017 too much because we already got a lot of projects and contracts in the coal fire power station. And for long- term, this is not sustainable. So we already changed our strategy to focus under upgrading maintenance to review the customer projects. So we will continue to focus this area and also in the new energy such as new energy, the other industries add supplement to support the whole IA revenue relatively keep steady in the future.

For long-term, we still have confidence to achieve the 10% growth of the net income in future. Besides, we will focus on IA high-quality solutions and also inside of the [indiscernible] (28:52) in the other industries. And also in the [indiscernible] (28:58) automation. We will continue to reallocate the resources into this area.

In addition, we're also [ph] seeking (29:07) to do the expansion on international business like we got the contract in India and Indonesia recently. We will continue to do that as a supplement to support the whole Hollysys revenue and net income to keep a steady growth.

The question is about the project in India and Indonesia, is this the one belt, one road opportunities? And the answer is that in India, the project that we based on our directed sale, we set up local center to cooperate with the customer and we got the contract. For Indonesia, that contract is followed by the EPC project. Thank you.

Operator. Next one.

Your next question will come from the line of Alex Chang with Citigroup. Please go ahead.

The first question is about the cash flow [ph] pressure (31:42) you could see equity investee increased the $4.6 million. Where does it come from? The second question is about revenue structure. We could see product sale increased at $16 million, what this part represent?

This part is come from the joint venture company with CGNPC and the equity investee of around $4.6 million. In the past years, this part is negative. However, from this year, it turns to positive. And the joint venture company already got the government subsidy. So that's why at the 40% of the joint venture company, we've got this money as the same.

The product sale increase is really because all the business product sale is increasing, for example, like IA is increasing and also, railway transportation and also medical automation. And Alex continue to ask about what about IA and rail insight? The increase of the product sale, is it a matter related to the life cycle, we see the trend to start? The answer is it's not like that way. Actually, from the product sale is on one hand. On the other hand, we also increased from of the spare parts of the projects. Thank you.

Operator, please next one?

Your next question comes from Jacqueline Du with Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (36:07)

Hi, Jacqueline.

The question is about – what about the future new order in the railway transportation within the fiscal year 2017 and 2018? What about the railway transportation segment growth, take the percentage of total revenue and how about the SCADA and new product like track circuit trends or contract sign in the future?

Actually subway business, we are going to be for a long time and each year, we will focus to penetrate one or two new cities and we'll meet this target. So the subway revenue is increasing. Besides the track circuit, the new product that already in the testing and we will finish around June this calendar year, and after that, we'll get the new order. And also, the subway signaling, we will try our best to take the first contract in future.

Related to the number in future of the whole railway transportation revenue, we have confidence to keep increasing, however, it's hard to give you the exact number right now. It's really based on the performance in the future. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (39:20)

Due to the time constraint, we will now take one last question from the queue. Operator?

Your next question will come from Bo Yong Liu with JPMorgan. Please ask your question.

Hi, Bo Yong. [Foreign Language] (39:46). Hello? Operator?

It seems Bo Yong's line has gone out of the question. [Operator Instructions]

Maybe we could wait for...

Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi.

Hi, Bo Yong.

The first question is about the joint venture company with CGNPC, what about the government subsidy? This is around CNY 80 million for the joint venture company, what about the future? Each year will get the same bunch of money?

Second question about the gross margin, besides the ATP contract, what about IA? It seems like IA gross margin also goes down. So, what about trend?

The third question is about ATP order. It seems not to get too much for this quarter. So, as a result, the subway revenue will take even more percentage than before. So what about the next quarter's trend? Is it – will worse than before?

And the DCS – the last question is about the DCS insight? What about the distributed control factory automation progress right now? It seems like PLC market is still not good. So what about your view of this part?

The first question is about the joint venture company with CGNPC. This is just a one-time government subsidy. It's not a guarantee in future.

For the IA gross margin, it's also declined. This is not for the business itself. It's just for timely, I mean, one-time for this quarter. Relatively, the low-margin projects take more percentage. Because the quarterly lumpiness, this is really because what we said before. Inside of IA, the integrated contracts, the projects just relatively 5% in the range of 35% to 40% gross margin. The other half will lower than the 35% and also the other half will be higher than 40%. So this is really because the mix of the projects.

So, for the long-term, the gross margin is still under control between sort of [indiscernible] (46:02) for the whole business. However, the lumpiness in quarterly, this will remain exist. So back to the subway, you said that it will take much more percentage. We also will try our best to increase the gross margin inside of subway. And so basically to say for the whole business, we will continue to maintain sort of [indiscernible] (46:30) this range of gross margin. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (46:35-47:50)

[Foreign Language] (47:52-47:59)

[Foreign Language] (48:01-48:50)

The IA business will continue to keep the DCS in the process control to accumulate track records, take more percentage, take more market share in future. Back to automation question, in the past years, we just provide PLC as the single-product sale. However, we right now want to do the turnkey solution. This will include our PLC product and also with the other product like motion controllers and also the software and by the industries, we will get involved like the medical, pharmaceutical area.

So, right now – and also in the solution, we also provide SCADA, for example, SCADA refers to Surveillance Control and Data Acquisition. This platform can also be implemented into the factory automation. So in future, we will continue to keep our [ph] path (49:27) to help the factory automation increase to contribute to the revenue of the IA. And we also will create new company.

And also Bo Yong asked us another question about how about the percentage right now for the factory automation take part of inside of IA. And the answer is, right now, the number is not very large. It's not very large, so still small. But we will continue to allocate the resources into this area. And you could see the new order in recent quarters. Thank you.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today. If you haven't got a chance to raise your questions, we will be pleased to answer them through follow-up questions. We look forward to speaking with you again, in the near future. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (50:36)

[Foreign Language] (50:37)

[Foreign Language] (50:38)

That does conclude our call for today. Thank you for participating. You may now all disconnect.