Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Investor Relations Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Douglas S. Aron — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Bruce R. Shaw — President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Mark La France Reichman — Analyst, Simmons & Company International
Richard Roberts — Analyst, Howard Weil
Theresa Chen — Economist, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Steve C. Sherowski — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Holly Energy Partners Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Craig Biery. Craig, you may begin.

Thanks, Conner and thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners and welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings call. Joining us today are Bruce Shaw, President; and Doug Aron, Executive Vice President and CFO.

This morning, we issued a press release announcing results for the second quarter ending June 30, 2015. If you would like a copy of today's press release you may find one on our website, www.hollyenergy.com.

Before Doug and Bruce proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, it says statements made regarding management expectations, judgments or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.

There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations including those noted in our SEC filings. Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, August 4, 2015. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript.

Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And, with that, I'll turn the call over to Doug Aron.

Thank you, Craig. On July 23, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.5450 per unit, nearly a 6% over the same period in 2014. The quarterly distribution will be paid August 14 to unitholders of record as of today or yesterday, sorry, August 3, 2015. This distribution marks the 43rd consecutive increase for HEP unitholders since our IPO in 2004.

For the second quarter of 2015, Holly Energy Partners generated distributable cash flow of $47.3 million. DCF in the quarter was $3.8 million higher than the same period last year. Net income attributable to HEP for the second quarter was $30.4 million, compared to $23 million for the same period in 2014. This increase was driven by higher pipeline volumes and annual tariff increases.

In addition, HEP realized a full quarter's contribution of the Malaga crude gathering system, as well as the El Dorado crude tank farm purchased in March.

Operating expenditures in the period totaled $25.3 million, including $900,000 of reimbursable OpEx, for which there was offsetting revenue. G&A expenses for the period were $2.7 million and depreciation was $15 million, both within our expected guidance ranges for the quarter.

As of June 30, 2015, HEP had $900 million of total debt outstanding, comprised of approximately $300 million of 6.5% notes due 2020 and $600 million drawn on our $850 million credit facility.

Interest expense was $9.1 million in the second quarter, representing an increase of $700,000 over the same period in 2014. This increase is principally due to increased borrowings under our credit agreement.

For the second quarter 2015, we recognized $500,000 of deferred revenues from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. As of June 30, HEP carried $6.3 million in deferred revenue on our balances sheet. In the third quarter of 2015, we anticipate recognizing approximately $600,000 of deferred revenue.

Following the July 1, 2015 PPI tariff adjustments, long-term minimum commitment contracts will result in consolidated annualized payments of approximately $279 million.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bruce for a few concluding comments.

Thank you, Doug, and thanks to each of you all for joining us this afternoon. I'll now cover highlights from our quarterly results, a summary of capital expenditures and our expectations looking ahead.

As you've likely concluded from our press release and from Doug's comments, this was a very solid quarter for HEP. Our quarterly EBITDA was $7.2 million higher than in the second quarter of 2014, driven by strong volumes for both crude and products, by our southeastern New Mexico crude system expansion, which started contributing in September of last year, the annual tariff increases and by our acquisition of El Dorado crude tank farm in March. Revenues from UNEV were also ahead of last year's [ph] tank. (5:31)

On July 1, 2015 our HFC and UNEV tariffs and fees increased some by the [indiscernible] (5:39) based on the PPI Finished Goods Index. These contractual increases should result in [ph] $8 million-plus (5:46) in additional revenue through next June 30, assuming volumes are constant. Our capital expenditures were $11.7 million for the quarter, bringing CapEx to date to $22.9 million, excluding spending for the acquisition of El Dorado crude tanks.

Year-to-date CapEx was consisted of approximately $3.5 million in maintenance capital, $5.3 million in CapEx reimbursable to us and about $40 million of expansion capital. The main components of expansion capital during the year are the conclusion of the crude system expansion earlier in the year, enhancements to our [ph] Avalon (6:27) delivery capacity, improvements to our [indiscernible] (6:29) and UNEV origin connection work.

Our outlook for CapEx for the full year 2015 has not changed much with approximately $8 million to $10 million for maintenance capital and $50 million to $60 million for expansion capital for crude projects, including the acquisition of the El Dorado crude tank.

Looking ahead, we are optimistic that we [ph] can (6:53) continue to leverage our logistic capabilities and HFC's refining footprint to secure growth from third-party sources. The purchase of the El Dorado crude tank farm is a good example, where HFC can commit to extend or commit volume to third party logistics assets in exchange for HEP's participation in third party assets or projects.

We're also anticipating growth [ph] via (7:16) dropdown from HFC and as you know, HFC has recently highlighted its commitment to internal profit improvement efforts. Our initial focus is the naphtha fractionation unit at HFC's El Dorado refinery and certain supporting assets related to HFC's expansion at its Woods Cross refinery.

We expect to have more details to [ph] outline them, the growth plans (7:37) at HFC's upcoming Analysts Day in early September in [ph] Dallas. (7:42)

Before I turn the call back over to our operator, I'd like to thank our employees for their daily commitment to safety, reliability and customer service.

Conner, I think we're ready for questions.

The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mark Reichman with Simmons & Company. Your line is open.

Thank you. May I ask -- I know you're probably going to cover it at the Analyst Day as you indicated, but could you just drill over the potential drop-down opportunities, at least, what's been communicated thus far at HEP, kind of how you're thinking about it? What your estimate [ph] or (8:40) of the EBITDA that's eligible for drop-down is? Just kind of a refresher there.

Yes. Mark, this is Doug. What I would tell you is that as you suggested, we prefer not to front-run our Analyst day that's upcoming, as we're still kind of finalizing the details there.

What I would tell you for ballpark estimates, if you go back to both the HFC and HEP first quarter earnings calls, we outlined that and I wouldn't expect dramatic changes to those numbers, but rather than sort of reaffirming them or giving them to you today, we'd rather save with that for September 3.

Okay. What about on the naphtha fractionation – the El Dorado naphtha fractionators? Wasn't there a date that was kind of communicated as the earliest possible dropdown date? I thought it was third quarter. Is that – was that that early?

Yes. I believe that is what we said and I think that that's still potentially achievable by the end of September. Again, we'll certainly have a better feel for that by the early part of next month. And we'd say there is still a reasonable chance that that could happen, if not, I would expect early fourth quarter, but still feel like certainly a good chance to have that happen in Q3.

Okay, thank you. And then also on the maintenance CapEx, on the $8 million to $10 million, $3.5 million spent kind of in the first half, what's the reason for the lumpiness there? I mean, what specific projects are included in the maintenance CapEx?

Maintenance capital is pretty steady year to year, Mark, and it's really a function of when we can get the work done and as we schedule some of the works that's included there are inspections that we have to do in and the repairs that may result in that, that can be categorized with maintenance capital. And so, you do your best estimates of how that's going to fall across the year, but you don't hit it exactly right.

So really with $3.5 million already spent, we're not far off a pretty even pace for the year, especially when you end up closer to that $8 million [ph] or (11:02) $9 million kind of total range. So not any special [ph] sauce (11:08) there, it's just kind of – we do our best to predict it and have it fall ratably, just given the project load, but nothing special to note there.

Okay. And then just lastly on just kind of over the last several conference calls, Bruce, you've kind of outlined kind of where your sources of incremental revenue would come from. And it seems like the tariff increase was probably a little better than your expectation because I think you'd kind of highlighted kind of a 1% to 3% increase. What other, in terms – is there any -- have there been any positive surprises related to, say, whether it's the Southeastern New Mexico crude gathering system expansion where you had -- in terms of your incremental revenue expectations and I guess, associated with that, anything that might have come up a little short?

Yes. We haven't seen too much coming up on the short side, some of the gathering estimates we had just on a couple of different production areas may be a little lower than we thought.

But really when it comes to the crude system expansion, we've been kind of on or a little ahead of our budgeted volumes. And where we've seen a little bit of upside perhaps that we couldn't see say a year ago is just the volumes on this Malaga expansion and given the ability to ship barrels to Cushing, we've seen a bit more kind of trunk revenue getting barrels up to that Lovington area and then on out towards the Cushing hub than we would have kind of conservatively estimated going into the year. So I think that answers your question.

It does. Thank you very much for the color.

Sure.

Our next question comes from the line of Richard Roberts with Howard Weil. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys. A couple of quick ones for me. For one, crude oil throughput volumes were up pretty significantly this quarter and then, also in the first quarter over 4Q, but revenues in the second quarter were down versus the prior [ph] Q2. (13:18) So, I'm curious if you could just maybe walk us through a little [ph] over (13:21) revenue movements there the past couple of quarters and maybe how you expect that to trend for the rest of the year.

Yes. You're looking – you are comparing crude throughput volumes to the fourth quarter, did I hear you right?

Really, yes, 4Q and 1Q, 2015 and then also the revenue movements for those three quarters as well.

Right. So the volumes that you see, I mean, that's accurate. We actually have seen some increases there and primarily related to what we're [ph] visiting with Mark about, just (13:52) an increase in trunk movements up and towards Cushing. We had a little bit of [ph] just a (13:59) change in how we accounted for some of that crude movement that affected our revenue reported in the quarter, that makes that look just a little bit kind of different in the same kind of pro rata increase in revenue versus volumes.

But overall that's just a real positive story for us and of course, Navajo continues to run full-out and we continue to see these movements into the expanded system and probably it's kind of good news.

Okay. Maybe on the drop-downs, and I guess you'll probably cover this, too, at the Analysts Day. But I'm wondering just with your leverage position where it is right now, is it pretty fair to think you would probably finance those primarily with equity?

I am not sure we've really given guidance in terms of how we would look at transactions, but not trying to [ph] hide any balls (14:55) If you look comparatively across time and our sort of debt to EBITDA and other metrics that depends on the transaction, I think we still got some room for incremental debt.

I wouldn't say, I would use your terminology which was predominantly with equity, but depending on size and scale of drop-downs and timing of them, likely some use of debt and equity over the next 12 months to fund drop-downs is what I would say. [ph]

And the (15:28) only thing I would add is that, you look at our expanded credit facility and we've got in excess of a couple of hundred million dollars of capacity there.

Understood. Thanks for the color.

Thanks, Richard. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Theresa Chen with Barclays Capital. Your line is open.

Good afternoon.

Hi, Theresa.

Hi. Just a quick follow up on the previous question on funding. So, given when I think about the general timeline for planned drop-downs, given the currently higher cost of equity capital, has that altered the timeline at all? Or is the timeline really contingent upon when the assets get build and you want drop them soon after as to not incur any sort of taxable gain at the parent?

I think, Theresa, what I would tell you is one of the great things about HEP is its capital flexibility, particularly given a strong supporting HollyFrontier Corporation and when you think about dropdowns and how we might finance these, that's why we are leery of giving guidance as to how we do that.

Obviously, we are disappointed with the performance of the unit price over the last 30 days or so, scratching our heads a little bit as to whether that's specific to HEP which we don't think is the case or rather to just the MLP space in general.

So would tell we certainly won't be forced to do anything given the capital structure. As Bruce pointed out, $200 million or so dollars of availability under revolver in HEP and a parent company, if you will, that has plenty of flexibility.

Yes, we've mentioned previously that tax considerations of new lease [ph] put in (17:28) service assets and those [ph] with high basis (17:29) make more sense and that will continue to be the case. But we think as HEP historically has, we'll see a recovery in that unit price and we have the ability to sort of use whichever lever makes the most sense at the time of the drop-down.

Got it. When you speak about flexibility and support at the parent, do you think that HFC may be willing to support the drop-downs by taking some units, is that a potential option?

What I would tell you is that that's certainly been an option historically, may or may not be again depending on timing and the economics that go with the transaction.

Fair enough. Okay. And in terms of the operating metrics during the quarter, clearly very strong volumes across the board, is this a normalized run rate, I mean plus, minus some seasonality? Or do you think there were any particular areas in which you saw some unique strength that shouldn't be expected going forward?

Yes. I wouldn't say there was any unique strength besides basic seasonality of product demand, so obviously you see a little weakness sometimes in product demand in the winter time, but it doesn't affect HFC's refineries as much as it does some others. But really nothing kind of out of the ordinary for kind of April through June quarter across the business.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sherowski with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon. I guess just a follow-up on that last question. I've heard that the product supply demand down from Las Vegas is pretty tight right now. I was just wondering, could you comment on what you're seeing in that market? And is that at all, if that is the case, benefiting your UNEV pipeline? And if you could perhaps quantify that, that would be great.

Thanks, Steve. Yes, we have heard there's been some issues with the other supply source to Las Vegas. We don't really know much about that. We have seen a little stronger demand at our Las Vegas terminal and other than just kind of shipping those barrels, we don't really make decisions on whether the barrels [ph] ought to be in (19:57) Vegas versus the strong summer market in Salt Lake City, we leave that to the refineries.

But so far, we certainly haven't seen what we would categorize as any kind of [ph] rush (20:09) on the terminal, it's a little better than we saw this time last year, but wouldn't call it anything kind of out of the normal kind of bell curve range.

From the refining side, certainly West Coast is seeing extraordinary refining margins as a result of some unplanned outages at the plant there. What that's really done has – [ph] it's pull up margins (20:33) everywhere sort of west of I don't know even the Denver market and so, as Bruce said, we've seen a little bit of volumes I guess on UNEV, but also seeing some very good crack spread in the Rocky Mountains, as well as in the Salt Lake City market.

I think in some instances, with cracks even being better in the Rockies than they are in Los Angeles. So volatile summer times not typically the peak season on UNEV, but we've seen pretty good volumes stay through there nonetheless.

Got you. That's it from me. I appreciate the insight.

Thanks, Steve.

If there are no further questions, I will turn the floor back over to Craig for any closing remarks.

Thank again, for joining the call today. If you have any follow-up questions, please reach out to Investor Relations. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our third quarter results in November. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining us and have a great day.