raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. Welcome to Holly Energy Partners Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speaker’s remarks, there will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions]. As a


reminder, if you are on a speakerphone, please pick-up your handset before presenting your


question.


I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Neale Hickerson. Thank you. Mr. Hickerson, you


may begin your conference.


Neale Hickerson, Vice President, Investor Relations


Well, good morning everyone. I would like to welcome you to this morning’s Holly Energy third


quarter 2005 earnings call. I am Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations of Holly


Energy. With us today are Matt Clifton, Chairman and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; Steve


McDonnell, Chief Financial Officer of HEP, and Dean Ridenour, our Chief Accounting Officer of


Holly Energy.


We issued a press release this morning announcing our results for the third quarter ended


September 30, 2005. Additionally, we issued a press release this past Friday announcing the


increase in HEP’s distribution to unitholders to 60 cents per unit/quarter. This distribution is up from


last quarters 57.5 cents and represents a 4.3% increase. Both press releases can be found on the


HEP website at www.hollyenergy.com.


Our format today as usual, would be for Steve to provide detail around our financial performance


for the quarter and for the three quarters of 2005. Matt will then have some comments about the


quarter, our year-to-date performance, and what we see as we finish 2005. As usually, the team


will be available for questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.


Before we turn things over to Steve for his financial comments, we are required to make the


following Safe Harbor disclosure statement. Also, please note the Safe Harbor statement in our


press release from this morning. The following is a Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements in this earnings call related to matters


that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on management’s belief and


assumptions using currently available information and expectations of this date and are not


guarantees of future performance and involve certain risk and uncertainties including those


contained in our filings from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although


the partnership believes the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are


reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or


forecast in such statements. The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or revise such


statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that noted, I would now like to turn things over to Steve McDonnell.


Stephen McDonnell, Vice President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Neale. My remarks will cover three topics, first, the earnings and cash flow of HEP for the


third quarter of 2005; and second, the balance sheet and financial flexibilities that we have.
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Before I make my remarks on earnings, I want to remind everyone that our results for the third


quarter of 2005 are not comparable to the results for the third quarter of 2004 for three primary


reasons. First, some of the assets of price structured [ph] business were not contributed by Holly


Corp to HEP at the time of the IPO last during July 13, 2004; second, Holly did not allocate G&A


cost to the business prior to the IPO; and third, our results in 2005 reflect the operation of the ALON


assets since their acquisition on February 28th, an intermediate pipelines since their acquisition on


July 8th.


Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2005 was $7.3 million, or 44 cents per


diluted limited partners unit. Revenues from the operations of the partner assets during the quarter


were $21.5 million. As noted in our press release, HEP’s EBITDA for the quarter is $14.1 million


after separating net income expense of $2.6 million, and maintenance capital of $27,000,


distributable cash for the quarter was $11.4 million.


We are particularly pleased with a smooth integration and contribution of the ALON assets we


acquired in February, and intermediate pipelines in July. Although the ALON refinery had some


unscheduled maintenance during the quarter and reduced volumes and more revenues by


approximately $600,000. And, had we owned the intermediate pipelines for the entire 13 weeks of


the quarter, revenues would have been higher by $200,000.


Our asset have preformed well in October, and we look forward to a good fourth quarter. At the


close of the third quarter we had $20.5 million in cash. If you recall on July 8th when we closed


intermediate pipeline from Holly Crop just for $81.5 million, that purchase price consisted of $77.7


million in cash, 70,000 coming for HEP, and a capital account credit to maintain Holly’s 2% general


partner interest.


Cash portion of the transaction was financed through debt proceeds raised in June, and the July


issue went for 1.1 million common units or $45.1 million. Distribution for the quarter of 60 cents per


unit announced on Friday represents a 4.3% increase over the 57.5 cents for the second quarter of


2005, and amounts to $10 million in total. Distributable cash generated in the third quarter


represented 14% coverage in the distribution. The distribution will be paid on November 14th, to all


unitholders of record on November 7th.


I would like to turn it over to Math Clifton our Chairman and CEO.


Matthew Clifton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Steve. I don’t have too much to add to what Steve just covered, but again we would like to


thank our operating and administrative staff for the smooth integration of the intermediate pipes as


they had done on the Alon acquisition. And looking forward to the next year, we have identified


about $2 million of maintenance CapEx projects for the 2006 year, which is about inline with our


expectations. We are currently evaluating several smaller organic projects for the coming year and


we should have those finalized by the end of our next quarter. So, as usual we continue to look for


third party acquisitions and we are optimistic that we will be able to continue to grow HEP. I will just


turn it back to Neale.


Neale Hickerson, Vice President, Treasury, Holly Logistic Services


And I am going to turn it back over to our operator, [indiscernible] announce again the procedure for


asking questions. I think we are ready to move with that portion of our call.