Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Investor Relations Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Douglas S. Aron — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard L. Voliva III — Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Michael C. Jennings — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Holly Energy Partners LP
Mark La France Reichman — Analyst, Simmons & Company International
Theresa Chen — Economist, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only-mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Craig Biery. Craig, you may begin.

Thanks, Robbie and thanks to each of you for joining us this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners. And welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings call. Joining us today are Mike Jennings, President and CEO; Doug Aron, Executive Vice President; and Richard Voliva, Vice President and CFO.

This morning we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending September 30th, 2015. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before Doug, Rich and Mike proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, it says statements made regarding management expectations, judgments or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.

There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings. Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, November 4th, 2015. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript.

Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Doug Aron.

Thank you, Craig. Thanks to each of you for joining us on our call this afternoon. Presumably all of you saw our announcement last Friday regarding management changes at HEP. If not, a copy of that press release is available on our website at hollyenergy.com.

I will mention that this management team is very focused on continuing with strategic dropdowns and our organic growth and we believe the current opportunities set is better than we've seen in a long time. Mike will give you a bit more color in his remarks shortly.

I'd also like to remind you that on October 22nd, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.555 per unit, a 6.2% increase over the same period in 2014. This quarterly distribution will be paid November 13th to unitholders of record as of November 2nd, 2015. This distribution marks the 44th consecutive increase for HEP unitholders since our IOP in 2004.

Now, I'd like to take the opportunity to introduce you to HEP's new Chief Financial Officer, Rich Voliva. Rich joined HEP in 2014 in a Corporate Development role and has been a great asset for our company. We look forward to you getting a chance to meet him in-person soon, but now I'd like to turn the call over to our new CFO, Rich Voliva.

Thank you, Doug. For the third quarter of 2015 Holly Energy Partners generated distributable cash flow of $50.3 million. DCF in the quarter was $4.7 million higher than the same period last year.

Net income attributable to HEP for the third quarter was $34.5 million, compared to $29.7 million for the same period of 2014. This increase was driven by higher volumes across all segments of our business, further supported by annual tariff increases, as well as the contribution from the El Dorado crude tanks purchased in March.

Operating expenditures in the period totaled $24.1 million, including $800,000 of reimbursable OpEx. Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $8 million, including approximately $2 million of maintenance CapEx and $1.8 million of CapEx reimbursed by HollyFrontier.

In 2015, excluding capital expenditures reimbursed by HFC, we expect to spend a total of $8 million to $10 million for maintenance CapEx and between $20 million and $30 million for expansion capital, excluding acquisitions.

As of September 30th, 2015, HEP had $951 million of total debt outstanding comprised of approximately $300 million of 6.5% notes due in 2020 with the balance drawn on our $850 million credit facility.

Interest expense was $9.5 million in the third quarter compared to $8.6 million in the same period of 2014. This increase is principally due to higher borrowings in order to fund both acquisitions and capital expenditures.

For the third quarter of 2015 we recognized $600,000 of deferred revenue from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. As of September 30th, HEP carried $7.8 million in deferred revenue on our balances sheet. In the fourth quarter of 2015 we anticipate recognizing approximately $1.4 million of deferred revenue.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for a few comments.

Thanks, Rich. As Doug mentioned, HEP announced a $0.01 increase to its quarterly distribution for the third quarter. This increase demonstrates our commitment to achieving a targeted 8% distribution growth rate in the next few years.

Our positive outlook is supported by a strategy focused on organic projects and parent-sponsored dropdowns. On November 1st HEP completed the acquisition of the newly constructed naphtha fractionation and hydrogen units at HollyFrontier's El Dorado refinery. Concurrent with this, HollyFrontier and Holly Energy entered into a 15-year tolling agreement containing minimum quarterly throughput commitments from HollyFrontier.

We believe this tolling model can serve as a template for future processing unit dropdown opportunities. To that end, we are currently evaluating assets related to HollyFrontier's Woods Cross refinery expansion, as a potential dropdown opportunity in the first half of 2016.

In addition, we continue to explore acquisition opportunities. In August we closed the acquisition of a 50% interest in Frontier Pipeline Company, the owner of a 289-mile crude pipeline that runs from Casper, Wyoming to Frontier Station, Utah. This pipeline will supply crude to HollyFrontier's Salt Lake City refinery and other regional refineries. This transaction highlights the importance of our relationship with HollyFrontier, which we expect will represent a large component of our future growth.

And with that, Robbie, I'll turn the call back over to you for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from Mark Reichman from Simmons. Your line is open.

Good afternoon. Just a couple of questions. First, on the dropdown, I had the $62 million that was expected, and I think in the past you kind of indicated to look for kind of estimated EBITDA of about $7 million. But, just looking at that tolling agreement, just at the rate and the minimum volume commitments, it looks to me like it'd be more like around $8 million or $9 million. Am I thinking about that wrong or is $7 million a good number to use for expected EBITDA contribution from the dropdown?

I think that that's not a bad number to use. I think we have the opportunity to exceed it through volumes. But, [ph] we, again, not to (08:37) give guidance. So you've got the agreement, you've got the purchase price. The range of these multiples tends to be in the [ph] 9, 10 (08:45) area code and so there is some opportunity for volumetric exceedance by HEP.

Okay. And then just for this quarter, relative to my estimate, it looks like the equity and earnings, the equity investment earnings were maybe a little higher than what I was looking for. Is Frontier's contribution included in that or is that in a separate – is that reported separately?

No. Hey, Mark. It's Rich. You're correct. Frontier Pipeline shows up there. So, that is most likely the difference you're going to see.

Okay. And then...

That was about [indiscernible] (09:24)

That's correct.

Okay. And then just lastly, just a follow-up on the Analyst Day, you kind of laid out kind of the number of projects and kind of the expected EBITDA contribution through 2017, but then you also said that you had identified a set of internal initiatives that would generate kind of $14 million of annual incremental cash flow beginning in 2016 and then 2017.

Where did those projects stand? I mean, I think you had identified maintenance, savings and project management improvements. And I just wasn't quite sure exactly what all those were related to and the timing.

Sure. Well, there are various stages of execution. The maintenance project is something that we have up and going or nearly so, and there will be others to come. But, I think if we talk about run rate in 2016, we certainly think we can get half of that probably more of it, it just depends on timing of execution.

Okay. And then I did see the release on the management changes. Is Bruce, did I read that correct, is he serving in a consulting role and how long is this path for? What's the term of his contract?

Certainly. Yes, Bruce continues to help us as a consultant. The current term of his contract is a year. And I guess I would expect that we may have a relationship that goes on well past that.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Mark. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Theresa Chen from Barclays Capital. Your line is open.

Good afternoon. Looking to 2016 and the potential dropdowns coming online there, can you give us an update of how the Woods Cross expansion assets are going and what the timeline is within 2016 for those to come down to HEP?

Sure. Really there hasn't been a change in either of the two timelines. Project completion is looking toward year-end for the refinery equipment in terms of mechanical completions, start-up follows immediately thereafter, and studying the dropdown currently with potential to execute that in the first half of 2016. So, that's very consistent with what we have been saying.

Great. And then in terms of funding, I understand that your unit price has held up much better, especially relative to the sector. But, if these market headwinds persist across the MLP sector, would that deter you from issuing public equity as a means of funding?

Sure, Theresa. So, I think we've been consistently saying that our target capitalization for the business is a 50-50 debt-to-equity ratio [ph] NL (12:34) We're definitely aware of what's going on in the outside world. So, with that said, we have plenty of liquidity on our own balance sheet. We're also very fortunate to have a general partner HollyFrontier with an incredibly strong balance sheet.

So, we feel we've got plenty of flexibility to manage around what's going on and generally manage that 50-50 target. But, obviously it's dependent on what the conditions and we'll look at all the options that are available.

Okay...

And beyond that I guess, I would add, that these market windows do open and close, but the value proposition in this security in particular we think is really strong. And so whether there is a window today or next week, or next month, I guess doesn't matter as much as we have good growth in front of us. And it's a very attractive both yield and growth proposition when we do the math.

Okay. And then in relation to the value proposition, should we assume a similar kind of multiple to your most recent dropdown?

Now, you're getting into the sausage making. We really haven't said that yet. I told you what I think the range of finer sponsor dropdown multiples are and I would expect that we probably work within that range. But, you appreciate that these are the subject of both negotiations and complex committees. So, we're just not that far along as yet.

Understood. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. Well, thanks so much for joining us on today's call and we look forward to seeing you again soon.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining, and have a great day.