raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners Lp
 
HEP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good morning. Welcome to the Holly Energy Partners Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. [operator instructions].


I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Neale Hickerson. Thank you Mr. Hickerson, you


may begin your conference.


M. Neale Hickerson, Vice President – Treasury and Investor Relations


Well, good morning everyone. I would like to welcome you to our fourth quarter Holly Energy


earnings call. I am Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Treasury and Investor Relations of Holly


Energy. With us today are Matt Clifton, Chairman and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; Steve


McDonnell, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dean Ridenour, our Director and Chief Accounting


Officer of Holly Energy.


We issued a press release yesterday announcing our results for our fourth quarter ended


December 31st, 2004 that release is available on our website at www.hollyenergy.com. Today,


Steve will highlight our financial performance, Matt will then comment about the quarter and the


year. As always, we will be available for questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.


I would like to also remind everyone of our announcement last week, of our transaction with the


Alon USA, where we will acquire over 500 miles of refined product pipeline and two refined product


terminals from Alon. We expect this transaction to close at the end of February, adding


approximately 1 month’s worth of operations to our existing operations in the first quarter of 2005.


A series of slides detailing this transaction can be found on the Holly Energy website on the


investor relations page.


Before we move to our remarks about our fourth quarter 2004 earnings and operations, we require


to make the following Safe Harbor disclosure statement, also please note the Safe Harbor


statement in our press release from yesterday. The following is a Safe Harbor statement under the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements in this earnings call related to


matters that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" based on management's belief


and assumptions, using currently available information and expectations as of this date and are not


guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Although the


partnership believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are


reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or


forecasted in such statements. The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or revise such


statements, as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that said, I would now like to turn things over to Steve McDonnell.


Stephen J. McDonnell, Vice President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Neale. My remarks will cover two topics today. First, the earnings of HEP and the


predecessor business for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2004. I will give particular focus to


the nearly six months of operations that HEP was formed. Second, balance sheet and financial


flexibility that we have.
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners Lp
 
HEP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Before I comment on earnings, I want to remind everyone about some important facts. Until


January 1st of 2004, our historical revenues included only actual amounts received from third


parties to utilize in pipelines and terminals. Holly for use of our first regulated product pipeline and


Holly for use of the Lovington crude oil pipeline, which were not contributed to our partnership.


Until January 1st, 2004, we did not report revenue for transporting products for Holly on our inter


state refined product pipelines, via internal linked services to Holly, and transporting crude oil and


feedstock on intermediate product pipelines to connect Holly’s Artesia and Lovington facilities,


which were not contributed to our partnership. Also, the historical financial data for all periods prior


to July 13th, 2004 do not reflect any G&A expenses, as Holly did not historically allocate any G&A


expenses to pipelines and terminals.


Our historical financial results of operations for all periods prior to July 13th, 2004, food cost


associated with crude oil and intermediate product pipeline, which were not contributed to our


partnership. Financial statements we require to – for the 3 and 12 months ended December 31st


are combined results for the predecessor business prior to July 13th and would result the Holly


Energy Partners subscripts July 13th.


In our management discussion in our Form 10-K that will be filed in March, we will concentrate on


the results that are most relevant and that is the result of Holly Energy Partners, since its formation


on July 13th. I will do the same in my remarks.


Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2004 was $6.5 million or 46 cents per diluted


limited partners unit. Revenues for the combined operation of the Partnership’s assets during the


quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $16.0 million, an increase of 7.6 million over the same


period last year. This increase is primarily as a result of the commencement of recorded revenues


on inter company volumes, as of January 1st, 2004. Refined product volumes shipped on HEP’s


pipeline system was 102,100 barrels per day during the fourth quarter this year, as compared to


75,400 barrels per day last year. Volume for the terminals and truck loading racks increased in the


fourth quarter to 136,300 barrels per day, from 115,200 barrels per day last year. The significant


increase in barrels transported in the fourth quarter of 2004, as compared to the fourth quarter of


2003, the 15,000 barrel per day expansion at the Navajo Refinery was completed in December


2003 and the effects of the turnaround of the Navajo Refinery also in December 2003.


As I mentioned earlier, prior to the formation of HEP Holly [indiscernible], G&A expenses to the


pipeline business. G&A expenses for the fourth quarter were $972,000, because we are expensing


the fees of our external audit and some other annual services over the last six months, I said over


12 months as we were in future. This quarter’s G&A expense is little more than $100,000 higher


and which you might normally expect. As noted in our press release HEP’s EBITDA for the fourth


quarter was $8.6 million.


After striking net interest expense of $238,000 and maintenance capital of 153,000, distributable


cash for the quarter was $8.2 million. Distribution declared for the quarter was 50 cents per unit


and that’s $7.1 million. Distributable cash generated represented a 15% coverage of the


distribution. I want to make a brief comment in results for the year. For the year 2004, for its fine


operations at a credit facility business and HEP, peed net income of a $32.5 million. A non-


attributable for HEP was $11.4 million, $6.5 million for fourth quarter and 4.9 million for that portion


of the third quarter after the IPL close at July 13th, 2004.


HEP has considerable financial flexibility to conduct into our business. We have a $100 million


credit facilities and over $25 million of burns under that facility at December 31st. At the close of


quarter, we had $19.1 million cash, we believe strongly in future of HEP and I am particularly


excited about the Alon acquisition announced last week. As we announced it is expected to close


later this quarter.


I would like to turn it over to Matt Clifton, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.