raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. My name is Tina and I will be your conference


operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Holly Energy Partners Second


Quarter 2007 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any


background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]. Thank you.


Mr. Hickerson, you may begin your conference.


Neale M. Hickerson, Vice President-Investor Relations


Well, good morning everyone. I’d like to welcome you to today’s earnings call. I’m Neale


Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations at HEP. With us today are Matt Clifton, Chairman


and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; David Blair, Senior Vice President of HEP; Steve McDonnell,


Chief Financial Officer; and Dean Ridenour, Chief Accounting Officer.


We issued a press release this morning announcing our results for the second quarter ended June


30, 2007. Additionally, we issued a press release this past Thursday announcing the increase in


HEP’s distribution to unitholders 70.5 cents per unit. This distribution is up from the previous


quarter’s $0.69 per unit. This distribution will be paid on August 14, 2007 to unitholders of record


on August 6, 2007. Both of these releases can be found on HEP’s website at www.hollycorp.com.


Today we’ll begin with some comments from Matt regarding our quarter, but he’ll have some


additional comments. Steve will then have some brief prepared remarks [indiscernible] around our


financial performance for the quarter. As usual, the team will be available for questions after the


conclusion of our prepared remarks.


Before we turn things over to Matt, we’re required to make as usual the following ‘Safe Harbor’


disclosure statement. Also, please note the Safe Harbor statement in our press release from this


morning. The following is a ‘Safe Harbor’ statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Statements in this earnings call related to matters that are not historical facts are


forward-looking statements based on management’s beliefs and assumptions using currently


available information and expectations as of this date and are not guarantees of future performance


and involve certain risks and uncertainties including those contained in our filings from time to time


with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the partnership believes that these expectations reflected in these forward-looking


statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be


correct. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed,


implied or forecast in such statements. The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or


revise such statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


And now, I would like to turn things over to Matt Clifton.


Matt Clifton, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Neale. It was a very good quarter for HEP. As Neale said, our results allowed us to raise


our quarterly distribution by a penny and a half, although over 2%. The second consecutive penny


and a half increase this year and it continued our pattern of an increase in distribution in every


quarter since our summer of 2004 IPO.
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Big story for the quarter was increased movements on our pipes. Pipeline volumes were up


dramatically over the second quarter in 2006, when volumes were negatively affected by refinery


downtime associated with tie-ins and modifications for the then new ultra-low sulfur diesel spec.


More important, the quarter and the year-to-date was positively effected by 13% increase in the


capacity of Holly’s Navajo Refinery, which was put online in mid 2006. For the first six months,


pipeline volumes were up 16% and terminal volumes were up 9% over the first six months of 2006.


The impact of the Navajo expansion should continue to positively impact results.


I’ll now let Steve go through some of the details for the quarter.


Stephen J. McDonnell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Matt. I have some very brief remarks this morning. Net income for the three months


ended June 30th, 2007, was $11.0 million or $0.64 per diluted limited partners unit, and revenues


from the operations of partnerships assets during the second quarter were $27.1 million. Operating


expenses of $8.2 million were inline with expectations and in a range of what we would expect for


our current business activities.


Deferred revenue recorded during the second quarter for shipments below committed volumes was


$663,000. This amount is comprised of $162,000 for Holly’s Intermediate Pipelines, $501,000 for a


major third-party’s pipelines. Offsetting these amounts was total forfeitures of $2.6 million,


including $1.1 million from the Holly Intermediate Pipelines, $124 million from a major third-party


shipper. The net of these amounts was decrease in deferred revenue fourth quarter of $1.9 million.


Currently, volumes are at or near normal levels in the third quarter. We continue to be comfortable


with our guidance of annualized EBITDA of $67 million, except one of our major customers have


problems with the refineries as was the case some extent on the first quarter of this year.


As noted in our press release, HEP’s EBITDA for the second quarter was $17.4 million. After


subtracting net interest expense of $2.9 million, decrease in deferred revenue of $129 million and


maintenance capital of $223,000. Distributable cash for the quarter was $12.4 million. We closed


the second quarter at $11.6 million of cash. Distribution for the quarter as has been mentioned that


was declared at 17.5 cents per unit last week and represents 2.2% increase over the $0.69 paid


during the second quarter. Total distribution will be $12.2 million. And as Neale mentioned, it will


be paid on August 14th to all unitholders of record on August 6th.


I’ll turn it back over to Neale to setup the questions.


Neale M. Hickerson, Vice President-Investor Relations


Well, as we said at the beginning of the conference, our prepared remarks will be brief this


morning. I would like to turn things back over to Tina to announce again the procedure for asking


questions and we are ready to take all of those questions that all of our listeners have.