Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Manager of Investor Relations & Communications, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Herriet Qu — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Alex Chang — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Asia Ltd.
Jacqueline Du — Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Thomas Zhang — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.
Patrick Xu — Analyst, Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the HollySys Automation Technologies Fiscal Year 2017 the Third Quarter ended on March 31, 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded, May 12, 2017, Beijing time.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations Director of HollySys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of HollySys Automation Technologies; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of HollySys; and myself, the IR Director of HollySys.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of business, including some highlights for the quarter, and Ms. Qu will discuss our performance from financial perspective, and the whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of HollySys' future product introductions, the mix of product in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and the expectations of HollySys' management are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: businesses conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; legislation or regulatory environments; requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which Hollysys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuations in customer demand; management of record growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation control system technology; timing, approval and market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes; as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys' filings with Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollar unless otherwise noted.

And now, I'd like to turn the call to Mr. Baiqing Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and a good evening to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. With the market stabilization in parts of our process industries, the performance of Industrial Automation has been getting better, especially recent order trend reflecting a positive momentum. Through activity traced our customers' new demands under adjusting circumstance, we got several significant contracts. For example, in power, we signed the contract to provide the products for Sichuan Jiangyou 2-gigawatt power units. Shanxi Yangmei two 660-megawatt power units. In chemical, we provided DCS and SIS product producing polycarbonate of Luxi Chemical Company. In petrochemical, we won the contract to provide the DCS to Sehngli oilfield Gudong production plant. In nuclear power, we are continuing providing DCS for Hongyanhe number 5 and then number 6 units and Tianwan units of 5 and then of 6 units.

For Factory Automation, after changing strategies from selling products to providing solutions to customers, we did have some progress such as Hair project to help the customer improve the level of automation and Intelligence of their Tianjin-based factory, which focuses on washing machine; integrated internal resources to improve the production and Hai Di Lao Hot Pot project to help the customer improve their efficiency of hot pot based making in the restaurant. Hollysys aims to make each project into a demonstration project to create the value to the customers and explore more opportunities in sub-industries.

In high-speed railways, we won the 106 C2-ATPS and the 10 C3-ATPs but since the customer is changing the procurement timeline, it increases uncertainty and volatility of the performance of the high-speed railway.

In addition, since it is the beginning of the 13th five-year-plan, the finished infrastructure of the new planned railway is limited. Therefore, in short-term, the performance of the high-speed railway segments was unfavorable. However, from long run, according to the mid- and long-term plan of the high-speed railway and with that increasing of the after sell and replacement as well as new products launch, we expect the sector will gradually and recover in the future. For subway, we won the contract to provide power SCADA for Dalian intercity line from Jinzhou to Pulandianwan.

In the mechanical and electrical installation services, although Concord and Bond are facing some difficulties because of the local political and economical uncertainties in Southeast Asia and the Middle East area, they are still working hard to develop the industry. As one of the strategies to expand overseas market, we will ensure a healthy development of Concord and Bond and take use of their advantages such as good customer relations and sales channels to find the more international opportunities.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Baiqing Shao.

call over to Arden Xia, who will read the financial results analysis on behalf of our CFO, Ms. Herriet Qu.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I would like to share some highlights for the first nine months and the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 ended March 31. Compared to the third quarter of prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the third quarter decreased some $118.8 million to $91.3 million, representing a decrease of 23.1%. Broken down by the revenue types, services revenue increased by 17.7% to $3.4 million, integrated contracts revenue decreased by 21.6% to $78.2 million, and products sales revenue decreased by 39.7% to $9.7 million. In July 2016, the company's interests in Hollycon were diluted from 51% to 30% and the company lost control of Hollycon. As a result, Hollycon's financials would not be included in the company's consolidated financials from July 2016 on. If Hollycon's revenue was excluded from the comparable figure for the third quarter of prior fiscal year, the products sales revenue for the third quarter should be increased by 17.8%.

The company's total revenues be presented in segments. Three months ended March 31, Industrial Automation, $38.1 million; Railway Transportation, $34.8 million; M&E, $18.5 million; total, $91.3 million. Nine months ended March 31, Industrial Automation, $128.9 million; Railway Transportation, $91.1 million; M&E, $74 million; total, $294 million.

Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired tangibles was 30.7% for the third quarter as compared with 31.7% for the same period of prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 24.4%, 65.2% and 78.8% for the third quarter, as compared to 27.1%, 55.5% and 59.1% for the same period of prior year, respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin.

The GAAP overall gross margin, which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 30.7% for the third quarter, as compared to 31.6% for the same period of prior year. The GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 24.4%, 65.2% and 78.8% for the third quarter, as compared to 26.9%, 55.5% and 59.1% for the same period of prior year, respectively.

Selling expenses were $6 million for the third quarter, representing an increase of $0.8 million or 13.8%, compared to $5.2 million for the same quarter of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 6.5% and 4.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

G&A expenses, excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $8.8 million and $8.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 9.6% and 7.3% for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The GAAP G&A expenses which include a non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $6.8 million and $9.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

R&D expenses were $6.1 million for the third quarter, representing a decrease of $2.3 million or 27.2% compared to $8.4 million for the same quarter of prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 6.7% and 7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidiaries were $5.5 million for third quarter as compared to $4.3 million for the same quarter in prior year, representing a $1.2 million or 27.9% increase.

The income tax expenses and the effective tax rate were $4.4 million and a 22.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to $3.4 million and 12.4% for comparable prior year period. The fluctuation of expected tax rates were mainly due to the different pre-tax income mix with different tax rates, as the company's subsidiaries apply to different tax rates. For the nine months ended March 31, 2017, the effective rate was 16%.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to HollySys, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustments and the convertible bond related fair value adjustments was $13.7 million or $0.22 per diluted share based on 61.2 million shares outstanding for the third quarter. This represents a 40.7% decrease over the $23.1 million or $0.38 per share based on 60.6 million shares outstanding reported in comparable prior year period.

On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to HollySys was $15.6 million or $0.26 per diluted share, representing a decrease of 28.5% over the $21.9 million or $0.36 per diluted share reported in comparable prior year period.

Contracts and backlog. HollySys achieved $108.4 million new contracts for the third quarter. And the backlog as of March 31, 2017 was $509.8 million. The detailed breaking down by new contracts and backlog by segments. New contracts: Industrial Automation, $52.8 million; Railway Transportation, $50.3 million; and M&E, $5.3 million; total, $108.42 million. Backlog: Industrial Automation, $127.6 million; Railway Transportation, $238.5 million; M&E, $143.7 million; total, $509.8 million.

Cash flow. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the total net cash outflow was $27.6 million. The net cash used in operating activities was $12.5 million. The net cash used in investing activities was $10 million, mainly consisted of $22.8 million time deposits placed with banks, which was partially offset by $12.5 million maturity of the deposits. The net cash used in financing activities was $3.5 million, mainly consisted of $4.9 million repayments of long-term bank loans, which was partially offset by $1.1 million proceeds from short-term bank loans.

Balance sheet. The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $268.8 million, $285.4 million and $256.4 million as of March 31, 2017, December 31, 2016, and March 31, 2016, respectively. As of March 31, 2017, the company held $182.5 million cash and cash equivalents and $86.4 million in time deposits with original maturity over three months.

For the three months ended March 31, 2017, DSO was 219 days, as compared to 181 days for the comparable prior year period and 208 days for the last quarter; and inventory turnover was 61 days, as compared to 40 days for the comparable prior year period and 52 days for the last quarter.

Outlook for the fiscal year 2017. Consideration on the volatility of high-speed railway performance, we would like to keep the guidance even though we meet potential challenges. For fiscal year 2017 with revenue in the range of $480 million to $520 million and non-GAAP net income in range of $90 million to $100 million.

At this time, we'd like to open up for the Q&A session. Please note, that for Chinese speaking participants, we can also do Q&A in Mandarin and we'll provide translation.

[Foreign Language]

Operator, please.

Thank you, Mr. Arden Xia. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alex Chang. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language](18:44)

[Foreign Language](18:48) Ni hao

Xie xie [Foreign Language](18:50-20:23) Xie xie

And the first question about the new order. The third quarter order we found that it is recovered very good. So, can you talk about the structure of the new order, especially the regulatory consultation, and we estimated it from the number of ATP procurement, it should be US$20 million, but it seems like US$50 million right now, so what about distribution? And also, I want to ask the formal days from the official CRC procurement website, we could see the new order for Q3, and there are three companies who won the bidding, so how about HollySys? How much HollySys could get?

The second question is about the share-based compensation. And this quarter, we saw this number is positive, kindly explain about it.

[Foreign Language] (00:21:34-00:22:19)

Okay. The first question about the railway transportation structure, the distribution, you could see if compare your prediction is larger, but actually we just announced a significant contract. We gained a lot of supplement contract [ph] beginning (22:38) this quarter, for example, like Hong Kong MTR project. Because this project is delaying, so we got some payment from the customer and also the small TCC project and also including the other supplemental project for the former larger projects.

[Foreign Language] (22:59-24:01)

The share-based compensation is based on the guidance. Last time, the disclosure, based on this guidance, the management team cannot achieve the target. So they cannot get the options, the options based on the performance of the EPS, for example. So this quarter, the cost amortization, we do adjustment. So we could see gain from the value. And next quarter, we have continued the same thing booking into the financials, but the number will be smaller than this quarter.

[Foreign Language] (24:44 – 00:25:30)

Let me translate the last one Mr. Shao said. Because several days ago, the official website disclosed the bidding won for three companies. But remember, we've not signed the contract yet, so we cannot disclose it at this time. And back to the last question of Alex. He asked about the ATP contract currently, the AFP for the C2 and C3, is there any changes? And the answer is just last fiscal year the C3 [indiscernible] (26:10) one-time discount for the AFP, leaving 300 kilometer per hour segment, but right now when we won the contract, all recover for the regular price. Thank you, Alex.

Your next question comes from the...

Operator?

Sorry. Your next question comes from the line of Jacqueline Du from Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (26:43-27:31)

The question is about the guidance, based on the first nine months of the performance, we not changed the guidance. So, this means the fourth quarter, we have to achieve more than $200 million revenue to meet the guidance. So, can you explain because this has not happened in the history, so can you explain more about the guidance?

[Foreign Language] (00:28:03-00:28:38)

In current situation, the guidance is rowing me to the challenge, but this is not as you mentioned if that if you will bring the revenue [ph] affected (28:51) by the new businesses. We especially focused on the high-speed rail, and this part, the performance has uncertainty, and it will affect the revenue and net income sharply. So, that's why – because currently the CRC side is not very transparency. So it's hard for us to make the precise prediction for the guidance. That is to say the performance is really based on the high-speed rail performance at the end of this fiscal year.

[Foreign Language] (29:29-29:48)

So for that the Factory Automation, what about the progress within the new businesses? And also relates to the revenue contribution, how we could expect the timeline?

[Foreign Language] (30:07-31:13)

For the new business or technology, looking at it might [ph] attract (31:21), okay, we will have to order, but the top line we can hardly give you right now. And for the Factory Automation, we changed the strategy from single product sales to the total solutions for life and we based on several sub-industry to do appraise demonstration project. Right now, everything goes well. But from the contract or revenue to see, it cannot make even of the declining – I mean, it is not – two large contract size cannot support right now. For the long-term, we have confidence to develop this area, keep a very high growth rate.

[Foreign Language] (32:09-33:07)

The first question is about some risk can show that from our side that we think there are some risk, for example like the ATP bidding procurement. We do see that the 3 segments can be really sized, company can be resized if the first time to join in this area. So, this will affect the market share in future. And the second question about the mechanical and electrical installation services, there are some uncertainties, can you explain more about this uncertainties?

[Foreign Language] (00:33:48-00:35:20).

From the HollySys' high-speed rail revenue as compared to 2016 and 2017, the sharp decrease is a one-time problem, not structural. For the short-term to see, it is hard to achieve the performance of the fiscal year 2016 because the year based the end of 12th five-year-plan and there were lot of ATPs. So from the market share aspect, this is a long-term issue. We cannot maintain 50% market share in 200 kilometer segment, but we will keep at least the 30% for both C2 and C3. And also, [indiscernible] (36:01) new player joining, we already disclosed the two institutional investors before.

And meanwhile, I mean – I want to mention some good areas from the mid-, long-term to see the high-speed railway after sale revenue will keep steady growth and also new products, new technology like the track circuit will join. And the very important thing is replacement cycle. Our increment life cycle is 10 years now, just to meet the cycle. So what we sold to ATP, we'll sell again. All of this will secure a high-speed rail revenue, keep a steady performance in future.

[Foreign Language] (36:46-37:23)

The mechanical and electrical installation services segment, because that is just focused on Southeast Asia and those local is not making – not very good in recent years. So we meet a lot of competition, and it's naturally from the new orders received still have challenge. But we are trying our best to [ph] do in (37:51) the business right now. If you see the M&E sector, the revenue growth is 10%, but no matter what it's just [indiscernible] (37: 59) that tempo rates for those areas still exist, especially we mentioned the new order site.

[Foreign Language] (38:11)

Thank you. Operator, next one.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Zhang from Morgan Stanley. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (38:38-39:20)

The first question about the P&L, where you see the share net income equity invested, that item, what's inside especially the HollySys? And how much performance by the HollySys? And of course, last fiscal year, we could see our government subsidies from the nuclear power JV also including data within this item. So can you explain how much about the net subsidy?

And the second question about the industrial automation new order, right now, if you see the trend, it's very good and the compare increase, but it's separated by the DCS demand. Which industry performs better? And can you explain based on industries? Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (40:53-41:49)

The first question about the income equity net, see if this part was based on equity matters, and inside have mainly two company, one is Hollycon and that company will hold a rough 30% in shares, and the JV with CGNPC, that company hold around 40%. And this time $2.4 million would receive $0.6 million from Hollycon. And also we used that right, last year we have a subsidy from the JV CGNPC, that total number would be [ph] 30 mainly (42:36) in China, U.S. Each transfer to the U.S. dollar would be $6 million around.

[Foreign Language] (42:46-43:02)

And question is about the – so that is to say in the last nine months' performance of JV with CGNPC, that company is positive, the answer is yes.

[Foreign Language] (43:17-44:31)

The industrial automation signed it through our hard working some nine months to see right now the new contract compares increased a lot. And this is based on, we received our existing projects and large customers to do the upgrading those kind of things, and we found a lot of new opportunities. And from the whole industry to see, it is based after large industries what we gained before like the thermal power, like the chemical, petrochemical, those industries are increasing and also new energy.

And we do that, but right now the total environment is still hard to say, but we do it very cautious and optimistic. And next quarter, to be frank, the revenue would be turned to positive compares and we are confident to maintain, and Industrial Automation gradually recover in future. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (45:44)

Because the timeline history [indiscernible] (45:50), so the last question. Please operator?

Thank you, sir. Your last question comes from the line of Patrick Xu from Nomura. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (46:02-47:07)

The first question is about the order within the high-speed rail sector. From the backlog we see, it is compared – not goes down very fast. But the high-speed rail revenue has continued declining, so I can't explain about this trend. I mean, especially the backlog is going down, what's the reason behind.

The second question about the working capital, we could see the DSO days and inventory days goes up, who can explain about that?

The third one is miscellaneous. It seems like compared to last fiscal year the miscellaneous item had nothing right now, so is there anything changed behind or please explain about this item?

[Foreign Language] (47:47)-(48:23)

The first question about the new order within the high-speed rail is to see the backlog structure, actually it contains less ATP than before. However, ATP contract recognized revenue compared TCC is shorter. For example, normally it would be 6 months to 12 months of finished recognized revenue, but TCC will be one or two years. But right now because the ATP contract is delayed, so we have less ATP contract within the backlog. But relatively, the high base belongs to after sale TCC, those contracts. But outreached, the recognized revenue period, it would be one or two years.

[Foreign Language] (49:12-49:41)

The DSO days goes up, it not means that AR getting larger. Actually, you could see the – absolutely value for the account receivable is still stable. At this time it's because the revenue goes down. So that's why DSO day goes up. And the inventory, because we are right now preparing the goods for the potential contracts, so that's why the inventory is increasing.

[Foreign Language] (50:09-50:35)

The miscellaneous – because last fiscal year that one represents – the large percentage is Hollycon, but Hollycon diluted 51% to 30%. And right now, we lost control of Hollycon, so not consolidated with the financials. That's why this time the miscellaneous you could see have no [ph] face (50:55). And this part, right now you could see from the P&L the equity investee area. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (51:03 – 51:10)

The question is about you said that the inventory goes up, can you exlainl which part of business prepare for the inventory. The answer is high-speed rail would be the larger percentage than the others. Thank you, Patrick.

Yes.

Okay. Thank you, everyone for joining us on this call today. If you haven't got the chance to raise your questions, we will be pleased to answer them through follow-up contact. We're looking forward to speaking with you again in near future. Thank you. Thank you, operator.

Thank you, all. This does conclude your conference. Thank you all for your participation.