Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Blake Barfield — Investor Relations, Holly Energy Partners LP
Douglas S. Aron — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Bruce R. Shaw — President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Matthew P. Clifton — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Edward Rowe — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Mark L. Reichman — Analyst, Simmons & Co. International
Theresa Chen — Equities Research Associate, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Connie Hsu — Analyst, Morningstar Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Blake Barfield. Blake, you may begin.

Thanks, Jackie, and thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Blake Barfield, Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners. Welcome to our third quarter 2013 earnings call. With us today are Matt Clifton, Chairman and CEO; Bruce Shaw, President; and Doug Aron, Executive VP and CFO.

This morning we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending September 30, 2013. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website, www.hollyenergy.com.

Before Matt, Bruce and Doug proceed with their prepared remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary it says, statements made regarding management's expectations, judgments or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings. Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes.

Also please note that the information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, October 30, 2013. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript.

Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Doug Aron.

Thanks, Blake. Thanks to each of you for joining our call this afternoon. Last Friday, October 25, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.4925 per unit. This increase marks the 36th consecutive quarterly increase in HEP's distribution to unitholders, an increase every quarter since our IPO more than nine years ago.

Specific to the third quarter of 2013, this distribution reflects a 6.5% increase over the split-adjusted $0.4625 per unit declared for the third quarter of 2012. The distribution will be paid on November 14, 2013 to unitholders of record as of November 4, 2013. For the quarter ended September 30, 2013, Holly Energy Partners distributable cash flow was a record $43.9 million, comparing favorably to the $40.4 million distributable cash flow generated in the third quarter of last year.

EBITDA in the period was $53.2 million, ahead of our anticipated $50 million quarterly run rate. Net income attributable to HEP for the quarter was $21.9 million, a decrease from the $23.3 million in the same time period of last year. The decrease in net income attributable to HEP is due principally to a $5 million year-on-year increase in depreciation and amortization, resulting in part from storage tank write-downs.

Though accounting rules require us to write down tank assets that are replaced or taken out of service, HEP's cash flow is not affected since minimum commitments do not change, and cost to construct the replacement tanks are, in certain cases, reimbursed per the terms of our contract with HollyFrontier.

Operating expenses decreased to $21.7 million in the quarter, down from the $22.7 million in the third quarter of 2012. OpEx benefited from a one-time $3.5 million tax refund and was offset in part by some environmental accruals. The reimbursable portion of operating expenses for which there is offsetting revenue was approximately $2.1 million. Excluding the reimbursable expenses for which there's offsetting revenue, we expect operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2013 to be in the range of $20 million to $22 million and would anticipate some quarterly increase in 2014.

SG&A expenses were $2.4 million for the period, slightly below the expected quarterly range of $2.5 million to $3 million per quarter. As a reminder, approximately 85% of HEP revenues, and therefore, income and distributable cash flow are supported by minimum commitments from major customers. Following the July 1, 2013, PPI tariff adjustments, long-term, minimum commitment contracts with major customers will result in minimum annualized payments of approximately $259 million.

Now, I'll provide an update on shortfalls billed and deferred revenue recognized during the quarter. Under certain contracts held by HEP, we received payments for quarterly shortfall billings below minimum commitments. Those payments are included in distributable cash flow for the current accounting period yet classified as deferred revenue and, therefore, not included as revenue on HEP's income statement until a future period in which the revenue can be recognized.

Deferred revenue recognition primarily results from shortfalls billed in previous quarters for which clawback rights were either used or expired. Specific to the third quarter of 2013, shortfalls billed for shipments below minimum commitments totaled $4 million, offset in part by $200,000 of deferred revenue recognized in this quarter. As of September 30, 2013, we have $11.2 million in deferred revenue recorded on the balance sheet. The bulk of this quarter-on-quarter increase relates to shortfalls billed on the UNEV Pipeline. In the fourth quarter of this year, we expect to recognize approximately $2.3 million of deferred revenue.

With regard to HEP's credit facility, as of September 30 of this year, we have $365 million borrowed, leaving $185 million of remaining availability.

We have $450 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding made up of $150 million of 8.25% notes due 2018 and $300 million of 6.5% notes due 2020.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bruce, for a few comments after which we'll open the call for questions.

Thanks, Doug, and thanks to everyone for joining today. I have just a few comments to add: first, about third quarter performance; second, an update on growth projects; and finally, a recap of capital spending before turning to Matt and then to questions.

Despite minor impact from weather and refinery downtime, volumes on HEP's pipelines and terminals performed near expected levels for the quarter with quarterly revenue also helped by the fact that tariffs under most of our contracts increased at the beginning of the third quarter, as Doug mentioned, boosting the annual run rate for revenue by about 2%.

Recall that HEP's revenues are 100% fee-based and most of our contracts contain minimum commitments and built-in annual escalators, giving us a strong and growing foundation on which to build for the future.

As for our current growth projects, we're making good progress on the expansion of our crude gathering system in southeastern New Mexico. We've already completed initial components of this expansion and we anticipate full completion of the project by late first quarter or early second quarter of next year.

Once fully operational, the project will add approximately $7.5 million in annualized trunk line revenue from contractual minimum volume commitments as well as additional gathering pipeline revenue as new lease production is connected to the expanding system.

In addition, we're on schedule to complete enhancements to UNEV's product terminal in North Las Vegas. The project should enable the pipeline to better serve customers with peak volume shipments when the product pricing orb is opened between Salt Lake City and Las Vegas, especially in the wintertime, by increasing the number of truck loading racks from two to four.

For UNEV, as we've said on previous calls, we don't expect significant volume upside until refinery expansions in Salt Lake City are completed in late 2014 to 2015 timeframe. Until then, UNEV is supported by minimum commitments from HollyFrontier and from Sinclair and a GP giveback from HollyFrontier related to HEP's ownership interest.

We continue to evaluate several potential products with HFC, currently focusing most of our time on options to increase crude delivery capacity for HollyFrontier between Cushing and Tulsa, Oklahoma. We've not made final decisions on other projects, including a new products pipeline between HFC's refinery in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Denver, Colorado, or the addition of crude by rail functionality to our New Mexico crude-gathering system, but neither project is highly likely under current market conditions.

We continue to explore potential growth opportunities particularly on the crude supply and gathering side of our business, both in the southeastern New Mexico, West Texas region and in geographies near HollyFrontier's other refineries. We also regularly evaluate third-party acquisitions that could have a strategic fit for us. Our CapEx for the third quarter of 2013 totaled $16.3 million, including $2 million of maintenance capital expenditures. This brings our total CapEx through September 30, 2013 to approximately $33.5 million including about $6.6 million of maintenance capital expenditures.

We expect that our 2013 total capital spending will be in the $50 million range with most of our expansion CapEx spent on our crude gathering project, a smaller portion on the UNEV terminal, and about $8 million to $10 million for maintenance capital. I'd like to finish by again thanking the entire HEP team for their strong commitment to safety, reliability and customer service. The company's continued success and readiness for future growth would not be possible without the hard work and dedication of each and every one of our employees.

Now, I believe Matt has a few comments to add before turning it back for questions. Matt?

Thanks, Bruce. I have just a couple of high-level comments before we turn it over for questions. As Bruce mentioned, our project to expand our crude oil gathering and trunk line system is proceeding as planned. This is clearly an exciting organic opportunity for HEP. This expansion will provide needed gathering and takeaway capacity for dramatically increasing Delaware Basin production in the western edge of the Permian Basin.

Our existing system was one of a few [indiscernible] (11:18) systems in place in Eddy and Lea County, New Mexico, where success in both vertical and horizontal drilling has materialized over the last couple of years. Current volumes on our existing gathering system have increased approximately 50% to just under 75,000 barrels a day since we acquired this system five years ago, with most of that growth occurring over the last couple of years as Permian exploration success has surged.

Our expansion project will position us to continue to capture the benefits of increasing crude oil transportation revenue from rapidly expanding Permian Basin production.

On the non-organic front, although our team has explored a number of third-party asset acquisitions over the last 12 months, we have not found any at price points that would've added unitholder value. Our objective is to be better for unitholders not just bigger.

Looking forward, our strategy is to preserve our track record of consistent unitholder distribution growth is to continue to prioritize our safe, reliable operations, control cost, explore organic opportunities and improve the cash flow of our existing asset base, evaluate ways to provide enhanced transportation alternatives to our general partners' refining facilities and to pursue external growth opportunities in a disciplined manner.

With that, I'll turn it back to Blake.

Thanks, Matt. And Jackie, at this time, we're ready to open the call for questions. If you could please again provide the instructions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Edward Rowe with Raymond James.

Good afternoon, guys. Recognizing the Midland's spreads being quite volatile right now. Can you provide some color around the potential crude by rail project and what sort of takeaway commitments are you looking to target to proceed with that project?

Sure. I can take that one. Recognizing the volatility around Midland and Cushing, it's really driven by potential interested parties that would rail the crude out of the area. We think the most likely home for west Texas crude by rail could very well be California. So it really kind of comes down to – I think we may have touched on this a bit the last quarter as well that it really comes down to what those folks – what kind of the types of crude they're looking for and what kind of spread they would need to make that economic for them as much as it would center just there around Midland. But Matt, I don't know if you want to add anything to that.

No. I think that pretty well covers it, Bruce. I think obviously the Brent-TI differentials have shrunken, and Midland, as you noted, has been pretty volatile on its relationship to Cushing, so the – I think most of the people or companies that you would look to sign up for long-term commitments are pretty much on the sidelines and not willing to sign up for commitments but rather want the flexibility to real crude if as and when from various places as the economics dictates. So, we continue to look at it. Right now if anything – it looks a little shaky.

Okay, that's good. In terms of the two other potential pipeline projects, the Cushing, the Tulsa and Wyoming, the Denver pipelines, can you guys share with us how you guys are progressing in terms of reaching the commitments that you're looking for to proceed with those projects?

Sure. On Cushing to Tulsa, what we've done there is come up with an estimate of what it would take to build a new pipeline between Cushing and Tulsa. We're using that estimate to determine what kind of commitment levels and the corresponding tariff rates we'd need from a shipper, obviously, that shipper being HollyFrontier. With that in hand, we're also getting inquiries from other folks who either own pipes in the area that are currently operating or could operate that are potentially dormant at the moment with some other options.

So, until really we have all those data points, we're not going to know how our economics of the new pipeline would stack up, although it's an obvious point that existing pipelines, if they can be economically expanded and are in good condition, relatively good condition, typically can compete a little bit better than a brand-new pipe build. So that's the Cushing to Tulsa. We should know more over the next several months. Certainly, we'll have an update for everybody this time next quarter.

As far as Cheyenne to Denver, I think as we mentioned last time, we got a new owner, or at least a potential new owner of the Rocky Mountain pipeline system that currently owns the leg between Cheyenne and Denver. And as soon as we see what that new owner can confirm what they plan to do with that pipeline system with less than a need for a new pipeline between Cheyenne and Denver, obviously building that pipe between Cheyenne and Denver, a longer build as well as a tougher build through that northern part of Colorado.

All right. That's helpful. That's all I had.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Reichman with Simmons.

Good afternoon. Just a few questions. First, let me ask a little bit about the pipeline volumes. It seems like some of the other companies that have been reported have seen stronger demand for gasoline, less so for jet fuel. And I was just kind of interested in the mix on demand on your pipeline systems.

And then second, I just wanted to clarify on the gathering expansion. I had that – I thought I heard you say that it would be completed the first or early second quarter 2014, and I was still kind of under the impression that it would start contributing in the first quarter. So just to clarify that. And then, lastly, on the write-down of these tanks. I know that you've seen some of that in El Dorado and Tulsa, and I'm just curious, moving forward, what would you expect in terms of tankage replacement?

Sure, Mark. This is Bruce. Let me take the question about Malaga first. We do expect contribution from Malaga in the first quarter of next year, as a potential it could even begin a small contribution before the end of the calendar year. But the full run rate of revenue, we don't expect to come on until the project is fully complete which will either be toward the end of the first quarter or beginning of second quarter. Because the project is being finished in phases, parts of it will come on and some of the gathering revenue may come on sooner than the committed trunk revenue will come on. So that's the answer to the first question.

I believe your second question was about product pipeline mix and I'm not at liberty to share, I mean, the exact – obviously mixes of our customer shipments. I would tell you that most of our product pipeline is going to be gasoline or diesel, very limited jet shipments, and we've not really seen any kind of a change in demand for those product pipelines. It really just varies with refinery production and the refineries that we serve.

Matt, I don't know if you want to add anything to that one.

No. I think that's right, Bruce. We haven't seen really, I think, generally the refiners have a, at least in our geographic areas are incentivized to maximize diesel production just based on the crack spreads there. So we haven't seen a material change in the mix on our pipes.

And then, the last question, Mark, on tanks. We own between Tulsa, Cheyenne, El Dorado, then a few tanks obviously in the crude patch, over 400 tanks. The way our tank inspection program works, we'll be inspecting, call it, 10% or so of those tanks every calendar year. And I think if I remember right, our forecast – approximate forecast for depreciation expense in the fourth quarter is $17.5 million to $18 million, so slightly less than our number for the third quarter this year.

The only thing I'd add there, Mark, just so that we're totally transparent on this. Most of these tank write-downs are pretty good, one that we experienced this quarter and I think we had some impact in previous quarters related to the purchase by a HEP of tanks at El Dorado, Tulsa and Cheyenne, all from Holly Frontier. And part of that transaction and in order to shift kind of the risk inherent in the first regulatory inspection of a tank in some time to the seller from the buyer, we had a provision that to the extent that we found in that first inspection, significant repairs had to be made or replacement had to be made that the seller in this case, HollyFrontier, would reimburse us.

Unfortunately from a – which is I think prudent from a cash flow and financial standpoint. From an accounting standpoint, it just – when we have a situation where we have to condemn a tank even though it's being reimbursed, we have to accelerate the depreciation that was allocated to that tank and so we have a non-cash hit to the P&L.

Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate that.

Your next question comes from the line of Theresa Chen with Baclays Capital.

There. I just had a question about the implied terminals – terminalling fee this quarter. It rose pretty strongly both on a year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter basis more so than a tariff increase would imply.

Any color on that on how sustainable that is or is there one-time things that happened?

No. This is Bruce. I'll take that one. We do have – as our terminalling volumes include more blended barrels, a lot of times, the decisions by our shippers to blend or add certain things to barrels can create an extra fee at the terminal. I think the terminalling fee for barrel, I don't have in front of me on a per barrel basis, we don't expect grade increases to that over time. But I believe it's really a result of shipper decisions on a quarter-by-quarter basis.

Okay. And any color on the strength also seen in the third-party terminalling volume this quarter?

The only change there is we're seeing a little more volume at our Tucson terminal out in Arizona. We're seeing a little more third-party interest in terminalling there. So the majority of the increase you see in third-party terminal volumes is going to come from that Tucson terminal.

Thank you.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Connie Hsu with Morningstar.

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. My question is on your crude pipeline volumes. I was surprised to see that they were down a bit, down 8% compared to last year, 6% compared to last quarter. Could you provide some color here on what caused the drop?

Sure. So, Connie, on our crude volumes, of course those are going to be made up of both trunk line volumes and gathering volumes. Our gathering volumes were pretty consistent and have been pretty consistent this year, and I think, as Matt mentioned, are up close to 50% over the original volumes we saw back in 2008, 2009 timeframe when we bought the system.

The trunk volumes are going to vary depending on how many barrels the Navajo refinery decides to bring in by truck can vary. And what we're seeing is we expand and enhance the Malaga area and the gathering and trunk line system. In transition, we may see a few more barrels brought in by truck that are typically brought in by on trunk lines by pipeline and that may show or demonstrate come out in a temporary decrease in overall crude shipments, but we don't think that is something that will happen long term. It's just going to bounce around a little bit as we get that new project completed and online in the spring of next year.

Okay, thanks. And so that should affect – well, it would likely affect your fourth quarter volumes as well then?

It could have a small impact. I will tell you that from a revenue perspective, it's very, very limited given the minimum contractual commitments we have on those trunk pipelines. So, really, from a revenue perspective, it's going to have little, if any, impact. From a volume barrels per day perspective, you may see a similar number in the fourth quarter, that's right.

Okay. And then in your comments earlier, you mentioned the crude rail facility and the potential pipeline from Cheyenne to Denver. It seems less likely than before. So, if those don't end up happening, could you comment on what other growth options you're looking at now?

Well, as we mentioned and I think Matt touched on, too, the two real growth – kind of built-in growth areas for HEP right now center around our crude gathering and delivery business in southeastern New Mexico that we continue to look for ways to expand in addition to the currently identified project. We also have built-in growth around the UNEV Pipeline once the refinery expansions are complete in Salt Lake City.

Other places we look for growth would be taking our crude transportation expertise to other areas where we see crude production growth that also combine with geographies that are near existing HollyFrontier refineries. So nothing definite to report, for example, around the other refineries, Cheyenne, El Dorado or Tulsa, but we continue to look real hard at areas like those that may provide opportunity for us.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

That was our final question, and I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Blake Barfield for any additional or closing remarks.

Thanks again for joining the call today. Please feel free to reach out to investor relations if you have any follow-up questions. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results next February.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.