Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Director, Investor Relations & Communications, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Co-Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Steven Wang — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Thomas Zhang — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.
Kevin Li — Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Jacqueline Du — Analyst, Goldman Sachs

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Hollysys Automation Technologies Earnings Conference Call for Fiscal Year 2019 Third Quarter ended March 31, 2019. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, May 14, 2019, Beijing Time.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations Director of Hollysys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to conference call of Hollysys Automation Technologies. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of Hollysys Automation Technologies; Mr. Steven Wang, CFO of Hollysys Automation Technologies; and myself, IR Director of Hollysys. On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. Mr. Steven Wang will discuss our performance from financial perspective. And we will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are the statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of Hollysys' future product introductions, and mix of products in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Hollysys' management are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; legislation or regulatory environments; requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which Hollysys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansions; fluctuations in customer demand; management of rapid growth and transition to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation, control system technology; timing, approval and the market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes; as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted.

And now, I'd like to turn the call to Mr. Baiqing Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and greeting to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. Revenue and the new contract for our IA business for the quarter were $60.1 million and $84.0 million, representing a 31.6% and 2.2% year-to-year increase, respectively. For the first nine months of the fiscal year, revenue and contract presented a 4.0% and 3.5% year-to-year increase, respectively.

Our effort in market penetration and addressing the current customer base for the maintenance and upgrade opportunities continued. Within high-end coal fire market, our solid performance in the past have earned our reputation. We signed a breakthrough contract to provide DCS+DEH solution to the 660 megawatt power units of the China Huaneng Group, which is the first time that Huaneng has accepted Hollysys' control solution for its 660 megwatt power units.

We continued to address other sub-verticals of power including garbage power, biomass and solar thermal power. In solar thermal power, we entered into a strategic relationship with Zhongnan Engineering Corporation Limited on jointly developing the control solution for the world first molten salt linear Fresnel solar thermal power station in Gansu, China.

In chemical and petrochemical, our effort in penetrating the market continued, and with the execution of our previous breakthrough projects as reference, we continued to actively promote ourselves. We signed a contract to provide control solution to coal-to-clean industrial gas project in Jiangxi with a design capacity of 13 billion normal cubic meter per year, which is to be the world largest project of such kind once completed.

We kept addressing our valuable customer base and the momentum of aftersales services continued. In addition to regular maintenance, our value adding industrial software that covers advanced process control, industrial information security, et cetera, are being accepted by more of our customers. Following the breakthrough in our first intelligent plant solution in the last quarter, we maintained close communication with potential customers. Meanwhile, our intelligence-oriented solutions are earning its reputation.

In February, Hollysys was named by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People's Republic of China as outstanding data collection and edge computing technology provider, outstanding PaaS technology provider and outstanding SaaS technology provider. Our HolliMachine Smart Equipment Cloud Industrial Internet APP was also listed in the Outstanding Industrial Internet APP Solution published by MIIT. Furthermore, we have recently formed a strategic partnership with Arup, one of the largest global engineering consulting firms, to develop and implement world-leading intelligent solutions and expand into overseas markets together.

Quarterly revenue and new contract for our railway business were $46.8 million and $35.5 million, representing a 2.7% year-to-year increase and 6.3% year-to-year decrease, respectively. For the first nine month of the fiscal year, revenue and new contract recorded a 6.9% and 48.1% year-over-year increase, respectively.

With 13th Five Year Plan period entering its final two years and the amount of contract signed previously, we have been busy delivering. Going forward into the future and given a visible long-term railway construction plan, we will continue to adhere to the diversity strategy for stable and healthy growth and to improve our local service network for more value-adding and differentiated services. With urbanization as an ongoing process, we will keep leveraging our strong R&D capacity and prepare for the application of various types of railway transportation system in the future.

In overseas business, M&E recorded a quarterly revenue and new contract of $18.4 million and $16.8 million, representing a 37.7% and 20.8% year-to-year decrease respectively. For the first nine months of the fiscal year, revenue and new contract recorded a 3.6% and 8.4% year-to-year increase respectively. Given the macro economy in Southeast Asia and the Middle East, risk control remains to be the key focus of our M&E business. In IA overseas business, we continued our effort in developing partnership with key EPC players, and to create opportunity to join EPC project in its earlier project cycle by cooperating with design institution. We have achieved our first cooperation with Shanghai Electric overseas as we signed a contract on a 2*300 megawatt power unit optimization project in Malaysia. Going forward, we will take gradual steps to improve the marketing and service capability of our overseas business for greater localization.

With this, I'd like to turn the call over to Steven Wang, who will lead the financial results analysis.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I'd like to share some financial highlights for the third quarter ended March 31, 2019. Comparing to the third quarter of prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased from $120.6 million to $125.2 million, representing an increase of 3.8%. Broken down by the revenue types, integrated contracts revenue decreased by 3.3% to $101.3 million, products sales revenue increased by 33.1% to $13.2 million, and services revenue increased by 79.1% to $10.7 million.

The company's total revenues can also be presented in segments as follows: for the third quarter of fiscal year of 2019, Industrial Automation achieved $60.1 million, Rail Transportation Automation revenue $46.8 million, Mechanical and Electrical Solution revenue $18.3 million, total revenue $125.2 million.

Overall non-GAAP gross margin was 39.6% for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to 36.5% for the same period of the prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and services rendered were 30.2%, 85.6% and 71.9% for the third quarter of 2019, as compared to 30.1%, 81.2% and 73.6% for the same period of prior year, respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margins.

Selling expenses were $6.5 million for the third quarter of 2019, representing an increase of $0.3 million or 4.3% compared to $6.2 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Selling expenses were 5.2% and 5.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

Non-GAAP G&A expenses excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses were $8.7 million for the third quarter of 2019, representing an increase of $1 million or 12.9% compared to $7.7 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Non-GAAP G&A expenses were 7% and 6.4% for quarters ended at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

R&D expenses were $8.7 million for the third quarter of 2019, representing a decrease of $0.1 million or 1.2% compared to $8.8 million for the same quarter of the prior year. R&D expenses were 6.9% and 7.3% for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $4.6 million for the third quarter of 2019, as compared to $3.9 million for the same period in the prior year, representing a $0.7 million or 17.1% increase, which was primarily due to the increase of the VAT refunds.

The income tax expenses and effective tax rate were $4.9 million and 15% for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $4.6 million and 17.2% for the comparable prior year period. The effective tax rate fluctuation was mainly due to the different pre-tax income mix with different tax rates, as company's subsidiaries are subject to different tax rates in various jurisdictions.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to Hollysys was $28.1 million or $0.46 per diluted share based on 61.3 million outstanding diluted share for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This represents a 27.1% increase over the $22.1 million or $0.36 per share in comparable prior year period. On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to Hollysys was $28 million or $0.46 per diluted share representing an increase of 28% over $21.8 million or $0.36 per diluted share reported in the comparable prior year period.

Contracts and backlog highlights. Hollysys achieved $136.2 million of new contracts for the third quarter of 2019. The backlog as of March 31, 2019 was $599.2 million. The detailed breakdown of the new contracts and backlog by segments are as follows.

New contracts for the third quarter of 2019; Industrial Automation, $84 million; Rail Transportation, $35.5 million; Mechanical and Electrical Solutions, $16.8 million. Backlog as of March 31, 2019; Industrial Automation backlog, $182.6 million; Rail Transportation, $322.1 million; Mechanical and Electrical Solutions, $94.5 million.

Cash flow highlights. For the third quarter of 2019, the total net cash outflow was $15.3 million. The net operating cash flow was $25.2 million. The net investing cash flow was $45.3 million, mainly consisted of $93.8 million time deposits placed with banks, and $4.2 million purchases of property, plant and equipment, which was partially offset by $52.7 million maturity of time deposits. The net financing cash flow was $0.2 million, mainly consist of $1.9 million repayments of short-term bank loans, which were partially offset by $1.7 million proceeds from short-term bank loans.

Balance sheet highlights. The total amount of cash and cash equivalents were $253.4 million, $270.8 million and $238 million as of March 31, 2019, December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.

For the third quarter of 2019, DSO was 193 days, as compared to 196 days for the comparable prior year period and 157 days for the last quarter; and inventory turnover was 50 days, as compared to 63 days for the comparable prior year period and 39 days for the last quarter.

Operator?

Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

There is no question at this time, please continue speaker. Thank you.

All right, yeah – we have one – questions just came in and our first question comes from the line of Thomas Zhang from Morgan Stanley. Thomas, your line is now open.

Okay. The first question is related to the Industrial Automation and we got a comeback from the bottom [indiscernible] (22:39) prices and about 660 megawatts power station. What about this contract total amount of the bidding? And second, also about the execution time period or recognized revenue period of this contract.

The second question toward Industrial Automation, right now we could see the backdrop is increasing and also we could see that good news from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of central government that's granted you several awards and qualifications. And this is a combination of large industrial automation, so could you talk a little bit about the factory automation area compared with the whole IA without a new contract or the backlog, those kind of information?

The third one – question about VAT refund and government subsidy, could you help us to separate about the VAT return and government subsidy and what about the government subsidy is focused on the research and development area and also what kind of direction for the R&D activity?

[Foreign Language] (24:12-24:56).

And the first question relates to the Huaneng contract, this is our first time to sign contract related to 660 megawatts power station with Huaneng, a state-owned enterprises and also the [indiscernible] (25:14) RMB 10 million, China yuan, and recognized revenue [indiscernible] (25:25) and normally have the different period like the down prepayment and the delivery and finish the whole project [indiscernible] (25:36). So generally speaking the recognized revenue will be in 12 to 18 months.

[Foreign Language] (25:46-27:06)

Okay. The second question about the Industrial Automation and right now the Hollysys Group have more than 40 service center and spread across the whole country and each center also take over the ability to provide comprehensive solution including the process control and factory automation products technology. And right now this strategy also [ph] bring good (27:47) result, the revenue is keep increasing and through our working we also satisfied by the central government of – MIIT and we got a reward from [ph] the SaaS, the PaaS (28:09) and this has also then demonstrated Hollysys can provide a very comprehensive solutions based on the process control and the [indiscernible] (28:18) control. And we also will provide more solutions to the state-owned enterprises that currently emphasize on proprietary technology [indiscernible] (28:34) IT and also information security related business. So we have confidence to continue to keep this part making progress.

[Foreign Language] (28:50-29:19)

[Foreign Language] (29:21-29:50)

[Foreign Language] (29:51-30:39)

Okay. Let me translate. And right now we – the question is about have you ever communicated any state-owned enterprises currently based on – because you recently got award from MIIT, like the PaaS, the SaaS. So have you ever already communicated [indiscernible] (31:08) agreement or make some deal with state-owned enterprises after they admitted to use your product or technology.

To answer is now – right now really negotiated with several kinds of the state-owned enterprises and based on the Industrial Internet and they want to do upgrading from the automation to the digitalization and also we provided comprehensive intellectual solutions to help them to achieve their goals. And we want to emphasize Hollysys will play a better role from the [indiscernible] (31:54) help to make the progress due to upgrading.

And the further question about the – is it the technology is based – or solutions based on the sub-verticals or a specific area, actually our – the answer is, actually our technology and platform and comprehensive solutions is emphasized on general purposes and it can manage to solve the problem about those companies, enterprises the common problems. So, the state-owned enterprises right now, the up level want to do the upgrading, but also within the specific area we can [ph] downside (32:50) to focus on our workshop or specific area of products to help them to do the digitalization, the intellectual manufacturing, those kind of stuffs.

[Foreign Language] (33:05-34:00)

Okay. About the third question...

[Foreign Language] (34:04-34:18)

The question is now the VAT refunds and government subsidy increased and actually this quarter compared increase pointed $6 million, $7 million and the first nine months increase about $2.5 million may come from the VAT refunds. This is a onetime issue because recently the value-adding tax rate policy is changing so we got a lot of receipt and the invoice, the billing for invoice. So, to bring the one-time increase for [indiscernible] (35:05), but for the whole fiscal year to see, it's still very steady about the total net. And also, the first question is also want to confirm about the one time, yes, this is one-time comp from the policy change.

Okay. Operator, next one, please.

Thank you so much. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Li from Morgan Stanley. Kevin, your line is now open.

The question supplement about the railway transportation segment. The APP – what is about now the ATP market share and also could you help us to [indiscernible] (36:49) predict about 2019? We know about you have ATP contract in your hands, even backlog, but what about the recent quarters about the delivery of the APP, what about the ATP delivered numbers?

[Foreign Language] (37:11-38:47)

About the market share, based on yearly, we could achieve one-third of the market share. And the second related [indiscernible] (39:00) and actually Mr. Shao also introduced the bidding for [indiscernible] (39:07) and CRC, the consumer side, it was started centralized bidding in the second half of the calendar year. That is to say, our fiscal year – first half year industry that strong bidding new contracts, but from ATP, mainly come from ATP. But the second half of the fiscal year, right now, we – the bidding may focus from TCC and, right now, it's hard to say about, when we'll start a new ATP bidding, but normally should in the second half of this calendar year. And about delivery, it also depends on the CRC's procedure and we won a lot in the first half and end of December of last fiscal – of last calendar year, but we will deliver within one year. So it's hard to give you a number of each month, it really depends on the CRC side requirements.

Thank you. Operator next question, please.

Thank you. Thank you so much. And our next question comes from the line of Jacqueline Du from Goldman Sachs. Jacqueline, your line is now open.

Okay. And the first question about IA orders. Could you help us to – we know about this – you're not provided this – the breaking down for the IA for this industry, but could you give us our landscape about the coal fire, chemical, petrochemical, metallurgy, building material [indiscernible] (42:14) or the perceptive about the coming days?

And the second question about IA rail, the maintenance upgrading potential order the proposition and also the rail sector beyond the ATP, TCC, what about the other product or technology provider new contract like the [indiscernible] (42:41).

The third one about we know about you just need to do [indiscernible] (42:49) public offering to issue the new shares and right now withdraw. However, I want to add that could you have – do you have any updates for the new investment directions or potential M&A targets to talk about more about this information.

[Foreign Language] (43:12-44:23).

The first question about the IA, we will not give the breaking down specific number, but roughly around the 40% of the IA come from the power, and 40% IA come from chemical and petrochemical, and the rest of 20% belongs to others. And this is also including the [indiscernible] (44:49) nuclear area. And this part of the gross margin were high by the way, and for the coming trend, it's a steel staying roughly at this proportion.

And the second about maintenance upgrading and I want to emphasize the aftersales revenue is increasing, you could calculate from that. And because we provide [indiscernible] (45:17) level control system, so originally customer would glad to use our regional provider. So this is especially the example like the rail, the high metal repairment or replacement, they will find the original provider, so this part is increasing and adds sustainable recurring revenue for the long-term.

[Foreign Language] (45:47-46:10)

Relate to the M&A and our preference is first technology, second the sales channel, the third one the business synergy. And right now, we are still in a discussion, so we will update the information, if we have progressed.

[Foreign Language] (46:34-47:07)

[Foreign Language] (47:10-47:46)

And Jacqueline clarified her questions. About the first one, I want to emphasize on the trend, which sub-vertical is increasing very fast, and actually from our side, the coming years should be come from chemical, petrochemical.

And the second is clarified question is about the after-sale revenue proposition. Could you give us a separate number about IA and rail. And the answer is right now we will not give disclosed separate number, but I can tell you the whole after-sale proposition our whole revenue right now achieve roughly around 19%. And this is compared last year 2018 to 13.7%. Thank you, Jacqueline.

[Foreign Language] (48:43-48:55)

[Foreign Language] (48:57-49:12)

The question related to the beyond the TCC, ATP, what about the others like the track circuit. Right now, the track circuit is still entered the rail passing line and it will be finished at the end of this year. And we can start bidding from the next year so that will account on the revenue contribution. Thank you.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us on this call today. If you haven't got a chance to raise your questions, We're pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We're looking forward to speaking with you again in near future. Thank you.

Thanks, everyone.

Thank you.

And that concludes the conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.