Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Co-Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Steven Wang — Chief Financial Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Kevin Luo — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Hollysys Automation Technologies Earnings Conference Call for the Second Quarter and the First Half of Fiscal Year 2020 ended December 31, 2019. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, February 20, 2020, Beijing Time.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations Director of Hollysys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of Hollysys Automation Technologies; Mr. Steven Wang, CFO of Hollysys; and myself, the IR Director of Hollysys.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. Mr. Steven Wang will discuss our performance from a financial perspective, and we will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Security (sic) [Securities] (00:01:31) Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of Hollysys' future product introductions, the mix of products in future periods, and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and the expectations of Hollysys' management are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors among others could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements. Business conditions in China and in Southeast Asia continued compliance with government regulations, legislation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affecting the business in which Hollysys is engaged, cessation or changes in government incentive programs, potential trade barriers affecting international expansion, fluctuation in customer demand, management of rapid growth and transitions to new markets, intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation control system technology, timing approval and market acceptance of new product introductions, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and regulatory changes, as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys' filing with Security Exchange Commission (sic) [Securities and Exchange Commission] (00:03:00).

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks, but Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update the information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in US dollars, unless otherwise noted.

I'd now like to turn to the call to Mr. Baiqing Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and good evening to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. Industrial Automation business finished the second quarter with a revenue and a contract at $69.3 million and $69.5 million, achieved the 40.1% and 58.2% year-to-year growth respectively. For the first half of the fiscal year, IA revenue and contract achieved 25.0% and 23.6% year-to-year growth respectively.

In coal fire sector, despite a slowdown in new construction market, performance in aftersales remained healthy as we kept responding to various demands from our existing customer in face of the replacement cycle. We offered system upgrade and modification, security product and regular maintenance, et cetera, that addressed the currently installed solutions in part or in whole.

Our chemical and petro-chemical sector continued to see health growth thanks to our efforts in organization optimization, talent recruitment, marketing and relationship maintenance, et cetera. With our quality in the previous milestone project being recognized by clients, we moved on to prepare for project quality assessment seminar to seek wider recognition in the industry.

To better showcase our capability, we have also constructed a demo center for high-end ethylene project. Meanwhile, we kept improving our solution for the industry through internal R&D and the cooperation with external parties.

In oil and gas vertical, we won a new bidding this quarter in providing control solution to the Central Equipment Platform of the oil field for CNOOC. It was also the first time that the client has adopted a domestic control solution on such production site. Going forward, with successful projects as track record and with solid technology and quality engineering as the gene of the company, we will maintain close interaction with the client base to gradually spread the concept that Hollysys is a qualified provider for the chemical and petro-chemical industry.

In smart factory sector, our boiler combustion optimization solution, a solution within our industrial software matrix tailored-developed for power-generation-related business, has gained wider acceptance. The solution was widely welcomed by our customers, as we have received numerous feedbacks from customers acknowledging the value of our solution in cutting production cost and improving production stability. We are continuing our internal R&D effort while also actively collaborating with external parties along the value chain to expand and improve the solution within our industrial software matrix.

Under the 3+1+N strategy, we continued the effort to integrate internal sales platform for better cross selling. We expect such effort will put us in a better position to utilize the specialties of each member company for the offering of total solution of the company. Meanwhile, we signed an EPC contract in December for a chemical project, in which we assumed the role as the general contractor. Such contract marked a step further towards our vision of offering comprehensive solution covering project full life cycle.

Rail business finished the second quarter with revenue and a contract at $78.8 million and $104.2 million, recording at 24.1% year growth and 39.8% year decrease, respectively. For the first half of the fiscal year, revenue and contract recorded 8.4% year-to-year growth and 48.8% year-to-year decrease, respectively.

In high-speed railway sector, we signed contracts of 40 sets of [indiscernible] (00:08:56). Meanwhile, we kept responding replacement demand of our customers. In project delivery, several new lines commenced operation this quarter, including Wuhan-Shiyan line, Zhengzhou-Xiangyang section of the Zhengzhou-Wuhan (sic) [Zhengzhou- Wanzhou] (00:09:16) line, Zhengzhou-Fuyang line, Qianjiang-Zhangjiajie-Changde line, Beijing-Zhangjiakou [audio gap] (00:09:29) that we have provided to these lines include TCC, RBC, TSRS, and LEU, et cetera.

In subway sector, we signed an SCADA contract for Kunming Subway line 5. In project delivery, we completed the Chengdu subway line 5 SCADA project and were honored with the title outstanding equipment provider. We have also fully delivered Phase one of the Hohhot subway line 1 cloud-based SCADA project. In this project, though given limited execution time, we have showcased our consistency in quality engineering. Through optimizing system deployment and promoting better standardization in early stages, we have improved efficiency in design and product delivery, while paving the way of the [ph] earlier (00:10:36) maintenance afterwards.

In subway signaling sector, we signed a contract in October to provide CBTC to a 3-kilometer-long tramcar transportation within Kunming Changshui Airport. With a value of around RMB 25 million, this is a milestone contract in which the total function of our CBTC [audio gap] (00:11:07).

Going forward, Rail business will continue to adhere to the [ph] delivery (00:11:14) strategy for stable and health growth, improve our local service network for more value-adding and differentiated services. With urbanization and an ongoing process, we will keep leveraging our strong R&D capability – capacity and prepare for the application of the various types of railway transportation system in the future.

M&E business finished the quarter with a revenue and a contract at $22 million and $12 million, recorded at 39.7% and a 67.2% year-to-year decrease, respectively. For the first half of the fiscal year, revenue and the contract recorded at 46.4% and 11% year-to-year decrease, respectively.

Given the macro economy in Southeast Asia and the Middle East, risk control remains to be the key focus of our M&E business. In our direct sales and overseas EPC project, progress is constantly made in terms of establishment of new cooperation with the new key EPC players as well as ongoing cooperation with the existing partners.

To prepare our overseas business for the new era of development, further actions were taken following the upgrade of our Singapore overseas headquarter in mid-2019. We have recent undertaking organization adjustment and appointed a new head to lead the Singapore headquarter. With those actions taken as a beginning, we expect to upgrade our overseas business with improved management, marketing, R&D capability, and deeper localization, and to create better synergy between all overseas businesses.

In response to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, the company has taken necessary actions to minimizing the risk of spread of the disease and [ph] adhere effects (00:13:47) on the company's business operation. Since late January, we have been monitoring the health condition of our employees through on-going online survey. Starting from early February, we have been implementing a two-week long work-from-home scheme. Meanwhile, we have set forth general rules for operation in each of our bases for precautionary purpose. For particular urgent projects covering R&D, production and engineering, staff have been requested for on-site work in accordance with the rules of action.

Going further, we are planning to gradually resume on-site work with the staff density in our bases being prudently controlled. However, the potential downturn brought by and the duration of the coronavirus is difficult to assess or predict where [ph] occasion (00:15:08) effects will depend on many factors beyond our control. We are closely monitoring its impact on us. Our business, results of operations, financial conditions and the prospects could be adversely affected directly, as well as to extent that the coronavirus harms the Chinese economy in general.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Steven Wang who will give you the financial results analysis.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I'd like to share some highlights for the first half, second quarter end of September (sic) [December] (00:15:59) 31, 2019. Comparing to the second quarter of the prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the second quarter of 2020 increased from $149.5 million to $170.1 million, representing an increase of 13.8%.

Broken down by the revenue type, integrated contract revenue increased by 11.1% to $129.7 million, product sales revenue increased by 10.5% to $6.5 million, and services revenue increased by 26.2% to $33.9 million.

The company's total revenue can be presented in segments as follows. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, Industrial Automation revenue achieved $69.3 million; Rail Transportation Automation revenue, $78.8 million; Mechanical and Electrical Solution revenue, $22 million. For the six months that ended December 31, 2019, Industrial Automation revenue achieved $133.9 million; Rail Transportation Automation revenue, $123.4 million; Mechanical and Electrical Solution revenue, $36 million.

Overall, non-GAAP gross margin was 36.3% for the second quarter as compared to 38.2% for the same period of the prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales, and services rendered were 28%, 66.4%, and 62.6% for the second quarter as compared to 30.8%, 72% and 62.9% for the same period of the prior year, respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margins.

Selling expenses were $10.6 million (sic) [$10.4 million] (00:18:05) for the three months ended December 31, 2019, representing an increase of $2.5 million or 32.2% compared to $7.9 million for the same quarter of the prior year, mainly due to the increased sales activities. Presented as percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 6.1% and 5.3% for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Non-GAAP G&A expenses were $10.6 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2019, representing an increase of $1 million or 8.9% compared to $11.6 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Non-GAAP G&A expenses were 6.2% and 7.8% for the quarters ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

R&D expenses were $13.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, representing an increase of $3.4 million or 32.7% compared to $10.4 million for the same quarter of the prior year, mainly due to the increased research and development activities. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 8.1% and 7% for the quarter ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $6.3 million for the second quarter as compared to $14.8 million for the same period in the prior year, representing a $8.5 million or 57.6% decrease, primarily due to decrease of VAT refunds.

The income tax expenses and effective tax rate were $6.8 million and 16.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $6.3 million and 12.5% for the comparable prior year period. The effective tax rate fluctuation was mainly due to the different pre-tax income mix with different tax rates, as the company's subsidiaries are subject to different tax rates in various jurisdictions.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to Hollysys was $34.2 million or $0.56 per diluted share for the three months ended December 31, 2019. This represents a 22.9% decrease from $44.3 million or $0.73 per share reporting a comparable prior year period.

Contract and backlog highlights. Hollysys achieved $185.7 million of new contracts for the second quarter. The backlog as of December 31, 2019 was $587 million. The detailed breakdown of new contracts and backlog by segments are as follows. New contracts: Industrial Automation achieved $69.5 million; Rail Transportation, $104.2 million; Mechanical Electrical (sic) [Mechanical and Electrical] (00:21:21) Solutions, $12 million. Backlog as of December 31, 2019: Industrial Automation, $192.4 million; Rail Transportation, $307.3 million; Mechanical Electrical (sic) [Mechanical and Electrical] (00:21:35) Solutions, $87.3 million.

Cash flow highlights. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, the total net cash inflow was $52.8 million. The operating cash flow second half flow was $70.5 million. The investing cash flow was $10.1 million and mainly consisted of 2.4 million purchases of property, plant, equipment, and $27.2 million of time deposits placed with banks, which were partially offset by $19.4 million of matured time deposits. The net cash used in financing activities was $13.7 million and mainly consisted of $12.7 million payment of dividends.

Balance sheet highlights. The total amount of cash and cash equivalents were $403.9 million, $340 million and $270.8 million as of December 31, 2019, September 30, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.

For the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, DSO was 137 days, as compared to 157 days for the comparable prior year period and a 204 days for the last quarter. Inventory turnover was 39 days as compared to 39 days for the comparable prior year period and 56 days for the last quarter.

At this time, we'd like to open for the Q&A session. Please note that for Chinese-speaking participants, we can also the Q&A in Mandarin and we'll provide the translation.

[Foreign Language] (00:23:22-00:23:34)

Operator, please.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin Luo from Morgan Stanley. Please ask you question.

[Foreign Language] (00:23:56)

Kevin, ni hao. [indiscernible]

(00:23:58) ni hao.

[Foreign Language] (00:23:58-00:25:49).

Okay. The first question is about the virus epidemic to Asian. Could you give us some hint about the second half especially the Q3 of this year 2020 performance and the guidance for the whole [indiscernible] (00:26:13) affected by the virus situation? And what's the plan for alleviate the effects by the virus epidemic situation?

The second question is about this quarter – the second quarter, we could see the revenue compare increase. It's very good. But and also the structure of the revenue is changing. The high gross margin take larger percentage like the M&E sector compared decreased. So, it should be the net income increase and also the gross margin and net margin should increase but why it's lower, the net income increase is lower than the revenue increase. Could you give us the trend for the coming second half of fiscal year about the margin performance?

The third question about the industry automation right now [indiscernible] (00:27:29) market share is adding increase and what about compare last year about market share. The fourth question is [indiscernible] (00:27:42) also emphasized on the whole fiscal year trend and prediction about the revenue and net income guidance.

[Foreign Language] (00:27:55-00:30:05)

The virus epidemic situation actually, in fact, the business, our company and also the whole China economy and – as what I mentioned at the first time and the company have taken necessary action to minimize the risk of spread of disease and adverse effect on company business operation. And also, right now, our employee have no any infection. It's just a part of the employee because transferred from the outside of Beijing, so right now, under the isolate 14 days period.

And right now, our employees going work on-site more than 40%, and the next week, it's going to increase more. And we get the mission by the government in each site like Xi'an, Hangzhou, and also the other sites spread across the country, excluding Hubei, Wuhan. And also we're doing the home-work condition and to do the meetings and to do the plan for focus on the special production or special project support. And this is under like the R&D, and the production engineering, staff have [indiscernible] (00:31:57) at work in accordance with the rules of action.

And the virus epidemic situation will depend on manufacturers beyond our control, and we are closely monitoring its impact and trying to minimize the impact.

[Foreign Language] (00:32:19-00:32:40)

And the third question about the market share for the domestic DCS. And before, our market share between 10% to 12%, but right now is increasing. There has no statistical bureau for the numbers, but we believe it's going to – above 13% to 15%. And right now, we are still trying to increase the market share.

[Foreign Language] (00:33:12-00:36:09)

The question is about that the revenue structure is changing better but why the net income still [ph] compared decrease (00:36:23). The answer is about, first, the net income this quarter have two influence, one is VAT refund, this coverages $6 million, and to compare last fiscal year, $14.8 million. This is just one time not because it decreased. It's because the postpone, delayed, that the money not arrived account yet. But for the fiscal year, to compare, it's gone stable, like the same.

And the other – and second element influence is the other income. Last fiscal year, we have $4.7 million other income for the dealing with the control stock company. And this quarter, we have no such other income.

So, if excluding these two [indiscernible] (00:37:29) actually the net income should compare increase 10%. This is like the trend with the revenue increase. And about the gross margin also have some fluctuation but it is still under the range of our expectation.

We can see the new contract that we sign, the gross margin is still very stable and also because the competition with IA, like the market share, like the chemical, petrochemical. So, we are proactively to do the gross margin computation, but still like what I said under the control range. And about the net margin, because expenses is growing, like the sales and the sales marketing and also R&D, the expense is growing. The sale is growing.

One element is at the end of the calendar year, we have one-time expense and the most important it is like what I said, we are landscape for the competition about IA market share. So, what we are [ph] invested or expense (00:38:59) right now not reflected to the revenue yet. In future, this kind of influence is going to enlarge to support the revenue and market share. So, that is to say that sales and marketing is growing. It's also under the control and also good at the percentage of the revenue growth. The R&D expense is growing. Definitely, this is our strategy because we are providing a lot of smart manufacturing, products, technologies. So, this part is growing but still in the health range.

So, for the future, the gross margin going to be stable as what we set as range before. But the net margin because the expense a little bit growth, so it's going to be influenced. However, we want to emphasize everything right now we are [indiscernible] (00:40:04) for the support will reflect for the future.

And the virus epidemic situation – before the virus epidemic situation, we planned the fiscal year 2020 should the compare increase those revenue and net income. However, right now, because the virus unpredictable, so it really influenced the performance for the coming second half of fiscal year. Right now, it's hard to say about the – how much about the revenue and net income, but we will try our best to alleviate, to minimize the effects.

Operator, next one, please.

Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (00:40:55) from JPMorgan. Please ask your question.

[Foreign Language] (00:40:59-00:41:38)

The first question, could you [ph] breaking down (00:41:43) the aftersales revenue percentage about the IA and Rail, respectively? And the second question about the rail sector, the CRC fragment, do you have any information about the fragment [indiscernible] (00:42:03)? And also we heard about – before at the end of 2019 they're going to start bidding for the 2020, but what about right now situation?

[Foreign Language] (00:42:19-00:42:49)

The first question about the aftersale revenue [ph] breaking down (00:42:54) for the Rail and IA, the answer is right now we not provide the [ph] breaking down (00:42:59) number for the IA and Rail, but we can tell you about the whole aftersale revenue percentage. Our total revenue right now is above 23%. Actual IA and Rail are above this percent, respectively. And especially the Rail right now, the maintenance, the aftersale is increasing. So this percentage is growing. The second question. Yeah.

[Foreign Language] 00:43:30-(00:44:11)

About the fragment for the CRC and [indiscernible] (00:44:16) 2019, at the end of the year, we got CRC for bidding about 126 SaaS of ATP, for example. We've got 40 SaaS like 30% of total. And also, it should have the C2 ATP fragment. But right now, because of the virus epidemic situation, it's going to postpone to the second half of the year. And also, the 2020 is the last year of [ph] 13th (00:44:55) five-year plan. It should be concentrated for bidding a lot of contracts. But right now, because the virus, so it's going to postpone – most probably it's going to postpone to the second half of the calendar year.

Thank you everyone for joining us on the call today. If you haven't got a chance to raise your questions, we will be pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We forward looking to speaking with you again in near future. Thank you. [indiscernible]

(00:45:30)

Okay. Thank you.

[Foreign Language] (00:45:34)

This does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.