raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners Lp
 
HEP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to Holly Energy Partners' First Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer period. And, questions will be taken in the


order they are received. [operator instructions]. As a reminder, if you are on a speakerphone,


please pick-up your handset before presenting your question.


I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Neale Hickerson. Thank you. Mr. Hickerson, you


may begin.


M. Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations


Well, good morning everyone. I would like to welcome you to this morning’s Holly Energy first


quarter 2005 earnings call. I am Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations of Holly


Energy.


With us today are Matt Clifton, Chairman and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; Steve McDonnell,


Chief Financial Officer of Holly Energy; and, Dean Ridenour, our Chief Accounting Officer of Holly


Energy.


We issued a press release Friday announcing results for our first quarter ended March 31, 2005.


That release is available on our website at www.hollyenergy.com.


Today, Steve will highlight our financial performance, Matt will then have some comments about the


quarter and what he sees as we continue in 2005. As always, we will be available for questions at


the conclusion of our prepared remarks.


We are pleased to remind everyone of our recent transaction with ALON, USA where we acquired


over 500 miles of refine product pipeline and two refine product terminals from ALON. That


transaction was completed at the end of February and added to our results for the month of March.


The second quarter of 2005 will see the first full quarter's of operations from these acquired assets.


Before we move to our remarks about our first quarter 2005 earnings and operations, we are


required to make the following Safe Harbor disclosure statement. Also, please note the Safe


Harbor statement that was in our press release this past Friday. The following is a Safe Harbor


statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements in this


earnings call related to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on


management’s belief and assumptions using currently-available information and expectations as of


this date and are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risk and uncertainties.


Although the partnership believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking


statements are reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be


correct. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed,


implied or forecast in such statements.


The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or revise such statements whether as a result


of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that, I would like to turn things over to Steve McDonnell.
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners Lp
 
HEP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Stephen J. McDonnell, Vice President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Neale. My remarks will cover three topics: first, the earnings and cash flow of HEP for the


first quarter of 2005; second, the balance sheet and financial flexibilities that we have; and, third,


our guidance currently for earnings and cash flow.


Before I make my remarks on earnings, I want to remind everyone that our results for the first


quarter of 2005 are not comparable to the results for the first quarter of 2004 for three primary


reasons: first, some of assets of the predecessor business were not contributed by Holly


Corporation to HEP at the time of the IPO last July; second, Holly did not allocate G&A cost to the


business prior to the IPO; and, third, the results of the first quarter of 2005 reflect the operation of


the ALON assets since their acquisition on February 28th.


Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 was $6.3 million, or 43 cents per diluted


limited partner’s unit. Revenues from the operations of the partner assets during the quarter ended


March 31st was $16.5 million. Of that amount, approximately $1.8 million was realized in March on


the ALON assets that were acquired on February 28th. While I will let Matt comment on the


operation of the ALON assets, from a financial perspective, they performed very well in March.


With the results achieved in March, we are very comfortable with the guidance of $17 million of


EBITDA from these assets that we gave when we announced the acquisition.


As noted in our press release, HEP’s EBITDA for the quarter was $9.7 million. After subtracting net


interest expense of $917,000 and maintenance capital of $167,000, distributable cash for the


quarter was $8.6 million. The distribution for the quarter of 55 cents per unit was announced on


Friday and amounts to $8.4 million. Distributable cash generated represented a 3% coverage of


the distribution. However, if we had a full quarter’s operation of the ALON assets, at the level


experienced from the assets and through acquisition on February 28th, the coverage would have


exceeded 20 percent.


HEP has considerable financial flexibility to conduct and grow our business. We have a $100


million credit facility and no borrowings under the facility at the present time. We have committed to


the rating agencies that we will not borrow under that facility more than $25 million on a permanent


basis. However, the entire facility can be used for interim financing and working capital borrowings.


At the close of the quarter, we had $18.4 million in cash.


Now, I would to like share our thoughts regarding our expected annual EBITDA and some key data


points on interest, depreciation and maintenance capital. This information should allow everyone to


make estimates regarding our future earnings from cash flow. Consistent with the guidance we


gave when we announced the ALON acquisition. We expect the run rate on our annual EBITDA


after ALON to be $52 million. Our current debt outstanding is about $150 million 6.25% senior


unsecured notes issued in connection with the ALON acquisition. In March, we swapped 60 million


of this debt to floating rate. Floating rate will be three months LIBOR plus a 115.75 basis points.


The current rate on the swap is 4.12% from mid-March from when we executed the swap through


June 1st which is the next reset day.


Going forward, our interest expense will have four components. First, the 6.25 [ph] percent coupon


on $90 million. Second, three months LIBOR plus 115.75 basis points on $60 million. Third, a


contingency [ph] fee of 50 basis points on our $100 million credit facility. And, four, approximately


$650,000 for annual amortization of debt issuance and underwriting costs. After the ALON


transaction, our annual depreciation should approximate $14.5 million and we estimate


maintenance capital expenditures of $2 million annually.


Now, I would like to turn it over to Matt Clifton, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.