raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 30, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Holly Energy Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on


mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-


answer period.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Neale Hickerson. Thank you. Mr. Hickerson, you


may begin your conference.


Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations


Good morning, everyone. Welcome to this morning's fourth quarter 2005 earnings call for Holly


Energy Partners. I'm Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations at HEP. With us for


today’s call are Matt Clifton, Chairman and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; Steve McDonnell, Chief


Financial Officer of Holly Energy; and Dean Ridenour, Chief Accounting Officer of HEP.


We issued a press release this morning announcing the results of our fourth quarter ended


December 31st, 2005. Additionally, we issued a press release this past Friday announcing the


increase in HEP's distribution to unit holders to 62.5 cents per unit. This distribution is up from last


quarter's 60 cents per unit and represents a 4.2% increase. Both releases can be found on HEP’s


website at www.hollyenergy.com.


Our call format today will be our usual one; Steve will provide results and detail around our financial


performance for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2005. Matt will then have comments about


the quarter and for our overall year. As usual, the team will be available for questions at the


conclusion of our prepared remarks.


Before we turn things over to Steve for his financial comments, we're required to make this


following Safe Harbor disclosure statement. Also please note the Safe Harbor statement in our


press release from this morning. The following is a Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements in this earnings call related to matters


that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on management's belief and


assumptions using currently available information and expectations as of this date, and are not


guarantees of future performance and do involve certain risks and uncertainties, including those


contained in our filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although


the partnership believes that these expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are


reasonable, it cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or


forecast in such statements. The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or revise such


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


And now let me turn things over to Steve McDonnell.


Stephen J. McDonnell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Neale. Before I make my remarks on earnings, I want to remind everyone about two


things, which are included in our results for 2005. In addition to the operations and the assets


contributed by Holly Corporation at the time of HEP IPO on July 2004, we have the assets and


operations we acquired from Alon since their acquisition on February 28 of 2005.
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 30, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Second, we have the assets of the intermediate feedstock pipelines since their acquisition on July


8, 2005 from Holly Corporation. Both of these asset acquisitions contributed less than a full year's


revenue and expenses to Holly Energy. For 2006, we will obviously realize a full year's worth of


contribution from these assets.


Net income for the three months ended December of 2005 were $7.2 million or $0.43 per diluted


limited partner's unit. And revenues from the operations of the partnership's assets during the


fourth quarter were $22.6 million. Regarding our fourth-quarter revenues and income, I would like


to remind everyone of the press release Holly Corporation and HEP made in November


announcing the production at Holly's Navajo Refinery will be substantially reduced for a period to


permit a CCR repair at the refinery. In addition, the refinery's actual downtime in December for a


crude heater replacement.


We estimate that the resulting lower shipments due to the reduced production lowered HEP's


revenues by approximately $350,000 during the quarter. Additionally, regarding fourth-quarter


revenue and income, you will recall that as part of the intermediate pipelines transaction, Holly


agreed to ship a minimum volume of 72,000 barrels per day and until the Navajo Refinery is


expanded in mid 2006, Holly's shipments will be less than this minimum volume.


Holly is paid at the agreed minimum volume rate but a portion of Holly's payment is not counted as


revenue. The amount is characterized as a fee paid for barrels not shipped and has been


approximately $500,000 during both the third and fourth quarters. This total of approximately $1


million is classified as another current liability at December 31.


As noted in our press release, HEP's EBITDA for the quarter was $14.1 million. After subtracting


net interest expense of $2.7 million and maintenance capital of $140,000, distributable cash for the


quarter was $11.3 million. At the close of the fourth quarter, we had $20.4 million in cash.


Regarding our distribution, distribution for the quarter of $0.625 per unit, which we announced on


Friday, represents a 4.2% increase over the $0.60 for the third quarter of 2005 and amounts to


$10.5 million.


Distributable cash generated in the fourth quarter represents 108% of the distribution. Distribution


will be paid on February 14 to all unit holders of record on February 6. As we enter 2006, our


operations are going very well. I do want to alert everyone to two planned outages at the refineries


of our customers that will have an effect on revenues and income during the first half of 2006.


As reported by Reuters, in a filing with the Texas Commission for Environmental Quality, one of our


major customers, Alon, has indicated it will take down it’s a slight [indiscernible] heater for


approximately 10 days in February. This downtime could reduce shipments on our pipeline. And


you will recall that Holly is currently expanding its Navajo Refinery from 75,000 barrels per day to


85,000 barrels per day. It is currently expected that this expansion will be completed in the second


quarter. It is expected that the tie-ins of the expansion will cost some lost production effort at the


refinery. We estimate HEP's lost revenue in the second quarter from this downtime will


approximate $750,000. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Matt Clifton.


Matt Clifton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Steve. I just have a couple of comments. Just looking back over 2005, we're proud of the


accomplishments of our team of dedicated employees that not only substantially grew the EBITDA,


the distributable cash flow and the asset base but integrated and operated our expanding assets in


a safe and environmentally responsible manner.