Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jared Harding — Contact Person-Investor Relations, Holly Energy Partners LP
George J. Damiris — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard Lawrence Voliva — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Jeremy Bryan Tonet — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Justin S. Jenkins — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Theresa Chen — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to Holly Energy Partners Second Quarter 2018 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Jared Harding. Jared, you may begin.

Thanks, Tasha. Thank you all for joining our second quarter 2018 earnings call. I'm Jared Harding with Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners.

Joining us today are George Damiris, President and CEO; and Rich Voliva, Executive Vice President and CFO.

This morning, we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending June 30, 2018. If you'd like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before George and Rich proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, it says statements made regarding management expectations, judgments or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities Laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings. Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes.

Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, August 1, 2018. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript.

Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to George.

Thanks, Jared, and thanks to each of you for joining the call this afternoon.

HEP generated solid earnings in the second quarter, which allowed us to continue our track record of distribution growth, increasing our distribution to $0.66 per unit. This distribution marks the 55th consecutive distribution increase since our IPO in 2004. Despite typical seasonality experienced in the quarter, we are encouraged by the underlying fundamentals of our business which provide stable cash flows, underpinned by long-term minimum volume commitments.

Our primary focus for 2018 has been to leverage our existing footprint to grow organically. I'm happy to report that we have successfully completed the previously announced debottleneck of the Malaga crude oil pipeline system, the expansion of the Salt Lake City and Frontier pipelines. These projects were not only completed ahead of schedule, but under-budget as well, which is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our team.

As we look towards the second half of 2018, HEP plans to continue expanding our logistics infrastructure to serve the growing distillate demand in the Permian Basin. In May, we announced our intention to construct new truck loading rack in Orla, Texas. This facility will be able to deliver up to 30,000 barrels per day of diesel that would otherwise be railed or truck into the area. Construction is underway, and we expect this rack to be operational by end of the year.

In regards to the third party M&A, we continue to take additional [ph] Fund (00:03:55) approach to leverage our relationship with HollyFrontier to explore acquisition opportunities. In the second quarter, we completed the acquisition of the Catoosa lubricants terminal for approximately $5 million. The terminal is roughly 20 miles from HollyFrontier's Tulsa lubricant plant, and HollyFrontier is the primary customer. Acquisitions like Catoosa are excellent opportunities. We believe there are more such opportunities across the HollyFrontier family.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Rich.

Thanks, George.

And as previously mentioned, on July 19, Holly Energy Partners announced a quarterly distribution of $0.66 per unit, which represents a 4.3% increase of the distribution for the second quarter of 2017. Distribution is scheduled to be paid on August 9 to unitholders on record as of July 30.

During the quarter, HEP generated distributable cash flow of $65 million, $4 million higher than the same period last year. Our distribution coverage ratio was 0.97 times for the quarter. Coverage was adversely affected by typical seasonal factors on UNEV, but we expect a significant improvement in the second half of 2018 due to contractual tariff escalators effective on July 1. We continue to expect our coverage ratio to be 1 times or higher for the full year 2018.

Capital expenditures for the quarter were $8.9 million, including approximately $1 million of maintenance CapEx and $2.3 million of CapEx reimbursed by HollyFrontier. For the full year of 2018, we are forecasting total CapEx between $60 million and $70 million, which includes $8 million of maintenance CapEx and $7 million of reimbursable CapEx.

The second quarter of 2018, we recognized $400,000 deferred revenue from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. As of June 30, HEP carried $4.4 million in deferred revenue on our balance sheet. And in the third quarter, we anticipate recognizing less than $100,000 of deferred revenue.

Interest expense increased $3.9 million compared to the second quarter of 2017, due to both the tack-on offering of an additional $100 million of our 6% Senior Notes, which was completed in the third quarter of 2017, as well as higher interest rates on our revolving credit facilities.

At the end of the second quarter, our leverage is roughly 4.2 times debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA, and we still expect leverage to be at 4 times by the end of 2018.

Including cash and revolver availability, our current liquidity is over $500 million. We are confident that the strong liquidity position will enable us to achieve a planned organic growth despite the weak MLP equity market.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tasha for questions.

Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Jeremy.

I was just hoping you could touch a bit more on the feasibility study for the Permian product pipeline that you guys had just recently press released there kind of what steps going forward should we be looking for, and when do you expect the whole process to conclude?

Yeah. Jeremy, this is George. I think it's a typical feasibility study process where we're looking not only at our costs to get to other markets such as Midland, but also the market demand in pricing to get to those markets. So, we're doing work on both sides of the equation to develop our costs and to develop the benefits, volumes and the potential tariff revenue for HEP. We don't have a specific guideline, but we expect to make good progress over the next quarter or so.

That's helpful. Thanks.

Thank you.

And if you think about the balance of the year here, just wondering if there's any items we should be watching for, the Woods Cross Refinery had issues this quarter here. Are there any turnarounds or other items we should be thinking about in the back half of the year? Would you kind of expect just normal seasonality in 2H 2018?

So, Jeremy, generally we expect normal seasonality. The one thing I'll call out is we do have a planned turnaround, I think HFC does at its El Dorado Refinery really in the fourth quarter. We don't expect that to be a huge impact given the minimum volume commitments in and around that asset.

Great. That's it for me. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you. Jeremy.

And our next question comes from the line of Justin Jenkins of Raymond James. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks. Good afternoon, guys. I guess maybe quickly following up on Jeremy's question on diesel supply in the Permian. George, are you concerned about the number of competing projects that are looking to supply the Permian over the long-term, or how should we think about kind of the medium to longer term picture of supply-demand for diesel in the region?

Well, I think demand is obviously growing in the area. We're familiar with this market through the marketing we do to our Artesia refinery truck rack. We think Orla is the first natural extension from that in that we already have tankage in that area. This pipeline supplies directly from HFC's Artesia refinery. So, it's just a matter of building the rack as we've previously announced.

We're seeing demand from not only our HollyFrontier owners but also other customers to get diesel into the area. It's a market that short product. It's been trucked and railed from other markets. The closer you can get to the actual drilling rig or well that's using the diesel, the better, especially as truck drivers are in short supply in the Permian. There's always going to be competition for business. We're not afraid of competition, and we think we're well-positioned to take advantage of that opportunity.

Perfect. That's great. Transitioning on the crude side, you mentioned the shortage of truck drivers in the Permian, and that leads me to my next question on – maybe it's better for HFC's call tomorrow, but I'm curious if there's an opportunity to get more access to Permian barrels across the rest of the HFC refining system besides Artesia.

I'm not sure what you're getting at, Justin. Are you talking about getting Permian barrels out to the other refineries or...

Yes.

Yeah. No, I think we've done quite a bit of that in the past. Again, probably better left for HFC to talk about that than HEP, but HFC is bringing barrels up from the Permian to Cushing primarily for El Dorado.

Perfect. I'll leave it at that. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Justin. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Theresa Chen from Barclays. Your line is open.

Hi. Just wanted to ask about the Parent's plans to acquire Red Giant Oil, and given the logistics assets that sit there, any idea or intention for some of these assets to maybe make its way to the MLP?

Yeah. I think we're probably better off leaving that question to the Parent tomorrow.

Okay. Thank you.

Anything else, Theresa?

If there are no further questions, I would like to turn the call back over to Jared for any closing remarks.

Thanks again, everyone, for joining. Feel free to reach out to Investor Relations if you have any follow-up.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining, and have a great day.