Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Arden Xia — Manager of Investor Relations & Communications, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Baiqing Shao — Chief Executive Officer, HollySys Automation Technologies Ltd.
Patrick Xu — Analyst, Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Alex Chang — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Asia Ltd.
Han Li Fan — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the HollySys Automation Technologies Fiscal Year 2017 Second Quarter ended on December 31, 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded today, February 15, 2017, Beijing time.

I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Arden Xia, the Investor Relations Director of HollySys Automation Technologies. Thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Xia.

Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, our speakers will be Mr. Baiqing Shao, CEO of HollySys Automation Technologies; Ms. Herriet Qu, CFO of HollySys; and myself, the IR Director of HollySys.

On today's call, Mr. Shao will provide a general overview of our business, including some highlights for the quarter, and Ms. Qu will discuss our performance from a financial perspective, and the whole senior management will answer questions afterwards.

Before getting started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts, including statements relating to the expected growth of HollySys' future product introductions, the mix of product in future periods and future operating results. Such forward-looking statements based upon the current beliefs and expectations of HollySys' management are subject to risk and uncertainties, which could cause actual results differ from the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in these statements: businesses conditions in China and in Southeast Asia; continued compliance with government regulations; legislation or regulatory environments; requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which Hollysys is engaged; cessation or changes in government incentive programs; potential trade barriers affecting international expansion; fluctuation in customer demand; management of record growth and transitions to new markets; intensity of competition from or introduction of new and superior products by other providers of automation and control system technology; timing, approval and market acceptance of new product introductions; general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes; as well as other relevant risks detailed in Hollysys' filings with Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth herein should be read in light of such risks. Hollysys does not assume any obligation to update information discussed in this conference call or in its filings. Please note that all amounts noted in this conference call will be in U.S. dollar unless otherwise noted.

And now, I'd like to turn the call to Mr. Baiqing Shao. Please go ahead, Mr. Shao.

Thank you, Arden, and a good evening to everyone. I would like to discuss some key events during this quarter. Industrial automation has been developing towards our short-term target, which was trying to alleviate continually declining. Through activity traced our customers' new demand and adjusting circumstance, we got several significant contracts. For example, in power, we signed the contract to provide the products for Yuneng Hengshan, 2-gigawatt power units; Datang Pingluo, two 660-megawatt power units, and the Yangmei Xishangzhuang, two 660-megawatt power units. In chemical, we provided the DCS and the Batch for BASF chemical company. In petrochemical, we won the contract to provide products to a halite project, which will produce 1 million tons soda ash per year. In nuclear power, we continued to provide DCS for Hongyanhe #5 and the #6 units and the Tianwan units #5 and units #6.

For Factory Automation, after by changing strategies from selling products to provide solutions to customers, we did have some progress such as Hair project to help the customer improve that level of automation and Intelligence of their Tianjin-based factory, which focuses on wash machine, integrated internal resources to improve the production.

Others, new sub-vertical trials such as Hai Di Lao Hot Pot project helped the customer to improve the efficiency of the hot pot based making in the restaurant, which is the first food area project under Factory Automation customizations. We also provided the supervisory control and the data analysis software integration solution to China Model Factory, jointly established by the Tsinghua University and McKinsey & Company. The project is to raise the level of factory's productivity, digitalization and intelligence in China. Hollysys aim to make each project into a demonstration project and create value to the customers.

In high-speed railway, due to the negative impact from delaying ATP contract, the performance of the high-speed railway for this quarter was less than satisfactory. In addition, since it is the first year for the 13th five-year-plan, the infrastructure of the new planned railway is just started. Therefore, in short term, the performance of the high-speed railway segment was fluctuated. However, from long run, according to the middle and the long-term plan of high-speed railway, and with the increasing over the after sell and new products launching, we think the sector will recover in future.

For subway, we stick to our strategy to expand new cities. For this quarter, we signed the contract to provide SCADA for Wuhan Subway Line 21. In the mechanical and electrical installation service, although Concord and Bond are facing some difficulties because of the local political and economic uncertainty in South East Asia and the Middle East area, they are still hardworking to develop the businesses. For example, Concord won the contract to provide SCADA for Macau LRT phase 1. As one of the strategies to expand oversea market, we will ensure a healthy development of Concord and Bond and take use of their advantages such as good customer relations and the sales channels to find more international opportunities.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Arden Xia, who will lead us through financial results analysis on behalf of our CFO, Ms. Herriet Qu.

Thank you, Mr. Shao. I would like to share some highlights for this half year and the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 ended on December 31, 2016. Comparing to the second quarter of the prior fiscal year, the total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2016 decreased from $152.8 million to $99.1 million, representing a decrease of 35.1% broken down by the revenue tax.

Service revenue increased by 10.1% to $3.5 million. Integrated contracts revenue decreased by 33.3% to $89.5 million, and products sales revenue decreased by 60.7% to $6.1 million.

In July 2016, the company's interests in Hollycon were diluted from 51% to 30%, and the company lost the control of Hollycon. As a result, Hollycon's financials would not be included in the company's consolidated financials from July 2016 on. If Hollycon revenue was excluded from the comparable figure for the second quarter of the prior fiscal year, the product sale revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2016 should be decreased by 42.2%. The company's total revenue can also be presented in segments: industrial automation, $45.8 million; railway transportation, $23.3 million; mechanical and electrical installation services, $38 million; total, $99.1 million.

Overall gross margin excluding non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 28.7% for the second quarter, as compared to 39.8% for the same period of prior year. The non-GAAP gross margin for integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 24.3%, 72.1% and 64.9% for the second quarter, as compared to 37.2%, 57.4% and 65.2% for the same period of prior year respectively. The gross margin fluctuation was mainly due to the different revenue mix with different margin.

The GAAP overall gross margin, which includes non-cash amortization of acquired intangibles was 28.6% for the second quarter, as compared to 39.7% for the same period of prior year. The GAAP gross margin for the integrated contracts, product sales and service rendered were 24.2%, 72.1% and 64.9% for the second quarter, as compared to 37%, 57.4% and 65.2% for the same period of prior year respectively.

Selling expenses was $6.3 million for the second quarter, representing a decrease of $0.8 million or 11.1%, compared to $7.1 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, selling expenses were 6.4% and 4.6% for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

G&A expenses, excluding non-cash share-based compensation expenses, were $10.8 million and the same number for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, non-GAAP G&A expenses were 10.9% and 7.1% for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

The GAAP G&A expenses, which included the non-cash share-based compensation expenses, were $11.7 million and $12.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

R&D expenses were $8.3 million for the second quarter, representing a decrease of $3.6 million or 30.3% compared to $11.9 million for the same quarter of the prior year. Presented as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenses were 8.4% and 7.8% for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.

The VAT refunds and government subsidies were $8.2 million for the second quarter, as compared to $10.7 million for the same period in prior year, representing a $2.5 million or 23.3% decrease, which was primarily due to decrease of VAT refunds of $3.3 million. The income tax expenses and effective tax rate was $1.6 million and 13.5% for the second quarter, as compared to $5.1 million and a 13.2% for the comparable prior year period.

The non-GAAP net income attributable to HollySys, which excludes non-cash share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition-related consideration fair value adjustments and a convertible bond related fair value adjustments was $11 million or $0.18 per diluted share based on 60.9 million shares outstanding for the second quarter. This represents a 70.5% decrease over the $25.8 million or $0.43 per share based on 60.6 million share outstanding reported in comparable prior year period.

On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to HollySys was $10 million or $0.17 per diluted share, representing a decrease of 69.7% over the $32.9 million or $0.55 per diluted share reported in the comparable prior year period.

Contracts and backlog highlights. HollySys achieved $110.2 million new contract for the second quarter, and the backlog as of December 31, 2016 was $499.4 million. The detailed breakdown of new contracts: Industrial Automation, $46.5 million; Railway Transportation, $47.3 million; M&E, $16.4 million; total, $110.2 million. The backlog by segments: Industrial Automation, $119.8 million; Railway Transportation, $225.4 million; M&E, $154.2 million; total, $499.4 million.

Cash flow highlights. For the three months ended December 31, 2016, the total net cash outflow was $2.2 million, the net cash provided by operating activities was $36.2 million, the net cash used in investing activities was $30 million, mainly consisted of $54.4 million time deposits placed with backs, which was partially offset by $24.6 million maturity of time deposits. The net cash used in financing activities was $3.9 million, mainly consisted of $12 million payment of dividends, which was partially offset by $5.5 million proceeds from long-term bank loans.

Balance sheet highlights. The total amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits with original maturities over three months were $285.4 million, $260.9 million, and $275.6 million as of December 31, 2016, September 30, 2016, and December 31, 2015 respectively.

As of December 31, 2016, the company held $210.1 million cash and cash equivalents and a $75.3 million in time deposits with original maturities over three months. For the three months ended December 31, 2016, DSO was 208 days, as compared to 138 days for this comparable prior year period and a 207 days for this last quarter. The inventory turnover was 52 days, as compared to 34 days for the comparable prior year period, and a 48 days for the last quarter.

Outlook for fiscal year 2017. Consideration on the negative impact from delaying ATP contract, we would like to adjust the guidance from fiscal year 2017 with revenue in range of $480 million to $520 million and non-GAAP net income in the range of $90 million to $100 million.

At this time, we'd like open up for the Q&A session. Please note that for Chinese speaking participants, we can also do the Q&A in Mandarin and we will provide translation.

[Foreign Language] (18-57-19:10)

Operator, please?

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Patrick Xu from Nomura. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hey, Arden. Hey, Mr. Shao. My first question is regarding [indiscernible] (19:49-19:50). I see that your net interest income actually declined by about 60% in the first fiscal – first half of fiscal year, but on a balance sheet, your net cash position actually increased. Could you explain the discrepancy why your cash balance was going up but your net interest income was going down? And second question is probably could you talk about the segments prospects like segment by segments? That's it. Thanks.

Patrick, sorry, the first question, can you repeat the first part because it not sounds very clearly.

Okay. The first question is that, if you look at your net interest income, I think it actually declined year-on-year. Last year, you had about $2.1 million in first half, and this year, it decreased to less than $1 million. But on the balance sheet, your net cash position actually increased year-on-year. So, why was your interest income going down while your cash balance was going up?

Okay. [Foreign Language] (21:08-21:29).

[Foreign Language] (21:31-21:38)

Sorry, this is my [indiscernible] (21:42).

[Foreign Language] (21:44-22:50)

Okay. [Foreign Language] (22:52-23:58)

[Foreign Language] (23:05-23:08)

Okay, hold on a second. The first question relate to the interest of the bank deposits, but the balance sheet has still increased, the interest that goes down. This is by two reasons. One is for, currently, most of our cash located in domestic area, but we have to do some changing to raise the money into the abroad. So, there would be [indiscernible] (24:01-24:02).

And also, the second reason is for last year, we have our agreement with the international bank for specific interest. But this year, we have no such agreement. These two factors account for the interest goes down, but balance sheet still increased by the cash.

[Foreign Language] (24:31-25:34)

[Foreign Language] (24:35-25:25)

And to the segments, by the segments, the Industrial Automation for the whole fiscal year of 2017, we also want to achieve the target to keep it flat compared to prior year from the revenue side. And the Railway Transportation would be decreased because the ATP contract delay account for the changes of the high-speed rail revenue. And then the M&E segment, that we also want to keep that at least a 10% revenue growth for this fiscal year.

[Foreign Language] (26:10)

Okay. Thank you, Patrick. Operator, next one. [Operator Instructions]

It appears there are no further – oh, we have a question from Alex Chang from Citibank. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

[Foreign Language] (26:36-27:27:11)

Okay. The first question is about the Industrial Automation and to see this quarter relatively the new contract to still keep a positive growth. What kind of structure [ph] or insight (27:28) to compare with several years ago, what kind of differences? The second question is about the Factory Automation. We could see – we provide the solution – the products and solutions to the higher and also to the Hai Di Lao Hot Pot. And so, could you please talk about the detail of the gross margin for these two products?

[Foreign Language] (28-04-28:42)

The first question is about IA new order. Recently, we could see that from the government side that there has revelation to – can show the coal-fire power new project. However, we not [ph] affect (29:01) – in currently, the project already [ph] packed (29:06) by the government.

We got several new contracts from them. So, actually, the coal-fire from our performance side, that the new contract is still increasing. This is compared several years ago. Relatively, we take a high end more than before, like [ph] 60,000 (29:28) megawatts power station and [indiscernible] (29:30). The second question for [ph] IA (29:33) the gross margin keep the same within the Industry Automation in the range of 35% to 40%.

[Foreign Language] (29:44-30:13)

Alex conclude that one thing is coal-fire and because the restriction of that central government. So, it will lead to a gradually decline from this area. So, what about the company's expectation in the next years especially for fiscal year 2018 and 2019?

[Foreign Language] (30-43-32:06)

Because the overcapacity within the coal-fire and the basic electricity production percentage going down. So, this year, the central government released that regulation limitation within the coal-fire construction new products. So, how does this already get involved with the preparing for the limitations. And we have a special team for doing the evaluation and also review the existing customer.

From the evaluation, we could saw the customer side because the new construction speed slowing down, they will focus on the upgrading for the existing cover plot. That would be a great opportunity for getting new contracts.

And on the other hand, we also strengthened, reinforced our after-sale revenue from this part. Our special team already review existing customer site to provide more in like their parts, and also change the – upgrading the system, DCS system, and also the upper levels of the repackages. So that will be gradually increase in future. And currently, you could see the number is increasing.

So, in the lead – in future, the coal-fire segment, we still have confidence to achieve even slight or single-digit growth.

[Foreign Language] (34:05-34:27)

Another thing I want to emphasize, beyond the coal-fire generator, there are still the other new energy generator to be supported by the central government. That will be the potential opportunity and also to use the heat to do the other things and also getting all the rated network, electricity-rated network would be the next step.

Maybe there are more opportunities we think that the data analysis and also the other things we could do. And also, [indiscernible] (35:12) the initiative could transfer the electricity to the other area and also transfer the technology, the other new opportunity for the new construction, that would also – the potential increase opportunity for us.

Hi, Alex.

Thanks. [Foreign Language] (35:36)

Operator, next one, please.

The next question is from Han Li Fan from J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

[Foreign Language] (35:52-36:17)

The question is now the changing guidance from the last guidance changed now, $90 million to $100 million for what kind of exception is the ATP contract to achieve what kind of level to achieve this guidance.

[Foreign Language] (36:43-37:37:46)

We changed the guidance down to the net income, $90 million to $100 million, it's not just to focus our ATP contract. Although the ATP contract would have been the main reason because the delaying bidding process, so we recognize revenue followed by percentage of completion. So, even we got the ATP contract later, we have no enough time to finish all the recognition of the revenue. So that's why we should consider ATP influence, but to consider the new guidance to $90 million to $100 million also consider the other elements.

The high-speed rail side, we also had new contracts, the potential new contract from the new products, new technology. And also after-sale revenue is increasing, especially in the high-speed rail sector. So, this is our – this has come from the – this readout comes from all the elements we considered to achieve the guidance, not just the single element of ATP.

[Foreign Language] (39:03-39-11)

[Foreign Language] (39:14-39:25)

The question is about what's the expectation for the end use of the ATP contract in the next six months. [indiscernible] (39:38-39:39) because it's too sensitive about the bidding information, so we cannot disclose the information right now, but we could see the result in future. Thank you.

And due to the time constraint, we will now take one last question from the queue.

There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you, everyone, for joining us on the call today. If you haven't got the chance to raise your questions, we will be pleased to answer them through follow-up contacts. We look forward to speaking with you again in the near future. Thank you. Xièxie.

Thank you, everyone.

This concludes our conference for today. Thank you for your participation, and you may now disconnect.