raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Holly Energy Partners Second Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator


Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Neale Hickerson. Thank you. Mr.


Hickerson, you may begin your conference.


Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury


Good morning everyone. I would like to welcome you to Holly Energy second quarter 2006


earnings call. I am Neale Hickerson, Vice President of Investor Relations at HEP. With us today


are Mat Clifton, Chairman and CEO of Holly Energy Partners; Steve McDonnell, Chief Financial


Officer; Dean Ridenour, Chief Accounting Officer; and Debra D’Berg, Director of Financial


Reporting.


We issued a press release this morning announcing results for our second quarter ended June


30th, 2006. Additionally, we issued a press release last Friday announcing the increase in HEP’s


distribution to unit holders to 65.5 cents per unit. This distribution is up from the previous quarters


64 cents per unit. Both of these releases can be found on the HEP website at


www.hollyenergy.com. Also on the website and noted in our press release this morning is a series


of slides that have just been posted to accompany this morning’s earnings call. These slides were


posted on the HEP website and can be accessed as I will direct you to in just a second.


From the HEP home page, please move to the HEP Investor’s page and on that page, you will see


under the heading of Conferences and Presentation, the title of our presentation this morning HEP


Earnings Conference Call with today’s date of July 27th. These slides are viewable in either HTML


or PDF format and for those of you who have not accessed the slides yet; you will some additional


time to do so as we move from the format to today’s call to our Safe Harbor Disclosure Statement.


Our format today will be to have Steve provide detail around our financial performance for the


quarter. Steve will then comment on several additional items which provide HEP with additional


revenues going forward. His next item will be to review previous and new guidance for earnings


before interest, depreciation, and amortization as well as sustaining capital.


Last will be a status update on several projects in the evaluation stage, which if undertaken or set


to complete in 2008. Mat will then have some comments about the quarter and what we see as we


continue in 2006 and beyond. As usual, the team will be available for questions at the conclusion


of our prepared remarks. Before we turn things over to Steve for financial comments, we are


required to make the following Safe Harbor Disclosure Statement. Also, please note that Safe


Harbor Statement in our press release from this morning. The following is a Safe Harbor Statement


under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements in this earnings call


related to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on


management’s belief and assumptions using currently available information and expectations as of


this date and are not guarantees of future performance and do involve certain risk and


uncertainness including those contained in our filings from time to time with these Securities and


Exchange Commission.


Although the partnership believes that these expectations, reflected in these forward-looking


statements are reasonable, it cannot have assurances that these expectations will prove to be


correct. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially defer from what is expressed,


implied, or forecast in such statements. The partnership assumes no duty to publicly update or


revise such statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. And


now I would like to refer you to our slide presentation. For those of you who are viewing the slides,
raw transcript


Holly Energy Partners LP
 
HEP
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
2


as you can see on the title slide we have listed the items that I mentioned Steve will cover. As this


presentation can be reviewed in the future on our website, we have also included our Safe Harbor


Disclosure Statement there, which is on the next page. Now, let me direct you to the page after the


Safe Harbor Statement, numbered page 2 in the PDF presentation version and turn things over to


Stephen MacDonald.


Stephen J. McDonnell, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Neale. Before I make my remarks on earning, I want to remind everyone that our results


for the quarter end of June 30th 2006 are not comparable to the results for the second quarter of


2005, because the 2005 second quarter did not have any benefit from intermediate pipelines that


were acquired in July 8, 2005. Beginning on slide 2, HEP’s net income for the three months ended


June 2006 was $3 million or $0.17 per diluted limited partners unit.


As a reminder on our first quarter earnings conference call, we announced expected second


quarter revenues to be $1.65 million lower due to planned downtime at the Navajo Refineries. The


downtime at each refinery was longer than we expected. As a result, the refinery shipped less than


minimum revenue commitments. Accordingly we recorded deferred revenue of $3.4 million in the


second quarter. And such revenues have been reflected in income, earnings for the second quarter


would have been $0.38 per unit.


It is also important to note three factors about these deferred revenues. First all approvals of


deferred [ph] revenue are eligible to be recaptured by shippers for four quarters following the


approval. Second, amounts recaptured, meaning when shipments exceed minimums in the next


four quarters, are not billed to the customers since that amount was payable when the deferral was


approved. And amounts never recaptured are recorded as revenues in the fourth quarter after the


approval. Before we leave the slide, let mention that the total balance of deferred revenue at June


30th is $4.9 million, which includes a $3.4 million above. The difference of $1.5 million is the sum


of approximately $500,000 in each of the prior three quarters through the intermediate pipelines.


As we move to slide 3, it is important to note that the minimum revenue commitments Holly has


from its major customers substantially cushions the economic impact of downtime or customers


might experience. These minimum revenue commitments certainly worked as design in the second


quarter. As you can see in slide 3, the minimum annual revenue commitments we have from our


customers totals $85.4 million that is more than 80% of our expected revenues over the next 12


months.


Moving to slide 4, as HEP looks to the future, we are excited to report for the first time $5 million of


new organic EBITDA to possibly effect earnings in third quarter and beyond. Included in the $5


million are three items; first, effective July 1st the PPI adjustment was a 4.8% increase for the Holly


assets, that percentage applied to the volumes on the IPO assets and intermediate pipelines, will


increase annual revenues by $2.6 million.


Second item is the renegotiation of the tariff between Holly and HEP. Since the IPO, the tariff per


barrel shipped north from Navajo Refinery is at a higher tariff than the barrel shipped south. The


expectation was that more barrels will shipped north than it has been the case. The renegotiated


tariff accomplished two outcomes; first is equalize of the tariff for both north and south shipments


and second to provide the economics to HEP to make a $6 million capital investment, to expand


the [indiscernible] El Paso wide, such. Such investment is necessary to support the recent


expansion of the Navajo Refinery. This renegotiated tariff will increase annual revenues by


approximately $1 million.


Third Holly’s Navajo Refinery Phase I of an expansion of the crew charge from 75,000 barrels per


day to 82,000 barrels per day was completed in June. Phase II of the expansion up to 85,000