Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Biery — Investor Relations Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard L. Voliva — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Mark A. Plake — President, Holly Energy Partners LP
Brian Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Company International

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners' Third Quarter 2016 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Craig Biery. Craig, you may begin.

Thanks, Nichole, and thanks to each of you for joining this afternoon. I'm Craig Biery, Investor Relations for Holly Energy Partners and welcome to our third quarter 2016 earnings call. Joining us today are Mark Plake, President; and Richard Voliva, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This morning we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending September 30, 2016. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before Rich and Mark proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, statements made regarding management expectations, judgment or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings.

Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, November 2, 2016. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript. Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that I'll turn the call over to Rich Voliva.

Thank you, Craig. And thanks to each of you for joining the call this afternoon. On October 21, Holly Energy Partners increased its quarterly distribution to $0.595 per unit. Distribution will be paid on November 10 to unitholders on record as of October 31, and represents year-over-year distribution growth of 7.2%. We continue to progress towards our target of 8% distribution growth. Net income attributable to HEP for the third quarter was $34.8 million, compared to $34.3 million for the same period in 2015. The increase was driven by recent acquisitions, including El Dorado processing units, Tulsa crude tanks, and joint venture interest in the Osage and Cheyenne pipelines.

For the third quarter, distribution coverage fell to an artificially low 0.93 times due to the timing of financing for the Woods Cross dropdown. In short, we felt the full burden of the necessary financing expenses during the quarter, but did not see any of the cash flows from the dropdown. As these earnings come through in the fourth quarter, we anticipate that our coverage ratio will revert to historic levels of 1 time to 1.2 times. Specifically, in the third quarter, HEP generated distributable cash flow of $49.3 million, compared to $49.7 million in the same period last year. This decrease was driven primarily by increased interest expense associated with our July debt issuance.

During the third quarter, we raised over $8 million of common equity through our continuous offering or ATM program, and in October, HEP issued just over a $100 million of common equity from a private placement Tortoise Capital Advisors. We do not anticipate further equity financing needs for the remainder of 2016. Operating expenses in the period totaled $28 million, and depreciation and amortization totaled $15.5 million. Going forward, we expect the Woods Cross drop down will add an incremental $6 million of OpEx, and $3 million of depreciation per quarter. Our capital expenditures for the third quarter were over $15 million, including approximately $4 million in maintenance CapEx, and $4 million of reimbursable CapEx. We expect to spend between $60 million and $65 million of total capital excluding acquisitions for the year. This includes $10 million to $15 million of maintenance CapEx, and $10 million to $15 million of reimbursable CapEx.

As of September 30, HEP had approximately $1.1 billion of total debt outstanding, comprised of $400 million of 6% notes due in 2024, $300 million of 6.5% notes due in 2020, and approximately $370 million drawn on our credit facility. For the third quarter of 2016, we recognized roughly $240,000 of deferred revenue from prior shortfalls billed to shippers. As of September 30, HEP carried $6.7 million in deferred revenue on our balance sheet. And in the fourth quarter of 2016, we anticipate recognizing approximately $250,000 of deferred revenue.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mark for a few comments.

Thanks, Rich. Good afternoon, everyone, and happy birthday, Craig. We are pleased with our solid financial performance in the quarter. As Rich mentioned, we announced a $0.01 increase to our quarterly distribution for the third quarter, representing the 48th consecutive distribution increase since our IPO in 2004. This increase demonstrates our continued commitment to achieving a target 8% distribution growth rate. Through its long history of building, maintaining an operating midstream assets, HEP has created a solid business foundation. Our positive growth outlook is reinforced by a solid fee-based model coupled with minimum volume commitments, supporting over 80% of our revenues.

I would like to highlight the previously announced acquisition by HEP of certain Woods Cross refinery assets on October 1. These assets include the newly constructed crude unit, fluid catalytic cracking unit and polymerization unit. HFC and HEP entered into 15-year tolling agreement for each respective unit, containing minimum quarterly throughput commitments from HFC. These new units are expected to generate annual EBITDA of approximately $32 million in 2017, representing a transaction multiple of 8.5 times. This acquisition not only provides HEP with significant earnings potential, but demonstrates strong relationship between HEP and HollyFrontier.

We expect 2017 will bring external opportunities for growth in the midstream space. Given the quality of our assets, our talented employees and a financially strong and supported partner in HollyFrontier, we believe HEP is in a position to participate. Over the past 12 months, we've had great success adding stakes in the Frontier, Osage and Cheyenne crude pipeline, acquiring additional storage assets at Tulsa, as well as adding the Woods Cross refinery assets, we just discussed.

In addition to bolt-on acquisitions and dropdown from HFC, we plan to evaluate larger, external opportunities with a long-term goal of reaching $500 million in EBITDA. We're now ready to turn the call over to Nichole for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Your first question comes from the line of Brian Gamble. Your line is open.

Afternoon, guys.

Afternoon, Brian.

Hey Brian.

Maybe we could start where you just left off larger external opportunities, in this current market given volatility in pretty much every commodity as you go down into 2017 and think about your positioning in it, what pieces of the market, what types of assets excites you the most either opportunistically or strategically or obviously a combination of both as well?

Sure. I think, Brian, generally speaking, we view our biggest and best opportunities are probably in the geographies where we currently operate, called as the Rockies, the Mid-Continent, and the Permian Basin, and really the Delaware. What's in the Permian Basin, we think, we've got a great staff of operators who with experience across both liquids, gas, storage, pipelining, you name it. So we've got a great team, and we can held our value in those geographies where we've got pretty clear operating synergies. That's where we'll be looking, and [indiscernible] (09:31) we're optimistic for next year.

Any sort of – is there any limitations that you see them today from a capital markets standpoint, or is it just about finding the right opportunity?

No. We feel like we've had some pretty good success with the capital markets this year, and feel like they're open to us. So to your point it's more an exercise in finding those opportunities and finding the ones that are really going to make us and our stakeholders for the returns they want to see.

Great. And then, Rich, you gave us a couple of numbers on the Woods Cross benefit, and we had the EBITDA number, you gave us the OpEx and the D&A number moving forward. As those assets start to contribute this quarter, I guess how should we think about it from a refining standpoint? I know you've taken out a lot of the variability due to the way that that contract is structured between you guys and HFC. Are there any points that you want to clarify as to how to best think about any potential moving pieces on a quarter-over-quarter basis, or are you taking the stance that in general it's going to be a relatively consistent $8 million, give or take a little bit every quarter with really only outliers being extreme circumstances at the refining complex?

Yeah. I think Brian, to your point, we're expecting this to be a pretty consistent and pipeline-like, if you will, revenue stream and earning stream going forward. These contracts are set up very much like pipeline contracts if the units are available to run the minimum volume [indiscernible] (11:19). The obvious exception here will be turnaround periods, because again, just like a pipeline, if we have a maintenance to take, those minimums are [indiscernible] (11:27), but obviously [indiscernible] (11:30) units are going to be on a typical three-year to five-year turnaround cycle. So we got several years before that's going to be something to think about.

Great. Then last one from me. The deferred number at Q3 was 6.7%. I think I got this right here, you're expecting to recognize just $250,000 in Q4. Is that right?

Yeah. I'm sorry, it looks like my number was wrong, it's going to be little over more like $2.5 million, I missed the decimal place.

Yes, that was hopefully what I was getting that there. And you recognized how much during Q3?

It was about a $0.25 million.

Okay. The $0.25 million was in Q3, that was down quarter-on-quarter, which should be back up to just kind of a more consistent $2.5 million.

Yeah. Generally speaking the fourth quarter and the first quarter is when we tend to recognize the most, and that's related to two specific assets; one, our contractual arrangements for the lawn; and then two, the [ph] unit (12:26) itself.

Great. That's helpful, Rich. I appreciate it, guys.

Sure. Thanks.

Thanks Brian. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to Craig for closing remarks.

Thanks again for joining the call today. If you have any follow-up questions, please reach out to Investor Relations. Otherwise, we look forward to sharing our fourth quarter results with you in February. Thank you.

This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.