Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Trey Schonter — Investor Relations, HollyFrontier Corporation
George J. Damiris — Chief Executive Officer, President & Director, Holly Energy Partners LP
Richard L. Voliva III — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Holly Energy Partners LP
Spiro Dounis — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Shneur Z. Gershuni — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Holly Energy Partners' Third Quarter 2019 Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Trey Schonter. Trey, you may begin

Thanks, Julie, and thank you, all, for joining our third quarter 2019 earnings call. I'm Trey Schonter, Investor Relations Representative for Holly Energy Partners. Joining us today are George Damiris, President and CEO; and Rich Voliva, Executive Vice President and CFO.

This morning we issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ending September 30, 2019. If you would like a copy of today's press release, you may find one on our website at hollyenergy.com.

Before George and Rich proceed with their remarks, please note the Safe Harbor disclosure statement in today's press release. In summary, it says statements made regarding management expectations, judgments, or predictions are forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to be covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.

There are many factors that could cause results to differ from expectations, including those noted in our SEC filings. Today's statements are not guarantees of future outcomes. Also, please note that information presented on today's call speaks only as of today, October 30, 2019. Any time-sensitive information provided may no longer be accurate at the time of any webcast replay or reading of the transcript. Finally, today's call may include discussion of non-GAAP measures. Please see today's press release for reconciliations to GAAP financial measures.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to George.

Thanks, Trey, and thanks to each of you for joining the call this afternoon.\

HEP generated solid earnings in the third quarter, which allowed us to maintain our distribution of $0.6725 per unit, representing a 1.1% increase to the distribution from the third quarter of 2018, the distribution we paid on November 12 to unitholders of record on October 28.

For the third quarter volumes remained strong as HEP's total volumes increased 10% year-over-year due to the continued strength of our crude oil pipeline systems in Wyoming and Utah, as well as strong shipments on our UNEV product pipeline.

We recently announced our Cushing Connect joint venture with Plains All American. The joint venture will construct a 160,000-barrel-per-day pipeline connecting the Cushing, Oklahoma crude oil hub to HollyFrontier's Tulsa refinery, as well as own and operate 1.5 million barrels of crude oil storage in Cushing, supporting HollyFrontier's Tulsa and El Dorado refineries. The joint venture provides added growth to HEP by in-sourcing HFC's logistic spend. The JV terminal is expected to begin service during the second quarter of 2020, and we anticipate the pipeline coming online during the first quarter of 2021.

Combined, we expect initial annual EBITDA of $7 million to $8 million, representing a transaction multiple of 8 to 9 times. Looking forward, we plan to hold the distribution constant at $0.6725 per LP unit per quarter through 2020 while maintaining a distribution coverage of 1 times.

HEP's distribution guidance reflects growth from contractual tariff escalators and the recently announced Cushing Connect joint venture, and balances our commitment to both a healthy balance sheet and distributing cash flow to our unitholders.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Rich.

Thank you, George. For the third quarter of 2019, net income attributable to HEP was $82.3 million compared to $45 million in the third quarter of 2018. The increase was mainly due to a $35.2 million non-cash gain triggered by the renewal of the original throughput agreement between HEP and HollyFrontier Corporation.

Under ASC 842, the new lease accounting standard that went into effect at the beginning of 2019, we determined portions of this agreement qualified as a sales-type lease, which generated the gain. Excluding this gain, net income attributable to HEP for the quarter was $47.2 billion or $0.45 for basic and diluted LP unit. This represents a $2.2 million increase compared to third quarter of 2018.

For the third quarter of 2019, adjusted EBITDA was $90.3 million compared to $86.9 million in the prior year. The new lease standard requires us to recognize the tariff revenue on the assets classified as sales leases as either interest income or the amortization of the net investment in leases.

During the third quarter we recognized a total of $2.4 million of tariffs outside of the revenue line, $1.7 million in the form of interest income and approximately $700,000 as amortization. Going forward, as we renew old contracts or initiate new contracts, we will evaluate them under the new lease standard and expect growth in the amount of tariff revenue we are recognizing as either interest expense or amortization. To aid in comparison and economic analysis, we will report an adjusted EBITDA number that reverses this treatment of tariff revenue. A table reflecting these adjustments is available in our press release.

During the period, HEP generated distributable cash flow of $68.8 million, a $2.2 million increase over the same period last year. As George mentioned, for the remainder of 2019 and through 2020, we expect to hold the distribution constant at $0.6725 per LP unit per quarter. For the third quarter our distribution coverage ratio was 1.01 times, averaging 1.01 times year-to-date.

Our capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $6 million including $2 million in maintenance CapEx and $3 million of reimbursable CapEx. For the full year of 2019 we expect to spend approximately $7 million on maintenance capital, $35 million in expansion capital, and $18 million in joint venture investments. The increase in spending is driven by the Cushing Connect JV.

Interest expense grows approximately $800,000 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily due to higher average balances outstanding under our senior secured revolving credit facility. As of September 30, HEP have $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding, resulting in a debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times. Including cash and revolver availability, our current liquidity is over $472 million.

During the quarter, Moody's upgraded HEP's corporate family credit rating to Ba2 from Ba3, further reinforcing the strength of HEP's stable cash flows and advantageous relationship with our parent, HollyFrontier. Together, the support and our strong liquidity position will enable HEP to pursue future organic and third-party growth opportunities as demonstrated by our recently announced Cushing Connect JV.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Julie for any questions.

The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.

Hey. Good afternoon, guys. This is [ph] James (00:09:26) on for Jeremy.

Hey. Good afternoon.

Just want to start off with the Delek contracts, if there's any update on the portion that was not renewed and coming due next year?

Not really. We continue to evaluate our alternatives for those assets in both crude oil and product service, but no update at this time.

Okay. And I guess just following up on that question, for the distribution guidance for next year, what is the assumption there for the capacity [ph] being utilized (00:10:03) on that system?

So, we've assumed no utilization after the expiration of the contract at the end of the first quarter.

Okay. Thank you. And then just one more if I could. Do you see leverage ticking above the target [ph] if you fund (00:10:22) the Cushing Connect JV?

I think we're probably going to see it rise a little bit as we're spending capital but not yet earning on that capital with the JV here and then come back down as the earnings kick in from the joint venture.

Got you. All right, thanks a lot. That's it for me.

Sure thing.

Our next question comes from Spiro Dounis from Credit Suisse.

Hey, Rich. Hey, George. Just maybe following up on Cushing Connect, just curious with 8 to 9 multiple. What sort of opportunities do you guys have within the JV to kind of work that multiple down over time either with or without incremental CapEx?

Well, there's the additional crude oil volume we could potentially put on that system. We get some crude oil from other locations besides Cushing, [ph] and if those volumes could (00:11:20) potentially migrate onto Cushing, then we'd have more crude oil volume from Cushing to Tulsa for that line.

There's probably some opportunity for us to terminal more barrels in the long run. I don't think that's a near-term issue but there is some upside around that.

Got it. Appreciate that. Then also just to follow up on the [ph] DK contract (00:11:42) assets, maybe just a little bit additional color in terms of the marketability of those assets. I think there's probably some other people out there that would like to get their hands on it, but maybe just describe what some of the alternatives are and who the types of I guess counterparties would be that would want those assets?

Yeah. At the end of day, these are well-located assets. They're in the Permian Basin. They are primarily currently in product service, but they obviously have the potential to be converted to crude oil service to get barrels from the Permian to a Gulf Coast location. So, to your point, I think there are other parties that may be interested in these lines as well as some internal project ideas that we're looking at.

Yeah. Now, that's fair. Last one, if I could sneak it in, just on the distribution. I totally get your, guys, point on being able to hold it flat next year. I think that's well within reach. I guess just curious, as you guys sort of weighed your options just given where the yield is, did you at one point consider maybe retaining more cash for growth or as you look out at the slate of opportunities out there maybe it just didn't seem like it was worth risking your investor base, which [ph] I get the sense is a little more yield focused to sort of go after any of that stuff. Just thoughts around how you sort of got to that conclusion.

Yeah. I think, to your point, Spiro, we looked at our options here really historically what we've seen and the way we thought – consistent with what we thought about is you really cut the distribution for one or two reasons. One would be if you had a leverage problem, which we don't have here or, two, to your point, if we had $1 billion capital project type program and you needed to finance that.

We've got some good growth opportunities but it's not – we're not seeing them in the order of magnitude that would argue for a real distribution cut here. To your point, and when you combine that with our shareholders and they do appreciate the yield here and the steady distribution, we didn't see a lot of value for anyone in cutting the distribution

Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. Appreciate the color. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Spiro. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys.

Hey, Shneur.

Hey. Just a few quick questions here. If I remember correctly, I think there was $2.5 million [ph] a quarter of waiver (00:14:18) HFC to the HEP level, and I think if I remember correctly it expires in the second quarter of 2020. Your expectation about coverage, does that assume that that gets re-upped or that that expires?

No. We've assumed that expires consistent with the existing contract, and you're right on the date.

Okay. And is there any discussion about maybe expanding it or do you feel comfortable where you're at right now?

No, we're comfortable where we're at.

All right. In the question, the first question, I can't remember who had asked it. It asked if you included the Delek expiration inside the coverage ratio number. Is that just the most recent Delek expiration or is that any future expiration that were considered [indiscernible] (00:15:11)?

Yeah. We've considered everything that's coming up through 2020 already.

Through 2020. Okay, perfect. One last question about the CapEx related to the Plains joint venture. What is HEP's actual dollars spent for that because I remember that there's a terminal contribution from Plains I think had of $40 million dollar valuation. Just kind of want to understand what is your cash component that's going to come from HEP?

Yes. Total cash component will be about $65 million, and that combines the investment in the JV and then the capital around the pipeline.

Got it. All right. Perfect. That answers all of my questions. Really appreciate your color today. [ph]

Happy too. (00:16:05)

If there are no further questions, I will turn the floor back over to Trey for any closing remarks.

Thanks again for joining the call today. Feel free to reach out to Investor Relations if you have any questions.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining and have a great day.