Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President-Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
David Cluff — Chief Risk Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Edward P. Karthaus — Executive Vice President-Sales, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Carol, and I will be your operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Q4 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and re-queue for any additional questions. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Laura Lepore, EVP of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the four quarter and full year 2017. I'm pleased to introduce with me on the call today Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. We also have several members of our management team on the call this morning: David Cluff, our Chief Risk Officer; Ed Karthaus, Executive Vice President of Sales; and Benjy Katchen, Executive Vice President of Deposits & Consumer Lending.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call may provide management the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and conditions of Home Capital and, as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. Finally, a link to the slide accompanying this webcast is available on our website at homecapital.com.

With that, I'll now turn it over to Yousry.

Good morning. Thank you for joining us.

2017 was an important year for Home Capital employees, customers, brokers and shareholders. We're turning the page on a year that presented some challenges and demonstrated the resiliency of our organization. We have emerged from an exceptional year with momentum in our business. This is thanks to the very hard work that our employees, management and board have done and continue to do every day. We're all extremely proud of what we've accomplished.

I'd like to share some of the opportunities ahead of us and why we believe we are so well-positioned to create meaningful value for our shareholders moving forward. First, we are well-positioned to take back our place as the leading alternative A lender in Canada by delivering solutions for our targeted Canadian clients. We will grow responsibly with sustainable risk management practices embedded in our day-to-day routine. Protecting our reputation at all times and always is our top value. Second, we have the capital needed to invest in the business to drive growth and withstand future unforeseen headwinds, not just in 2018, but over the next decade. Third, we are focused on providing leading customer service and delivering innovative solutions to our brokers and customers. I will look at these three areas in my comments this morning.

First, looking at our expectations for growth. We not only play an important role in the home ownership financing marketplace, we help deserving Canadians achieve one of life's financial goals, buying and owning a home. We have a renewed management team, a mix of new and existing leaders with deep mortgage, operating, financial, technology and capital market expertise. And we have a board of directors committed to continuously enhancing corporate governance and risk management practices. All are ready to safeguard and grow our business.

We are growing responsibly. We will ensure that risk principles and practices already embedded in our culture will continue to guide our everyday decision-making, ensuring that every transaction, whether it's funding a loan or taking a deposit, is managed prudently.

In terms of our expectations for growth, we're very optimistic for our future. We ended 2017 with good momentum following a meaningful increase in residential and commercial originations during the fourth quarter. In particular, our mortgage originations increased by 126% over Q3, showing the strength of the franchise and broker relationships. Our current turn down rate on applications has improved to approximately 60% compared with over 70% just a quarter ago. We believe this will continue to improve and drive increased productivity.

On the commercial side, we've added new staff that will be able to take on increasing volume as we continue to rebuild our pipeline. We're seeing good opportunities and quality deals. We are focusing on our priority of growing our residential and commercial business lines to more normal monthly run rates. We're pleased with the progress we have seen so far as our service continues to improve. Our mortgage broker relationship teams are educating our brokers about our products, our risk and credit appetite, so there is greater clarity on the products that fit within our profile. This is key for us. This will help our underwriting teams execute more quickly and improve service levels to brokers.

On the [indiscernible] (05:27) side, we continue to improve efficiency through employee training and technology updates to our internal platforms and systems. We are pleased with the progress we've made in the last quarter. As we build this business for the long term, we want to ensure we have the right deals and expertise to deliver the best service to brokers with every transaction.

Now looking at our capital base. We have a very strong balance sheet with one of the highest levels of CET1 capital among the alternative mortgage lenders and large Canadian banks. This provide us with an abundant layer of security and the flexibility to be very competitive in our markets for many years to come. We are practicing our strategy to build and deploy our capital in a manner that emphasizes creating long-term value. We believe this is the right approach for shareholders while also avoiding excessive risks. Our capital base is a key strength for our company that provides a unique value-creation opportunity.

Now looking at our focus on providing leading service. With our capital, our strong executive team and good prospects for growth, we're focused on staying ahead of the curve by providing leading service and innovative solutions. We know that to grow, we must provide exceptional service. It is a key differentiator for brokers and customers. We are investing in people, process and technology for a better broker and customer experience.

In the field, we're deploying new technology to sales team that will enable them to be more effective. We expect to implement process improvements and technology that help mortgage brokers and customers have better and more efficient access to our business offerings. We will also leverage technology that support our retention and renewal efforts, making better use of analytics.

As our environment continues to evolve, we will remain innovative and with new solutions to attract and retain brokers and customers. With the recent regulatory changes, we're investing in new products and opportunities to be competitive.

Now on B-20, OSFI Guideline B-20 came into effect January 1, and it's too early to tell what the impact has been on our addressable market and will be on origination volumes looking forward into 2018. Precisely quantifying the impact of B-20 is difficult given the following three points. First, our origination volume continues to increase month-over-month as we've received brokers sending us more deals and as we continue to offer very competitive fronts. Second, some demand may have been moved forward as borrowers attempting to be qualified under the old mortgage rules. And third, we're in a moderately rising interest rate environment.

We have observed that some of our customers have been impacted by the stress test and have therefore qualified for smaller loans than they would have last year. We will need more months of data to determine how borrowers have reacted to revised terms offered to them. It will also take time to observe how much of our addressable market expands as a result of borrowers not qualifying at big banks. We also expect the lenders will adapt to the post B-20 era with adjustments to their products or lending criteria.

Early 2018 results suggest that our credit qualities of origination is improving, which would be an indication that some of the business previously booked at the big six banks is migrating to us for mortgage solutions. While writing interest rates in a slowing housing market is our key market as the potential headwinds, given the early indication of the environment post B-20, we remain confident about the ability of Home Capital Group to meet our objectives.

With that, I'll turn it over to Brad to review our fourth quarter results in more detail and then wrap up with some closing thoughts.

Thank you, Yousry. Before I begin, I'd like to draw your attention to the reissued press release we've put out earlier this morning correcting the fourth quarter and full year 2017 results press release we originally issued last night. The reissued press release corrects errors and the comparative figures on the consolidated balance sheet for September 30, 2017, and balances for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 and the consolidated statements of cash flows. We regret the errors.

We're pleased with our improved sequential performance in Q4 and where we ended the year on a number of measures. We made progress towards stabilizing our residential business and growing our commercial business lines. We focused on improving service which helped to increase origination volumes in the fourth quarter. Our portfolio continued to perform well and we are profitable.

The fourth quarter results continue to reflect [audio gap] (10:20-14:48) at the end of Q4 2016 and 2.4% lower than CAD 15.4 billion at the end of Q3 2017. We stabilized our non-secured-type single-family residential loan balances at CAD 10 billion at year-end.

While this was still a 3.5% decline or approximately CAD 0.4 billion lower than the CAD 10.4 billion at the end of Q3 2017, we are optimistic we have turned the corner and stabilized our loan balances. We hope to see loan growth resume by mid-2018, in step with origination volume growth as we continue to take back market share.

Turning to originations on slide 11. By the end of Q4 2017, we achieved good momentum with total mortgages originated of CAD 872.1 million. Although Q4 2017 originations remained well below historical levels. Total originations were up a 126% from CAD 385.1 million in Q3 2017 as improving service level and sale initiatives have a positive impact. Q4 2017 originations were led by our single family residential mortgage lending which were CAD 566 million compared to CAD 224 million in Q3 2017.

Multi-unit residential contributed originations of CAD 194.8 million, while non-residential commercial mortgages originated, which includes store and apartment mortgages, increased to CAD 111.2 million compared to CAD 62 million in Q3 2017.

Looking at the full year, we ended 2017 with total originations of CAD 4.7 billion of which CAD 3.3 billion was from single family mortgage lending, significantly lower than total originations of CAD 9.2 billion in 2016, which included single family residential lending of CAD 7 billion.

Slide 12, credit performance. Our mortgage portfolio performed well throughout 2017. At the end of the Q4 2017, 98.4% of the mortgage portfolio was current with 0.2% over 90 days past due. While we do expect our losses to remain low going forward, we did see an uptick in our provisions for credit losses as our specific provision in Q4 2017 included CAD 2.3 million provision against one non-residential commercial mortgage. As a result, provision for credit losses for the quarter was CAD 3.4 million compared to CAD 2.4 million in Q4 26.

Net nonperforming loans over gross loans have remained low year-over-year and we're 0.3% at the end of 2017. However, nonperforming non-residential commercial mortgages increased, while total nonperforming single family residential mortgages declined. Additionally, total net nonperforming loan balances decreased to CAD 45.4 million at Q4 2017 from CAD 53.7 million at Q4 2016.

Turning to liquidity and deposits on slide 13. During the fourth quarter, we continue to manage our liquidity prudently, ensuring we maintain an adequate level of liquidity to fund origination growth. Given our funding needs during the fourth quarter, we reduced our liquid assets to probably CAD 1.7 billion as at December 31, 2017. Total liquid assets were approximately CAD 2.7 billion at the end of Q3 2017 and CAD 2.1 billion at the end of 2016.

Total deposits at the end of 2017 were CAD 1.2 billion, compared to CAD 15.9 billion at the end of 2016 and CAD 13.4 billion for Q3 2017. A lower deposit level from the end of 2016 reflects the elevated level of redemption of the company's high interest savings account during Q2 2017 and lower funding requirements due to lower originations.

Our total deposit balances at the end of 2017, demand deposits were approximately CAD 539 million, compared with CAD 11.7 billion of deposits that are payable on fixed dates, including CAD 475 million in institutional deposit notes.

After successfully increasing deposit inflows and building our deposit balances during the third quarter, we intentionally reduced interest rates on new deposits to lower deposit growth until mortgage balances began to grow. Midway through the fourth quarter, we began to increase interest rates paid on new and renewed deposits to increase deposit inflows.

While we will likely see some increased competition for customer deposits that may require us to offer a high interest rates on new deposits, we would also expect to offset any [indiscernible] (19:41) increases with higher interest rates on future mortgages originated or renewed. An inability to pass on any increased funding cost would negatively impact net interest margins.

Finally, looking at our capital on slide 14. As Yousry mentioned, our capital position is strong and our capital ratios remain well above internal targets of regulatory minimums. At the end of 2017, our CET1 capital ratio increased to 23.17% compared to 16.55% at the end of 2016, mainly as a result of the sale of mortgages that reduced our risk-weighted assets. Moving forward, we have looked at opportunities to most efficiently deploy our capital to generate the highest return. Our current priority is to support organic growth.

With that, I will turn it back over to Yousry.

Thank you, Brad.

Home Capital demonstrated its ability to perform and build momentum even after an extraordinary year while in the face of current regulatory environment. Before we open it to questions, let me wrap up with key messages for today. First, we are well-positioned for growth and to take back our position as Canada's leading Alt-A mortgage lender. We believe we have turned the corner and expect to see our books are growing again.

We began 2018 with strong momentum in residential and commercial originations with our broker relationships intact. Second, our capital is a key strength. We have the capital needed to invest in the business to drive growth and withstand future headwinds over the next decade. Our capital position also provides us with the uniquely competitive position. And third, we are focused on being a service leader by investing in people, process and technology to win in our markets.

Thank you and we welcome your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question this morning comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. I know you talked about the B-20 impact, and I know it's a little bit early, but I was actually wondering if in your MD&A when you kind of get that stress test and a drop in originations, what it does to loan growth. Do you have the numbers handy on what it would look like if you just did the classic business? Because I suspect when you include the Accelerator side, that's somewhat maybe mitigated because the terms there tend to be a bit longer.

Geoff, we haven't really run the numbers that way. We've taken a look at overall portfolio and our estimate and applied these percentages where – I understand your thesis but for the purpose of the exercise, we just applied it to the total portfolio.

Okay. And then just my follow-up question was on your tubular lines of business on Accelerator and the ACE Plus. I think the Accelerator you were using a warehouse to try and get that business going. I was just wondering if you have that back, and then also on ACE Plus, if there's a line of sight on getting the securitization access back.

We don't have any current requirement for that, Geoff. However, to the extent that becomes necessary, we will seek to replace those lines. And we've had some preliminary discussions but it's not a requirement for us right now in our funding needs.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Graham Ryding from TD Securities Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Can I just start on the deposit side? You started to raise rates I think in December and then a pretty material jump in 2018. Can you give us some context of what sort of flows you're seeing year-to-date?

Hello. It's Benjy Katchen here. The flows that we're seeing are to match our mortgage funding needs. The rates through the fourth quarter were dropped as we were picking up originations and we were soaking up her excess liquidity. We have raised our rates at the end of the fourth quarter and in Q1 back to where we would have historically been positioned both on the broker channel as well as open direct-to-consumer.

Maybe a bit more color, we're in a competitive market for deposits and we can see those are generally published almost every day on the broker side and we still think that we'll be able to maintain margins in a competitive environment, but we'll see. I mean there are a large number of competitors looking for that. But as we've increased rates, we've been able to ourselves.

Can you say whether you've seen a noticeable improvement in your flows once you've started raising rates?

Deposits are very sensitive to the rates, so absolutely.

Okay. Got it. And then have you made any changes to your mortgage rates given you've raised GSE rates, or are those relatively unchanged relative to Q3?

Not during the fourth quarter but something [indiscernible] (25:39) my way. That's something we watch on a daily basis to see if we need to make changes.

Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Just following up on Graham's line of questioning. Just with regards to liquidity, your liquid assets were down 38% quarter-over-quarter, so about a billion dollars. I appreciate that you are absorbing the excess liquidity in the book. So I'm just wondering what type of liquidity level should we expect going forward.

I think the best way to look at it, Marco, was in relations with assets and in relations with deposits and looking at some of our historic ratios, keeping in mind that we're only carrying about 25% of demand deposits that we used to. So historically, if we're close to where we were historically, then we'll be covered.

All right. My next question is with regards to the possible reinstatement of the NCIB and the dividend. So, what would it take for that management team to adopt a new NCIB and dividend? And are there any regulatory considerations that may preclude you from doing so?

Well, we're looking to and we've said this before, we're taking a very long-term view in managing our business and our strategy, and we will take all the appropriate steps we think to deploy that capital. I said earlier, we're focused right now on organic growth. And probably in the latter half of the year, depending on the outcome of our strategy, then we'll return – or turn our minds to a more structured dividend or NCIB program.

All right. Great. And lastly just with regards to financial targets. I noticed there weren't any presented in this year-end report. Can you tell us if we can expect any coming midway through the year or...

I think we've moved away from guidance until we normalize more of our operations, and that's both internal and external. There's a lot of macro things happening outside of our environment, as well as us trying to improve our internal processes.

So we'll wait and see as we continue through. I wouldn't see us reinstating in that. And here, we might give some factors, but we're probably not going to be providing any EPS or other specific guidance, but we might provide some other financial metrics that will allow users of our financial statements to me make – to help them with some forward-looking information.

All right. Thanks. I'll leave it there and re-queue.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. My first question is related to the net interest margin in the quarter, the sequential increase driven by prepayment income from consumer retail loans. Can you quantify that in, I guess, dollars or basis points? And the second component of the increase was higher government bond yields, breakdown of that as well in terms of contribution to the sequential increase.

I can tell you the prepayment, it was CAD 3 million, and I don't have that other information to hand, Jaeme, but we can try and take that up.

Okay. Thank you. And next question is related to, well, comments in Q3, and then on the call today just around the turn-down ratio from 70% to 60%. In Q3, the rationale was around systems needing to be updated. Can you just give us a little bit more color as to where we are on systems or what's driving the 60%, and I guess timing around when we get back to a normal level and what that normal level is?

Sure. It's Yousry here. It wasn't just systems. In Q3, it was kind of restarting up. Brokers are unsure what our guidelines are. So we've done a lot of education to brokers. We've done a lot of training internally. We've improved systems, and it's starting to show.

As I've said, we're down to 60%. We don't know for sure what's normal, but we think it's going to be around 50%. Big A lenders are probably turning down 25% to 40%. Because we're in the alternative A business, we're on the higher side of that.

But as the world unfolds and sorts out B20, there is a lack of clarity out in the industry on who's accepting what. So we'll probably get a higher hit rate over the next few months as everybody is sorting out where they're going to send the business. So we think normal will be around 50% for a while, and we're getting there and improving all the time.

Okay. Great. And last one for me for and then I'll re-queue is around staffing, really, and the OpEx guidance. So the guidance the guidance states that it's somewhat elevated. That was related, I guess, in Q4 to some onetime type expenses around PSiGate and litigation. But around the expenses on salaries and benefits that was considerably lower, how are you thinking about salaries and benefits and staffing right now? Do we have appropriate staffing levels to manage the expected growth in 2018 or has employee attrition gone maybe a little bit too far on that side and salaries and benefits are artificially low?

I'll answer it and maybe somebody else would jump in with some numbers. We are hiring. So, we were very pleased that we're bringing in some very good people and I'm confident in saying we've become an attractive place to work. We've got a lot of people who want to join us and that doesn't sound like a big deal, but six, seven or eight months ago, the company had trouble drawing talent into it. So, we're very pleased with how that shifted.

We think with the hiring of the people that we have, we think we're staffed properly for the levels and we are very flexible. We can add people relatively quickly. We can add contract and consultants if we need them for short bursts. So, we think we're going to be properly staffed. We will be, overall, a lower number than, say, a year ago. We've become more efficient.

The one thing about the company is the systems continue to develop, notwithstanding anything else that has happening in the marketplace, which have made us more efficient and we will continue to invest in systems and new technologies to keep improving our efficiency and become a great tool for our brokers and our employees in the decision-making process.

Okay. And just to clarify around some of the guidance around somewhat elevated OpEx. I guess, is it fair to just strip our that CAD 6.3 million impairment? And then that's kind of like your run rate for H1 2018? Or are there other factors to think about?

I think that's a fair way of looking at it.

Okay. Thank you. I'll re-queue.

Our next question comes from Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Can you talk about the CAD 2.2 million specific provision in the nonresidential commercial mortgage portfolio? And the increase we saw in that nonperforming loans in that book too, is that just related to volume or anything to watch there?

Well, on the one that we put the specific on it, we took a look at the specific property took a look at the range of value and we picked the bottom end of the range and, therefore, book the provision on the difference between the value and the principal. So, we took a conservative approach or that was our view in terms of making a specific overall on the other property. Again, it was a single property that we put into our impaired loan category, but we haven't taken a provision and based on our current understanding of value relative to our principal. We don't think we'll be taking any provision. We're adequately secured by the property.

Okay. Thanks. And are you seeing that space you're hiring, you're trying to grow, is it becoming more competitive as the group tries to diversify away from the residential mortgages?

I think it's become a competitive space. And because you follow it, you would have heard a lot of our editors say they're concentrating there as well. However, these loans have been on our books for some time.

Okay. And I just wanted to follow up on the excess capital question. So I appreciate, it's probably back half of 2018, but can you quantify either in dollars or CET1% where you think you can – like what you view as excess capital after factoring in that conservative buffer and taking off what you expected need to grow? How much are we looking at some time that excess?

Well, Brenna right now, I think we can – potentially, our plan is to utilize all of it. So we'll see and – when we have something like concrete or something more further to say, we'll certainly reach out and say it. But that's where we are right now.

Do you use all of it for growth?

Well, we may use it for a bunch of different things that we've already discussed. It could be a growth, it could be M&A and it could be NCIB. There are a lot of different things that we could be looking at, investing back and again, for a further CAD 200 organic growth, investing in technology. There's lots of opportunities to utilize that capital when you're taking a very monitory view of your business.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. I'll re-queue.

Our next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Can you hear me?

Yes, Jaeme.

Okay. Sorry. Thank you. So I just want to dive in to the risk management section for a second. In the section kind of talking about regulatory and political risks, there was a – there's a line in there that states that regulators or other reviewers may challenge the interpretation or implementation of such compliance. And I'm thinking about that in the context of OSFI's review of the 2016 ICAP results where they essentially say the results don't show enough stress in uninsured mortgage portfolios and that perhaps internal capital targets still don't reflect the higher capital needed. Can you give us your interpretation and commentary around OSFI's review of ICAP results and then related to that comment about interpretation and implementation?

It's Yousry here. A little bit difficult to comment on what you're asking. It's hard to interpret. But I'd just tell you that like every financial institution, we have to do a variety of tests. We haven't had any challenge from regulators. They feel we're well-capitalized and we passed any test. And it's not – some sets are standard and some are not.

So that [indiscernible] (38:38) all the comment, but back to what we were saying, having excess capital is a privilege and a great position to be on and we don't apologize, because headwinds, because of where we fully stress this, because of all the things we want to do with it. So, I don't know if I've answered your question fully but it's hard to comment. It's a very big and onerous test and we passed all.

Okay. And still in the risk management section, I noticed that specific mention of the accuracy of broker information was removed. Maybe this is contained in risks somewhere else. But do you feel that risk has diminished and I guess why or why not?

It's David Cluff here. We're confident in our data collection and our brokers because they keep track of all information coming in. We have the monitoring processes on and we continue to believe that's the case.

Okay. And last one in the risk management section. There's talk around investments in defense and technology resources processes to prevent, detect manage information security and privacy threats. You just can talk about what some of those investments are and what some of those resources and processes are to prevent security and privacy threats?

So we have a very regular IT review of all of our protocols around protection of information and security. Just confident we're continually reviewing, but we do have third party sources or software that they used in helping those efforts. I can't speak specifically around some of those details like this, but we could get back to you if you wish.

Yeah. And I guess maybe just following up on that. Do you feel like they're adequate at this point or do you think there's further investment that's required, just given the rising incident of cybersecurity threats and the like?

We think it's an elevated risk what we do to controls are adequate. And just to add, while we feel it's adequate, we know as time goes on, we will have to continue to invest. This world is only getting more complex and we will stay up-to-date.

Okay. Great. And last one for me before I turn it over again. You talked about focusing on improving service levels, adding competitive products, and expanding the broker outreach program. This is something that's been talked about quite a bit over the history of Home Capital and other lenders as well. Can you just give us some data on service levels today versus historic and looking ahead to target on those service levels, and as well as some specifics around products and broker programs that you're – that you feel is different today than previously?

Okay. I'll start, and if I don't fully answer, you can – maybe, Ed Karthaus, you want to add and then you can ask again. So service is measured by how fast we say yes or no to a broker on a deal. And then assuming we say, yes, how the process goes through right to funding, how you communicate with the broker, and how – what you use as a medium to communicate with them to ensure that the paperwork and all that is required to get the funding is efficient, effective, no surprises to anyone on any side.

Home has been investing in this area. We've invested further in the last couple of quarters with the technology. One of them, that we've been public about is a product called Loft. And Loft is a way for a mortgage broker to send us documentation and to learn about the status of their business. There are some other lenders that have equivalent products, but there are many others that don't have it. And they rely on email and other ways to move information around.

So it is taking products like Loft and improving them. It is improving the training of our underwriters so that they can get to a position where they are faster using our technology – internal technology at saying yes or no. And if no, here's why it's no so that if there's an opportunity to change the deal to become a smaller mortgage or what have you that that is understandable [indiscernible] (43:28). Those are what we consider service. Now, once the deal [indiscernible] (43:30) a big part of service asset is that the customers, the mortgage orders that are using home to finance their homes have ways to access information about their mortgage. Clearly, some preferred to make phone calls and we have a call center equipped for that. But in the future, we think more and more may want to check online and/or may want to check on their phone what is the status. So we're building technologies to support that part of the business in that way.

We talk a lot about our mortgage business. We also have other retail businesses where the same challenges of being quick to say yes or no and being able to find out the status of your deal. So, I don't know if that's too wide for what you're looking for, but that's what we're doing. And we – myself and a lot of the management team, new, and a lot of management team that was here before are big believers in the world of digital and fintech as a competitive toolset, and we are going to continue to invest in that regard to meet what we think is the market demanding on how they get [indiscernible] (44:40)

I don't know if I've said enough. Ed Karthaus, if you want to add?

Hi. It's Ed Karthaus. And I would just say that capturing a couple of points previously made. I mean, what we're doing is all about people, process and technology. On the people side as Yousry, Brad have indicated, we have a ramped-up stat both on the sales underwriting side of the house. From a process side, we've actually implemented a number of changes there to drive greater and overall efficiencies. And on the technology side, making changes not only to our in-house systems but the tools that our staff are using in order to engage the market properly and effectively. So the combination of all those things seem to be driving a good result, and we are committed to continuing forward with that program as we move up throughout the year.

Okay. And just to follow up any specific data you can provide us around service levels and I guess my only comment or reaction is I could feel like Loft has been around since like 2015. What's different today on that?

So first, on data, there's lots of data we do. Broker surveys, we constantly survey. There's macro data like we've already shared, 70% decline has gone down to 60%. It will be on its way to 50%. So there's lots of data that we get on whether we're doing a good job or not.

Yeah. Loft has been around, but it started as beta. It was very loose. It has continuous improvement. It's not like a product that you just send out in the field and you're done. It's continuously improving, and that's what we're doing to it. It is a – a year from now, we'll be talking about Loft because it will have moved a year's worth of forward.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hi. So following up a little bit on Jaeme's line of question related to the service levels I see complementing this broker commissions. So have you made any changes to your – the structure of your commissions. And would you say your competitive relatives appears more generous, less generous. Can you just give some color there?

Hi. It's Ed Karthaus. We actually suspended the broker compensation program back during our liquidity crisis days. We are in the final throes of doing our cross-Canada outreach to collect information and feedback from the broker community on what we believe would be a well-received program. We're getting ready to finalize that and launch that in – sometime later on in Q1. And we believe that will address both our requirements as a provider of mortgage solutions, but also deal with the regionality that's seen across the country with the different demographics in different markets.

So tailored commission programs based on geographic location?

Yes. Well, I mean historically, most lenders take a look at programs that are based upon funded volume. And our brokers go coast to coast. If you're a broker, for example, in Atlantic Canada, it's hard to drive the same type of funded volume, let's say, a broker in the GTA. So what we're looking at is to try and drive an element of fairness on a national level to drive quality business to us coast to coast.

Okay. And that's helpful. And then just in year-to-date post-B-20, is there any data or performance metrics you can give us just on how renewals and retention are trending? Is that – are you seeing stickier business in the few weeks since the new rules?

It's Yousry here, Brenna. One dot doesn't make a line yet. Six weeks hasn't given us experience. But in the fourth quarter, we were renewing at over 80%. So it's getting healthy as before B-20 kicking in. First impression into 2018 is where we're going to continue to be in that range, possibly more.

What we've always wondered about B-20 is, it's possible for us as well as for other lenders that people that may not qualify in other institutions. So we expect that it might drive our renewals up a little bit but we will have to wait and see.

Okay. And just to clarify, the CAD 6.3 million impairment charge, is that related to the PSiGate business?

No.

No?

No.

Can you talk about what that's related to?

It's related to our software for banking systems.

Software and core banking systems. Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot.

You're welcome.

Our next question comes from Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Hi, Dylan.

Just to clarify, just on the originations, it sounds like things are improving month-to-month. So I guess, it's fair to say the originations we saw this quarter, heavily weighted or more heavily weighted to December than the previous two months?

Not sure I've used the word heavily weighted, but you're right. Every month has been better than the prior month.

And I know you don't give guidance about how January, but it sounds like improvements are continuing into January B-20 notwithstanding.

Yes.

And I guess just my next question, early days, I guess, but a lot of commentary about – with refinancings being a bit more difficult and price increases certainly not what they were at this time last year. Are you seeing any early signs of difficulties working out problematic loans on the residential side?

No, we're not. Again, it's a bit early. We need a few months to gather our own data but no unusual observation so far.

Okay. Well, thanks very much.

Thank you.

There's no further questions in queue at this time. This does conclude our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may disconnect now and have a great day