corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Inc. Q3 2009 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in listen-only


mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will


be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions. [Operator Instructions] I’d like to remind


everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, Wednesday, November 4, 2009, at


10:30 AM Eastern time.


I’ll now turn the conference over to Mr. Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer of Home Capital


Group Inc. Please go ahead, sir.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Good. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It’s my pleasure to report to you on Home


Capital’s 2009 third quarter results. The U.S. Post Office has a creed which is: Neither snow, nor


rain, nor heat of day, nor gloom of night shall stay these couriers from the swift completion of their


appointed rounds. And I think Home’s third quarter creed could be: Neither recession, nor high


unemployment, nor bank failures, nor large deficits by the provincial and federal governments, shall


prevent the Home Capital staff from delivering record profits and record growth in the third quarter


of 2009.


Now, let’s look at the numbers for the quarter. The profit for the quarter was 38.2 million, a 36.9%


increase. The first nine months showed profits up a little over 30%. The basic earnings per share


were $1.11, up 37%, and the nine months earnings were 3.02, some 30.7%.


In think the nine-month earnings are a clearer indicator of what we can see happening as going


forward, I think the 37% year over year was higher than what we think is sustainable. But we do


believe that the nine-month earnings increase is a better indicator of where we are going forward.


We had a return on equity of 28.7%, and our nine-month equity was at 28.2%. We had growth of


assets, growth in assets, an outstanding balance for mortgage-backed securities. In Canada


mortgage bonds which are originated and serviced by Home, it grew to 9.89 billion.


We’re almost, but not quite, a $10 billion company. We hope to reach and exceed the $10 billion


plateau in the fourth quarter of ‘09.


In addition, the most significant business development for Home during the past couple of years,


and especially during the first nine months of this year, has been the successful and profitable


transformation of Home from an Ontario-based, Alt-A, alternative-A, residential mortgage lender to


a nationally oriented, deposit-taking trust company with a broad-based array of products that are


out to serve a large portion of the Canadian public. And, in addition, we do business from sea to


sea in Canada only.


For example, in the third quarter of ‘09, 68.3% of the 1.34 billion in residential originations


originated by Home were insured mortgages. And the company’s residential mortgage portfolio,


which forms a major part of our balance sheet, some 28.8% of that residential portfolio is insured.


Now, what the significance of this is, it represents a huge decrease in the company’s risk profile


compared to a few years ago when the company had only a negligible amount of insured


mortgages on its books.


And not withstanding that our residential portfolio was 28.8% secured, with its somewhat lower


yields that – whether the insured mortgages attract somewhat lower yields, there has been a


significant increase in the net interest income in each of the quarters this year.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For example, in first quarter, the net interest income was 36.2 million; second quarter, 40.5 million;


and the third quarter was 43 million. Very, very nice, steady increases quarter over quarter. The


company’s been pleased with this rise in net interest income and as we look out over the next few


quarters, we see continued significant growth in future net interest income.


We are also pleased with the 2.9% interest margin on our overall portfolio. The way we look at it, if


we can have about 30% of our residential portfolio in non-risk insured mortgages, which have a


lower yield but no risk, we are very pleased with a 2.9% overall interest yield.


We – looking out, it could move up slightly, but we are targeting a 2.9 to 3% interest yield on a


going-forward basis. We also delivered another quarter of strong return on equity of 28.7% for the


quarter. And then for the year, which is the most significant number, for nine months it’s 28.2%.


It’s quite a challenge to deliver a 28%-plus return on equity when you consider the following three


factors. We have a very conservative balance sheet with a large ratio of CMHC mortgages and no


outstanding third part debt, which helps to lever a balance sheet and gives you a somewhat higher


return on equity. We have no outside debt, we have no preferred shares that we have to service


and pay, and that’s why I comment that we have a very balanced – a very conservative balance


sheet.


The second thing is, we maintain strong liquidity ratios, well in excess of all regulatory and


company requirements. With today’s interest rates, as all of you know, you don’t get very much


income from a short-term liquidity portfolio.


And the third challenge that we’ve had to overcome, which we are very pleased with, though, is


very strong capital ratios. We have Tier 1 and total capital ratios which rose to 16.6% and 18.2%,


one of the strongest capital ratios in Canada for deposit-taking institutions.


So when you put those three factors together; a conservative balance sheet, strong liquidity, strong


capital ratios, and still delivered a 28-point-something percent return on equity, we are very pleased


of that accomplishment.


During the quarter, growth in non-interest income continued to grow. Although securitization values


remained strong, the net gains for securitization during the third quarter were 12.1 million,


compared to 15.7 million last quarter – for the comparable quarter last year.


The lower net gains are the result of a narrowing in interest rate spreads over the last period of


time. However, looking ahead, we think that due to larger volumes of securitization, we see the


securitization gains continuing to grow over the next few quarters.


There was also an increase in the gain on derivatives to 11.4 million. The gain on derivatives reflect


mark-to-market adjustments, and we do not expect the mark-to-market gains to be 11.4 million next


quarter.


In fact, the gains in this category of income for the year to date in 2009 is 3.3 million, and as in


terms of guidance we believe the 3.3 million for nine months is a more sustainable number and


more likely to be the kind of numbers, we’ll be able to deliver in the future. And I come back to the


earnings growth, that’s why we are very comfortable with the sustainability of 30% growth in


earnings for the rest of the year and not a higher number than that.


A few comments on arrears, we believe that our arrears have peaked in April and May of 2009.


Since that time, we have seen steady improvement in both the zero to 30 and the 30 to 60 arrears


buckets. The total number of accounts and the balance outstanding on the arrears from zero days