Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Jeff Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference call.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's fourth quarter and the full year 2011 results. As you all know, today is February 15, the day after Valentine's Day and I hope that all of you still have a little love in your heart because I think that you're going to really love Home's results.

The adjusted basic earnings per share was CAD $1.45 for the quarter and CAD $5.55 for the year, up 46.5% for the quarter and 30.6% year-over-year. The adjusted net income for 2011 was CAD $192.5 million, an increase of 30.4% over 2010.

And our return on equity for the year was 27.4%, the 14th consecutive year with a return on equity over 20% and the last nine of which the return on equity was over 25%. With what's happened in the world, with all the turmoil that's been going on, Canada has to a large extent been spared the turmoil that has happened around the world, but it has affected the financial markets. There also has been a great deal of media attention on the Canadian housing market and notwithstanding the negative comments that have been made about the Canadian housing market both by commentators and economists, we point to this last year's results, and we think that it's been really a very super year. And notwithstanding all the issues that are going on in the world, it's really quite a strong mark of how well Home has done over the past period of time.

Now the spread of non-securitized loans over the deposits rose to 3.15% for the quarter and 3.11% for the year. Last year was 2.94% for the quarter and the year, a very nice increase and a very strong return on the non-securitized portfolio of loans. But you say, okay, how was the performance? Well, the non-performance loans as a percentage of gross loans was 0.25% at the end of the year, down from 0.32% at the end of the last quarter. So we're dealing with a scenario where not only the spreads are good, but the losses are low, which is very, very encouraging.

Now let me just give you a quote to show you how good that loss loan ratio is, a quote from the Canadian Bankers Association, and the quote is "Mortgages in arrears were 0.39% of the total outstanding home loans in September." There's a spokesman, she said, calling the figure extremely low. So the Canadian Bankers Association called 0.39% extremely low and we were able to come in at 0.25%, so we're very pleased with that.

And that follows through with the credit quality of all the loans in our loans portfolio and the provisions for credit losses for the year was just 0.05%, 5 basis points of the total loan portfolio for the year. So you don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out that if we can get a return of something more than 3% this year we've averaged out to 3.11% on the non-securitized portfolio and only have to give up 5 basis points in provisions, you've got yourself a good business there and you're managing the portfolio carefully. And in fact all of our businesses are run on a good spread, low overhead, low loan losses basis. And I think if you look at all of our individual bases, you'll see that's the story.

When I started at Home some 25 years ago in 1987 and this continued until 2008, we were predominantly a non-insured residential lender. When the financial problems that occurred in 2007, we started doing insured mortgages in 2008 and, over the past four years under the Acceleration brand, we have continued with the program. We somehow – but we allowed that business to slow down substantially during 2011 because the spreads weren't there and also the problem was that up until January 1, 2011, the insured mortgages after they were bundled and sold into a mortgage-backed security or the Canada Mortgage Bond Program, they were off our books. We got the economic benefit but the mortgages were gone.

As at January 1, 2011 under IFRS, the International Financial Reporting Standards, they – those mortgages stayed on our books after the sale and counted towards our asset-to-capital ratio. So that was a real hindrance on low-yield product to fill the balance sheet. Well, I've got some good news for our shareholders. We have come up with some innovations that will allow us to originate and sell some insured mortgages and not have them stay on our books after the sale but will allow us to capture a reasonable amount of the economic benefit from the transaction.

Now the first program that's got a green light and has already have started will be with CMHC-insured multi-res residential mortgages, and we have been in that business before and we securitized and we originate, securitized and sold, and the margin – it's quite a competitive business, the margins are not that large. But we have found a way that we can go back into that business. We've started originating and we fully expect to be able to make our first sales of the CMHC multi-res insured loans probably at the end of the second quarter or early in the third quarter but we're not quite sure of the timing as yet. But if we talk about our program, that's one that started and we started originating.

On the other hand, the single-family loans that we are cautiously hopeful that we can clear all legal and regulatory issues some time later this year. And if that happens then we can originate and sell single-family residential insured loans that again capture a reasonable amount of the economic benefit out of the transaction and not have them on our books. But it would be unrealistic to really expect them to be showing an economic return before the third quarter this year.

Now our consumer lending business, which includes the equity line, Visa, and our retail business continues to build strength on strength. We had a net income of CAD 30.4 – CAD 30.1 million last year against CAD 24.7 million the year before, up some 22% year-over-year. And the outlook for that business continues to continue for another year looks very strong. It will be a continuous modest growth and we see great strength in that business on a going-forward basis.

We also during the year, we had – we commenced using a new computer system, the SAP system, which before it got – went live was a little like going to the dentist without freezing. There was a lot of pain but, fortunately, the system did go live in July and we really have started to see some meaningful benefits for the company. Now one indication was employment year-over-year, at the end of 2010, we had 560 employees and we had 554 at the end of 2011.

So we went down six people over the year. Well, you say that isn't much, but let me give you the counter forces. The assets grew by 14% during the year and, in addition, we took on a large number of employees probably somewhere in the range of about 15, which added to our internal audit function, Anti-Money Launderings Group, our Compliance Group and all the control groups -risk group, all received additional experience staff to bolster them – bolster their function for future growth. So notwithstanding the addition to the control functions, we still only went up, as I say, we went down some six people. So the system's just starting to deliver benefits and we look forward to future benefits going forward.

There's been a lot of talk about the housing market and our outlook for the housing market in 2012 is very similar to the recent CMHC report which came out earlier this week. And CMHC – and I'm quoting from their report now – said, "With the Canadian economy set to expand at a modest pace and mortgage rates expected to remain low, activity levels in 2012 in both new home construction and sales of existing homes will stay close to levels seen in 2011."

So that is exactly how we see the market. We have seen a strong market in January, the commitments we have outstanding for February going forward indicate that the market is still very healthy. The credit quality in terms of beacon scores on our internal report show that it's been going up month-by-month over the last six months, so we see a better credit, good volumes, good margins and low losses.

So I think putting all that together really puts together a formula that we are quite confident in saying that at Home, we are highly confident that we can deliver another record year in 2012. So thank you. And I'll call upon Mike to hook us up and I'll be delighted to take your questions.

[Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

The first question I had was you were alluding to in your comments about hope – maybe finding a solution of originating and securitizing mortgages but not necessarily having them on the balance sheet or essentially the economics where you don't have to put it on the balance sheet. And then just wondering if you might be able to provide a little bit more color about what that is, and then is that to what you were alluding to in the MD&A about in the fee income line, about loan origination and administration for other mortgage lenders?

At this point, it's a little bit until it's all done, a little bit of a trade secret. I felt that there was an obligation to advise you we're doing, but I don't want to tell you how we're doing it just yet. It'll all come out once it's accomplished and once it's done. If we've got a little bit of a head start and something that's innovative, if it's okay, I'd like to keep it. I'm just telling you that I don't think it'll have a material effect on the first two quarters.

But I think we'll be able to start showing it in the third quarter, and we'll have sales and we'll be able to be a little more expansive. But I don't – if it's okay, I really don't want to chat about it and I advise everybody else, we've gone through considerable expense with legal and accounting. And it's like the old expression, the Eaton's sell Simpson's, and that's at a time they were both in business, like, they're not around and maybe I've dated myself on that one.

Okay. So – sorry, and does it relate to what you guys had alluded to the MD&A about this new complementary business strategy on loan origination administration for other funders or is this something complete different?

No, no, it's a continuation but variations on the fee. It continues with the – it's a very simple thing. We've got great capacity to originate, we have great relationships with the broker, we could do a lot more insured business than we do. How do we not keep them on the business, how we not keep them on the books and make a good economic return and sell them to somebody else.

Now the devil's in the details and – but the basic principle of the business is the same. We're going to originate. We've got sources to originate. We'll underwrite but when we sell them, it's the – all in the method of how we sell them, when we do it, what the timing is, who takes title, all of that is to avoid the rules, which say that if you take them on and then sell them in an MBS or Canada Mortgage Bond Program, they'll remain on the books. So we're doing them in a way that we can hopefully not have them on our books because that would defeat the whole purpose.

Okay.

Stay posted, we'll give you more details. I don't – I think, really, I can't give you more clarity today.

Okay. Well, can you say then if this does go through and there's – it's going through as you envisage, is the intention then to maybe start doing these types of transactions on originations akin to how you guys had prior to the implementation of IFRS, in other words, doing a lot of volume?

Oh, yes. No, no, we can see doing that once we get all the ducks in a row.

Okay. And then the other question I had was I know this has been more of a recent development, but with a number of the lenders in the broker channel, they're not offering this, call it, stated income product or at least making tweaks to underwriting, have you seen any incremental business from that or do you – what's the expectation around that going forward?

Well, we have also made tweaks in our underwriting. We have been, will be, hope to be a residential lender for those people who don't always meet the criteria of the big banks. And we do our underwriting a little differently on a proprietary basis and, as you heard, we're able to do with low loan losses, quite a bit better than what the bank's numbers were, and with all our businesses, everything we do, only have a 5 basis point write-off for the year, which we think's very good. We don't say we can do that every year, but it worked out very well this year.

We see, incrementally, more business coming to us as some programs are shut down by the various other institutions. We can't do them the same way, but we think we can do them, again, maybe a slightly lower loan-to-value, maybe we have to be more discriminating about what we actually do, but we think that is a very positive trend for Home.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, thanks, Jeff.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg from Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, Gerry.

Good morning, Michael. How are you doing?

I'm good.

Good.

I have a few questions, first of all, where did the big increase in fourth quarter fee income to CAD $11.3 million come from and is it sustainable?

We're just checking on that, maybe ask your second question.

Sure.

Martin's just checking on that. First of all, I don't think there's anything unusual, and it probably is pretty sustainable, but we're just double-checking on that for you.

It just seems to be a move to a new level. I think it was up 16% sequentially. I was also going to ask about the.

[indiscernible] (19:45) Michael.

Yeah.

It's Martin here. It is recurring, but it'll be a Q4 recurring. So a chunk of that increase is something that will happen in Q4 on a regular basis.

Okay. So it's likely to go down in the first quarter, but it will be a regular fourth quarter occurrence?

Correct, most of that increase.

Okay. Can you also remind me why you have an unrealized loss on your fixed rate preferreds and is there likely to be a further impairment?

Michael, it's Bob Blowes speaking. Most of the impairment is on some common stock that we held as well as some preferreds, which are – there's indications of impairment which are other than rate issues. We don't foresee other impairments but it's, of course, that all depends on the underlying businesses of the stocks we hold.

I think you still had about CAD $7 million of unrealized losses at the end of the year?

And those are in the – reflected through our other comprehensive income.

Yes.

And that's the market value adjustment. So we have preferreds, which have fixed rate coupon or dividends, and the market values on those will have declined, but we don't view those as a permanent impairments because there'd be reset dates on the – on some of those dividends and we expected them to come back to their value in the fullness of time.

Okay. So no further impairments expected other than the CAD 3 million that you recognized in fiscal 2011?

Correct.

Okay. And my third question is last quarter, you had three months where you were concerned about possibly being scammed, can you just update us on what happened with that situation?

Michael, it's Bob speaking again. Those two loans are continuing to work through the court process. Information's being gathered, at this point, we don't have any additional information that would give us visibility as to whether we will have a write-down and we still believe that we have good and strong security. There are considerable number of assets underlying those loans. So at this point, the same as last quarter, we know we will not be receiving recovery from the perpetrator, but there are a lot of assets below these loans and, as I said, we believe that our security is good but that matter is up for litigation.

Yeah.

And further, Michael, we have included I mean our impaired loans, that's in the 0.25% at the end of the year, because they're not paying, at this point, but we are highly, at this point, highly confident we will collect. But at some point, it's reviewed on a quarter-by-quarter basis and by the Finance Committee, by the outside auditors with the lawyers, so it's something that's continuously monitored.

Okay. But you had about CAD $6 million of net de-classifications during the quarter, so it wasn't that these loans got cured or anything, it was other loans that came out of non-performing, correct?

That's correct.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Michael.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Capital. Your line is open.

Morning, couple of questions?

Good morning, Steve.

First is just on your capital position, your assets-to-capital multiple, I know it's probably come down post quarter as you move the sub debt down into the Trust. I guess what's your outlook in terms of capital adequacy, then, for the remainder of the year when they factor in your growth targets for the year?

Well, okay, maybe Martin will answer that.

I see that. We see for 2012 with the capital that we have in Home Capital, we'll push a little bit more down into Home Trust but will be self-sustaining. We don't see that we'll have to go to the market to raise any additional capital.

So post the remainder of the sub debt going down, where does your sort of your assets-to-capital multiple stand, is it under 14x?

Yes.

Yes.

At the end of the year, it was under 14x.

After the transfer.

After the transfer.

Yes.

Yes.

Okay. And that's been usually moving up about a half a multiple point per quarter, so even towards the end of 2012, you don't believe you're going to need additional debt or even Tier 1 capital?

No, we don't, because we do think some of the CMHC stuff there's a good chance, we don't know for sure, a good chance some of the scrips that we do have on the books can be sold and removed from the books. But we're not banking on that, right.

Even without that, Stephen, we're comfortable that we can generate capital to sustain that growth through the end of the year.

Okay. I guess the second – and you alluded to this, Gerry, as well, with the press and, I guess, OSBIE, asking lenders to tighten their lending standards and their underwriting, most people think that's been sort of leveled at the banks. You mentioned you've tweaked some of your underwriting standards, but is there – I guess there remains a concern that underwriting standards are going down, sacrificing for growth, maybe you could just confirm that, in your mind, that's not the case at all?

On the contrary, we have tightened every one of our programs. Let me just give you an idea. We looked at the condo market, both the insured – or we have being doing on single-family condos, both insured and uninsured. And even though not required to do so, we adjusted all our loan-to-value adjustments down 5% even on the ones that we insure with CMHC. We just felt that it required an extra level of caution and we just moved them all down and the – we moved, instead of going to 80% on our non-insured loans, we moved that down to 75% on refinance, although we still can go to 75% internally. Generally, the practice is 65% or 70%. And so this also occurred right across the country with various tweaks and adjustments.

We think the housing market's going to be – have a good year and we think it'll be fairly flat. But we don't know everything, that's for sure, and better to be a bit more cautious. The market is such that we'd rather be – have a more bullet proof portfolio and the time to do it is now, not if the market tips over or slides a bit. So we have been very strict. And I think that's why it showed up in 5 basis points right off for the year. I think that – we're delighted with that because that includes our Visa program, it includes the retail credit, includes everything. So we really had a very good year in terms of actual write-offs or provisions that were needed. So we want to keep that continuing.

And let me assure you that we are now something over CAD 17 billion in assets and our regulator still regards us as somebody that they examine carefully, the same as they do to banks. They have a big job to do and I think all of the regulated companies are on OSBIE's radar screen there. They've got a job to do to make sure the loans – the asset bases are safe and sound, and I think they're trying to do that to the best of their ability and I don't think they've – I think they're dealing with everybody pretty equally. So I don't think being small, you escape their vision.

I guess last question, just another question I guess asked a lot is just about growth, looking at your guidance, you're back into a maybe CAD 6 billion of originations. The bulk of that, as you said, has to come from traditional, where do you get that growth from? Is it more business from the same brokers, more brokers, more geography, maybe you could touch on that as well?

Well what has occurred is that part of our benefit or part of our ability is a fairly good reactive time that we can turn stuff around and really give good service when the loan is a good loan. And there is an increasing amount of bank qualified customers who, especially on somewhat larger transactions, there's a bit of a hiccup in the turnaround time for them.

And we found that somebody buying a house for CAD 2 million and they need 50%, we're able to turn that around if we're satisfied with the market and the place and the location and, obviously, we're very sensitive that there's a difference between an expensive house in Rosedale or an expensive house in Caledon, they do sell quite differently. And for those of you who are not familiar, downtown Toronto has a very brisk market and Caledon is an area, I don't know, 20 miles from the metro, maybe 30 miles, 35 miles from downtown Toronto, and it's a more rural area and has – have some lovely houses and some lovely estates and a lot of horse farms. And like in that area, the same dollar amount, we would also probably take a pass because you can't market those, the marketability in the center of Toronto with low loan-to-value, even if the market comes off 10% or 20% is still quite salable. So we're very careful about it but we're able to give a response in the areas of our comfort.

And we are doing a bit more business with people who would fully qualify at the banks but, usually, the service issue is – the amount is such that they can't get it answered quickly and they'll come to us and they'll pay a bit of a premium. So we see in our mind the demand is there. The demand is there, the volume's good. We have a good network of brokers. We have a couple of the banks who supply us with the stuff that doesn't fit their criteria. So by the stream, all we can to go by is what we've seen in the first six weeks of this year and we see it as a good strong year.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brown from Macquarie Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Hi, Bryan.

Hi, there. In your outlook, you mentioned that you're expecting a moderation in the traditional mortgage business as the company achieves a balance in the portfolio to support sustained ROE growth. And my question is, is that moderation in traditional business, is that something you're doing on purpose because of caution or is there another reason?

Well, I think – no, there's no – first of all, there's no other reason. It's just a healthy degree of caution. If we can achieve the returns we have and lower the risk profile, we will do so. And I think the implementation of these new – as the ability over the course of the year to start selling CMHC or other insured mortgages and not have them on our books, we look upon that as a pretty low risk activity.

And we will continue with the uninsured, that's always been a core of our business, but if we can supplement that with a almost no risk, you can never have anything that's no risk but is pretty low risk, on insured loans if you follow that criteria – the insurers' criteria, we like to do more of that. We like the fact that a portion of the balance sheet can be backed by Government of Canada -ultimately, Government of Canada insured mortgages. So that was just sort of a – there wasn't anything more than just a general philosophy of how to mitigate risks.

Okay.

Bob, has something to say as well.

Maybe I would add to that, Bryan, that we had considerable growth in the traditional book in 2011. And through that growth, we really repositioned the book, largely repositioned it through the year. So there'll be continued growth in the traditional book but not at quite the rate that had took place in 2011. We're getting into the right level of balance, we're at the ATM level that we'd like to run the business at. We see lots of runway for good growth and strong profitability.

Okay, that makes sense to me. And just one other question, the compensation declined sequentially for the first time, I think, since 2009 and is there a specific reason for that decline?

There is two reasons there, Bryan, a little bit of a reduction in staff. We didn't grant any options in the – at the end of the year, which means that we didn't have as much stock compensation charges we would otherwise have. We're looking at our overall compensation structure and in fact we'll be making some adjustments as the year goes forward, but those factors together, I think, are the major ones. And as we renew staff, sometimes we are able to bring these people in at little bit more competitive wages because there are junior compared to the ones that are leaving the company. Now there multiple reasons for that but on an overall basis, we think we're well suited for compensation.

And there's an allotment set aside every month for accruing a bonus and I think at the end of the year, the board saw fit they only paid out something around 80% of the bonus accrual. So there's probably a little bit of pickup there. I don't think it was fully accrued because we could see that coming during the year. But there's a little pickup there, a little bit from the options, a little bit from salaries, and a little bit from just managing carefully.

Okay, great. That's it from me.

Your next question comes from the line of Shubha Khan from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Thanks, good morning. Just had a couple of questions on margins to start off. In your MD&A, you mentioned that NIM on your non-securitized loans was compressed by, I believe, actions to boost liquidity. And I'm wondering whether this is essentially a permanent shift, upward shift in liquidity driven by a directive either by a formal or informal by the regulator? Or is this just the management team being a little more proactive, a little more cautious given an uncertain macroenvironment, in which case you would presumably be just as likely to reduce liquidity when the macro outlook improves, so just trying to get a sense for how much discretion you'll have to adjust liquidity going forward?

I think the – we probably overshot a bit. We were quite concerned during the quarter about all the external circumstances going on in the world. It was not regulatory driven and we made a decision internally, boost liquidity while the rates were so low and things seems to be so offside in Europe. We probably will be down – under the new Basel III requirements, the minimum liquidity is you have enough liquidity in place to sustain some 60 days – 30 days, I'm sorry, 30 days of liquidity, you can operate if you didn't take in more deposits according to a formula, and which is a different formula than was previously used for companies like ours, which have very few demand deposits. We have a small amount of demand deposit but the vast majority are for fixed terms.

As a result, that went up and we exceeded some 60 days at year end in liquidity, which is probably double the minimum regulatory amount. We have brought that down or we will be bringing it down over the course of the quarter to probably somewhere around the 45-day, 50-day liquidity mark, well above the 30 day minimum but not as much as it was. So you'll see an adjustment down where unless we see some big monster out there in the financial market – we're afraid of monsters, so just take in more cash.

Okay. Got it. So I mean basically, if things proceed as planned, then we should see the NIM on your non-securitized loans revert to, say, the Q3 level, closer to 3.13%...

Yeah, that's reasonable, but that's the deposit money you get – whatever you haven't deposits these days, government treasury bills or bank deposits, the return on that is very low and the benefit will come if there is a little bit of an uptick in interest rates and what we get on our deposits that we use in liquidity with a little better return. But I think what you saw in the fourth quarter, third quarter, that would be the range. And we did very well in the third quarter but I wouldn't bank on that on a continuous basis. I would say if we sustained what we did in the third quarter, we would be very happy with that.

Okay.

Fourth quarter, actually.

The fourth quarter, I'm sorry, yeah.

Right. Okay. So that brings me then to the margin compression in your securitized portfolio. You mentioned that this was driven, I believe, on maturities of higher yielding assets. And I mean I would assume that there will be further maturities of higher yielding assets over the course of this year. In your MD&A, you mentioned that margins going forward, however, will be fairly consistent with the Q4 level, so shouldn't we be expecting further margin pressure in the quarters ahead from maturing 2007, 2008 mortgage vintages, which are generally higher margin or did I get that wrong?

No, I tell you what, a part of the problem was on replacement assets, there's always – and mortgages, there's ways people can pay out early and there's always hardship cases and then one needs for the mortgage bank – the Canada Mortgage Bond Securities, you need replacement assets. And the practice is that you either have other short-term mortgages you can put in that are insured or you put in treasury bills. And what we found is when we put in the treasury bills, of course, the yield goes down because they're replacing a mortgage at one rate and a treasury bill that's at a very low rate.

But we think we are originating a little more replacement assets and we're fairly comfortable talking about the rate being about the same on the year ahead, and that will help us if the replacement assets have a little better return, but we're managing that and there's always fluctuations quarter-to-quarter. But I think we're pretty comfortable with the comment that the lower level which we now have we think we can sustain.

Okay. Got it. Final question before I re-queue is on your comments with regards to this new opportunity to boost fee income, I think, from selling insured mortgages to third parties? And I appreciate that you don't want to reveal too much about the mechanics of the business but just in broad strokes, are you essentially adopting an originate-to-sell model similar to First National? And if so, why would it take until later this year, at the earliest, before you start this business – start up this business? Is it because you face regulatory hurdles that someone like First National doesn't or...

Yeah, First National – you've hit it quite accurately, First National is not regulated in any way and so that they can originate and sell. And whether it's on their balance sheet or not on their balance sheet is really not a factor, because they're not governed by any asset-to-capital ratio. If it counts like the people asked earlier – so I think Steve had some questions on the asset-to-capital ratio and where we are, it's a factor that if they stayed on the books, the balance sheet can be filled with assets with very low rate of return. So coming up with a formula that works that everybody's happy with that doesn't give us any regulatory or accounting problems is a little trickier or else everybody would have done that by now.

As they say, we found a way with the multi-res insured loans and we're quite confident that that will continue. We've made the tweaks and that's gotten the blessing of everybody, the accountants and everyone, but we haven't finalized. So I give a cautionary note, it could be that at the end of the day, we strike out, like, I'm not – this is not a sure thing on the single-family. We're highly confident but it's not a sure thing. So we felt we should tell you that it's coming, we're working on it. We think we can get there but we will talk further about how we do it once it's all been approved and.

Right

All the dots – all the I's are dotted and the T's are crossed and has the official blessing of everyone.

Understood. And if I can just squeeze one more in there just on your originations at least for the traditional product this quarter, which were really, really strong despite a seasonally weak quarter. I mean what would have driven that? Was it milder winter conditions that sort of brought forward spring sales or was it a re-entry into certain Ontario markets, as you mentioned in your MD&A, or a really strong push into Quebec? What would have driven sequentially essentially flat traditional originations?

I don't want to sound too boastful but I've got to – you asked a question I'll try to give you a straight answer. Superior performance for the brokers. Brokers – no, no, I know it sounds funny but because we can be so head of the class in terms of turnaround and service we can get a great deal of broker loyalty that they will send a larger portion of their business to us. As I mentioned earlier, we're getting also a fair amount of stuff that could be done by the banks but the turnaround doesn't fit the timelines, and the people will pay some premium to do that to get the turnaround a little more accurately, a little more expeditious.

So I know it sounds funny but I think it's really the inner core of the business, the performance, the turnaround, we do it, we do it once, we do it accurately, it goes through credit, it goes through all the control systems. Credit's very – works very hard to approve the loans before they get out of the door, before they get committed and it's all part of the monitoring. So we can do it good, we do it right the first time. And we've been doing this game for a while, we're not rookies and most of the staff are not rookies. So they're performing very well and we're delighted with that but it's not a magic formula, we didn't go to a new territory, we didn't get all this business out of Trois-Rivières and how's that for facturing it, I hope for my French shareholders, I don't have them all selling the stock. But it's not some remote part of Quebec that this would come out of or – it's all out of our usual markets, our usual major urban centers across the country, and we just see good demand from across the country. And so that's how it came about and it's continuing this quarter.

So the Q4 number then isn't an unreasonable run rate for 2012?

Well we hope so.

Okay. Got it, perfect. Thank you for the color.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick from Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Jeff,

So I think most of my questions have been answered but I did want to ask you about your current balance of securitized mortgages, it looked like it rolled off maybe a little bit more during the quarter. I'm just wondering if you can sort of give us some color around what we should be expecting here as you have eased off the Accelerator product and, as you say, are doing less of the securitized product. What should we be thinking in terms of how that book is going to contract over the course of the year?

I'm asking Bob – or Martin might have that on the projection.

Hi, Jeff. A fair bit of that starts to run off toward the end of the year and into 2013, 2014, although we will be looking to renew fair bit of that.

Okay.

You'll likely see that the outstanding balances on that remaining relatively steady.

Okay. And I ask the question because you did mention the possibility of maybe even selling, if that's possible, portions of that book and then given the sort of the unfavorable capital hit from those mortgages, whether it would be your desire to see that run down a little more quickly if possible?

Well it's – we're all now very comfortable on all our capital ratios. If we can renew them or keep them at the present size and the portfolio relatively the same, it might shrink a bit till we start selling. We're okay with that. We're not encouraging to go – the mortgages to go away. If we can renew them and resell them, even though they're on our books, we will try to do so. But if we're not originating new with the same vigor that we have, there will be some attrition in that, but I don't think it'll be very dramatic over the next quarter or two.

Okay. And then just one last one, you talked about the regulatory environment a couple times already today, but any sense that beyond the mortgage insurance side of the equation, whether OSFI might be looking at things like risk weightings or anything that could maybe impact Home's business? And certainly there's been a lot of commentary about concerns about the self-employed mortgage market and risks that maybe there and, setting aside how good your track record has been, is there anything you're getting out of the regulator that might make you a little concerned?

Well, I'll put it in as clear a way, clearly, the regulator has a mandatory obligation to ensure that the deposits of the Canadian public are safe and sound and that there's a not failure by any of the financial institutions. Now as a result, they look at everybody and look at their businesses and what they're doing. And we find that anything that they've requested or they're working with, we find we can comfortably accommodate their request, we can work within that, and we understand their position.

Canada has a very unique record that not one bank, or regulated institution, during the last period of time has gone down that the government had to bail out, the government's not had to use any of its treasury to backstop Canada Deposit Insurance. And I think that's somewhat of a tribute to our legislation and our regulatory system and the way the whole thing is run. So I think they will continue to look at ways to be – to promote a safe and sound institution, that's with all the legislation that came about with the IFRS changes, it came about with the Basel III adoption that's phasing in. And I think this – the proof of income will be something they're working on now and they're looking at. But I think that everything we've seen so far, we can work within and accommodate. We may have to make some changes, but I don't see any that are business threatening that we can't accommodate.

And there'll always be a little bit of tweaking in every regulated business. With the banks, whether they can do proprietary trading, we never did it, so it wasn't a factor for us, but it could be for some of the banks, who did proprietary trading. A tightening up of, over time, if you hold preferred shares of some other financial institutions there's going to be regulations around that. So they don't want one company to be like a house of cards, if one company goes down and everybody else who's holding their preferred shares or some of their equity, they're looking to isolate the risk to one company at a time.

So there's a lot going on and I think everything that they propose, we can work with. And it's just the way life is. It's not a straight line. It's not like selling raspberries in a grocery store. This is a very changing world with a lot of changing financial things happening and I'm pleased to say that everything they've requested so far, we can accommodate and still have a good business. So ask it again and I hope I can give you the same answer.

Okay, great. Thanks for your time.

Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Mike Sakowski (53:04). Your line is open.

Hi, Gerry.

Hello, [ph] Mike (53:07).

Thanks for curing my Valentine hangover with these results. They are simply incredible. And the problem I'm having right now is the low volumes on our share price. There's not enough volume there in terms of the shares, and I was wondering why we haven't considered splitting the shares? We've had a remarkable run under your leadership and your team and gone – I think we've gone from both CAD 2 all the way up to CAD 60 and it's not fair to other people that want to get on board of this incredible business, and can something be done about possibly splitting the shares?

Well, we've looked at it very carefully and unless there is a business reason or there is something that we can do, such as increase the dividend or widely distribute it or a new share offer, if there's not some other reason for splitting other than just splitting, you have it – you don't have more value in two CAD 5 bills than a one CAD 10 bill. And I know that it seems like a magic cure-all and if we believed it would, we are all – all the members of management and the Directors or all shareholders, there's a compulsory shareholding requirement on behalf of all of the Directors and all the senior management hold stock in the company, we would love to do it, we're not opposed to it.

Right.

But I think that timing is everything. Everything in life, the timing can be superb, but we just don't think, in this market, where there's a fair amount of concern about what's happening in Europe and there is an overall concern about banks worldwide, even though I can tell everybody we have no loans in Greece or in any European country, not CAD 1 in any loan either direct or indirect or financial instrument in Europe, so everything is Canadian. But nevertheless, all – there's a concern and, as a result of the concern, the companies maybe don't get recognized for what they're doing but I'm an optimist, I think sooner or later, Europe sorts itself out one way or another, either they break up the euro and they go ahead and find the stability.

And I know I'm being extreme in my comments but I think what's left in Canada will be good companies, good stuff. I think they're in a solid basis. There may be, in a rising market, if we do a split, we can get a bang for our buck. But my concern is I'm talking to a number of people at various brokerage houses and there doesn't seem to be a lot of belief that a split would do anything. Might run it up one day...

I see.

Or, say, two days, but you know that is not – we're really looking for the long term.

Got it. Gerry, if I could, one other question. I've held my shares in my RRSP and I know you're the founder of the company and you've been onboard for so many years, my concern is what happens when you decide to retire, I might be lost?

You won't be lost. We have a very strong team here and I'm quite comfortable that even if I did retire at some point, I'm quite comfortable holding my shares, there won't be a situation where I'd sell them all in order to retire. I always felt that this is a company that's built to sustain not a company just built around me. And although I've been here a while, we have some terrific people who are really doing it. You can't manage CAD 17 billion in assets and produce CAD 190 million with a one-man band, I would have been petered out long ago. And so I can assure you there's a very, very experienced sustainable team here and I'm very comfortable that if I did retire, I would be in the same position as you. I have a lot of stock that I'd be happy just to hold on to after I retire.

Well thanks, Gerry, for the support and the leadership, I think I'll go out and buy some more shares today.

Okay. Well, thanks for your comment.

Okay.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to Mr. Soloway.

Well, thank you everybody, especially after the last caller, I would say that was very encouraging. So thanks for joining us today. We look forward to delivering the first quarter results due in a couple of months. And we think you're going to be pleased when you see them. So thanks for hanging in with us today and we'll be looking forward to communicate with you in the near future. Thanks. Bye, bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.