Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Adam Seanor — Trader, M Partners, Inc.
Gary Lenhoff, CFA — Managing Director, Great Lakes Advisors
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities
Frederik Westra — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Securities)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is, Louisa and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Incorporated First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Gerald Soloway, CEO of Home Capital, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's first quarter 2012 results. This is a very special report not only because the results are very good, but also because today marks the 25th time that I have reported to shareholders on Home's first quarter results. In other words, our 25th anniversary where I've been leading the company as CEO and for that I thank you.

Home, through its 550 dedicated and hardworking employees, has been and I continued to believe, will continue to be a great success story for our customers, our employees, and especially for our shareholders.

With that note, the first quarter delivered solid results. The net income was up 21.7% year-over-year, the earnings per share went from CAD $1.24 to CAD $1.52. The return on equity was a solid 26.2%. And as a result of those numbers, the direction – the directors of Home have increased the dividend by 10% from CAD $0.20 to CAD $0.22 per quarter or CAD $0.88 per share. This dividend increase is the 14th increase in the past eight years. So we consistently have been trying and delivering good results to our shareholders.

The credit performance for Home's lending portfolio during the first quarter was steady as non-performing loans was 0.28%, down slightly from last year at 2 – 0.29 of 1%, but up from 20.25 (sic) [0.25%] (2:40) at December 31st year-end. And historically, the first quarter is often the highest of the year in non-performing loans. What happens is between Christmas expenses, heating costs, seasonal layoffs, we have found that through the years that the first quarter non-performing loans tend to be the highest and then usually trends down during the rest of the year. And as a result, we're pleased with the credit quality of our portfolio.

We've examined it very carefully and we have added a few dollars to our specific reserves in an abundance of caution and the total allowance as it was for the quarter was some 11 basis points in provision, which number is up somewhat from last quarter. But, we see the amount of provisions needed during the rest of the year to go down to about the same level as last year. We don't see any deterioration on a year-over-year basis. We just see a bigger portfolio.

The growth in originations of single-family detached dwellings for Home Trust was up some 21%-22% for the quarter. We have CAD $921 million for the first quarter over CAD $753 million last year first quarter. And the margins on the non-securitized loan in our book of business remains in the 3% range, which is our historic target for the last 20 years.

On the security side of the business, some exciting things are happening. In connection with fully insured multi-residential loans, in other words apartment loans – apartment building loans, we have obtained an opinion that if the loans are fully closed – that's key, the loans have to have no prepayment privileges – then we can use a specific pool number from CMAC. And when those mortgages are sold under the proper pool number, the sale will trigger two results. One, whatever we make on the sale, will be a gain on the sale, which will be a line entry on the income statement. Two, under IFRS, those insured apartment loans with no prepayment privileges do not remain on our books after the sale or closing.

We plan to sell our first pool of this type of mortgages in the – under the new rules in the June, 2012 offerings by the Canada Mortgage Bond Program. And we believe that these fully closed residential apartment loans will add a steady stream of income to our income statement in future quarters. The spread is modest because it is a very competitive business, so that the, after gained income, we would think maybe in the range of CAD $1 million a quarter after we've had a few quarters to get the business up and running. It's not a huge gain, but it is a good low-risk income gain with no effect on our balance sheet.

The second program that we have moved forward, and we have some very good news about, is on the securitized single-family detached dwellings that we were – which we call Accelerator, which we were in that business before.

The margins are very tight, and so one has to be careful on entering the business. But, when the IFRS rules were changed, what happened is we made a sale, we obtained the proceeds of the sale but the mortgages remained on our books under IFRS, which in turn, affected our regulatory assets to capital multiple. In other words, there was a cost to capital.

However, we believe, and I got to tell you it's not yet approved, but we believe we have a solution to the problem by selling the strip of income that exists after selling the mortgages. We have negotiated a sale of the strip of income on a pool – of a pool of previously insured mortgages. And the issue is, to make it clear, is not whether Home has the power to sell the strip, it's clear that we have that power, no one – there is no issues around that.

The issue is after the sale of the mortgages, and the sale of the income strips. So there is two sales, there is the sale of the mortgages to the mortgage-backed security buyer and then there is the sale of the strip. And the issue is would Home still have to include the sold mortgages on their balance sheet, which could – and what would the effect be on the regulatory asset to capital ratio.

Now, I know this is more technical than I usually get into, but I'm just trying to give some clarity and it gets a little easier after the next paragraph. But our external legal firm and our external accounting firm have indicated in writing that the sale of the income strip will remove the mortgages from our balance sheet for financial reporting. But we need approval from our regulator to remove the balances – the mortgages from our balance sheet for regulatory capital.

So, it's a little different and we've made application and we are cautiously optimistic because we've been advised other proposals of a similar nature have been approved. But you can't count your chickens before they're hatched and all I'm saying is we're optimistic, but we don't have the approval as yet. However, if one can speculate and if we do get the approval, this would get us back into the insured single-family mortgage business. As you recall from the past, it's a business that we've handled very well, we have great contacts with the mortgage broker network, and we think that over a period of time we can build it back up to be a fairly robust stream of insured mortgages, so long as we can obtain the off balance sheet treatment once we sell the strips of income.

So, I know that the first question after the call will be for – need to quantify the possible results to happen if we gear up our CMHC single-family dwelling program, which we call Accelerator. But sorry, I'm not being really able to give you a projection. I think we want to get the approval first, we want to make sure that the market is – has the demand that we think we can fulfill, and I hope to be able to report to you more fully on this after next quarter.

But, if we get it right and if we get the approval and if the sun shines tomorrow, this could be a significant uptick to our income going forward. But, I'm giving you an update but it's not a sure thing.

In conclusion, we are highly confident that Home will continue to grow the uninsured segments of our business at a steady 15% to 20% per year. And on it – we can do so on a safe and sound basis, even with the implementation of the new regulations for residential lending. We have restarted our insured multi-res apartment program and as I stated, we're most hopeful that we can restart the CMHC insured single-family program. But notwithstanding the external pressures of the economy and the world, we're continuing to be optimistic – cautiously optimistic, about our outlook for the rest of the year. We look forward to meeting or exceeding all of our targets and goals for 2012. We've made great progress towards that in quarter one and we are highly confident that we will deliver great results for 2012. Thank you and I'm now open to questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Michael.

Couple of questions, Gerry. First of all in your press release, you note that the condo loans are about 10% of the total mortgages that you have. Do you have any idea of what portion of these are investor-owned versus owner-occupied?

We can give you an exact but I think over 50% are insured and I can give you that number later on and we can break it out for you. Just a sec, let me ask anybody here...

Question is investors versus ownership...

We don't do investors, oh I thought, oh what I was looking at is from the risk point of view, like if somebody comes from offshore. Now the only situation is we do have a few, I don't know if they're condo loans, but they get vetted up and down the line. You get offshore buyers who put members of their family like college kids in the unit whether it's a house or a condo, and we scrutinize those very carefully, we tend to have a higher down payment. And they may – there may be a few of those in the condo business, they're probably not CMHC insured, but it's not material. We've been cautious about condos for the longest period and I think of what we have on our books, I think about half of them are insured but investors are not our market.

Okay and my second question is, with respect to the possible readmission of the Accelerator, could you give us some idea of the economics specifically, what servicing revenue would amount to as a percent of loans? And what additional amount as a percent of loans we could think of as being generated?

Okay, the structure under what you sell these, you have to sell the projected income. I'm going to let Bob Blowes explain that – our Treasurer, Bob Blowes, our CFO and he will just explain the nature of the structure and you'll see it's all presold in the front, okay, go ahead Bob.

Okay. Good morning, Michael.

Good morning, Bob.

So, in the arrangement that Gerry was speaking of, we will sell the interest-only strip to an investor for a fixed amount and we'll receive that in cash at the time of the transaction. We'll continue to service those loans and a purchaser will hold back a little bit of the purchase price to – just to guarantee our performance as servicer. We will earn a servicing fee of about 15 basis point on the portfolio as it matures.

The amount of gain that we would recognize on any particular tranche really depends on the underlying economics of the tranche. So, it might be something like – well, it could vary widely. And our strategy here, our focus here is not so much on that game as much as it is on the redeployment of our capital. And so, the way we think about it is that we would take capital that's typically earning a spread of 100 basis points and redeploy into 300 basis points spread.

So, is it your expectation that if this all goes to ahead that you'll be able to sell the strip on the existing loans that you have – now that you have on your balance sheet?

Yeah. Mike – Gerry back. We can only sell the mortgages – the strip on the mortgages that are mortgage-backed securities, not the ones that are in the Canada Mortgage Bond Program. But we could on new originations sell the mortgages through the mortgage-backed securities as we've always done, and then sell the strip. And we know that there will be a respectable profit and if we are correct, we don't have any capital constraints on that. We don't have to keep it on our balance sheet and if there is a gain between the servicing and the sale, it's a good steady stream of income and I – we can see it as far more significant than the apartment loans but let's get through another quarter and then I can give you more directions on how significant it is.

Okay. Just one last question on this topic, of the roughly $8 billion of securitized loans on the balance sheet now, what portion of those are MBS?

About $2 billion.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning just the first question I had was, you mentioned with respect to the securitized mortgaged book, just with the spreads coming down that you have some sort of strategy to lock in the spreads, I guess where they are right now or at least have them less volatile or variable. Can you talk at what exactly you're trying or what you're doing to be able to repeat that?

Yeah, okay. Martin Reid is going to, is very much close to that and he will answer your question, Geoff.

Hi, Geoff. It's Martin. The issue there is really on, the primary issue is as it relates to the CMB program replacement assets and one of the things we're looking at doing there is on the repo side, so you get closer to the maturity of the CMB issue, you can't put in assets that are longer than the maturity of that CMB tranche. So what you end up doing is putting in often Treasury bills as you start getting closer. One of the things that we can do is put in mortgage assets under our repo arrangement, which will get the higher yield and pick up that margin in that.

Okay. And then I guess the other question, I was just on the losses in the quarter, I know that you mentioned obviously there is a little bit of seasonality to it. Is – can you kind of talk about if there were other factors that would have driven that up to the level that was recorded in the quarter and are these things temporary or is there some sort of potential carryover to future quarters?

Yeah, the – we identified some loans that were in workouts and that's really what the provisions relate to, but there is no particular trend or – either geographic dispersion or anything in particular that we would see that would be driving that up. We see it sort of coming back into sort of previous territory. Over the longer term you'll see that sort of inch up a little bit as the portfolio shifts more and more towards the – our classic products. But nothing specific in this quarter that would signal a new trend.

So, just to make sure I'm understanding, these were a bunch of different random events rather than what happened for example with that condo property manager last summer over the equity line [ph] visa (21:05), was it just over a year ago?

Correct, yeah.

Okay.

Jeff there, it's Bob speaking. There's – also a factor that has an impact on this, when we do workouts we use outside lawyers and consultants rather than use our own staff. So in cases where we have workouts, and we've had some workout things going on, some of the costs ended up in the provision for loan losses as opposed to our general overhead, so that has an impact from time to time as well.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brown with Macquarie Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

Just one quick question for you. The balance of your securitized residential mortgages came down quite a bit again this quarter and I just wanted to know your strategy for that balance going forward, if you plan to keep it declining at a gradual pace and if so, why?

Bryan, it's Bob speaking. Our overall strategy is to reposition our balance sheet to uninsured product with a higher margin. So we've been working on that for the past year and a quarter and continue to have success there. So we would expect that our on balance sheet insured mortgages would continue to decline. As we move forward with the strategy that Gerry described in strip sales, what we'll start to do is accumulate insured mortgages, which are off balance sheet. So our assets under administration will tend to show a growing amount of insured loans, but our on balance sheet will decline on the insured side. That way we will be able to optimize the use of our own capital.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Adam Seanor with M Partners. Your line is open.

Hi,

Good morning, Adam.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Two quick questions. One you mentioned in the press release a couple local markets that you've pulled back from a little bit and I was just wondering if, I mean, are they specific areas within say, the GTA in Vancouver, or is it broader than that?

No, it's – I'll try to outline it for you. We look at Toronto and Vancouver very, very cautiously, especially the stuff over CAD $1 million and a CAD $1.5 million. We'll do them, but we may hold them down to 50% to 55% loan-to-value. We will look to have double appraisals. We just don't go ahead and do them. If the market ever got soft, they would be harder to unload, and we want to make sure that there's plenty of equity in there.

The other thing is – it's been no secret that parts of the province have been, of Ontario, have been a little slower to respond to the – bit of a bounce back. And we've been very cautious in the Windsor market and we've been cautious in stuff other than in, directly in cities and rural areas. We're in Quebec, we like our business, but we like it in the urban centers of Gatineau, Montreal, and Quebec City, and maybe Sherbrooke. But the places in between we don't have as much knowledge, we don't have as much as skill and we tend – not that we won't do them, but we tend to be not a very strong vendor in the sense that we'll try to compensate a lack of knowledge even with a couple of appraisals and hold it down to 50% or 55%, which is a way of discouraging people to come in on that area.

But generally, the whole country seems to be in the pretty good shape. The big cities – the Montreal, Toronto market has clearly heated up. Although we have started seeing signs that some of the steam is coming out of the BC market, and we're pleased to see that. We haven't seen any steam come out of the Toronto market yet. But colloquially on the, from some of the brokers or some of the people we deal with, they can feel that happening at this point in the Toronto market, but we haven't seen any evidence of it. Other than that, we're a pretty good lender in all urban centers, coast to coast.

Okay, great, And then just on the Accelerator off balance sheet treatment project for lack of a better word...

No, no, you've got a good word there, you've got it.

If it was approved by the regulators, would you be able to retroactively apply that to the $6 billion or would you only apply it going forward?

To the CAD $2 – to the roughly CAD $2 billion of MBS that's on balance sheet today, we could apply it. And then on a go forward basis, anything that's within an MBS.

Okay.

The others we would just sit and it would run off over a period of time.

Yes, okay. Okay great, thank you.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lenhoff with Great Lakes Advisors. Your line is open.

Thank you, good morning.

Good morning, Gary.

Gerry, I'd be curious to hear – if you could provide some color on the Finance Minister's comments about potentially – that have been interpreted as potentially taking CMHC out of the mortgage insurance business. Intermediate, longer-term for you and the strategy you're pursuing, how do you see the Canadian mortgage market evolving with that as a possibility?

Okay. I first of all would quarrel with your interpretation of his comments. Let me tell you, I don't think that politically it would be smart to get rid of CHMC nor do I think there is any intentions from any one we've heard that that is their intention. I think, it's their – it's done a great job to help Canadians obtain housing. It's done a great job of trying to get remote communities where they will provide mortgage insurance to insure in areas that most regulated financial institutions would not be comfortable with the risk involving smaller mining towns or rural communities or lumber towns. And people who buy housing can get CMHC if they qualify and that is terrific.

What I think is, CMHC, is they want to get them back under a degree of somebody else looking at them, other than the present Minister. One of the things that I know they will cut back on is one of the major banks near the end of the year insured on a block insurance basis about CAD $18 billion of mortgages in one fell swoop. It came out of CMHC's budget and what it did is it allowed the bank to put – when they went to do asset-backed mortgages, or the mortgage...

The covered program.

Covered, yeah. It allowed them to get a better price on it. Well, that's not what CMHC was set up to do and those changes have been made. There may well be changes in how they look at refinances. My – CMHC was not always in the refinance business as vigorously as it is today, and I think it would not hurt the market place very much if – they always will do renewals but they didn't always let people equity out to pay other bills. And if they discontinued or watered it down or further restrict it, I think it would be a safe move for CMHC and I don't think that would disrupt the housing market.

I think they're looking to try to take a little steam out. I think, all of the moves – I'm not a campaign manager for Flaherty, but I'm telling you that all the moves he made with CMHC have been very, very carefully thought out and they did not disrupt the market. The market's still pumping along at a very good pace. It has – it eliminated the 100% no down payment mortgage, it's now 5%. If you got low docks, you now have to put up10%. If you're refinancing and you've got full docks, it's 90%, instead of at one point, it was up to a 100%, it's now down to 90%.

Amortization has been shrunk. There's still some room for CMHC to tweak a few more of these ratios. And maybe, maybe, I don't have any insight, they may when they have another regulator looking at them, who looks at all the institutions across the country, maybe there's going to be a few more tweaks. But I think it's too big, it's – I think it'll be more a matter of trimming some of their reach as opposed to discontinuing the company. So, that's my take on it. You know, what do I know?

Well, I think, a fair bit. I appreciate your insight.

Any other questions?

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Stephen.

I'm just going to – just follow up on the Accelerator project. I guess you must have an idea of what the ideal mortgage would fit under this project in terms of – would gain the most – the highest gain of sales for you, I mean, is there a possibility here that even if you did a near prime mortgage and put the insurance on it, paid for it, and sold the strip, that you could still make a gain on this, so?

No. I don't think. The only way this business – the program that I laid out earlier, the only way it works is you do fully qualify insured mortgages. And there is – it doesn't matter whether it's CMHC, Genworth, Canada Guarantee, anyone of the three companies but they have to be fully qualified, people have to have proof of income, they have to have the right debt servicing ratios, they can't be too big a mortgage, there are limits on how big a mortgage CMHC will insure in different geographies.

You've got to be 101% compliant. Being 98%, you won't get your claims paid, if you have a problem. So that program I think we can – as we did before, we could out-service many of the other providers. I think we can carve a nice niche but they wouldn't be cutting any corners. They've got to be100% compliant. They've got to fully qualify for the insurer. You get the insurance and as I said, it's a nice stream of income. You don't make 3% on them, but you may be able to make a decent return for the effort of people with our connections and with our collection group. And we moved last year which we are getting great efficiency slowly, slowly from SAP and you can see that in the head count. You look at the head count, SAP is our new computer system, you will see that even over the last quarter, our head count came down a few people even though we are steadily growing.

Now, we have added people I think it'll be up again this quarter, but we have had several quarters of pretty flat head count even though we have added a large number of people in the controlled functions. We have added people in internal audit, and in compliance, with anti-money laundering and credit, and risk, like all of them have had increased beefed up staff. Nevertheless, we're able to do the basic business with fewer people, and we've never laid off anybody, but we do have a fair number of people on maternity leave.

I think it's fairly a good atmosphere for women to be here. We have something like 30 or 40 people on maternity leave at this point, and we are delighted when they come back. We've never had a problem, we reabsorb them in the workforce. And so, it's allowed us to do that without scrambling. We were able to do that program. We have – and so, there is no market yet to do a near prime and get the treatment that you're talking about. Maybe there will some day, but we are not aware of it. That would be very nice if we could ever figure out how to do it, but we don't know how.

Okay, then I guess part of the changes or the anticipated changes of the CMHC and [ph] OSPE (35:13) is the reduced amount of CMHC loans coming through the banks, but like if you are getting this exemption or this approval, I mean, wouldn't it benefit somebody going into a bank and putting down only 5% on the mortgage and getting the insurance, and then them having the ability then to go out and do the same type of strip sale as well?

Absolutely. But I think the unofficial information is that two institutions have already gotten approval for their method of selling the strip, so it comes off their balance sheet. Everybody there but level playing field, we have tremendous relationships with the brokers, and I am not saying we're going to go there on the first day. But before we discontinued, we were able to see somewhere around CAD $3 billion to CAD $4 billion a year in insured single-family dwellings.

Well that could be a very nice business and even if it took us a few years to get up to that level. If we do it, securitize it sometimes the pools will be more profitable, sometimes there is less. We've started to figure it out. We could do it over a period of time. We can – what we can always do and this is why we've been successful, why we have 14 years of return on equity over 20%, it's no magic. One of the biggest things is we out-service almost everybody else in the business.

We have people that will respond immediately. We give an answer yes or no in 24 hours. Some of the answers may be conditional. We'll say, if what you represented is A and B, we'll be able to do that. And then that is very appreciated by the broker network. It's not, we don't anticipate that we would ever, ever get into rate wars. If the banks wanted to 299 and lose money on them, that's fine. Where the rates are today is about 50 basis points – 60 basis points over that, which I think allows a reasonable profit and a reasonable method of doing them. And we would be competitive with the market at the market rates. We wouldn't be a cost cutter to get volume. If you're looking at something that is probably CAD $300 billion or CAD $400 billion market, I forgot what CMHC's total assets are...

CAD $550 billion.

Five hundred – Martin just said CAD $550 billion, so we'd be looking at jumping into a portion of that, that's a huge market, 1%, we – we couldn't handle. We're not geared for 1% over time – to do that kind of volume. So, we'll start slow, we'll do it carefully, we'll make sure our processes work. But if it all goes nicely, we could have a very nice additional stream of low risk added income with our existing contacts, our existing business that we understand. So, we're hopeful, but again I say you can't count the chickens before they're hatched.

Okay, thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Jared Haython (38:54) with Bluemount Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Jared.

Just one question here, actually two questions. But just per the comment last month Fitch, they lowered the outlook, they didn't actually change the rating, but they lowered the outlook? Just two questions out of that, number one, do you suspect that and they did that actually despite your strong performance, do you suspect that they're actually at some point going to lower their rating regardless of your continued strong financial performance as you expect?

Yeah, it's Martin here. No, we don't anticipate them changing the rating. If you read the commentary, the change in the outlook was much more due to macroeconomic reasons, wasn't specific to us and we're pretty comfortable with even with the changing economic dynamics that we can continue our strong results.

Okay. So, just the second part of that is, let's just say they did, hypothetically they did lower their ratings.

Right.

How would you react to that?

We'd jump up and go back to [indiscernible] (40:02).

So, from a bidder's perspective, how would you react to that?

Yeah, I mean it's not a huge impact to us. We've done one debt issue since we've been in business in 25 years. So it's not that the ratings really matter a whole lot; we're not active in the capital market side. We don't see that we're going to have to go back to the capital markets anytime sooner either. So, again, we'll be focused on our business, and generate the strong results.

Okay, great. Thanks, thanks a lot.

Okay. You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Fred Westra with Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Fred.

So, a couple of questions just for clarification, going back to the apartment building loans. The way that the gain on sale on that is going to work, I presume it's not going to be present-valued, it will be amortized over the term of the mortgages?

I'm going to turn you to Bob Blowes to answer that.

Good morning, Fred. Fred, those sales would be, we would calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows and calculate a gain at that time and that gain will go right to the income statement. We will have to defer a portion of it, related to the cost of – the fair value of servicing as we fulfill our obligations as servicer to the loan, so we'll see that in the income statement over the period of a program, but there will be a gain on sale measured at the time of the securitization. So, it'll be like the old Canadian GAAP treatment of securitized mortgages.

Right, okay.

Despite no replacement assets.

Yeah and as Gerry just pointed out, the nature of these programs is that there is no replacement assets, there's no prepayments, so...

Right, okay.

...there is not an uncertainty with respect to how much we will earn on it.

Okay, great. Thanks, Bob. Second question, so you touched on two elements with respect to securitized assets. So, I was just wondering, as far as an option using a funder for whole loan sales, do you have an opportunity there; is it a question of regulatory approval or finding a funder?

We've been pursuing really both of those strategies at the same time. We have to put infrastructure in place to support them and our opportunity was greater and more present on the strip sales that Gerry described. We're still moving forward on the whole loan sales or funding side of the business, but that does not have the regulatory complexity to it that strip sales have. So it's just a matter of completing our work on putting processes in place and finishing our arrangements with the funders.

But to answer your question in another way, Fred. We would also take on the whole loan sales program. We think there is a lot of other benefits to it and it would not end up on our balance sheet. We would do that program with the buyer if it continues. We've gone fairly far down the line; we're not aware of any obstructions to it. We've had no push backs, but being a – one of the big five Canadian banks, the pace is a little different than ours. And we understand that, and we are patiently working with them, but they are making progress and as soon as that gets concluded, we would also originate to keep that program alive.

Okay, great.

But it is not there yet.

So is that something that you know, that you would hope for implementation by the end of this calendar year?

Oh, definitely.

Okay. And then so my final question is with respect to strip sales because it's a nascent or perhaps even non-existent market in Canada. What are your thoughts with respect to liquidity and availability of investors to buy those strips?

Well, after we do the first one, we've got a buyer for the first one, I'm sure we're going to get a steady stream of people inquiring and I think over time there will be a market. That's what – I'm going to turn over to Martin, he is a little closer to it.

Yeah, hi Fred. There's quite a bit of interest and it's from a lot of the same buyers of the MBFs, because they're modeling out a lot of the same risks. So, there's quite a bit of interest from those same types of buyers. And then there's a lot of people sort of

looking at the early development of this market as being opportunistic in that the spreads will be a little bit wider than they may be as the market continues to develop.

Perfect. Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just a couple of follow-ups. So first of all, tell me if my arithmetic is right on this, but if you could sell strips on the CAD $2 billion of MBS that you have on your balance sheet right now, would I be correct in saying that this would reduce your asset to capital multiple from 13.6 to 12.0 and free-up about CAD $150 million of capital?

Yeah, that's approximately right.

Okay and secondly, again on the economics, so on these loans that, where you sold the MBS already, what would you expect in round numbers that the potential gain on sale of the strips alone could be as a percent, let's say?

We – I don't want to give you a number Michael and then have to wear it when I don't succeed. I have not had the economics finally tested by the outside accountants. We're more focused as we know that is profitable, we know that it's a significant an uptick for us to keep going on it, it will change the needle for us. But I don't want to get into a number because at this point, this is an area that kind of changes every day as the market goes up and down – the bond market goes up and down.

Hi Michael it's Martin. Each transaction is a little bit different and it's really a function of the economics of the transaction originally. Our intent will be to do the lower margin business initially to sort of free up that balance sheet to replace it with higher margin business. The difficulty is, it's not that straightforward.

There's two things. One is the selling the strips on our own balance sheet, which the economics are overwhelming in order to free up the capital and free up the balance sheet. The second part is to originate and use it as a going forward. And we want to just have another quarter before we give you our goal as to what we expect to be able to sell per pool or per dollar, or what we expect to make. I don't think we're really in a position to have had everything fully analyzed and not make any misleading statements.

Right. I'm just trying to clarify whether the – the incremental gain on the sale is closer to three basis points or 30 basis points?

Michael, its Bob speaking. As Martin said the gain on any sale would depend on the economics of the individual tranches and we have to negotiate on a tranche by tranche basis. But let's just say for instance that the spread on a pool is 100 basis points, we need to split that with purchaser.

Right.

And so that kind of gives you the boundaries within we negotiate and as Martin said, it's a new market and the initial tranches will probably be a little bit more profitable to the purchaser than a mature market. And so that will unfold on a tranche by tranche basis as we develop it and negotiate it over the time.

Okay let me turn to the whole loan sales that you talked about. I just want to clarify, were you indicating that you would expect that you'd be doing these whole loan sales for another funder and the other funder would be one of the major banks?

Yes. Is there a problem with that...?

No, no.

You are silent and I guess we're scared. You always have lots of good questions, but when you are silent, I wondered if I said the wrong thing.

No, it's just interesting that one of the major banks would be using Home Trust as a channel to originate loans for them.

And I can assure you it's profitable for them as well. They are not doing it as a tag day for Home.

Will you service those loans or will they service the loans?

At this point in the proposal, we would service them.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Okay. Thanks, Michael.

And there are no further questions at this time.

Okay, well to wind this up for everybody, let me tell you what I said earlier. I think we're going to have really a good year, notwithstanding any headwinds out there in the economy. I think all our businesses are functioning very well. The outlook's pretty good, and I look forward to delivering our second quarter results to you in about three months' time. Thank you very much and goodbye.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.