raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Inc. Second Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time all


participants are in a listen only mode. Following the presentation we will conduct the question and


answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for question.


[Operator Instructions]. I will like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on


Thursday July 27, 2006 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time. I will not turn the conference over to Gerald


Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. I am delighted to be able to report to you on Home Capital’s second


quarter results for the year 2006. The five big financial measures of any institutions, I’ll just run


through them with you now. First of all net income. In the quarter we did 12.7% increased year


over year against in the first quarter was up 4.5%. Return on equity was 27.6%, an improvement


over the 25.2% in the first quarter of this year. The basic earnings per share were up 11.6%


against 5% in the first quarter and the fully diluted earnings per share were up 14.6% against 5.1.


And the other measure that’s quite important is the efficiency ratio; we improved to 36% against


39.6 in the first quarter. So in all those measures we made a very substantial improvement.


The return equity is well above our 20% target, our efficiency ratio is well within a range of what we


think is sustainable. I am not sure that we can really improve on that very much, because you need


people to be able to do business and you just need the expenses of all the other expense – I am


not sure there much room for improvement there. But, we do believe that there is improvement in


the income, the earnings per share, basic and fully diluted. They are not yet at a level that we are


happy with and we do think that we can achieve further increases over the balance of the year in


the net income and the basic and fully diluted earnings per share on a year-over-year basis.


The other group of financial measurements, we believe – when we look at that those, we believe


that Home did quite well during the quarter. Assets including MBS, mortgage backed securities


originated, administered by the company that grew some 28% to 4.5 billion. Last year the same –


the same quarter I mean, it was up also 28% growth in assets including mortgage backed securities


to 4.21 billion. So, we had a very good first quarter in growth in assets and tied in with that is


usually the mortgage originations, we have over 500 million in originations for the second quarter,


which is the highest second quarter we’ve ever had and when we look at the first 6 months we are


running 21.6% in originations, over the first 6 months of last year. We’re very pleased with our


progress in origination growth and in asset growth, and mortgage backed security growth. And as


we look ahead for the second half of the year, we do see a strong pipeline. And we think we can


sustain the 20% year-over-year increase in new mortgage originations.


The equity line visa has also done very well. We were up to 146.6 million in receivables at the end


of June which is something like a 106% increase over last year at the end of June. We said [ph] in


this year in the equity line visa is about 93.5 million in receivables. I guess, I was asked about 12


times by different times and different people where do I see it at the end of the year? I suspect on


my story with everybody, I hope I did anyway. I said, I thought we could double it. We could come


in somewhere in the 200 million range at the end of the year. Well, so far we are on target and I


should tell you that the last 3 months we’ve been adding each and every one of the last 3 months


over 10 million a month in receivables. And if we can keep that phase up, you take the number at


the end of June and you add 50, 60 million. I think we are there fully at our target at the end of the


year. We got another 6 months to go.
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I might add, the credit quality on the equity line visa portfolio continues to be very strong. We’ve


had no principle losses, there been a few little credit reverses of interest and stuff, but nothing of


any material nature is really quite inconsequential for a portfolio of that size or in that kind of return


is performing extremely well. We’ve also in response to the price increases in DC and Alberta,


we’ve tightened the criteria on loans both regular loans on the equity lines, these products where


we take a collateral mortgage, and we’ve tightened that up in the western provinces as well. We


are doing that on a pre-cautionary basis.


The segregated business when we break out the consumer lending in the credit card business, the


after-tax numbers for the first 6 months, were 4.2 million against some 2.6 million last year, quite a


substantial increase and we see that trend in profitability continuing for the rest of the year. We are


continuing to be – to have an increase in efficiency in the visa business, although we are having


people, we were able to do more business with the staff we have. We also have had in the first 6


months of this year, the cost that we are paying to the outside service people for the call center and


credit card processing are running some $85 million a month less than last year and that is before 2


major further processes takes place. First is over the next month, we are – there are some savings


to us whereby we are going to be doing a major purge of the credit card lift of cards that we no


longer have to have online and that will probably mean the savings will end up somewhere in the


100,000 a month year-over-year as we switch to synergy [ph].


And the second part is we are anticipating in August to start using our own call center. I am not


sure that our call center will produce very material dollar amounts in savings but it will be just permit


us to have a more direct access to our clients and for sure we’ll be able have cross-selling


opportunities and have a communication with clients that – it just can’t have at a remote call center,


even though the call centers done a good job, it’s much better when everybody is in-house and


your own employees. If we started through the training process we’ve seen very good progress in


that regard. So, as well as this is done we see the dollars and volume continuing the rest of the


year and we do so some modest savings in cost and we do see some major increases and


efficiency with our customer base as we go ahead. So, that continues to develop with a very solid


business and we are very pleased with that.


All in all, our capital ratios are strong. We – as we mentioned today, there is two other things that


we are doing. We’ve increased the dividend from $0.06 to $0.07 a quarter and $0.24 to $0.28 from


the year. That is the second time we are increasing the dividend this year and I think that’s a


reflection of how well the company is doing and the confidence we have in the company on the


going forward basis. We also announced a normal course of issue of bid that was start August the


1st and we are not seeing this is a major buyback, but there are times when we do feel that from


time to time it’s a useful tool to have and we can use it to offset some of the options that have been


exercised.


The 2 other things – there are couple of other things, there was an announcement also in the


quarterly that Roy Vincent, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since I started at,


at Home some 20 years ago. He is retiring at the end of the year he has done a terrific job for the


last 20 years and made a tremendous contribution to the success and he will be missed – we’ll


miss his presence, but I think we have got a capable replacement Nick Kyprianou who is been with


the company some 14 years and we do believe it will be a fairly seamless transition of


responsibilities and that will take place at the end of the year. Even though the transitions are


already occurring. So, we see that happening and that’s just normal transition in business. The –


there was a couple of nice things that happened to us during the quarter. Canadian Business


Magazine’s 6th Annual Corporate Governance Ranking of nearly 300 companies surveyed placed


us in 7th place for our high level of corporate governance.


We also got, we got a 6 – rank 6 from the Corporate Knights annual review of Corporate Citizens


ranking 6 out of 291 company survey. So we do care about corporate governance, we have put a


lot of energy in and we will continue to maintain that high standard. The only question we had is