raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 15, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Fourth Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.


[Operator Instructions]. I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded


on Tuesday February 15, 2005 at 10:30 AM Eastern time. I will now turn the conference over to


Gerald Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer


Okay, thank you. Good morning everyone. It’s really a great pleasure to be able to report to you on


an another fabulous year for Home Capital. The growth in total earnings basic, earnings per share,


fully diluted earnings per share, assets all grew – all of them grew by over 20% for the ninth


consecutive year. Nine consecutive years we have been doing those three items and they have all


come in over – an increase of over 20% year-over-year for each one of the last nine years. Return


on equity, we have had all in 20% return on equity for the seventh consecutive year. And this past


year was a record for us a real sizzling 31.3%.


The efficiency ratio again showed improvement year-over-year. We were – two years ago, we had


an efficiency ratio of 44.8%, the 2003 it was 40.5, and this past year 2004 came in at up a 37.5. As


you’re well aware, in financial services industries if you can keep improving your efficiency ratio it


leads to very good things on the bottom line and how many institutions do you know that can sort of


produce this kind of efficiency ratio improvement year-over-year. But we did, we saved [ph] another


3% on our efficiency ratio this past year.


We’re also delighted to report we had no losses on our mortgage portfolio for the third consecutive


year. We have about 2.15 billion on our books; we have another 500 million that are insured


mortgages by CMHC and although we would not have – loss would not appear on our books, it


would be a loss that we would talk about with you. We’ve had no losses on our MBS portfolio or on


the portfolio that we’ve hold on our books, a total of 2.65 billion, some 18,000 mortgages no losses


this year or either the previous two years, and we don’t foresee any losses on that horizon. We see


the market good, our underwriting solid, and we don’t see a problem coming up this coming year.


So having delivered a, what I believe, anyway a truly fantastic year sizzling performance in our


categories, the logical question that all of you ask is what about next year, are you ready for


another year. And I might add that a bit surprising some skepticism that the big machine, the big


home machine was somehow were going to run out of gas. Well, let me just tell you how we are


ready for the year ahead and I’ll just give you from our perspective the state of the union of how we


feel that we are ready for another highly successful year.


And I will just run through the categories of how we are ready. One is the essence of any deposit


taking institution is you have got to have capital. You have either got it internally generated or you


have to raise it. If you raise it, it can either be in the form of debt or if it’s equity you are going to


have dilution of earnings per share. We are now withstanding a sizzling year last year where we


were – produced something like close to 39% increase in assets plus mortgage-backed securities,


we ended the year with a same capital ratios that we had the year before, in other words, we


generated enough capital internally to absorb all of that growth without any external financing.


So, we ended the year with a total capital ratio of about 14.03 compared to our last year 14.02. So


we are in just a strong a capital position to start the year as we ended – as we started a year ago.


We are ready with capital. The second item, what about the spread on the existing book of


business. Well this spread has stayed the same for the last several years up or down the basis


points here or there, but that the spread is – is there and we see it maintaining. We also see the
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 15, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


spread on new book of business we are booking, we will maintain at approximately the same. there


is always minor fluctuation. For those concerned about interest rate, we just see modest changes in


the rate structure over the year ahead. If the interest rates on the basic Bank Of Canada rates


should go up 50 to 100 basis points over the year which is really at the outer edge of what all of the


analysts and people who the commentator say is really the outer edge of the maximum. We feel we


could absorb that quite easily and maintain all these numbers that we are talking about.


In terms of – it’s nice to do business; it’s nice to have the capital, but again we – if your losing –


losses it’s not a good way to spend your money, and very elementary, we haven’t had any loses on


the mortgage books for last three year. We don’t – I am not saying we will never have any losses,


but if we do see any thing in the year ahead we are sure it will be – if we don’t see any but if any


occur we are quite confident with that model that they’ll be extremely modest. We have also


improved the retail part of our business, which was the unsecured VISA which is now continued


and the Retail Consumer Product division and two years ago and all three we wrote off 1.4 million;


this past year 1.3 million, and if was to take a guess on those two businesses if we wrote off I am


sure we will write off less than a $1 million on that business this coming year. Both of those are


performing much better than they did a year ago and they will be a source of profit to us.


So, what have we done to get ready for this year employee wise, while during the course of 2004,


we rose our employee count from a 191 to 228, which is an increase in employees of 19%, while


our assets of mortgage-backed securities rose 39%. So obviously we are finding that we can do


more business with less people. It not that we won’t keep hiring, we will continue to hire but with


technology and efficiencies that as we get a bigger mass, we are finding that we can do more


mortgages, look after a bigger portfolio with pro rata of less people. So that augurs extremely well


for the future. One another room of thump that we thought we were very – a few years ago very


efficient when we needed one employee per $10 million of assets and up until a few years ago that


was really the count that we needed. While, as we entered this year, we had something over $3


billion in assets and mortgage backed-securities and normally that would need 300 employees to


mange that because in the mortgage-backed securities we underwrite originate service it may not


be on our books but we do all of the work involved there and that none of it is outsourced. We even


do our own MBS program and sales and service in-house. So, but what I am pointing out is at the


end of the year we had 220 – for something over – 220 employees for something over 3 billion. So


it’s a trend that is continuing to be another driver of efficiency. So, we are ready with employees; we


will continue to hire; we have been hiring in the first quarter, and it’s anticipation we have increased


the staff in anticipation of what we see in the market ahead.


We have also rented additional space. We rented a full floor in our building, the lease that’s coming


up on about 60% of a floor where we are now, we are moving up to a full floor where we also think


being able to get a full floor and clamp [ph] it out will result in a lot of increased efficiencies because


the space we have on our 19 floor in Toronto it has come to us in five sections. So, we are trying to


integrate as well as we can, but we have not redone the original space; and you can imagine to do


five pieces as add on it, it looks like bit of a quilt; there were five different pieces. But now that we


can plan out a whole floor, we really do believe it will again lead to increase and if we increase


efficiencies people being able to do more and do it comfortably. So, we really do feel that we have


the capital spread on the business, no losses. We have the efficiency ratios; the employees are


hired. We have got the space and really the big thing is we feel we are ready. What does the


market say? Well, as we came out of the gates in the beginning of 2005, I have got to indicate to


you what we have done over the last couple of years. In ‘02, we put out about 647 million in


mortgage advances and then in ‘03 we did a 1.06 billion and a little bit of that was a purchase


portfolio, so it’s really much closer to a 1 billion in terms of originated and this past year we went


from just over a $1 billion in ‘03 to a $1.46 billion in ‘04. And we have over the first six weeks of this


year, we are running – we track everything on a day-by-day basis, but we are running 30%, 35%


ahead of the last year which for us was again a record year with 1.46 billion and we are still running


30%, 35%. On the Equity Plus VISA program, we are doing much better than that; we are running


at a faster rate in terms of new cards and new credits being advanced.