Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jill MacRae — Director-Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President-Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Nikolaus Priebe — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Edward Moshe Friedman — Analyst, McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Carol, and I will be your operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks we will have a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jill MacRae, Head of Investor Relations.

Thank you, Carol. Good morning, everybody, and thank you for joining us today. We'll begin the call with remarks from Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer; followed by a review of our financials from Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. After the presentation, we will have a question-and-answer session for analysts and investors. With us on the call to answer your questions are several members of our management team.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call may provide management the opportunity to discuss financial performance and conditions of Home Capital. And as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. Finally, a link to the slides accompanying this live webcast is available on our website at www.homecapital.com.

With that, I'll turn it over to Yousry Bissada.

Thank you, and good morning. Thank you for joining us today, as we present our financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2018.

2018 was a year of progress for Home Capital. At the beginning of the year, with a new leadership team in place, we knew we had some work to do. We got down to business with a view to building for the long-term. We reviewed every area of our operations. We put in place new standards and operating guidelines to implement best practices throughout the organization, while establishing a sustainable risk culture as a foundation for decision making. We were working to rebuild Home Capital's business. The industry experienced – while [ph] we were building (02:23) Home Capital business, the industry experienced challenges in 2018.

The combined impacts of new regulatory initiatives and higher interest rates caused a material reduction in home sales volumes in all our major markets. We responded by investing in relationships with emphasis on becoming a partner of choice for our brokers. We dedicated resources to focus on our renewal business and grew uninsured residential mortgage underwriting as well as our commercial underwriting. We saw benefits in the form of higher Net Promoter Scores from our broker partners and our customers. People want to do business with us. This translated into significantly improved financial results as well.

In Q4, Home Capital delivered increases in earnings per share, book value per share and return on equity both on a sequential and on a year-over-year basis. Once again, we reported sequential growth in origination volumes. This is our fifth consecutive quarter of higher volumes, with meaningful increases in both our residential and commercial books.

Our double-digit increase in originations for 2018 is confirmation of our beliefs that strong growth is compatible with our sustainable risk culture. The credit quality of our loan book is still well within our internal risk tolerance, provisions are flat with the prior quarter. More importantly, realized losses on the portfolio are very low as a percentage of gross loans.

Oaken Financial continues to grow to provide a strong contribution to our funding. And we have significantly reduced our reliance on demand deposits.

Other notable achievements in 2018 include: completed the sale of non-core businesses; paid off our remaining CAD 300 million institutional deposit note; replaced our CAD 2 billion credit facility with a CAD 500 million credit facility more in line with our current and forecasted business needs; returned capital to shareholders through a successful CAD 300 million substantial issuer bid; and received approval for a normal course issuer bid in 2019.

After completing a successful SIB in 2018, we considered several options for deployment of capital. With the stock trading significantly below book value, buying back shares at a discount is currently an effective option for generating shareholder value. We will continue our regular review of all options for returning capital to shareholders.

We have spoken in past conference calls about our digital strategy. With our management team in place and our sustainable risk culture firmly established throughout the organization, I'm confident that now is the right time to move forward with that investment.

Today, we are announcing the start of a multi-year plan of technology investment that will improve our operating efficiency, offer our clients more flexibility in how they engage with us and increase the level of service to our brokers, borrowers and depositors. You'll be hearing more on this initiative in the quarters to come. Brad's presentation will give you more details on the expected financial impact of this investment.

In conclusion, our results today are evidence of the success of our strategy of building for the long-term through focus on service and prudent risk management. I'm proud of the efforts of our people and look forward to 2019.

I'll now turn it over to Brad to discuss the financial results.

Thank you, Yousry, and good morning, everyone. With our financial results of Q4 2018 Home Capital continue on the path of improvement that we began at the beginning of the year. We recorded growth in income, assets and our direct funding channel, Oaken. We completed a substantial issuer bid returning CAD 300 million of capital to shareholders in a highly accretive transaction and we received approval for a Normal Course Issuer Bid in 2019.

Turning to slide 7 of the presentation. Home Capital reported earnings of CAD 35.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 or CAD 0.46 per share. This compares to CAD 30.6 million or CAD 0.38 per share in the fourth quarter of 2017. We completed the substantial issuer bid at the end of the fourth quarter, so the effect on earnings per share is minimal for that quarter and year. For the full-year 2018, net earnings were CAD 132.6 million or CAD 1.66 per share compared with CAD 7.5 million or CAD 0.10 per share from 2017.

Originations, as shown on slide 8, continue to show momentum. Originations increased by 12.4% from Q3 led by a 14.2% increase in our single-family residential products. Commercial originations grew 8.2%. For the full year, single-family residential originations grew 19.5% with commercial growth at 4.8% and total originations up 15.2%. Slide 10 shows origination growth by loan category.

Turning to slide 11, our net interest margin was 1.99% for the quarter, down slightly from the 2.03% that we reported in Q3. Margins in Q4 were helped by higher yields on our mortgage loans, offset by our funding requirements during the quarter.

Slide 13 shows the conservatism in our underwriting practices. Our loan-to-value on new originations was around 70% and the loan-to-value of the total portfolio was 59% as of year-end.

Slide 14 shows our net non-performing loans rose sequentially to 0.47% from the 0.34% of gross loans. This has been our acceptable risk tolerance level.

Slide 15 shows provisions for credit losses on an annualized basis for the past eight quarters. Provisions were 10 basis points of gross loans for the quarter and 13 basis points for the year and 5 basis points in 2017. The actual loss experience in the portfolio came in at 6 basis points in both 2018 and 2017.

Turning to the funding side, on slide 16 you can see our Oaken channel continues to demonstrate positive results. Oaken source deposits grew 30% from year-end 2017 to about CAD 2.7 billion. Growing our Oaken channel is key strategic focus for us at Home Capital. Our investments and technology will create more opportunities to improve the client experience.

We have diversified our funding mix away from demand deposits in favor of fixed-term GICs. Demand deposits were below CAD 500 million at the end of the year compared with nearly CAD 1.3 billion in liquid assets shown on slide 17. Management of our liquidity profile is a critical element in our sustainable risk culture. Our demand deposits for fixed-term GICs are well covered by our liquid asset portfolio.

In December 2018, we completed our substantial issuer bid to purchase approximately 18.2 million common shares or 22.7% of shares outstanding at CAD 16.50 a share. The transaction was accretive to book value earnings and return on equity. In 2019, we began to repurchase shares under Normal Course Issuer Bid. Bonus approved to purchase approximately 4.75 million shares. To-date, we have purchased 735,050 shares.

We're committed to return capital to shareholders in ways that are accretive in value-added. While our shares are trading significantly below book value, repurchases is the most effective option for creating value. Our board continues to review other options for returning capital to shareholders.

After completing the SIB, our common equity Tier 1 was at 18.94% at the end of 2018, down from 23.17% in 2017, still well above regulatory requirements and at the high end of the industry.

Finally, I would like to discuss the IT roadmap that Yousry remarked on earlier.

As Yousry said, after seeing the results for the past year, the growth we had demonstrated in the success of our sustainable risk culture, we're confident that this is the right time to make investments and position us for success into the future. This project is a multi-year upgrade of our core banking system, along with implementing new digital tools. The investment will roll out over three years with the majority of benefits at the end of full implementation. The investment will take the form of moderately higher-than-normal system spend, the bulk of which we expect will be capitalized. The impact on our reported financial statement in the near-term will arise from accelerated amortization as we retire our various legacy systems.

This will be called out as an item of note when we report future earnings and the words give you meaningful metrics on [ph] costs and (11:38) benefits at every stage of the program. The benefits will take the form of reduced operating expense, reduced capital expenditure with the potential for revenue synergies.

The benefits to our stakeholders will include better experience for customers, faster introduction of new products, improved productivity and engagement for employees. This initiative will transform many aspects of the way we do business and we are eager to take this next step in the development of Home Capital.

With that, I will turn it back to Yousry for concluding remarks.

While we're pleased with our progress in 2018, we know we still have more to do. We are investing in the future of Home Capital to build on the work we have done to-date, developing an industry-leading organization, delivering on great customer service and creating long-term shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Nik Priebe from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Okay, thanks. Looked like another quarter of solid origination activity and good momentum, particularly in the context of a slower seasonal period for real estate activity. Can you just kind of speak generally to the competitive conditions that you're seeing in the market for single-family and commercial assets?

Like, how are your competitors reacting to your market share gains? Have you seen evidence of them becoming a little more aggressive on pricing? Are you seeing more or less competition from non-federally regulated institutions? Just some insight on what you're seeing in the competitive landscape would be helpful.

Thanks. It's Yousry here. We are seeing competition from new entrants as well as from non-OSFI regulated financial institutions, such as private lenders at the low end of the beacon, as well as credit unions and other [ph] monolize (13:47) that are not OSFI regulated.

Having said that, as we've shown, our numbers have gone up and we believe that we're providing value to brokers through good service and having quality mortgages. So, it has not become a price war, it's more about offering the right service to people and for us it's about identifying that within B-20 compliance, there's still a lot more business we could do and that it would not necessarily have to be pushed to private lenders. So that is going to be one of our focuses going forward.

Okay. Got it. And just a question on non-interest expenses. It looks like they were held flat for a second consecutive quarter, which contributed to a bit of an improvement in the efficiency ratio there. I think in the outlook section, you kind of – you alluded to some of the elevated salaries and benefits expense that you would expect until the conclusion of the IT upgrade initiative. Are you able to give us a sense of what sort of incremental impact to the cost structure that might reflect? And I realize that the majority of those expenses will be capitalized, but I think last quarter you suggested that salaries and benefits could trend upwards to CAD 23 million to CAD 24 million over time. I guess, I'm just wondering whether that would be inclusive of hirings related to the IT upgrade or would it be incremental to that.

It should be around that level, Nik. I think, with any forecast, I think, that CAD 23 million number may be slightly higher. As we go through, we had some reductions in relation to some of our stock-based comp because of the variation in the share price. So that's one of the things that has a little bit of movement. But we are focused on keeping expenses as low as possible. That CAD 23 million is not a bad number for salaries and benefits looking forward. Again, you need to anticipate in terms of seasonality that because of the employee benefits are generally in the first quarter that tends to be a higher period of salary and benefit expense.

Okay. Okay. Thanks. And one last one for me. Just on net interest margins, there was a comment regarding prepayment income that was earned in the fourth quarter on the consumer retail loans portfolio. Can you tell us how much that was?

It was in the order of CAD 600,000, I think.

Okay, perfect. Thanks. That's it for me.

Our next question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi, there. Good morning. First question I had was on the OSFI, call it, I guess, proposals on deposit rules. Wondering if you have any comments from that document as to the potential impacts. And maybe you can talk about whether or not from a liquidity perspective, ultimately an EPS perspective and any some of the puts and takes, whether or not it's NIM yields and funding costs and OpEx?

I think based on our review of the proposal, we don't think there's going to be any impact on our business. We've already moved the length in our liquidity rising, reduced our demand deposits and are focused on developing our own channel, Oaken, which we mentioned in our earlier remarks. So, we're very comfortable in our ability to comply and absorb these changes without any impact on our business.

Okay. Thanks for that. And then the second question I had is, as you guys are, I guess, getting back to where you were beforehand. Can you maybe talk about, even if it's just kind of ballpark for your key lending segment, call it non-prime residential, prime residential and on the commercial side? Like, if you were to say what percentage of where you think normal would be given where we are in the environment today, like where would that be, in other words it's like on the non-prime presidential, do you think you're at 75% of where you would normally like to be? Again, take into account where are we with the lending and mortgage environments today?

Geoff, hi. It's Yousry. The number we like to measure is the market share because some of the numbers we reported in 2016 or 2015 the addressable market was much larger. So, we like to do more measure that we are getting our fair share of market share and we've stated openly that our goal is to be the number one lender in our space, which we accomplished. So that's the key for us is, is to lend one at a time. On a sustainable risk basis, we know how to look at every deal and price it accordingly and to get our market share. We don't have absolute targets. We have market share targets.

And so, then, on the non-prime side if we use that as an example, you've got number one market share. Is part of that aspiration just staying at where it is or presumably you'd probably want to try and increase the gap between yourselves and the rest of the competition and how you think about that?

Yeah. I don't think there's a CEO who wouldn't say they want to increase it, but we're not going to increase it by taking more risk. We're not going to increase it by pricing gains. We're going to do it intelligently within our risk models, and wherever that results is where we'll be and we think we can combine being number one with those two attributes as well.

Okay. And just the other question I had, maybe more so for Brad. Going back to the IT spend, is there anything you can give in terms of what the total spend would be? And then as mentioned, most of it's going to be capitalized, but what that rough mix might look like over the next few years?

Well, we already talked about guidance. As you know, we were anticipating that it would be approximately CAD 0.04 a quarter to CAD 0.16 on the year. So that would sit around CAD 10 million of items of note.

So that's a total spend is the CAD 10 million?

No, I'm just talk – that's the accelerated amortization that I discussed in my comments, of the items of note. Total spend, we including capital and operating is estimated to be in the first year in the order of CAD 25 million to CAD 30 million depending on the acceleration of our ability to execute on the plan.

That's not materially above – sorry, it is above what our ordinary course that are expected IT and infrastructure spending would be, which was ordinarily CAD 20 million in the order of magnitude. So, we continue to spend on our long-term platform, but it's not orders of magnitude above what our ordinary spends we've been in.

Okay, sorry. Just want to make sure I understand this. So, you normally are spending CAD 20 millionish a year? This spend here is CAD 25 million to CAD 30 million including that, so it's the incremental CAD 5 million to CAD 10 million?

That's correct.

Okay. And you're just upgrading, you're not replacing the SAP system, is that?

It is an upgrade that will take place over the course of three years.

Okay. So, upgrade on the same system though, as a replacement...

It will be a substantial improvement.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Marco.

I just wanted to follow up on Geoff's question with respect to the OSFI newly proposed liquidity requirements. Brad, I think you mentioned that you didn't foresee a material impact on to the firm with respect to these changes or these proposed changes.

I'm wondering is that because the firm has, in your view, adequate liquid assets on the balance sheet right now to comply with the newly proposed rules or is it because you have other levers to offset higher liquidity requirements?

Hi. I think based on our analysis, yes, our liquid assets in addition we lengthen our liquidity horizon substantially in terms of our term on GICs. And our models were quite conservative already in terms of how we are approaching liquidity.

All right. And then so, do these new rules change in any way the way you view the standby facility that you currently have?

Not at this time, no.

Okay. All right. And my next question was with respect to credit. There was an uptick this quarter in your gross impaired and net impaired loans both on the commercial and residential side. Is there anything there that that you can speak to or point to that that's driving the increase?

We had one commercial connection that resulted an increase in non-performing. Currently some components of that are at CCAA, but we're not anticipating at current time that we would require any further provisions than what was recorded in December 31.

Okay. And then on the residential side, is that concentrated in any region or was it more broad based?

It's broadly based.

All right. And just one last question for me with respect to capital deployment. You mentioned that buybacks are the most effective way right now of creating value for shareholders. So, just wondering is it your intention to fully utilize the NCIB this year?

Yes.

All right. Great. Thanks, guys. That's it for me.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Maybe I'll just start on the credit side. The increase in the non-performing loans, is it fairly evenly balanced between the commercial loan that you flagged and the residential or is it weighted more to one bucket over the other?

It's evenly weighted.

Okay. You've got an allowance for losses of, I think, 54% of your non-performing loans. It's lower than where it's been trending over the last year. Just any color in sort of why that number is – why you're comfortable with that number being lower than where it's been in the last couple of years?

We analyzed the portfolio and we run our models, and we're comfortable with the current provisioning and levels that we have. And IFRS 9 is a little more volatile. So, you're going to see some of those changes as it's more model driven in future forecast, as opposed to backward looking.

Right. Okay. And is that why then, I guess, your PCLs actually were down slightly this quarter from where they've been trending on average over the past year. But your non-performing ratio has gone up slightly. So, is this an IFRS 9 dynamic or how do we sort of connect those two diverging themes?

I would put you back to IFRS 9, and I think we've been pretty consistent in saying that you will see more volatility in some of those numbers quarter-to-quarter because of the predictive impact on the models. And, for example, right now some of those predictive models are saying that there's going to be a more benign economic environment in the future which would probably then leave your models to come up with a lower overall level of provisioning.

Got you. Understood. Your language in the MD&A around your net interest margin for 2019, I think it suggests that you see some pressure in your NIM in 2019. Am I interpreting that right into what sort of degree are you expecting?

Well, I think we're thinking to be reasonably consistent with where we ended up in Q4. And just to give you an anecdotal example, in Q4, there was quite a bit of competition for deposits and deposits rates went up. And so far, we've been able to raise money at lower rates in this quarter, but at approximately the same daily volume. So, there are a number of competitive factors that do come into place, but they're difficult to predict. And we'll deal with them as best we can. And we do our best to maintain the margins on the asset side.

Understood. And then my last question would just be, the expense guidance, I think last quarter you had suggested that CAD 60 million a quarter overall was a realistic range give or take on a quarterly basis for 2019. Is that guidance still reasonable?

Yes.

Okay. That's good for me. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Edward Friedman from McLean & Partners. Please go ahead.

Hello. With the...

Hi.

Was the pressure on your net interest margin as I highlighted in your report, especially on the deposit side and your desire to keep relatively high CET1 ratio I think in the area of about 16% to 17%. Can you highlight how you plan on achieving industry equivalent ROE which is around 15%?

And also, in your proxy from last year, it was stated that ROE is a target for executive compliant. However, the target is not disclosed. I was just wondering why it's not disclosed and will you disclose it in your upcoming proxy. Thank you.

We would expect over the course of the next year, three years to come close to mid-teens ROEs. And that's going to be through combination of earnings and strategies to return capital to shareholders. And we're currently preparing our proxy circular for the upcoming AGM, and we'll consider your comment and disclosing the ROE part.

Thank you for that. But when I did my calculations based on your interest margin and desired CET1 ratio, it's very difficult to get to 16% with targets that you are mentioning in terms of non-interest expense in what is expected to be fairly pressurized NIM environment. Can you provide a little bit more detail on how are you planning to get to that industry equivalent ROE?

Well, other than working towards improving our margins and reduction in expenses the implementation of our IT roadmap, the improvements and efficiencies that we'll get, scenarios to return on capital that we could employ over the course of the next 36 months. There are a number of factors that we would utilize to get close to or achieve that maintained ROE.

Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hi. Thank you, and good morning. First question is around the loan loss provisions and what appear to be a reserve release in single-family residential. I'm just wondering if you can just talk about why the reserve release there and it seems to be coming from change in risk parameters and models and what happened there to drive that release.

We had looked across our portfolio and we released some provisions related to our insured portfolio due to the loan loss experience.

Okay. And so, if you were to maybe just give us a little bit more color and breakout the near prime portfolio, the Alt-A portfolio. Can you give us some sort of commentary around what happened there?

You're referring to the single-family residential mortgage?

Yeah. That's right. So, you mentioned that there was the insurance portfolio is what was driving reserve releases. I'm just wondering if you could just talk about the uninsured portfolio. And what it would have look like, if we just stripped out the insured portfolio?

We released CAD 3 million from the insured portfolio and the uninsured portfolio had some growth. So, we adjusted the provisions really into that.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. In terms of the capital deployment plan, forgive me if I'm just missing this. But I don't see any commentary around the dividend, what are the thoughts around instituting the dividend and the timing around that?

The board is reviewing the strategy's return on capital and every meeting as part of our capital plan. At the current time the thinking is to focus on the current discount to realize and work through the NCIB. The NCIB at current market based on the shares will result in returning about CAD 80 million to shareholders this year, which is a substantial amount and we recognize that we do have further capital to deploy, but we're also looking at other investments that are there and we'll keep on doing that on a quarterly basis.

Okay. And related to the net interest margin, looking at the net interest spread disclosure that you have still declining in the Q4, obviously that's directionally negative for the NIM going into 2019.

Can you talk about that spread in Q1? You mentioned, and we can see it in the data, the deposit rates have come down, but what's going on with mortgage rates and the competitive environment there? Is it also coming down in sympathy, and so that net interest spread is staying flat or are you getting some improvement?

Yeah, it's Yousry here again. There is a NIM recurring into all these spreads that you're talking about, the mortgage deposit rate, the candidates deposit rate. And right now, it doesn't look like there's a need to bring down mortgage rates based on NIM reversion. At the same time, if everything stood still, deposits are pressured downwards now on a relative to Canada basis, and then at some point that would revert to a change to the mortgage rates as well. But right now, we're pretty close to our standard spreads between deposit and mortgages.

And by standards, you mean, like sort of pre-2017 levels of like 3% or standardizing more like 2018 average of 2.40%, 2.5%?

Yes, they do have. The new world of spread.

Right. Okay. And in terms of the originations, I just want to get a clearer picture here. I mean, CAD 1 billion for Q4 is a pretty good number for the core near parameter of the traditional product. Kind of in line with 2016 levels where you were more in a normal course operations at that point in a different market, I'm just wondering how much can you attribute? Is there a rate competition here? Is it aggressive in terms of lending standards? What kind of tweaks were maybe made in Q4 to drive such a strong number on originations?

Just continuing the ball rolling on what we started all year. It's not price competition, it is service competition, it's getting out of products that the market needs, it's easing our process as best we can and it just repeat, repeat, repeat without adding to our risk parameters.

We are very careful on that. We want to build for the long-term. I think, I said it in an earlier question is that, our goal is one mortgage at a time and we look for market share as opposed to the absolute amounts that we do, and it's worth for us. And we continue to also focus on brokers that give us regular business so we can serve them better as opposed to brokers that might send us a deal once every year or once every two years, you're not affected for it. So, by focusing on people that understand our model and by training them about what our model, it has shown some efficiencies.

Okay. And in terms of that same within the sandbox or within the non-increasing credit risk, if I look at the LTVs of uninsured mortgages originated in Q4 2018 versus, let's say, Q4 2017 for example, there's a tick up there in the weighted average LTVs and in particular in like B.C. and Alberta, modest in Ontario, but probably negligible. So, I'm just wondering, I guess, is there a greater risk appetite in B.C., in Alberta or is that you're just kind of playing along with the games going on there, given the headwinds and the real estate prices?

There is a greater risk appetite, it's just looking at one deal at a time and making sure we're satisfied that we're properly protected. And as you said, the numbers are close from year-to-year, but there isn't an expansion of risk appetite by any means.

Okay. Couple more questions. Just first, we talked about the set ratio or another question was around the set ratio kind of being around the 16% to 17% level. I just want to confirm that that is where your comfort level resides on that front. And then, if you can make a comment as well around the leverage ratio in the 7% range, obviously lower than last year just given the capital position, but more in line with where we were in 2016 and prior to the crisis is 7% on a leverage level above where you're comfortable as well. And if you can sort of comment on that.

Jaeme, I think on your comment, we're [ph] dealing (39:51) with all of your comments.

Okay. So, last line of question is just around the risk management section in the MD&A of the outlook – or sorry of the annual report here. I noticed that the couple of changes in the – in sort of the ordering and then some of the language here. So, first off, I know is that information security and privacy risk was bumped up from another factor to a top and emerging risk, I was wondering if you can provide some commentary around why that occurred?

I think it's just part of the nature of business. I think in cyber and other risk is much higher profile and in every industry that secular financial services, so it's appropriate to move that forward in the risk discussion.

Okay. So that's more of a general comment around the theme I guess of the industry as opposed to anything in particular or just with capital?

Yes, that's correct.

Yeah. And then, I also noticed that attracting and retaining talent was removed as a risk, does that mean that you feel any concerns around the talent side is completely eliminated at this point. And there is no risk there anymore?

It completely would be a very strong word Jim, but yeah, we feel we're in a position now where we can attract talent from anywhere. We have a really, really good strong culture and a strong team that we're just building upon.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from front Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Morning.

Just looking at the residential mortgage portfolio originations, very strong, looking at the discharges as a percentage of opening balances. Is that where you wanted to be or do you think there's still work to be done there to sort of converge the origination growth rate with the loan growth rate?

We're very pleased with where we are on this chart as the inverse of that is our renewals. We are renewing at a very, very positive rate. We have changed a lot of our processes in customer service and how we interact with the client to improve our renewals and to offer them a mortgage that's suited for their needs. So, we're very pleased with where that is. And I think we expect it to continue at the levels we are.

So, a similar ratio of discharges to opening balance, modeling going forward?

Yeah.

Okay. And then within the deposit mix Oaken Financial's are growing contribution, how do you see that trending through 2019 and 2020?

We'll let, Benjy Katchen, who leads that part of the business speak to that question.

Hello. We will continue to grow Oaken Financial proportionally to department.

Sorry, can you give us like a percentage, how big could it get? How big would you want to see it going?

Oaken by CAD 700 million in 2018 and we're continuing the great progress.

We expect that rate as a minimum Brenna.

Okay. And then within the NIM, looked like some pressure in the commercial – the commercial book and that was referenced in the MD&A. Can you give us a bit of some guidelines on kind of where you see the yields in that asset class trending through 2019, how stiff is the competition there?

There necessary competition in the commercial world because there are large deals, that's one deal at a time, would get the price. Every deal one at a time, we will look at it and our pricing unfortunately improved to what we expect to be the risk around it. I think for the rest of the year margins are going to be relatively where they are. There is a lot of competition for commercial and other financial institutions trying to fill the void of a single family with commercial. But we will continue to take care in pricing each one, one at a time.

Okay. And then just what was in the interest in fees on the line of credit facilities ticked up in the quarter relative to last quarter?

I'm just checking.

With an interest expense?

Just one second Brenna. We added the warehouse line. So some of those fees were included there as a new facility that we put through in Q4.

Okay. That's it from me. Thanks.

I would now like to turn the call back to Jill MacRae for closing remarks.

I just want to say thank you to everybody for joining us. Please contact us if you have any further questions. Looking forward to speaking with you on the Q1 conference call and wish all a good day.

This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.