corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Incorporated Second


Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any


background noise. After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.


[Operator instructions]. Thank you. Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Okay. Thank you, Operator. Good morning, everyone. I’m delighted to welcome everyone to the


Home Capital second-quarter report. During the quarter Home Capital endured a number of


adversities outside the Company. We are located in downtown Toronto, and we endured a G20,


which put Toronto downtown into a virtual lockout for a week in the busiest month of the year,


which is June. We endured an earthquake – fortunately, no damage. We had downtown Toronto


hydro failure which shutdown the hydro for 24 hours in downtown Toronto. We had an interest rate


hike by the Bank of Canada and threats of more, which came after the quarter ended.


But, notwithstanding all this external adversity and notwithstanding all the pessimists saying that


the housing market is all dried up and nothing much is happening, I’m delighted to report that Home


Capital delivered its best-ever quarter and delivered a net income of about 43.4 million for the


quarter, which was up 25% year-over-year. In the first six months of this year over last year, our net


income is up about 32-33%, so a terrific first six months of 2010.


And earnings per share followed right along. On a fully diluted basis, they were up 26% for the first


quarter and year-over-year they were up some 29%, so earnings, net income, earnings per share,


fully diluted per share all up very, very – in a very healthy manner. And the real story behind what


we have done is in the originations. We had a terrific quarter. We produced some 2.01 billion in


new mortgages. Of that, 1.92 was residential, and 95.5% of our originations was residential. We


didn’t do it on the back of commercial, we didn’t do it on the back of Visa originations; a solid 95.5%


were garden-variety originations that we put on the book during the second quarter.


Of the residentials, of that 95.5%, 60% was residential – of that residential was insured. Although


the classic business, our regular core business that we’ve done for the last 25 years, was up 120%


year-over-year, it couldn’t keep up with the insured product, which had a super quarter and helped


to carry us through a very strong quarter.


So I just want to reiterate the results were produced by a very low-risk type of business. We’re not


out there taking much by way of chances. We have a very careful credit policy, and the things that


we’ve done over the years with good service, good attention to the broker network, competitive


products, have resulted in real a – and I think we are continuously gaining market share over the


competitors that are in the marketplace led to an absolutely super quarter in all respects for us.


And what I want to also indicate – that as we look at the housing market and we look ahead on the


housing market – I’ll say more about it later – we continue to see a very healthy housing market.


And I’ll comment more on that. We don’t see it, that it’s suddenly going to go into a cocoon and go


to sleep all of a sudden. The results that we produced, produced strong return on equity. We are


still over the 27%, we’re an industry-leading return on equity quarter-over-quarter, and we are into


our 13th year of return on – consecutive years where return on equity in each and every one of


those years was over 20%, the last seven over 25, which is a record unrivaled by anyone else in


the deposit-taking institution business in Canada.


The continuous quality of our assets, the total assets under administration, which include our


balance sheet and off-balance sheet, is up some 40% year-over-year, and we now sit at 13.3 billion
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


at the end of June, which is on- and off-balance sheet. I might add, all of those will be back on the


balance sheet under the new IFRS rules. So we won’t talk about what’s after this year, probably


we’ll not be talking about what’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet and securitized by itself.


That’s one of the things that will all come back and you’ll have it all presented as one consolidated


picture.


The results we also obtained – I would like to point out it was done with a very, very strong credit


profile, and our non-performing loans went down to 0.67%. Now, when one looks at the period from


1994 to 2007, we are very close to our historic level over that 12-13 period. Another few basis


points, and we are right in the average of that period. And we think that the trend in the non-


performing will continue to go down; of course, more slowly than before, but go slowly down over


the rest of the year, or may stay flat. It’s one of those things we don’t know. But, the indications of


the credit on the mortgages is very good.


The trend on early arrears is way down. People are not missing their first check. We find that


people are able to correct any problems they have, that – the housing market and the way, as a


leading indicator because we do lend to people who have, usually, a few more problems than the


average borrower. We’re finding that the public out there, contrary to what you sometimes read in


the paper, the public is very healthy in the housing market. They’ve got their credit under control.


They are able to make their payments. They are paying on a timely basis. They are not doing crazy


things. And we’re delighted that the arrears have come down as they have.


This is somewhat about half of what they were a year ago, but it’s even more dramatic in the write-


offs. I think, in the quarter, our write-offs were about a third or a quarter of last year, and we see


that trend continuing, that we may have 0.5, 0.6 in non-performing, which would be quite historic


average for us, for a variety of reasons, just behavior, but it doesn’t result in losses. People resolve


the problem themselves, which we’re always delighted, and the property gets sold or refinanced


and we have no loss, and the matter gets resolved in that manner.


So we performed these results with a vastly improved credit profile over what it was a year ago,


and our capital is again running at close to historic highs. We got a tier 1 at 16.7, and I should tell


you that that tier 1, in accordance with all the principles forthcoming, is a rock-solid 100% equity.


We don’t have any derivatives, we don’t have any funny products in there. We don’t have any of the


other fancy stuff that has been put into some capital one ratios – or Tier 1 ratios. That is now going


to have to be phased out by the new Basel rules. We never took part in any of those. We may be


old-fashioned; we believe in profits, we believe in good capital returns, and we believe in equity


being equity – just common equity, garden-variety, no preferred shares in there. And we’re


delighted. The total capital ratio, which includes other calculations, is a solid 17.9%, again among


the highest in Canada among deposit-taking institutions.


So the capital is strong, the credit performance is great. We continue to be able to operate with no


external debt and no preferred shares, and we still came in with a return on equity very high.


Now I want to emphasize that we put a statement in which is representing – about IFRS, which


represents both our best information and belief. The best information and belief of our accounting


auditors, Ernst & Young, and we are using an outside consulting service from Deloitte’s, and


notwithstanding all those – and we are in constant consultation with OSFI on all of their advisories


and what their policies are. Nobody yet knows exactly what the final rules will be, and it’s a bit


difficult to give predictions based on stuff that is still in a state of flux. The cake has not yet been


baked yet. We do not know what the final mix will be of what’s capital, what’s not capital, how


they’re going to treat all the securitizations. And the cooks are still in the kitchen mixing it up and a


dash of this and a dash of that.


But notwithstanding that, and our best knowledge and our own auditors’ best knowledge, and the


outside consultant’s best knowledge – we’re quite comfortable in saying that we honestly believe