Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President-Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
David Cluff — Executive Vice President, Enterprise Risk Managment & Chief Risk Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Nikolaus Priebe — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc.
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is James, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group First Quarter 2018 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise, and after the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I'd now like to introduce Laura Lepore, Investor Relations.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the first quarter 2018. I'm very pleased to introduce with me on the call today: Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. We have also several members of our management on the call this morning, David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer; Ed Karthaus, Executive Vice President of Sales; and Benjy Katchen, Executive Vice President of Deposits & Consumer Lending.

So, before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call may provide management the opportunity to discuss financial performance and conditions on Home Capital, and as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project or control could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. Finally, a link to slides accompanying this live webcast is available on our website at homecapital.com.

With that, I'll now turn it over to Yousry Bissada.

Thank you, Laura, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. This morning, I'm going to speak to you about our progress, and Brad will then provide some detail on our financial results.

There are three main areas I'd like to share with you. First, we started the year with good progress in our quarterly results. Home has taken another positive step forward towards our goal of establishing Home as the number one Alt-A lender in Canada, and I'm very pleased to say Home is back in every aspect of our business.

The momentum we achieved over the last six months is showing results. There is still work to do. However, we remain optimistic that our business model and our focus on our service will enable us to grow volumes sustainably going forward. Second, we ended the quarter with a robust balance sheet and strong liquidity position. And, third, we made progress on our top near-team strategic priorities.

Turning to the first quarter results. For the second straight quarter we see a meaningful increase in total residential and commercial originations to nearly CAD 1.2 billion. We had good momentum, helping drive 33% origination growth over Q4 2017. We saw a strong demand for our core residential uninsured classic products, as well as our insured prime accelerator products.

In addition to our originations, we saw higher levels of renewal, helping to boost our loan balance this quarter. We expected to see these renewal improvements following the many initiatives we put in place over the past few months to better serve our renewing customers. B-20, as we have discussed in the past, is expected to make it more difficult for certain customers to re-qualify elsewhere. It's too soon to determine the effect of B-20 alone in our renewals as much of the renewals in Q1 were offered in the prior quarter, pre-B-20 implementation. We expect to have a better sense of its effects over the next few quarters.

In terms of our commercial business, we continue to make progress on building our pipeline and our team. We are seeing strong market fundamentals and demand. However, we are seeing increased competition which could result in near-term pressure on rates and spreads. We remain optimistic we'll be able to win our share of business, given our strong track record and knowledge in the commercial financing business.

We're confident that the progress we're making in service will continue to drive growth in residential and commercial originations. For example, mortgage applications are matching better with our product offerings as brokers are including more complete documentation up front, helping to reduce the turnaround times. We continue to invest in educating our broker on what fits our profile, so underwriting teams are able to focus on the right applications, running applications that don't beat the most rigorous risk profile. This improves turnaround times to broker resulting in better service to the broker and their time.

We've also continued to invest in our people by enhancing internal training initiatives as part of our journey of continuously improving our service. We have grown our head count in our real estate secured lending relative to the prior quarter, and have also created a dedicated team to manage our Prime A and equity line Visa business.

This helps to streamline our process for our customers creating efficiencies and capacities for all our underwriting teams and the various products they review. We're pleased with the quality of the new business we're generating, as well as the overall performance of our loan book, which continues to perform strongly.

Now, looking at our capital base. We ended the quarter with a robust balance sheet and our liquidity and leverage ratios remained strong. We maintained one of the highest levels of CET 1 capital among alternative mortgage lenders in large Canadian banks at 23.64%. Our capital base provide an extra layer of security for any future market headwinds for many years to come as well as providing the flexibility to be very competitive in our markets by investing in technology and capital to develop our products and services.

In terms of the bigger picture in our short-term strategic priorities, while our focus remains on near-term priorities needed to get the business back on track, we've also been working diligently on a longer term strategy, the strategy of our driving responsible growth for the next decade. We undertook a deep examination across all our businesses access – to assess our capabilities, the viability and growth potential of our business model and product offerings.

After this quarter, we concluded our underlying core business is sound and that the Alt-A segment must continue to drive our profitability and will remain a main area of growth going forward. Other products and services will be added in opportune times.

We believe that customers are demanding different ways of dealing with financial institutions, and we want to have options for them on whether they prefer mobile, online, face-to-face service or over-the-phone service. We believe there are several opportunities to introduce digital solutions at Home.

Over the coming months and years, we're looking to transform the way our brokers and customers who wish to deal with us digitally so they can interact with us. This transformation will not only improve their experiences with us, but also improve the scalability of our business models and provide us with better data to help us start using AI and to make better decisions including the management of risk across our businesses. Our digital initiatives will allow us to innovate more quickly and to better respond to market opportunities in the future.

Our long-term strategy is a continually evolving journey that allows us to respond and adapt to market opportunities and challenges as they arise and to allow Home to best service clients and brokers now and into the future.

We believe we have the expertise to be the best operators in our markets, and we're equipped with the capital, the funding, the relationship, and the right team to be the dominant player in the Canadian Alt-A market. With this assessment maintaining and growing our core business is what must drive and prioritize our operating and capital planning, risk management and strategic decisions.

Finally on B-20. On January 1, 2018, we fully implemented the key changes outlined in OSFI's B-20 guideline, which included new stress test on all our uninsured mortgage applications. As prudent lenders, we're actively monitoring possible impacts to our business from regulatory changes and emerging real estate trends in the housing market. We're also monitoring these trends to ensure we continue to apply a conservative approach to our residential lending business. We will continue to communicate with you as we learn more on the trends in our findings.

We expect to have a better sense of the full impact of the new B-20 guidelines rules later this year on borrower behavior as well as the impact of first-time home buyers. In February, we highlighted that we were seeing early indication of an uptick in new borrowers with higher Beacon scores. That trend has continued.

Since the beginning of this year, we have seen further signs of a cooling housing market particularly our two largest markets, Toronto and Vancouver, which posted lower sales activity and muted real estate price appreciation. The impact on volumes during the busier spring and summer month remains to be seen, but we are pleased to see strong employment rates and immigration levels which helped maintain a healthy demand for Canadian real estate. The fundamentals for housing and therefore mortgage demand remain strong.

Moving forward, we remain optimistic we will continue to see growth in our business and expect to get our fair market share given the strength of our franchise across our footprint and our focus on two of the fastest growing borrower demographics: self-employed and new immigrants to Canada.

To recap, we ended the first quarter with good growth and on track to regain our number one market share position this year. Our balance sheet and CET 1 ratio position us strongly to be flexible and competitive in our markets. Near-term, we're focused on improving operational excellence including people, process and technology to drive increased profitability, productivity and cost efficiency. The journey of our digital transformation will begin this year. Most importantly, Home is back.

With that, I'll turn it over to Brad.

Thank you, Yousry, and good morning, everyone. To echo Yousry, we are pleased with the strong progress we made during the quarter on many fronts. We delivered growth in originations in our every single-family home balances. Our portfolio continued to perform well with low losses, and our liquidity and deposit position are very stable.

Turning to slide 8 of our presentation. We reported net income of CAD 34.6 million. Sequentially net income improved 13%. On a year-over-year basis, net income declined 40.4%, mainly due to reduced revenue from the lower loan balances, taking into account long tails and reduced mortgage originations in 2017. I remind you that lower margins loan balances, combined with some elevated expenses, will continue to be a headwind when comparing to results prior to the liquidity event.

Sequentially, diluted earnings per share grew in step to CAD 0.43. However, it dropped 52.2% year-over-year as a result of both lower net income and a higher share count. Non-interest expenses were down CAD 14.1 million to CAD 51.4 million in the first quarter compared to Q4 2017, a 21.5% improvement. Q4 non-interest expenses included CAD 11.4 million of expenses related to intangible asset impairment charge and cost related to the exit of the PSiGate business and litigation.

Compared to the prior year, Q1 expenses were down CAD 13.1 million, a 23.3% improvement mainly on lower salaries and benefits expense due to reduced staff levels, and Q1 last year included a CAD 7.4 million provision related to Project EXPO restructuring cost.

As our volume of business has increased, we have been increasing our staffing levels, and as a result, we expect expenses related to salaries and benefits to increase between CAD 5 million to CAD 6 million over Q1 2018 levels of subsequent quarters this year. Due to the lingering impact of certain costs stemming from the liquidity event, other operating costs will remain at the current level and increased modestly in connection with new initiatives.

Discussing NIM and net interest margin. NIM in Q1 was 2.02%, 42 basis points lower on a year-over-year basis and flat sequentially. Lower net interest income generated from a core single-family portfolio and residential portfolio and higher interest expense on deposits and the standby fee on the credit facility, reduced total net interest income, and put pressure on NIM compared to Q1 2017. This was partially offset by a decrease in the relative proportion of lower yielding cash resources and securities.

Looking forward, we expect net interest income to continue to improve as we execute on our plans to grow loan originations and improve retention to grow our loan book. We are active in discussions to replace our existing standby facility that expires in the end of June. As we do so, we are looking to ensure that the facilities of that size is in line with the current liquidity profile of the company that means a smaller facility reflecting a much lower level of demand deposits compared to the same period last year.

Loans under administration totaled CAD 22.5 billion at the end of Q1, flat from the end of 2017. Lower origination levels and active sales during 2017 resulted in a 17% decline in loans under administration on a year-over-year basis. Total loans on balance sheet which drive our core results saw a positive growth of 1% to CAD 15.2 billion from the end of Q4 2017. However, they remain significantly lower than CAD 18.6 billion held on balance sheet a year ago.

We were pleased to see our non-securitized single-family residential loan balance that has started to increase this quarter by 2.3% to CAD 10.3 billion from year end, thanks to increased originations and higher renewal levels. We remain cautiously optimistic that loan growth will improve as we continue to take market share and focus on retention efforts.

Turning to originations on slide 9. In Q1, we advanced CAD 1.16 billion in total mortgages across all product lines as we continue to build on good momentum within our business and focus on providing better service. While originations remain well below at historical levels, total originations were up for a second straight quarter from CAD 872.1 million in Q4 2017 and from CAD 385.1 million in Q3 2017.

Our single-family residential mortgage lending contributes to the bulk of total Q1 origination growth totaling CAD 869.7 compared to CAD 566 million in Q4 2017. Multi-unit residential contributed originations of CAD 104.9 million while non-residential commercial mortgage originations, which includes store and apartment mortgages increased to CAD 184.7 million compared to CAD 111.2 million in Q4 2017.

Turning to slide 10, 11 and 12 highlighting our credit performance. I'll note that effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instrument accounting. Our mortgage portfolio continues to perform well during the first quarter. Provision for credit losses or PCL totaled CAD 6 million in Q1 2018 as calculated under IFRS 9. We have not restated for prior period so the results are not directly comparable to prior periods when we use IFRS 9 accounting.

Provision for credit losses for the quarter primarily related to the single-family residential mortgage portfolio reflecting portfolio growth and the impact of forward-looking macroeconomic information. Q1 PCL also includes a CAD 3 million charge for a single non-residential commercial property. The full balance on this loan has now been provided for. This was offset by improving credit quality of the remaining commercial portfolio. As this is our first quarter reporting under IFRS 9, certain refinements were made to our methodology and risk parameters during the quarter. This impact was reflected in PCL, but is not material. We expect our PCL to be more volatile going forward under IFRS 9.

Provision as a percentage of gross uninsured loans remained low at 20 basis points, compared to 12 basis points in Q4 2017 and 16 basis points in Q1 2017. We continue to observe strong credit profiles and stable loan-to-value ratios across our portfolio which continues to support low delinquency and non-performing rates and ultimately low write-offs.

Net write-offs are CAD 1.1 million and represented 0.3% of gross loans compared to 0.11% in Q4 2017 and unchanged from Q1 2017. Net non-performing loans represented by Stage 3 loans under IFRS 9 as a percentage of gross loans remained low at 0.29% at the end of Q1 2018, compared to 0.3% at Q4 2017 and 0.24% at Q1 2017.

Turning to liquidity and deposits on slide 13. We reported liquid assets of CAD 1.45 billion at the end of Q1, compared to CAD 1.65 billion at the end of 2017 and CAD 2.1 billion at the end of Q1 2017. Total deposits were CAD 12.08 billion, slightly lower than CAD 12.17 billion at the end of 2017 and CAD 16.25 billion a year ago.

The year-over-year reduction in deposit balances reflect elevated redemptions of the company's high interest savings account offering during Q2 2017 and lower funding requirements due to lower originations. Of the total deposit balances at the end of Q1 2018, demand deposits totaled CAD 476 million, compared to CAD 11.61 billion of deposit that are payable on fixed dates including CAD 300 million in institutional deposit notes.

Finally, looking at our capital on slide 14, our capital ratios remain well above internal targets and regulatory minimums. At the end of Q1 2018, our CET 1 capital ratio increased to 23.64%, compared to the 23.17% last quarter from net income generation.

With that, I will now turn to the operator for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just a question on B-20 and certainly you're not alone in giving some, I guess, guidance at its early days in terms of the impact on your portfolio, especially, obviously, in single-family business. But we are five-and-a-half months into the year. I'm trying to get a sense of what you're seeing in terms of renewals, under what you would consider due to B-20 and what kind of originations you're seeing or commitments that you're giving just to get an idea of where the portfolio was going for 2018.

Hi, Steve, it's Yousry. On renewals as I mentioned in my opening comments in the first quarter, we had very good success with renewals, but we're not sure how much really is B-20 because we – you offer renewals the quarter before. So somebody whose mortgage is coming up in January or February, even March could get an offer in the quarter before. So, we haven't been able to isolate how much of the renewal book is because of B-20. No doubt though, we think it will help retain some of book because some of these mortgage orders may not be able to qualify elsewhere.

Going further, I mean our renewals percentages have been increasing over the last six months. Every single month, we've taken some very good initiatives to help us do that. So, as I will very much share as we learn ourselves. Again, it is just a little bit too early.

On the front end – there's a whole series of things in the market. I think myself and the other leaders that are affected by B-20 are having difficulty pinning the number because there's a lot of change going on in the marketplace. Private lenders are getting some business because A, they don't have the stress test; and B, sometimes they don't have the same documentation requirements for us. But partner lenders have limited capital. And at some point, they're going to have to be more particular about what they can lend or they're going to simply run out and people are going to have to find alternatives like us again. They come and look at what we can do for them.

There're also some large financial institutions that are not under B-20 but have said they will go under B-20 sometime this year. Some of the credit unions, for example in Québec, some of the corporate credit unions in Ontario, and some of the credit unions out of BC, but they didn't go live January 1 on B-20. Some of them say they'll do it sometime this year without announcing when. Others have said April and so and so forth. We don't have the full effect of that because we could be more competitive if more people were under B-20, so that we'll have the same rule book. So, that's where we are. Does that answer your question Steve?

Yeah. I just – I guess the follow-up to that would just be when I look at your maturity schedule and, certainly on the single-family, I think it's CAD 6 billion to CAD 8 billion of mortgages that are renewing. Is that a fair assumption that – and is management's assumption that is that going to stabilize or would you expect that that amount to shrink?

I hope I'm answering your question. We expect to get better renewal rates than the company has ever had in the 30-year history. A, we have lot of smart initiatives to help us with renewals and B-20 will so help. So, a combination of those things, we think, we will have better renewals than anytime, not just last year, but anytime in the 30-year history of this company.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Go ahead, please. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. First question I had was, when I take a look at your GIC rates, you guys have been for the last several months, I would say, kind of at the high – offering the high rates or near the high across the curve. And at the same time, you've obviously got a lot of capital in place. I'm just wondering how to think about how you balance that of which you might need to raise some deposits to fund the loan book relative to the excess equity capital if you've gotten? And whether or not there's may be some sort of regulatory capital compliance requirement angle that we need to think about?

Geoff, it's Brad. The mortgages are generally funded down through GICs now. We are looking for some alternative financing. The capital ratios generally have relatively little to do with the funding requirements on origination. So, you've seen over the course of the past few months we've raised quite a lot of deposits in Q3, and we have followed a deliberate strategy running those options to match our origination profile. So, to the extent that we're required to raise GICs to fund mortgage originations, that's what we'll do.

So, we've maintained a relatively stable level of deposits and we've lowered our overall liquid assets to utilize to fund mortgage originations, and we have said that we will be aggressive to regain market share. So, we're willing to take a bit of spread compression, and we'll see us becoming – we're a leader within the areas where we want to raise money because that's how we fund our mortgage originations, and we have deliberately stayed away from a lot of demand deposits and therefore we always will be a leader in the GICs.

Okay.

I'd also – Sorry, Geoff. It's Benjy Katchen. I would also add that we have a rate strategy that differs between our – the private broker channel as well as our Oaken channel. In the deposit broker channel, our rates are set in line with our historic competitors. So, while those rates may have risen over the last quarter, interest rates generally have also risen and we're in line with our historic competitors in that channel.

In Oaken on the other hand, the rates are slightly higher, however we don't pay a broker commission in that channel. And those rates are set in line with the retail competitors which are different competitor set than the broker channel.

Yeah. Sorry. I mean what I was getting at was just obviously with the issues that were happening last year for the pricing on the GICs wasn't as competitive, but I think it was about last November, December on the deposit broker side I kind of noticed on a daily basis you guys have been pretty much at or near the top across the curve that was kind of my comment there. Okay. So, that's fine.

Just my other question I had was the specific commercial loan provision that you booked in the quarter. I think that was the same loan that you had a provision last quarter, just wondering if you can kind of give some color around it in terms of like what type of commercial loan is it? Any sort of details you can give on the geography, the history of kind of what's been going on here?

Geoff, I think in relation to history it was in form of base loan and it now has been fully provided for.

Okay. And is it a traditional commercial loan and what's the reason for another provision, because I think you guys talked about it being you thought you made inadequate provision last quarter, was it just the value of the property had gone down and hence you needed to take a further provision or?

The short answer is yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Nik Priebe from BMO Capital Markets. Go ahead, please. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. I just wonder if you could provide a bit of additional color on efforts to replace the Berkshire facility when that comes due midyear. I'm just wondering would you be looking to right-size that to match a lower level of demand deposits going forward, or would you be principally looking for relief on the standby fees? Just what sort of terms you'd be looking for in terms of improvement on that when it matures?

Nik, I think the easiest way to answer that is it would be in line with our level of demand deposits. And so, therefore, it would be a much smaller facility that we're currently carrying.

Okay, got it. Thanks. And then still very well-capitalized clearly carrying an excess amount of capital. I'm just wondering what sort of time line should investors think about for the deployment of that excess capital? Is that going to be a bit of a gradual process over the next few years?

Yes.

Okay. That's it for me. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Morning.

Just a question on the expected non-interest expense growth of CAD 5 million to CAD 6 million. I guess it sounds like hiring has been pretty substantial subsequent to the quarter as we're expecting that to increase that much. Just wondering what that area focus is on the hiring increase?

It's Yousry here. I'll answer that. Even after hiring the individuals that we want or need to hire, we will be well below, about 130 people below than we would have been a year ago. We're just – got openings in certain areas as we grow in technology, in certain areas we grow in underwriting and ramping up for higher volumes. But I just want to make it very clear, we'd still be well below where we were historically. It's just that we have not fulfilled all our approved number of FTEs right now.

Okay. And just on the technology front, it sounds like a fairly ambitious strategy to improve the digital profile. Is that one of the main focuses, I guess, of the hiring now you've done subsequent to the quarter?

Not one of the main, just one of. And I don't – I – having run a digital company, I don't think we're being very ambitious. We're being slowly methodical and doing it in pieces. First, we're going to as I mentioned in my comments, first, we're going to improve – for those people that wish to be served digitally, we're going to have them access Home to find out about their products and services digitally. That would be the first step. Once we accomplish that, we'll look at what other areas we need to grow. But it is not a major part of the hire, it's a part of the hire.

All right. Great. And just one more quickly if I can, just on the Stage 3 loans, it looks like the risk parameters for both the single-family and commercial mortgages added about CAD 6.5 million to the provisioning in the quarter. Just wondering what changed from January 1st to, I guess, March 31st that caused the uptick in the model and the risk parameters.

When we start to look through some of this, we subscribed to third party for economic detail. And as we have through some stress testing, we have increased some of the risks related to that. So, that was one of the bigger items we went through. But as far as auto refinances, you can imagine we have spent a lot of time in IFRS 9, but now that it's live, we had put through a number of changes to our model. And again, the thing that – one of the things that we do know is because it's forward-looking, you can expect to see more volatility in that provisioning as opposed to a previous methodology.

Okay. Perfect. I'll re-queue. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. My first question is for Brad on the net interest margin sort of following Geoff's question. I notice the margin was flat sequentially. However, when I look at loan yields on page 7 of your sup, looks like they were down across most of your products while the funding costs remained relatively stable. So, the one offset was the lower cash balances, so a two part question. What's – one, what's driving the yields lower? And two, how much further are you willing to take down your liquid assets going forward?

The – to answer your – in reverse order Marco. The – in general, what we've seen in the marketplace is a lot of price competition on mortgages. So, we have been and have maintained a competitive posture there, as we've said that we wanted to increase originations and rebuild our loan book; and that we've made some progress, but there's a lot more work to be done. And as we go through, we'll see how aggressive we can get on pricing, but it is competitive. And in the past few calls, we talked about new market entrants, each wanting – there's all kinds of different factors that are going in to how we're pricing our products.

In terms of overall liquid assets, if we take a look at our liquidity portfolio and our number of days that we have in terms of that profile and taking all that into account, we're comfortable where we are now and to the extent that we would either need to raise more deposits as we increase the originations. So, we'll go ahead and do that but we're very comfortable with our liquidity right now.

Marco, and maybe – it's Yousry here. Maybe I can just add a tiny little bit. As government of Canada rates have been going up, you see a natural effect on GIC rates. They slowly go up as well. That blinds up and pressing NIM to mortgages, so mortgages eventually also will move. There's a mean reversion on the relationship between government of Canada, GICs and mortgages. But as rates go up, it's a little bit slower to react. When rates were down, the NIMs go wider quickly. So, it's a market issue I think happening to anyone in this space right now as we adjust to normal NIM loans.

All right. So, going forward then, if you're going to maintain your liquid asset stable-ish, you're going to be funding your loan book with GIC. So, it is safe to assume that we should see some NIM compression or...

Well, we don't think so. We'll have to see what happens in a competitive environment and we are looking for alternative funding sources as opposed to GICs. We're just trying to do things in a natural process. And as the year goes on, we hope to find alternative funding sources besides GICs depending on the circumstances and what works best for our business. So, you've seen we've held our management consistent for two quarters and we will do our best to make sure that it doesn't decline.

Okay. And on B-20, Yousry, you mentioned I guess a high grading of the portfolio or just like trickle down of business from the big banks. When I look at your, I guess your lower risk residential mortgage products, is it – I believe that's the ACE Plus and the Accelerator products. Is that really what's driving the rapid growth in those products?

No. It's across the board. We're getting growth in what we call classic, which our Alt-A brand. The ACE Plus and Accelerator we're seeing across the board model.

Okay. But when I compare the growth rates, your traditional mortgage balances are up like 0.1%, whereas your ACE Plus, or ACE Plus and Accelerator are in high-double digits. So...

Yeah. Go ahead. And end part I was just going to respond to.

We've seen an increase over the quarter in the Beacon scores quarters of ours in general. So there's a tendency moving upscale in our product price and our product range. And I think that's where you're seeing those numbers coming from.

What I don't know yet, Marco, if this is the new normal. We're going to get higher Beacon scores and private lenders are going to get higher Beacon scores from what they're used to. None of us know yet if this is a new normal, or just things are taking a lot to sort of with B-20's impact.

Okay. And lastly just on IFRS 9 a follow on to the last question. So there were changes in model assumptions as Stage 3, the credit-impaired bucket that saw the most of the provisions. So, are these changes, changes in macro assumptions, let's say, around employment or home prices or is there – or are these really I guess loan specific assumption changes?

The former, not the latter. They're mostly model and assumption changes.

So, what is most – what economic assumptions then are most sensitive to your loan losses? It just seems like the – I mean the employment picture was pretty good in Ontario, and I think home prices for the most parts of January have been stable to rising depending on what you look at. So, what was that assumption that you, guys were looking at?

It was largely unemployment in one of the stress test, and remembering that the Stage 3 is lifetime as opposed to Stage 1 which is 12 months. So, it's quite a long forecasted period as opposed to what we see currently.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Go ahead, please. Your line is open.

Thanks. Brad, maybe I can just start with you. You're talking about alternative funding besides GICs? Can you maybe give us some specifics of what you're looking at or ideally what you would like to secure?

Sure we had – we previously had a warehouse line for insured mortgages. So, we would prefer to reinstate that. And we're looking – we have – as you know, we would very much like to get our investment-grade credit rating back and that would enable us to explore reviewing our deposit note program at the appropriate time. For now, we have been able to fund our growth through GICs and that's our – one of our current strategies. And that should enable us to fund whatever originations we have. In addition, we have talked previously about an RMBS market. There really isn't one that that's active in Canada, but there may be potential for some as investors search for yield.

Okay. Thanks. And then, Yousry, just can you elaborate on the renewal initiatives that you've put in place that you feel are having some impact on the higher retention levels of your renewals?

Yeah, happy to. So, some of these are proprietary because we don't want to be copied too quickly but, just in general, it's about looking at in advance what's coming up, what the risk profile against it is, and improving the quality of how we communicate when we communicate and ensuring that we're full service and telling them of all the options. We do have many products in our arsenal that we can offer, assuming that we look at that client and say the highest probability of what they want without regards to Home, with this type of product, can we customize that and go to them.

And are you actively being competitive on the rates that you're offering at renewal or is there a similar approach to...

Yeah. No, we have to be because if we're not, they'll go find someone else, so we're being as competitive as we can be.

Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning. First question is I just want to rephrase the net interest margin compression story here. When we talk about uninsured single-family mortgages, there was CAD 870 million in new single-family give or take. What was the net interest spread on those mortgages and how does that compare to the net interest spread on the CAD 800 million or so mortgages that were discharged during the quarter?

I don't have those numbers now, Jaeme. We'll get back to you.

Okay. Thanks. And for the – just a follow-on for the standby credit facility, you talked about I guess resizing it to – in line with demand deposits. Do you expect any rate relief as well on the standby fee?

No. I wouldn't expect that. I think it's just really one up size as opposed to REIT there is not – there's a very limited market for these. So, there likely will be a lot of price competition.

Okay. So, it's safe to assume it will stay with Berkshire as opposed to moving to I guess more traditional lenders in the Canadian market?

I would not make that assumption.

You would not make that assumption.

I would not make that assumption.

Okay. So, shifting gears to the credit risk exposure by internal risk rating. And if I'm looking at the single-family residential mortgages and the buckets from very low to high comparing that to the Big Six, what would you put the probability of default on mortgages in the "high bucket"? If I look at the Big Six, they're generally in the – as low as 7% probability of default to north of 10% probability of default. I'm wondering how Home Capital goes about breaking that out.

At high, it's greater than roughly 5%.

Probability of default is greater than 5%?

Yes.

Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Hi, there. Good morning.

Hi, Brenna.

Can you just give us some details on the important inputs to your IFRS 9 models? So, what variables is the model most sensitive to and what sort of volatility do you see of these stresses inputs to the most bearish assumptions?

That's a really long answer to that question, Brenna. We have a number of inputs that we take. We have moderate and high stress. We combine them all to come up with an overall provision. We use house prices, unemployment. It is a very complicated model. We use interest rates. So, I'm sorry. I don't have a really simple answer to give you on the phone.

We have used – we engaged a third-party for economic forecasting. We have outsourced the actual performance of the model and we used that data and there's a whole bunch of it. And I'm sorry that – I'm just going to stop talking about it because I have no easy way to answer your question and let's take turns other than we take a variety of forecasting metrics to project those future losses.

Good. And renewal volumes, are they – are the actions you're taking to renew the ACE Plus versus the traditional product is – can you talk about any sort of differences you're seeing in what customers are asking for and what's important? Is there a differentiated approach in keeping that respective business?

Hi, Brenna. It's Yousry here. It's not – the process isn't different. It's more customized for the type of product that we anticipate they would like to renew in, but the process is the same for whatever product we have.

Okay. And based on your renewal experience to-date, I understand you're not required to stress under B-20. But are you stress testing as you see rates go up at renewal and can you give us an idea of how many borrowers if they were going to re-qualify and the experience that you've seen in 2018 to-date with renewals wouldn't qualify if they were a new borrower?

I will start and maybe David Cluff will add a little bit. It's Yousry again. We don't know yet how many would or wouldn't qualify as the result of B-20. But if we – in our normal guidelines even before B-20, if there was any reason that indicate we need to underwrite that individual, we would. Bounced checks might be a reason if there was any reason that particular market had a deep change in market value. If there's any reason we thought that this is a balance check that indicate a loss of job or something like that, then we would re-underwrite and potentially not offer a renewal. But beyond that David, I don't know if you want to add anything.

Hi, Brenna. It's David Cluff here. I'll just add, we do all the required stress test thing as outlined in Guideline B-20. As part of our renewal process, there's a number of factors that we look at as Yousry alluded to that helps drive the decision whether it would be one-off or renewal terms and what the pricing might be. A number of those factors relate to repayment, as well as the credit or migration as other proprietary steps that we will take.

Okay. I guess what specifically I'm trying to get at is when these mortgages come up for a renewal, you're not necessarily required to re-underwrite, but are you seeing any sort of stress and affordability based on where rates are headed and renewal volumes looking out based on if your assumption were to be that interest rates are going up meaningfully is there like – what are you doing around affordability of payments being made on a month-to-month basis?

So, we are able to stress the payments. But we don't have always at the time of renewals, what the employment income level would be. So, it's difficult to fully do that without fully underwriting the loan and that's not presently a requirement. So, we use all the available information that we had to affirm us in that renewal position.

And we wouldn't – it's Yousry again. We wouldn't offer a renewal if we didn't think that client could afford the mortgage but I think to answer your question, we don't specifically go and do the B-20 2% stress test as we underwrite a mortgage. We don't do that or on the renewal side.

Okay. And last one for me, when we talk about alternative sources of capital, are you – is it like certainly this is going to be another standby line or do you think there's any sort of possibility of some sort of securitization facility for non-prime product either here or in the U.S.? Any demand for that in people you're talking to?

Yeah. Hey, Brenna. It's Brad. I'll just re-paraphrase the question. This is funding not capital. And so yes, we would consider – as I said earlier, we would consider trying to develop an RMBS market to the extent it was possible. And in addition, we would be looking at a warehouse line for insured product and we're looking at any other alternative as we can to diversify away from GICs but we're confident with our ability to continue to fund using GICs both through broker channel and Oaken. And as Dave said earlier, we were looking to replace our standby facility although that's not anything that we would ever expect to use.

I'll just add one more. We are active in the CMB market as well and securitizing an [indiscernible] (50:40) mortgages.

Okay. Okay Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you, Brenna.

Thank you, Brenna.

And our last question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Go ahead please. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Just a quick follow-up question on pricing. You have mentioned that you wanted to take back market share. I'm just wondering how do you think about profitability and when you're underwriting these loans. And can you speak a bit just to your discipline around profitability for the various products?

It's Yousry. We have targets of NIM that we'll have in our pricing. So, I think you're aware in the Alt-A space, there is a price you'll put out on mortgages for one year, two years or whatever it maybe. And then, if there is a further grid depending on the Beacon of the individual, the higher the individual, the closer they will get to that rate. If they have a low Beacon, we may risk adjust that price.

So, we take all that into account as we try to set our pricing and get a weighted average to get to the NIM that we want. As I mentioned in earlier comments in one of the questions, some of the pressure on NIM right now is normal as rates are going up, as government of Canada rates go up, GICs follow slowly and then mortgages follow slowly. So, sometimes that process takes days, weeks, and maybe months to get back to normal levels. But we're very conscious of that as we make these decisions.

All right. Great. Thanks.

It looks like we do have an additional question from the line of Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Go ahead, please. Your line is open.

I'm all good. All my questions have been answered. Thanks.

And there are no more questions. I would like to turn the call back over to Yousry Bissada for some closing remarks.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to reporting back in Q2.

And this concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.