Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Edward Friedman — Analyst, McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home Capital Group Third Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet and recorded.

Before the conference call begins, I would like to caution you that Home Capital Group's statements today contain forward-looking information concerning events or Home Capital Group's future performance.

Actual events or results could differ material from a conclusion, forecast or projection in such forward-looking statements due to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors affecting Home Capital Group's business, industries Home Capital Group serve and the economy generally. I refer you to Home Capital Group's third quarter 2015 financial results news release and other written disclosure documents, which contain more details with regard to risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements and caution that there can be no assurance that the assumptions about the future will be accurate. You should not rely unduly on the forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements made during today's call speak only as of November 4, 2015. Home Capital Group doesn't undertake to update any forward-looking statements whether written or oral, except as maybe required under applicable securities laws. The forward-looking statements contained in this conference call are expressively qualified by the cautionary statements.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer at Home Capital Group. Please go ahead, Mr. Soloway.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, fellow shareholders, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us this morning to talk about Home Capital's third quarter results, which I'm pleased to say are positive and showcase the strength and increasing breadth of our business here at Home Capital.

We reported another quarter of stable net income and again demonstrated excellent credit performance. Our balance sheet remains rock solid. We made progress in driving renewed growth in originations in our core business of single-family residential mortgages, and we generated significant growth in other areas of our business. The present is very good, and there are many reasons to be excited about the future.

Net income was CAD 72.4 million for the quarter and CAD 217 million for the first nine months of 2015. This is down slightly from the third quarter 2014 with net income of CAD 73.8 million, and flat compared to the CAD 217.2 million in the first nine months of 2014.

Diluted earnings per share were similar. Diluted earnings per share were CAD 1.03 for the quarter and CAD 3.09 for the first nine months of 2015, compared to CAD 1.05 and CAD 3.09 earned in the comparable period of 2014. And the Q3 2015 diluted earnings per share was flat compared to Q2. So, we're flat quarter-over-quarter and very similar year-over-year.

The return on common shareholder's equity was 18.7% during Q3 2015 and 19.2% for the first nine months of 2015, a level that is excellent by any measure. And the nonperforming loans as a percentage of gross loans was 0.30%, under a third of 1% at the end of third quarter, compared to 0.33% at the end of Q2, so it's down slightly over Q2, and 0.30% same at the end of Q4 2014. So continuing very strong credit performance.

Total write-offs and this is even more significant. Total write-offs during the third quarter of our portfolio of over CAD 18.3 billion in on-balance sheet loans were 4 basis points, unchanged from the same quarter last year. But year-over-year, total write-offs during the first nine months of 2015 were only 3 basis points compared to 5 basis points last year, both numbers on an annualized basis.

We are seeing good growth in all of our lending products. Total originations including residential, and commercial mortgages, Visa credit cards and retail credit were CAD 2.6 billion in the third quarter, compared to CAD 2.1 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 23.6% quarter-over-quarter, but it's down slightly from the CAD 2.66 billion reported one year ago.

We are called Home Capital for a reason, and we are first and foremost a company that makes home loans to individuals and families. But we are more than that, and our results this quarter demonstrate that diversification.

And in light of this performance, the board of directors approved a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.22 per common share payable on December 1, 2015. We also renewed our normal course issuer bid and purchased for cancellation 107,000 shares in the quarter, and we plan to make additional purchases when appropriate going forward.

Although 2015 will be a year of flat to modest growth over 2014, we continue to expect that Home will enjoy solid growth next year, which will reflect the strength of our overall businesses, our diversified sources of growth, the company's expectation of improving origination volume for the remainder of the year, and momentum we are building for next year and the future.

In late 2014 and during the first six months of 2015, the company reviewed it's mortgage broker relationships. By July 2015, we had suspended approximately 45 brokers out of the total of over 4,200 brokers that were on our books when we started the process. We suspended these brokers because we were concerned about the quality of the income documentation for mortgages that they originated. I'll just pause there. There never was a concern about the credit quality or the valuation of the properties. It was only relating to the income documentation.

We also changed our underwriting processes to separate sales and underwriting of mortgage products. While that's simple to say, it's a very difficult process to change the culture of a company and do that separation effectively. While we had some growing pains during the second quarter, we now see very promising signs that our efforts to change our processes and grow our mortgage broker network are working.

And the third quarter results bear that out. We reported traditional residential mortgage originations of CAD 1.51 billion in Q3, an increase of 17% from the CAD 1.29 billion in Q2. Accelerator originations for Q3 2015 were up 48.9% to CAD 416.3 million over the last quarter. We clearly have more work to do. Compared to the third quarter of 2014, traditional originations were down 14.7% and accelerator originations declined from 20%. However, overall total originations are down only slightly due to strength in commercial mortgages, Visa products and retail credits.

Maybe this is a good time to pause and talk a bit more about the loans originated by the suspended mortgage brokers. Many of you have asked how much of our portfolio came from those brokers. In Q2 2015, we stated that the amount originated only in 2014 from the suspended brokers was CAD 960 million. The total value of the loans that they originated from the time that the brokers first started doing business with Home, which in some cases was several years ago, and that were outstanding on September 30, was CAD 1.72 billion out of a total mortgage portfolio up CAD 23.4 billion. That is down from the CAD 1.93 billion as of June 30. I want to point out that the CAD 200 million decrease in the quarter was due to normal runoff and there were no losses involved in the CAD 200 million runoff.

I'd like to stress some key points about that CAD 1.72 billion outstanding. The first is that it is not the value of loans based on sub-standard documentation. Those represent a much smaller subset of that CAD 1.7 billion. As we have disclosed, we are reviewing and revalidating where appropriate the income documentation related to all of the loans from the suspended brokers. We are approximately one quarter of the way through the review of the loans, and we plan to complete it sometime in 2016.

So far, more than 90% of the mortgages renewed are eligible for renewal on our books, either because we are comfortable with the original documentation or we have sought and received updated income documentation that meets our new standards.

As for the remainder, which is less than 10% and actually around 7% or 8% at the present time of what we have reviewed so far, either the customer wasn't cooperative or has not provided adequate income documentation to-date. We will deal with this group on renewal accordingly. So far, they are all paying, and we will honor the mortgage until the renewal date and deal with them at that time.

And this is the key point. These mortgages are performing very well, in line with or better than our broader mortgage portfolio. I emphasize that there have been no unusual credit issues. And I repeat, for the first nine months of 2015, total credit write-offs on our entire portfolio were only 3 basis points compared to 5 basis points last year. And I emphasize our credit quality on our whole portfolio is strong and not a concern for the company.

So from our perspective, as we start to put this issue in the rearview mirror, the key is to remain vigilant, to keep in mind the lessons we learned and to keep improving the way we do business. To that end, we have added some important expertise with the hiring of Gary Wilson, our new Executive Vice President of Underwriting. Gary brings significant experience from his most recent role as Head of Retail Credit Adjudication at one of the Big Five banks and from his work prior to that with OSFI.

Turning to the road ahead, we expect to see continued progress in driving improved single-family originations for the remainder of this year, keeping in mind that the fourth quarter is seasonally slower than the third quarter. And that optimism is based on the results we are seeing, the quarter-over-quarter increase and the momentum we are seeing, as well as the measures that have yet to come.

For instance, we are rolling out our new broker portal and our broker partnership program later this month at the National Mortgage Broker Conference. We continue to build new broker relationships. Over the past year, we have added more than 600 new brokers to the list of active brokers, so that the total number of active brokers who have completed at least one transaction with Home in the last 12 months is now approximately 4,800, and that number is continuing to grow.

We are also optimistic about our other sources of growth. We have already talked about the significant increase in our other mortgage lending businesses. In our consumer and credit card business, we previously announced the launch of two new Visa credit card programs, Union Plus Canada Visa card and the Optimax Visa card on behalf of Union Plus Canada and Optimax Credit, respectively. We like the returns from these businesses.

Our other lending segment, which comprises credit cards and other consumer retail loans, represents about 3.3% of our total on-balance sheet portfolio, but generates 6.4% of the net interest income this quarter.

Perhaps the biggest news after the quarter-end is the closing of our purchase of CFF Bank for approximately CAD 17.80 million subject to final adjustments. Within the first 30 days of closing, i.e., by November 1, we have permanently reduced the ongoing noninterest expenses at CFF by more than 50% and we anticipate further substantial cost savings and efficiencies going forward. We have also injected an additional CAD 35 million of capital to stabilize the CFF Bank and to have sufficient capital for future profitable growth. As many of you are aware, CFF Bank had substantial tax loss carry-forward and we hope to benefit from that tax loss credit as CFF Bank returns to profitability.

This is a relatively small investment for us, but it accomplishes a number of very important things. First and foremost, it obtained a wholly owned bank as a subsidiary of Home Trust, which has been a strategic priority for us. This will help us in our efforts to further diversify our deposit-taking and funding base.

CFF also gives us a distribution agreement with a network of more than 30 Canadian First Financial Centers located across Canada. This is another channel for originations. And since closing on October 1, little over a month ago, we have received a positive response from the CFF broker network regarding CFF and the whole mortgage products. So we're quite excited about that.

To sum up, I think this was a very positive quarter. We made good progress on ramping up our single-family originations and we see more to come. We have demonstrated that we have lots of ways to grow in other areas of the business as well.

Finally, I'd like to extend a welcome to William Walker, who we announced will be joining our board, bringing a wealth of experience in the area of banking law with emphasis on the rights and remedies of mortgage lenders.

Now we'd be pleased to take your questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now conduct the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan, RBC Capital Markets. Geoff, your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff. How are things in Vancouver?

Well, it's overcast at the moment, so I don't know...

Same with Toronto.

All right. The first question I had for you was just about the process you're doing in terms of reviewing the loans from the affected brokers. I just wanted to get a better understanding of what exactly you were doing, like, was it kind of full re-underwriting? Was it just looking for income verification? Was it looking for just where there was some sort of irregularity versus what you would normally do in your underwriting?

All of the above. We looked at them with increased scrutiny. The file was there, we went through every piece of documentation, we re-verified income proof, we confirmed property valuations. Every part of the file, we wanted to know exactly where we stood.

So, basically, it was not – that's why it's taking a bit of time. We put a whole team and have hired some additional expertise, and there's a whole team working their way through that portfolio. And we're highly confident that when we're finished, we have what is – what comes out of the process is a very pristine group of loans.

Okay. And then, thanks for the disclosure in terms of kind of that 90% and 10%, what those examples there. I guess my question is for that 10% there, I mean, what would your options be if at the time of renewal you guys don't extend them but they have difficulty or are unable to get a loan with another lender?

Well, first of all, what's been happening so far when they come back to us and if they're among any of them that we can't be completely satisfied, we've said no. Some come back and ask for more money, some are able to convert to being insured, some sell their house. But there's a normal turnover with our normal portfolio. It's always a lot of them are one-year and two-year mortgages. So, there is a certain amount of turnover.

Now, they had to-date have had no problem getting loans both from other regulated companies. They also have been able to go to the non-prime market. There are a number of situations out there, companies, mortgage investment corporations, et cetera, and they've been able to get financed.

Up to this point, there's been absolutely no problem and – but I think we can – the ones that we can't get documentation for our satisfaction, I think if we handle them gently but firmly, we'll be able to de-market them. We're not prepared to renew any of the people who don't have proper documentation, and we have a very experienced collection group who have dealt with people in the past that need to be de-marketed. And there's a way of doing it, it's not just throwing them out in the cold. You work with them, you tell them where – who other sources in a marketplace may assist them, but so far, they've rolled off with really no problems.

And sorry, the 10%, would that be more of a prime borrower or would they be more your traditional borrower?

Oh, no, they're the traditional, they're a mixture of both, they're both the insured products and the traditional. And so...

Okay.

Mostly traditional at this point, Geoff.

Okay. And just the last question before I hop back in the queue. On that kind of the CAD 1.9 billion going down to CAD 1.72 billion quarter-over-quarter, I mean, I think that would imply on an annualized basis about a 40% runoff, which I guess it would maybe run over – run off a full book in a little over two years. Is that kind of the way to think about it?

Oh, I would think so. I think it'll substantially be all gone. But well before the end of next year, we'll have fully reviewed and at least have a circle around those files that we could not get full documentation. And since many of those loans are one-year and two-year loans that are not the insured loans, we expect to be seeing them on renewal all before the end of next year.

Yeah. Geoff, it's Martin here. The runoff is a little bit quicker at this point because a lot of it is the traditional portfolio. But as you get down to the insured piece, that will extend a little bit, so it won't run off quite as quickly.

Got it. Okay. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart. Dylan, your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning. Just a quick question on the 90% renewals that you've seen so far, do you see a big increase in the interest rate or an increase in the terms that you had to provide these guys as they renew?

No, because we're not renewing those who may have any impairment on their proof of income. We've just taken a very strict line. If they can't confirm their income, we haven't increased the rate, we've just told them that we're demarketing them if they can't prove their income to proper standards.

Okay.

So we're not renewing them at an increased rate, but there exists a very large non-regulated market out there that's happy to do them because they have good credit records. If they look at their payment history, they're very good. And there is a market – there is a lending capacity in the marketplace that will happily lend them probably at a premium to what we were charging but they're not going to be thrown out in the cold.

Okay, great. And maybe if you can just provide a bit more color on process. I know you've done a lot of work to improve the turnaround times on your underwriting, particularly on the prime side. We saw originations bounced back little bit quarter-over-quarter. Maybe just an update how things are looking through, even Q4 beginning of the first month here.

Yeah. Well, we're going to turn this over to Pino Decina, Head of Mortgages, and he'll describe what we're doing.

Hi, Dylan. So really, as Gerry mentioned, the first six months was really reevaluating relationships that we currently dealt with in the past. Happy to say that we've gone through that process. As Gerry mentioned, we've added some 600-plus new brokers to our relationships. Those amount to just over 100 actual brokerages across the country, the majority being obviously in Southern Ontario.

And so we're starting to see the fruits of all that labor. Towards the tail end of Q3, we started to see a pipeline which tells us that the response from our broker partners is back .The first month of the quarter looked good. The pipeline continues to be strong for the end of the year. We've got some really good announcements coming out in a couple of weeks, as Gerry mentioned, at the National Trade Show. Our broker partners are aware of what's coming. They're very excited about not only the portal, but also becoming members of our new loyalty/partnership programs which takes effect the January on the 1st of New Year.

So all-in-all, it's been – lot of efforts to reengage not only the sales force here internally, but also bring onboard some new partners that we want to continue doing business with not only in the short term but be partners with us in the long term.

And just to add on to what Pino said, let me just indicate, one of the key expertise is that Gary Wilson who we brought on as Head of Underwriting is job one for him was streamlining the processes that we have in the insured product. Now, the insured loans are to a large extend a commodity, there is not a lot of discretion, the people either qualify or they don't qualify. There is not a lot of further explanation and documentation. And we – Gary brings the expertise of having seen how we've done at the Big Five banks with the proper credit and adjudication and so that all the requirements as required by the insurers and the regulator are carried out in the proper efficient line where the underwriting team has proper objectives and our put full all of the requirements.

And I think as we roll through that, and bring make those changes, I think the whole underwriting process on the accelerator will be smoother, it will enable us to do an increase volume, and as we're starting to see some volume coming out of CFF which is very encouraging, we want to be able to do it and do it smoothly and not have any problems where documentation slips through that's not really up to standards. So, I think we'll be having more to say to out of about it in future quarters, but we're – we're working hard at it, we're running as fast as we can. Okay.

Now, that's much appreciated, guys. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Dylan.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland with GMP Securities. Stephen, your line is open.

Good morning, Stephen.

Good morning. Just I'd like to go back to the – and you're certainly going to get asked this by the short community and obviously you've been under a little scrutiny, but I guess the review time is something that's going to be questioned in terms of going into late next year, if you've got a dedicated team. It almost seems like a bit of a horse race, the book is rolling off with real no credit issues while you're doing this review. So – what would say to that in terms of it's still taking another year for you to get through this book of business?

Martin – I think Martin is very close to it and he'll answer the question.

Hi Stephen, it's Martin. So it's not just reviewing the documentation, so it is calling the employer and that doesn't always happen in a timely fashion by the time you get the right person at the company that verify the income. So it is a very manual process and it is on every file. So it does take a long time to go through that. We do have a dedicated team addressing the effected portfolio, we're also doing it on go a forward basis in all our new business. So it is adding a lot more work opposed to the underwriting of new business but also the remediation of this portfolio. It just takes time to do it properly.

And as I've said before, the shorts will do what they want to do but every short is a future buyer.

Okay. Second question is just on the CFF Bank, and I'm trying to figure out how the strategy now that – you said it's a subsidiary of the trust. I know a lot of American investors don't realize how valuable bank license is on getting cheaper funding. So you pump $35 million of capital into it, why not a couple of hundred million if it's going to allow you, you get cheaper deposits, like how does that fit into the broader strategy over time?

Steve, you've known us a long time. We're great believers as we don't jump in the lake. We'd like to walk in a toe at a time, a foot at a time. Let's get started slowly. As you know, the amount we paid was not that significant. We wanted to capitalize it for all the present activities. As it rolls forward, we build it out, we get our strategy. The capital is not burning a hole in our pocket and Home Trust. So, we can always move it over.

So, if the demand for more credit is there, we'll – the more capital is there, we will utilize that, but let's go step by step. We'll rollout our strategy. Well, first of all, the first strategy is really to reach out to the existing mortgage broker network and get them to respond which they have. We're going to have a – we're going to emphasize, the CFF is – the progress to the public and that will roll out over the next period of time and CFF will also have some other lending products, but we've only closed a month, we're still integrating the premises, we've moved out our – moving out in the next few days out of the space that they had in Calgary to our premises that we already have. We're moving the Oakville office that they had into Toronto office. So, there is a juggling of people, we're integrating the teams, it's all happening, but again, we're running as fast as we can, but you don't want to run so fast that you start tripping.

Yeah. And Stephen, you're right that eventually more capital will go in there, but we'll push capital into CFF as the above the base growth. So the CAD 35 million was sort of an initial stabilize the entity and get it off the ground, but over time that default base grows, we still have more capital into it.

Okay. And I guess last question just there was some expectation maybe of a dividend increase, but you've got a lot going on with the new bank, capital injection there, and obviously the thought of buying back more shares. So what is your thought on capital allocation here over the next three months to six months is buying back shares, kind of your first priority?

Stephen, our priority is to utilize the capital effectively. So we have increased our buyback as that was noted in Q3. The capital of CFF, so in terms of M&A activity although it is a small in, we don't – 28 years, we've done two acquisitions very limited on the buyback, we don't spend or give away our capital very easily, but the dividends were still up 22% year-over-year in terms of the dividend. So that will continue to be part of the plan going forward is increasing dividends. But we tend to be a little bit more patient with the dividend increase.

Yeah. We'll look at it very carefully at year-end and see where we're spending with everything. And so we haven't forgotten about it.

Okay. We do recognize those that we do, we do have a lot of capital, but we want to make sure we spend it wisely.

Okay. That's great. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Stephen.

Your next question comes from the line of Edward Friedman with McLean & Partners. Edward, your line is open.

Hello.

Good morning, Edward.

Good morning. How are you?

Good.

And so, I was wondering if you can just explain why that like you've explained briefly why it takes long to adjudicate these movements a bit?

I agree with the other call that it seems like it's very, very long, to approve them and like the other one stated the run rate is steady. These mortgages were published CAD 2 billion in next year. So, by that time, it will be sort of used to spot us.

And the other one is, all the originations to a point of CAD 2.5 billion, I was wondering how many of these you these are new mortgages, new loans, not renewals? And how the debt change quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year?

And the last one, it seems like the bank, the Home Trust is sort of struggling for growth a little bit, because the loan growth – the loans have not grown by much in the last couple of – in the last year or so. So, I was wondering if there is any problem that you see in terms of marketing your products, or is there a problem? Or do you see any problem in the market that M&A that resulting that? Thank you.

Yeah. So, maybe working backwards and in terms of the growth, and lot of this we've talked about in Q2 and continue to talk about, and that was a lot of the loosing of the originations of those 45 brokers, as well as changing processes. So, as mentioned earlier, the change in the processes were well on our way. There's still a lot of work to be done to get to the service level that the brokers are anticipating in particular on the insured space. But, we're pretty comfortable that we'll be well positioned in the early part of 2016 for that.

In terms of the time, for the files, it is the manual process. On any individual file, you've got to call the employer, you don't know how all these gets the person to you, if not all the these willing right away to provide you the information, so it does take quite a while and it is going to every file. So it's not just getting the documentation and then – putting it through, making that physical phone call is taking the time.

Okay.

And we'd rather do it thoroughly, Edward, then sort of do we could go through and not do a slower job, but I think we're getting our maximum benefit out very carefully reviewing. We're now sort of disclosing that and not now but this is actually we've now gone through a quarter of all the historic loans. We are not finding a credit problem, if there was anything on a file where there are non-performing or there were any issues we jump on that by right away, but there is no non-performing issues. There is some as you we said are running off just at the end of the term. So, we're quite confident that we've seen the worst of it. But the worst of this what we're going to see as a portfolio that it will continue on a similar trend and we'll keep you posted, but it's not something that you can do overnight. There is a process to get it done properly.

Yeah and the first time we are approaching, we're dealing with the ones that are maturing sooner first, so that's the approach that we're taking. So, we're not just letting them mature and renew. We are dealing with them first to deal with them first and that's why it's a lot of the classic portfolio that's been dealt with first versus the insured portfolio. On your other question with regard to originations, all of the originations is new business either refinance or newly originated business. So, it does not include any other renewal.

But refinance is not sounds like the renewal.

No. refinance would be somebody taking more money out.

Okay. Also in terms of these brokers I guess it seems like these brokers are only 45 people but they generated like about 7% of your loan books today. As far as I know you work at least from previous statements, you seem to be looking a lot like 4,000 brokers, these brokers seem to be very, very prolific. Any sense on how you are replacing these 45 highly prolific brokers?

We are replacing those brokers as Gerry mentioned – over 600 new brokers but the volumes take a while to buildup for a new broker. They don't necessarily do all the business upfront when you cutoff a broker and they are generating a lot of volume that – you lose that right away. So it doesn't take time for that volume to pickup. But that's where the addition of the new brokers, the addition of the CFF network, these things we think over time has not only replace that business but replace it with better quality business.

So from what I understand the brokers issue is mainly the reason why your growth this year and probably even last year extensively and next year you expect to be better.

Yeah. Yeah it was a big impact on the growth and as well as the change in process. So the word change is in process is well which we talked better are being refined in.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Pretty comfortable with next year.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

The next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding with TD Securities. Graham, your line is open.

Good morning, Graham.

Good morning. I know there's been – it's been a corner question but maybe I could just go ahead on a different way, I think everybody is scratching their head a little bit is to why it's taking so long again through this CAD 1.9 billion and CAD 1.7 billion in mortgages. And I guess in context you did almost CAD 2 billion this quarter in new origination. So, I guess there must be a much more manual review and underwriting process going on, with these mortgages associated with the 45 brokers than what would be associated with originating new mortgages. Is that – why it's taking so long?

Yeah. So, it's going back to the documentation than getting the updated documentation, then verifying that documentation. So, it is the much more tedious process then on new originations, where we can manage that as that business comes through the door.

Yeah. If I can just add one thing to that. Graham, you're absolutely right, a lot of the processes and due diligence that we put in place this year, obviously do take time. And lot of the things we put in place obviously we're emergency measure stop gap, we don't apologize for the processes that we put in place in 2015. I think going forward though, as Martin mentioned we can now start to review our existing process in tweaking it a bit that doesn't mean we jeopardize all the things we put in place, we are going to continue to call 100% of all employers job letters, verify income the same way we have been doing this year, but I can't say that, that is different than maybe what's ever marketplace. We've taken this approach, on 100% of the files, whether it'd be at renewal, whether it'd be as part of our review, or whether it'd be at ingestion as part of originations and underwriting.

I think going forward, over the course of the next three months, we've got plans to do a better job of that from a turn time standpoint, but it doesn't take away from the due diligence that we've put in place and we'll continue to put in place going forward.

Yeah. And the marketplace tends to take a risk based approach versus what we're seeing, which is 100% of the cases.

And how many people would you have? You said, you have a team reviewing this. How many people would you have dedicated to this CAD 1.7 billion of mortgages?

Yeah, it's quite a few and it's in the renewal group, it's in the underwriting, it's in the compliance group that are working together to do that.

Okay. Jumping to the CFF Bank, it sounds like you've been very quick to adjust the cost base out of the gate. Can you give us some color around what sort of overhang or operating losses you expect, to maybe a timeframe before this platform breaks even and then starts to make money?

Yeah. So, as Gerry mentioned, the cost structure has been cut in half in the first 30 days. We anticipate that we get that down to a little more than a quarter by the end of the year. And then – and by the end of the year, the remaining pieces are really around technology and trends bring the business from their technology platforms into ours, where we'll be able to reduce the cost base further. Once that's done, then it becomes easier to sort of ramp up that business. We didn't want to start ramping up the business within CFF and so, we have a lot of that solution out of the way. So, it will be sometime middle of 2016 or so.

Yeah. They do have a portfolio and it does generate some income and they are – they had a good month of originations in the month of October. So we're quite optimistic and will give you guidance on this next year, it's a bit early for us. But we're quite comfortable that at a very short period of time, will be – the bank will be running profitably. Hopefully it will be next year, but I can't give you a guidance on that, because we've got to see everything kind of runoff and cleaned up, and some of the stuff is covered by certain escrow accounts and – but we're very pleased, we have the bank, we have the broker relationships, we have a tax loss last carry forward, we were in quite good shape.

And I don't know if you've had much experience with mergers where we haven't done a lot of purchases and mergers, but I know from historically anytime you buy something even though they had a big for accounting firm we had, our firm, Ernst & Young go in, we had our own group go in, we did the closing, but sometime there is some monsters in the cupboard that nobody has found. But I got to tell you, we are delighted there is – if anything there's a few cookies in the cupboards there is not any monsters and all we found so far a few cookies in the cupboard and they are not still updated. So we're very pleased – we're pleased with the purchase and we may be able to next quarter give a little more color on it, but it seems to be off to a terrific start.

Great. Thanks. And is there any plan yet or how do you plan on connecting CFF bank with your Oaken brand?

Yeah. So that – we have aware, we had an application in for a bank in November and that was part of the strategy, it was part of the strategy with – into open. So, again that's going to be a function of how quickly we can transition on to our platform. And it will be a dual issuer – dual entity, dual issuer model that we'll be running with – to generate those deposits.

So, it's really going to be a function of when we get them on to our platform, but that is the game plan. So, the – our priority is really to get the cost structure down, so we can reduce the bleeding and then to shift that business model with the technology in place to better serve the CFF centers as well as drive our deposit business.

And I'd say we're only 30 days in and we're delighted with the progress today. We'll give you a better report when we talk to you in January – at the end of January or early February.

Okay, great.

Okay, go on.

Thanks.

Okay, thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Shubha Khan with National Bank. Shubha, your line is open.

Thank you.

Good morning, Shubha.

Good morning.

Morning. Just a question on the efficiency ratio this quarter. So, it was less than 31% and I guess it was down because of the share-based compensation which makes sense, but you're also investing in a number of initiatives, direct deposit loan originations, CFF Bank, a whole bunch of things. Just wondering, are the associated costs largely reflected in the 31% efficiency ratio for the quarter or will it ultimately turn to higher?

Yes. We're pretty comfortable with where it is. There is a little bit dip in this quarter just with the compensation side of it, but if you adjusted for that we're pretty comfortable with the efficiency ratio running there.

Okay.

Now, it was really elevated that over the last a little while, has been less about the expenses and more about the drop in revenue.

Got you. And then, I noticed that you purchased insured mortgages from a third-party in the quarter. I guess question is, why did you see fit to I guess augment your accelerator origination this way? And I'm not sure whether you've done – ever done so in the past. Is that something that you intend to do on a regular basis going forward? And are the economics of this type of transaction significantly different from sourcing accelerator mortgages directly from brokers?

No, it was – we were quite pleased with the purchase terms. It was an entity that was the broker driven type of loans. It wasn't – we just found it economically feasible to make the purchase. We may well make further purchases depending on the market conditions. And...

Yeah. And we have bought loans previously to that. We haven't done on what I would say on a regular basis, but we have done this opportunistically.

Okay. Final question just on the origination outlook. I appreciate all the color you gave us in the call so far. But, I guess what I'm trying to get a sense of is, whether despite the efforts that you have made in I guess according to new brokers and on-boarding new brokers and other measures you've taken to boost the pipeline, it still sounds like originations will be down in the final quarter growth it to last year at least. And whether you think...

I wouldn't agree.

Okay.

Not on one thing we've seen to date to-date.

Okay. So, you expect Q4 originations to actually turn to higher than last year?

You know what, I've learned that in this predicting business we're better off not getting to say too much because all I do is get beaten to – with a stick afterwards. But I am telling I'm confident that we're having – have a good fourth quarter, the first month was good, the pipeline is good. We don't get hit with a satellite or some crazy thing happens, I think we'll be very pleased. You will see the momentum that started third quarter over second quarter we had a nice boost. I think you will see that momentum is continuing, we've got our processes, we've got our brokers, we've got our credit quality. I think everybody is marching together, we're pretty dedicated, we've added some new people, we've got a stream of additional business coming out of the CFF Bank. I think the numbers are going to be quite good, but to give you the exact number, I don't know like...

I mean, Shubha, it is seasonally, it is typically a little bit lower but we are making good progress and we think that should help to get back to where we were in terms of market share and business with brokers, both on the accelerator side as well as the classic side.

Pino, just explain the one index we've moved up in the quarter, while it was...

Actually, very good point, Gerry. The broker lender market share which is distributed through Davis and Henderson Filogix, which basically in just over 90% of all deals to broker lenders across the across the country tracks market share for the lenders and we've moved up from sixth place to fifth last month in that market share report. So, as Gerry says all the trends continue to be strong and we see that obviously continuing next quarter and into next year.

Yeah. We would like to move up another notch, which we're running higher to make it happen, but stay tuned, I think the news will be good.

Okay.

That's just my opinion.

All right. Thank you.

I'm sorry, hold on, what? Oh, last call. Okay. Thank you very much. One more call.

And your last question comes from the line of Dan Furtado from Philadelphia Financial. Dan, your line is open.

Good morning.

Most of my questions have been answered, just a couple of things. On the CFF, what is the asset size at this point?

I'm going to turn you over to our Treasurer...

Our CFO.

Our CFO.

It's about...

Here, he's – we're putting the mic in front of his place.

It's $237 million on balance sheet right now.

Okay. And is there a reason to think that bank could earn, not next year but in a year or two a 1% to 1.5% return on assets. One to one-and-a-quarter probably more likely?

It's hard to say this, but the way we look at it is we are managing it on a consolidated basis. So, the bank really facilitates the funding piece and gives us access. It's hard to say at this stage of the game.

It will be a little bit of how we allocate the total...

Yeah.

Assets in part, but it will definitely add to our asset base and will definitely add to our profitability.

And we'll look to put the assets in the entity where it makes sense to put the assets. So it could be some shifting of assets between one and to the – versus the other that?

And this, and if I pointed about it earlier, we do have a tax loss carry forward there, so it's – will be motivated to ramp that up and get some good profitable assets in there.

Okay. So let me look at this way, what do you think, if you start looking at 2017 and beyond that the addition of this bank will add to your growth rate?

I'm sorry can you go through that slowly and we didn't get that all of them?

Sure. If you look at 2017 and beyond, what do you think the addition of this bank would add to your growth rate? In other words, if you were – if your initially growth rate would have been X, there will be X plus what now?

Yeah. I'm not sure, I'm not sure would be much of an increase in the growth rate. It's really to facilitate the deposit financing. There is – on the growth, there is – it's really going to be able – EFF networks that's – it's mainly on originations to give an extra ...

10% to 15%.

Maybe we get 10%, yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah. I think that's a good conservative numbers here.

10% on originations.

That's exactly what I was hoping to get. And my last question on this is, this didn't close until this quarter, if I remember correctly...

Right.

But I would assume that if there was a problem with underwriting concern by the government they wouldn't have let you close this bank, correct?

We cannot speak on behalf of the government but I think that's a fair assumption.

Yeah. We went in and did a file review, we were comfortable, we provided all supporting information to the regulators.

Yeah. No, no. We got all the approvals quite expeditiously. We have – we had done our due diligence.

Perfect. Thank you very much guys. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

So...

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Soloway. Mr. Soloway, please continue.

Okay. So thank you, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us. As I said I think we have a good solid quarter, we got momentum going. I think there is a lot of items that got close up, I think the problem with these problem loans and the problem brokers, I think will be in a rearview mirror on a going-forward basis. And we'll concentrate on trying to deliver the increase profitability for the future.

So thanks for joining us and look forward to chatting with you again in February when we announce our year-end numbers. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the conference call for today. Thank you for participating. Please disconnect your lines.