Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jill MacRae — Director-Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Cihan Tuncay — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Home Capital Group Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Jill MacRae of Investor Relations. The floor is yours.

Thank you, Sylvia and good morning everybody. Thank you for joining us today. I know you have a busy earnings calendar right now. We'll begin the call with remarks from Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer, followed by a review of our financials by Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer.

With us on the call to answer your questions are Ed Karthaus, EVP of Sales and Marketing; Mike Forshee, EVP of Underwriting and Funding; Benjy Katchen, Chief Digital and Strategy Officer; David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer; Victor DiRisio, Chief Information Officer; and James Pelletier, SVP of Commercial. All of our team members are at different physical locations for this call, so please understand if our sound quality and response time are not at their usual level.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution the webcast participants that discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements about Home Capital strategies and expected financial results. Various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. Please refer to our advisory on forward-looking statements on slide 2 of the investor presentation.

Finally, a link to the slides accompanying this live webcast is available on our website at homecapital.com.

And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Yousry.

Thank you and good morning. I'm pleased to welcome you to our second quarter results conference call. I'm happy to report that this was a quarter of growth for us at Home Capital. We grew our net income and our net income per share, both on a sequential and a year-over-year basis. We accomplished this, even while we were prudently added to our credit allowance to account for deterioration since Q1 in our forward-looking economic models as a result of COVID-19.

Today, we have another quarter of COVID experience behind us, and we're beginning the process of cautious reopening across the country. We're able to do that, thanks to the coordinated efforts of our political leaders, government agencies and health professionals, working together to keep the health of Canadians as the most important consideration in the reopening policies. We believe that focusing on long-term objectives and putting people first is the right strategy for this country to see this crisis through to the end and beyond.

Focusing on long-term stakeholder objectives, including putting our customers and our people first, is how we operate at Home Capital. Today, I will discuss what we accomplished in Q2, our efforts at supporting our borrowers through financial uncertainty, and our activities for the balance of the year.

Beginning with our Q2 results, Home Capital's net income grew on a sequential and year-over-year basis. I think it is significant that we were able to grow earnings even after taking a larger than historical credit provision. As Brad will discuss in more detail, the increased provision was not driven by a decline in the quality of our loan book, but by a deterioration in our forward-looking economic models for the second quarter compared with the first quarter.

If you look at our pre-provision income, they were substantially higher than the same quarter last year. We also reported year-over-year improvement in our efficiency ratio and return on equity. In all our major markets, the local real estate boards are reporting higher sales volume, higher prices and more new listings.

After some slow spring sales, the recent Toronto Real Estate Board data reported the highest recorded sales for the month of July in the past 10 years. This kind of activity is possible to manage in this environment, because the industry is finding ways to use technology and safe contact measures in all phases of the home-buying process. Brokers, realtors, lawyers, inspectors, buyers and sellers, everyone is working together to enable home purchases to happen. A lot of businesses have slowed down during this time of shutdown, but ours is not one of them. I could not be prouder of our industry, our partners, our people, and the work we all do to help Canadians find and purchase their homes.

Here at Home, I'm pleased to report that we grew our originations this quarter compared with 2019, with growth in both our residential and commercial lending. This says as much about the importance of what we do, as it does about our success in doing it, and it is evidence of a market that has stayed healthy and resilient, despite all the predictions to the contrary. Importantly, we have achieved this growth in a quarter, where we had adjusted our risk appetite, in line with the prevailing conditions of financial uncertainty, that is more cautious underwrite.

Our Oaken deposits continue to grow in dollar value and as a percentage of our deposit funding. This growth took place in a quarter when our Oaken stores were closed. Over time and as local health authorities permit, we plan to reopen our Oaken stores. It has always been our strategy to put the wishes of our customers first and serve them the way they want to be served. Some customers still prefer the personal experience of in-store service, and we'll be happy to offer that again, in addition to our phone and online options.

Another aspect of our operations has not changed. It is our commitment to our digital transformation. We are moving forward with Home Trust's Ignite Program. All our project teams have successfully adapted to remote work environment and projects are moving forward. We launched a new CRM release with improved sales reporting and loan servicing functionality for all our contact center and launched two additional Ignite projects: digital banking and loan origination.

The progress we have made so far has given us the flexibility to adapt to a work-from-home model and still provide high levels of privacy and security to our customer data. This flexibility made it possible to increase our quality of service to our brokers and borrowers, even while meeting high volumes of customer requests. I look forward to sharing developments with you.

Turning to the subject of our customer support measures during this health crisis, it is now nearly six months since the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a global pandemic. From the beginning, we made it our top priority to provide help and support to our people, our partners and our customers. You can see from the results we are reporting today that people still want to own homes and not even a global health crisis has changed that.

As we reported in our last quarterly update home offered payment deferrals and over 9,000 loans, totaling nearly CAD 4 billion in asset value or 23% of our loan portfolio as of April 30. As at July 31, those figures have declined to fewer than 3,000 loans and less than CAD 1.3 billion or roughly 7.5% of our loans and we expect to continue to see a decline in the deferrals. Brad will talk about the numbers later in the call, but I want to tell you a little bit about the process and how it ties with our unique value proposition.

In the early days of the shutdown, people feared for the security of their homes, even as they depended on their homes for isolation and safety. Our response was, we are here to help. Home gave two months payment deferrals to any borrower whose account was in good standing and who told us that they had been impacted by the pandemic. We were happy to do that. Home was able to pivot from not only helping Canadians own their homes to helping people keep their homes.

Beyond the initial two months, we followed a different process. Borrowers were required to file a new application for relief. We looked at the financial picture of each customer, educated them on the impact of different relief options and worked with them to determine the best way forward. In some cases, that meant additional deferral support. For some borrowers, it meant adjusting their payments. In other cases, we helped them understand that it was not in their best interest to take additional debt and counseled them on how to find ways to return to regular payments.

In these extraordinary circumstances, we can serve our customers best by listening to their stories and helping them make the best decisions for their unique situations. The two-month approach gave us the opportunity to support our customers when they needed it most, but also the opportunity to gain valuable insight in our customers borrowers, in our borrowers' ability to repay before granting additional relief. We believe the economic environment in which we find ourselves will create an ongoing need for individual lending solutions and we have the experience to meet that need.

Now, looking ahead to the balance of the year, the latest data on sales activity and housing prices are consistent with a healthy and resilient real estate market. Our people have shown that they can execute effectively in this environment and we're confident they will continue to do so. We will move ahead with our plans for reopening our workspace, while committing to our employees they will be able to return safely. And we're proceeding with our strategy for digital transformation through our Ignite Program.

In the event of a second wave of the pandemic, we are now even more well-equipped to face these unique challenges and continue to operate our business with agility, resiliency and integrity. COVID-19 has created a lot of disruption to the economy and to our business. While we look forward to an eventual recovery, we can't be certain of its timing and magnitude. We are using this period of restricted operations as an opportunity for learning and development. The deferral programs that we put in place have been an opportunity to have meaningful conversations with our borrowers, to listen to their stories and learn how we can best help them.

Remote working has given us opportunities to engage with our employees and to learn more about what they need to carry on the important work we do. We are engaging with brokers and learning how we can be a better partner to them. We're able to make use of this opportunity, because we had all the elements in place to function successfully before the health crisis began to affect all our lives.

We had and continue to have a strong capital position, abundant liquidity, a sustainable risk culture underlying all our interactions, a culture that emphasizes service excellence, and an unparalleled group of team members who are dedicated to the important work we do.

I will now ask Brad to discuss our financial results.

Thanks, Yousry, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you taking the time to join us. The presentation on our financial results begins on slide 7. As Yousry mentioned, we've made significant efforts over the past three years to allow our business to perform in any condition. The fact that we are navigating a global pandemic with a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity to support our customers is evidence of the success of that effort. Our people, capabilities, values and sustainable risk culture have been put to the test, and the results are showing the resilience of our business model.

We are pleased to report diluted earnings per share were CAD 0.65 on a reported basis and CAD 0.70 on an adjusted basis, an increase of more than 20% relative to both last quarter and the same quarter last year. Net income also grew on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.

Our Q2 net income grew by 23% over Q1 and by 7% over Q2 of 2019. On an adjusted basis, net income grew by 23% over Q1 2020 and by 5% over Q2 2019. The growth in net income that we reported this quarter is all the more significant, because we achieved it in a quarter in which the majority of our team was working remotely, and that we took sizable provisions to strengthen our balance sheet against forecasted deteriorating economic conditions.

Slide 8 breaks down some of the components of that growth. You will see that net income per share this quarter was helped by improved net interest margins, and by a lower number of shares outstanding. You can also see our credit provisions in the quarter reduced our earnings per share on a relative basis by CAD 0.18.

Slide 9 shows our originations for the quarter. We increased our originations in both residential and commercial mortgages. Lower volumes in the alternative market were more than offset by higher accelerated volumes. Commercial volumes grew by 60% over last year.

Slide 10 shows our total loan portfolio with growth of 3% year-over-year, broadly in line with the market.

As you can see on slide 11, we adjusted our risk appetite at the end of Q1, which resulted in tighter underwriting standards. The impact on our portfolio was evident with a higher FICO score this quarter on new originations compared to Q1 and by a higher FICO score on the overall portfolio.

Slide 12 shows the progress of our net interest margin, which reached 2.4% this quarter compared with 2.38% last quarter and 2.09% in the same quarter last year. This quarter, NIM was enhanced by a higher yield on loans and lower deposit costs. But it was also negatively impacted by a higher average volume of low yielding liquid assets on the balance sheet relative to Q1. Despite the drag on our NIM, we continue to hold a substantial volume of liquid assets on our balance sheet. We believe this is a correct strategy for an economic environment, which is still uncertain.

Another aspect of our liquidity risk management shows too in the management of our Oaken channel on slide 13. We continue to attract deposits to Oaken, which has now reached over CAD 3.7 billion, over 26% of our total deposit funding. 84% of those deposits are in the form of term deposits.

Turning to a discussion of customer deferrals and credit beginning on slide 14, during our Q1 call, we reported that we had granted payment deferrals on over 9,900 loans, representing over CAD 3.9 billion principal balance as of April 30. As of July 31, loans under deferral had declined by 73% to under 2,700 loans and the principal value of the loans under deferral declined by 67% to approximately CAD 1.3 billion.

On slide 15, you can see we took additional credit provisions of CAD 18.7 million this quarter. The provisions related to a deterioration in the economic outlook over the life of those loans. Details on our models are on page 53 of the notes to our financial statements. In all scenarios, unemployment is not expected to return to pre-COVID levels until 2022. All scenarios are forecasting a decline in housing prices over the next 12 months.

Although the latest data on the Canadian housing market shows it to be active, this has not yet been incorporated in the economic models behind our credit provisioning decisions. Write-offs during the quarter remain modest at 2 basis points of assets even under these conditions, underscoring the quality of our loans and our security.

As you can see on slide 16, net non-performing loans are stable at point 0.42% of gross loans and 0.37% of gross single-family residential loans. The right-hand chart tells you that Stage 3 loans were 31% covered by Stage 3 allowances at the end of Q2 versus 24.3% at this time last year.

Looking at the components of our allowance for credit losses on slide 17 and 18, you can see that we increased our allowances for expected credit losses in residential, commercial and consumer retail lending. As we mentioned earlier, 94% of the increase this quarter was attributable to Stage 1 and Stage 2 loans that are currently performing. If economic conditions evolve in a way that is consistent with the predictions in the credit loss models, subject to any other unexpected changes, our current level of provisions are expected to be sufficient to cover expected losses.

If future conditions are forecast to be worse in those scenarios in our models, additional provisions are expected to be required. If the future is more favorable than the models are predicting, it is reasonable to expect that a portion of the credit allowance will be reversed back into earnings.

Slide 19 illustrates our liquidity risk management with a high volume of liquid assets supported by a high volume of near-term maturities.

Slide 20 discusses some of the additional funding and liquidity options available to the company. Access to multiple sources of liquidity as required by our sustainable risk culture has never been more important than in this time of crisis.

Finally, as you have come to expect, our capital and leverage ratios are comfortably in excess of regulatory requirements. This quarter, we added 75 basis points to our CET1 capital through our normal operations.

And now, I will turn the call back over to Yousry for closing remarks.

Thank you, Brad. I began this call by talking about putting people first and making decisions based on long-term objectives. This approach to our operations is fundamental to our sustainable risk culture and our value of protect our home. It is during unprecedented events like this that we can truly take stock of what is important. For us, it is helping Canadians achieve their dream of owning and protecting their home.

Although the future is uncertain, I am confident that we have the right strategy and resources to come through even stronger than before. I now turn it over to the operator for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Cihan Tuncay from Stifel.

Hi, team. Good morning. Just wanted to dig in a little bit more on the NIM. Brad, could you talk to how those dynamics between either your spreads that you're getting have changed between Q2 and what we've seen so far in Q3? Are those spreads maintaining or – like on your mortgage rates and deposits or/and potentially, is there anything you can do to lower your deposit rates even further going forward?

Thanks, Cihan. I think the deposit rates are, in particular, on the deposit boards, are competitive. And we've seen them decline. It's hard to predict if they've actually hit bottom. I think the bank can't. Well, I know the Bank of Canada has talked about what their expectations are in overall rates. So, while we may see some decreases, it's unlikely that we will see the rapid decline that was apparent over the last quarter. But we haven't seen a decrease in the spreads that we're able to earn for the past month.

We hope to be able to continue that, but again, with competitive pressure, in particular, we're seeing more on the near-prime uninsured space. We are still working on maintaining our spread on those. Again, that's competitive, but we have not seen a decline in spreads since the last quarter.

Thanks, Brad. And maybe just a follow up to that, it seems that sentiment overall has picked up somewhat from where we were several months ago. How do you think about where your deposit levels are today and just overall liquidity position? It looks like that was a little bit of a drag on NIM performance for the quarter, just wondering how you think about liquidity going forward, or rather any changes to your sentiment on liquidity now versus where you were in Q2?

I agree with your statement. I think people are feeling, I will say, more confident and we are carrying lower levels of liquidity than we had at the beginning of Q2.

Okay. Thank you. And maybe just one last follow-up question if I could sneak one more in. It looks like there was an uptick in the efficiency ratio. I'm just wondering if you can talk about – if there's any other levers we can call on the expense side, in the back half of the year? And then maybe also just go over why that efficiency ratio number went higher for the quarter?

Sure. I'll continue on. The last quarter, we had increased or we made the provision. So, we go contingencies that was under CAD 10 million that helped drive up our non-interest expenses and we do expect to see some increase or we're forecasting some increased activity in relation to our Ignite Program, which covers our SAP reimplementation as well as digital initiatives we think to invest in the company for the long-term. So, we do think that we will see higher levels of non-interest expense relative to Q1, but slightly lower than we saw in Q2.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Good morning. Just a question on the deferrals and based on how you're describing, how you're handling it, would it be accurate to say that the current deferral balance outstanding would represent people who are let's call it truly having financial difficulty and therefore, not using deferrals for financial flexibility?

I – sorry. Go ahead, Yousry.

My bad. Go ahead. Hey, Geoff, first of all. So, probably, we'll both answer a little bit. As I mentioned in my comments, every deferral we've now talked to every client and understand the situation and offered a number of options. And as you can see, the number of deferrals has come down significantly.

So, the ones who are still there are people who are having more difficulty, even though it's a smaller portion. But we are somewhat comforted and that on average of deferrals, the loan-to-value is still in the low-60s, 62%, 63%, and that their FICO scores are around 700. It slightly differs for what we call accelerator A product versus the classic, but very close, around 700.

So, we're working through it. We keep giving them options. We understand these are, as I say, case-by-case basis and we do expect it's going to continue to go down as we help them work through it. Short of a second wave of unemployment or COVID, but just the way it is going at the moment.

Brad, anything to add?

No, Yousry. I think that was responsive to the question.

Okay. And I guess, I'm trying to understand if you have a situation where someone's lost their job and if you completely ignored what their credit score was, for example, what the loan-to-value on the mortgage would be, but in your assessments that this person would likely still be delinquent after six months, if you were to do that, how are you treating them? Are you still willing to extend them the six months if needed, or if you have that view, like I said, that you think they're going to go delinquent regardless, would you be looking to try to deal with that sooner?

So, we, first of all, would look at a number of options. We could increase amortization which would reduce the payment. There's a number of things we would do, but we will act a bit of like their financial consultant. I mean, if the mortgagor sees there is no out, and they're not going to get employed, and they're going to going be unemployed for a while, yet at the same time, they have 62% or 63% loan-to-value, there's a good chance the market is still very capable that they'll sell to get out of the debt and take what they've got.

So, back to the way you've asked the question, I mean, we can defer longer. It's an option for us. We wouldn't get the relief that the regulators have allowed for sort of this period of up to six months, starting back in March. We wouldn't get the relief. It looks like any other arrears, and then we would work as we would in the regular process.

Eventually, the mortgage order will be able to recover and pay back and/or capitalize what's been deferred, have a larger mortgage and because they're employed, pay back from then. And the worst and absolute last case is they sell the home or we help them sell the home to get out. Does that answer it, Geoff? That were the options we think...

Well, I guess – yeah... [indiscernible]

(29:56)

Sorry, Geoff. If I can just the sort of the initial part of your question, you're mentioning six months. We've never granted six month deferrals. We've only gone a maximum of two months. So, we expect to have a lot – as you said, like we expect to have a lot of resolution in the credit situation of the deferrals and/or to get more insight as we go along like we're adjudicating almost all of these loans and our team is working with our borrowers. So, we're very confident with the individuals in that deferral and usually, it's already listed out a number of options that those borrowers would have.

Yeah. I mean, workers, granted it would be an extreme example. And yes, I mean, I know that you've given the deferrals probably for a couple of months, but looking at the banks EBITDA in six months – if you had again a situation where you had a borrower that may not or would likely be delinquent, if you kept them to six months, even if you were to do all these different modifications work like that they still not going to solve it, and if you could not convince them to sell their home. My question was, like, would you look to take action earlier than that, or is there something – other factors that you would still be willing to extend for the full six months that other lenders have...

Yeah.

...practiced? It is what I'm trying to understand?

Yeah. No, I think I understand your question better enough. If I don't, just tell me. So, after two months – before – after about a month, we start talking to them again and it's like an underwriting process for deferral. If we feel the situation is – it is temporary, there's good solutions coming out the other end, we'll approve them for deferral. If we don't, then it goes into the arrears like any other mortgage that's having difficulty.

So, after two months, if we will re – for lack of a better word, underwrite them. We will relook at the file and extend up to two months and/or all these various options I've already talked about. And then again at the end of two months, we'll do it again to a maximum of six. And then at that point, it would be breakthrough. But to answer your question specifically, if we felt someone had no opportunity, we wouldn't approve them for a deferral and they'd begin in the process of being in arrears.

Got it. Okay. That's sort of what I was getting at. Okay. And then just my other question was just on accelerator, it was higher than what you've kind of normally done. How do you think about what that profile might look like over the next couple of quarters?

So, accelerator is something we've been working on for quite a long time to put us in the position that we are today. As you know, Geoff, Accelerator doesn't really make sense to put on balance sheet, given the NIM spread. It's more a off-balance sheet securitization. So, our Treasury team has worked hard to put in place opportunities for us to do accelerator mortgages and get them off balance sheet.

So, I think it's now going to be problematic for us. We will continue to be in this space. It will probably never outshine our Classic, which is our bread and butter. But we expect to be more competitive, more like – more as we have done in the past quarter, as opposed to the way we looked a year ago in the accelerator market.

Got it. Perfect. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Rasib Bhanji from TD.

Yeah. Hi. It's Graham Ryding here. But just on the – when you adjust the borrower's payment, in a situation like that, does that still qualify as a deferral situation, or does that move into – how do you group that or treat that mortgage? Is it treated as impaired at all or how do you treat it in your reporting where you're managing the book?

Yeah. So – hi, Graham. The way you adjust the payment is you can change the amortization, or you can go to biweekly versus monthly, if that helps. So, if you change the amortization and recalculate the payment and they're making payments, they're not an arrears. They may have capitalized what they've deferred so far, one or two or three months, or they may have paid back and then resumed from there. Every situation is slightly different. If you recalculate the payment based on moving amortization, and they don't pay or don't partially pay, then it looks like an arrears, it's no longer a deferral.

Got it. Okay. That makes sense. And then on the credit side, I just want to confirm that you did make some changes to your sort of macro assumptions that go into your credit model? And did those deteriorate somewhat from what was in your credit model as of Q1 2020?

Sorry, Graham, I'm not sure I fully understand. Did we change our underwriting guidelines, is that what you mean?

No, no, no. In your credit – in your view of forecasting credit losses and whatnot...

Yeah.

...the macro assumptions that you use around...

Yeah.

...unemployment rate and house prices and GDP, did those decline relative...

Okay.

...to what you had assumed as of Q1 2020?

Okay. I think Brad is best answer to them.

Yeah, sure, Graham. Yeah, so we've got our scenarios for base upside and downside and from March 31 to June 30, the average unemployment rate had increased and the HPR Housing Price Index declines moderated. Our models have a bigger effect on the average unemployment rate drives the probability of default. So any increases in average unemployment rate tend to offset mitigation in house price declines.

So, for example...

Okay.

...our base case at March 31 had an unemployment rate – average unemployment rate of 8.62%, at June 30 that was 10.07% and similarly for the HPI, the base was a decline of 8.16% and at June 30 that was 5.48%.

But the unemployment was – had more of a...

Yes.

...influx than the house price?

That's correct.

And did I – it looked like your – the changes in your macro assumptions, they actually led to a decline in your residential PCLs, but an increase in your commercial PCLs, did I interpret that correctly?

We were actually up in single family commercial and in other consumer, we had a small recovery in credit card.

Okay. Okay. And then just my last question just on Oaken. The new originations that you brought in through the Oaken channel in the quarter, were those all digitally sourced, given your branches were shut down and when do you expect the branches to reopen?

Yes, they were digitally sourced because we were shut down – we shut down the branches immediately. We're following the protocols of each city and our own guidelines in terms of when we will reopen. It's probably over the next few weeks, but more certainty on that until everything has been cleared.

Okay, great. That's it from me. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from RJ.

Good morning, everyone. Yousry, Brad, I'm not sure who's best to answer this. But I guess I'm trying to understand, Yousry, in your opening remarks that you mentioned that – I can't remember if it was the Toronto Housing Board or whoever said that there's an expectation that housing prices would decline. So, for those people on deferrals, you also mentioned that you're factoring the loan-to-value and after out of 60% or 70%, then you may give them some leeway.

So, how do you balance that the thought of declining housing prices and your margin on the loan-to-value declining, is there a point where you say at 80% we're going to foreclose, regardless of what is happening? Like is that going to be a big factor in terms of when you take further action against some of these homeowners?

Good to talk to you again, Steve, haven't talked to you in a while. So, what I was referring to is there's a lot of various people predicting real estate declines such as CMHC. And CMHC has been quite public about what they believe are going to be a decline in values over the next year, year-and-a-half. But that hasn't happened yet. So far, there have been increases in values in GTA and GVA, the market has been exceptionally hot and I referred in the script that Toronto Real Estate board numbers for the month of July are the highest they've been in the last 10 years, when you compared the last 10 Julys, so – by a lot, by almost 1,000 more sales.

So, it hasn't happened yet. So, we're actually going the other way. So, somebody who's loan-to-value 62%, it may be coming down based on what's going on right now. But having said that, we don't know if they're going to be right in the future or not. So, the way we look at it is we know approximately our cost, if we have to go in and sell that home. We know approximately what it will take, we factor that in and then we see if there's lots of room or enough room for movement in the LTV.

So, that 62% on average, there's plenty of room for us before we take a dollar of loss, quite a bit of room. And the provisions as they spend based on IFRS 9 as we've discussed are all about forward-looking. We're not experiencing anything bad in our current portfolio more than normal, 2 basis points of losses above normal for the last few years.

It is all about forward-looking. And as Brad mentioned, the unemployment, that's expected. The HPI, that's expected, which looks at every single loan. But it would take a substantial decline in the values and a substantial amount of default before we actually used all that allowance. But accounting's accounting and we're sticking to it and keeping conservative all the way through. I always like to check if I answered your question, because I digress a little bit. But did I answer your question on the first part?

Yeah. I mean – I think, yeah, I think you did. In terms of, I mean is it your view then, like, that housing crisis will continue to be steady, up or down? I mean, what's your view as opposed to some of the sources?

Yeah. That's so hard to answer, Steve. I don't have that crystal ball. But what I do know is that we are prepared for a decline. That's what all these allowances are doing. They're prepared for a decline, and we're ready for it with the high unemployment. But there's so many factors that I just can't put together. Is there going to be a second wave, or is unemployment going to spike, is the market going to shut down again? I'm not an economist to kind of add all of these in.

But all we do is, as we always say, is we look at one deal at a time. The market's been very hot, having done much more prudent underwriting in this hot market, and are very comfortable with what we're doing and can withstand a lot of variation in the future. We've got a very strong balance sheet now to withstand that now and for a long time.

Okay. That's all I had, Yousry. Thank you.

Thanks, Steve.

You have a follow up question from Cihan Tuncay from Stifel.

Just a couple of quick follow ups for me. Yousry, do you have a sense at all of given the strong origination volume that you just spoke about, do you have a sense at all if there's, – if you're seeing increased demand for single family homes versus suburban caused by COVID? I mean, are we seeing some of those increase on the house pricing level or overall activity level. Do you have any sense at all whether or not COVID is leading to a structural change in demand to flow from urban to suburban? And how are your views on that would support the outlook for house prices?

Yes. So, we're hearing from realtors and brokers of some activity in that regard. I don't think it's significant enough to declare a shift, but there are people who are saying I'm going to work from home for a long time and/or for the rest of my career that's all I want. So, I don't need to be in a 400 square foot condo in downtown Toronto. I'll go move where I can get some green in St. Catharines or Ancaster, somewhere further up. So, we're hearing some of that. And I think more of it will happen, whether it becomes significant yet, it's too early to say.

Are you there, Cihan?

Yeah. I'm sorry. That's – I was on mute there. Yeah, I just wanted to follow up on that. I didn't have any other follow-up questions. Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks.

And I show no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to Ms. MacRae for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you all for attending our conference call today. And if you have any follow-up questions you can contact or e-mail Investor Relations. Thanks again. Be well and have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Home Capital Group Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect at this time.