raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Home Capital Group Inc. Third Quarter Earnings Announcement


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation,


we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to


queue up for questions. [Operator Instructions]. I would like to remind everyone that this


conference is being recorded on Thursday, October 26, 2006 at 10:30 Eastern Time. I will now turn


the conference over to Gerald Mr. Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go


ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to share with you about Home Capital’s third


quarter results. First of all, I will give you an outline of some of the highlights of the quarter and


then I will talk little more specifically about some of the items.


First of all, I want to point out that we have raised our dividend for the third time. This year we


started the year with an annualized dividend of $0.20 a share, $0.05 quarterly and we moved the


dividend twice during the year, previously at the end of first quarter, at the end the second and


we’ve now moved that from about $0.05 at the end of last year to $0.09 on a quarter on a going


forward basis or $0.36 and we have increased our dividend some 80% year-over-year. I want to


indicate, this as an indication of the confidence that the Board of Directors has in the profit


generating ability of the company and the stability and the good lines of business we are in.


The second thing I would like to point out is that during the quarter, Home was able to pay-off its


loan that it had previously it had a loan at the parent company level of $10 million and paid off 5


million in the second quarter, and we completely paid it off in the third quarter. This was the loan


that we’ve previously had with Canadian Western Bank, and it’s now paid in full. And Home Capital


and Home Trust have no external debt, and of course, I’m not talking about deposits, but no other


debt of any nature to a third party, and we are quite pleased with that.


I would also like to point out that either yesterday or this morning, Fitch renewed their rating. They


reviewed the company, and Fitch has renewed their BBB minus investment grade rating for the


both parent and subsidiary and they gave us a stable outlook. They have reviewed it and I’m sure


that would be available online, which is the same as the last time. And generally, the tone of the


report is generally positive and as I said, the outlook is stable.


The next thing is the VISA business has been doing exceptionally well. We have gone from last


year in receivables in the Equityline VISA business only. We’ve gone from about 93.5 million at


December 31st, and in the nine months, we’ve moved that up to 178.8 million of receivables, about


double. I have indicated that I thought we could do double for the whole year, but I’m quite


confident, we will, on the Equityline VISA product, we will be well over the 200 million at the end of


the year in receivables, and we have extremely good momentum.


The outlook, on a looking forward basis is that at the end of next year we are quite confident that,


that’s the business we could end up at the end of next year, the end of ’07, in the 300 to 400 million


range. If the momentum in receivables, if the acceptance on some of the initiatives we have


already started, continues, we will be at the higher end. If we have to be searching for other


strategies we will be at the lower end. But that’s something I can give you a more clarity on a going


forward basis at a future point.


We have had on the Equityline VISA business, next to no losses and it continues to be a product


that serves a wide range of people and only about 20% of the card holders are people who have


another product with Home, the credit quality is quite high and probably about 80% of the people
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


who have an Equityline VISA have a conventional bank first mortgage ahead of us. So, there is


lots of cross-selling opportunities and we are extremely pleased with the product. We have moved


the call center from an external servicer to our offices here in Toronto. We see some additional


efficiencies from that and with the call center trained by us, we see that there will be other cross-


selling opportunities on a going forward basis. In addition, there are some cost savings and we are


a little closer to our customer base than a call center in Florida, both physically and emotionally and


product knowledge-wise. Although, our previous people did a very good, I am not being negative,


we can do a little better job being able to touch the people and train them ourself.


The next thing is what’s worked for is, because I know you always ask, we did some radio


advertising on the VISA and the radio advertising together with a mail out to people who use to deal


with Home or maybe have another product with us at the same time, we’ve had a very good –


we’ve had a very good response from that and that’s why I’m saying, it’s combination of an


advertising program and direct mail, some more underwriting of the product in the branches and we


were – we could see a 3 to 400 million portfolio by the end of next year.


The next thing is the total assets, on a year-over-year basis we’ve had good growth there. We had


our total assets including mortgage-backed securities are up 28% year-over-year. Our return on


equity is about 26%, maybe its less than the 30% we had last year, but I think all of you are looking


at companies in the industry, kind of appreciate it, its still a terrific number.


The number that I’m sure some people will have some comments about is that our originations in


the quarter were up some 4% year-over-year. I would like to point out that last year during the


quarter, had been our biggest quarter ever at 512 million and the quarter we just put together, we


did 533 – 533 million which again is the largest quarter we’ve ever had in our company’s history.


The next question always will be, why the things slowdown during the third quarter? We are not


hitting the same as we had during the year, which we had an increase of 14.5% for the first nine


months. So, why it wasn’t that in the third quarter? Well, I think there was a couple of things; one


is we focused on spread, not so much volume; second of all, I’d say, it’s somewhere at the end of


the summer, we became – at the beginning of the summer, I am sorry, we got quite concerned with


housing prices in Alberta and BC. You know with the form of risk management, we’ve tightened the


box under which we would lend, that together with a change of managers in Alberta, and we have a


relatively new manager in BC, he has only been with us under a year, we really felt that we had to


be very careful because it’s really easy to say, yes in lending. You’re dealing with an old veteran


who fought his way through the wars of the early 90’s. And it’s really easy to say, yes and do the


lending. But boy, it’s messy if the market, you are in cauldron and you are kind of a bubble, and


you’re trying to fight your way out. And the worst loans are the ones that you hit at the peak of a


bubble, because they come up pretty quickly.


I would like to point out that we really have gotten quite a different perspective 90 days later in


Western Canada. The pace of increase on the ground in both provinces have slowed down quite


dramatically. It may not show up in the national statistics, but we have noticed that right across the


country, sales are now taking, if you can’t believe this, 20 to 30 days, they are not being sold in 2


and 3 days and that they really had been a period where you have put a sign note on the loan, no


matter what the price was, there was a period that everybody was clamoring to buy the house, so


they get multiple offers.


The market seems to return to the norm. It’s like many other – and deviations, they return to the


norm at sometime, and the marketing across the country which we’re very pleased to report, really


does appear to returning to the norm. Housing that we found right across the country on the


market for a reasonable amount of time, it does sell people without of prices that they are out of line


do find that they have to adjust their price of the market. And just because it sold – neighbor’s


house sold for 200 six months ago, you can ask 290 and automatically assume to get it. So, we’ve


stepped up the tempo for the fourth quarter and going forward and we feel that there has been a