Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — CEO, Director & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive Vice President, Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Frederik Westra — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Securities)
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Andrey Omelchak — Portfolio Manager, Montrusco Bolton Investments, Inc.
Atul Shah — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Andrea, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group First Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. You may begin your conference, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to report to you on Home Capital's first quarter 2013 results. Home has delivered another quarter of strong earnings for the three months ending March 31, 2013.

During the first quarter, we have seen a residential real estate market that has softened year-over-year as there has been a decline in housing sales in Canada of approximately 15% year-over-year. But there has also been a slight increase in the actual selling price that is found across Canada. So in fact, we've had a lessening of the number of transaction, but there has been no decrease in housing prices. In fact, a slight increase year-over-year.

So, how did we do? Well, Home has delivered an increase in diluted earnings per share of CAD1.72 against CAD1.52 last year, up 13.2%. And net income increased to CAD59.7 million, up 13.7% over the CAD52.5 million that was earned last year in the first quarter.

Now, to show that there was even more in the earnings tank, what we did is we spelled out in our quarterly what the adjusted earnings were. And we have set out the adjusted earnings so that they will show a net income of CAD63 million or a 20% increase year-over-year and earnings per share were CAD1.81 per share, up 19.1% year-over-year. And this is into a slowing housing market.

The adjustments for the earnings were related to two items that we believe are clearly not reoccurring except as I set out. The first of those, Home had about CAD4.5 million in three loans to condominium corporations. These were loans to the corporations that run the buildings, not to individual unitholders. We've had no problem with individual unitholders.

The condo corporations needed repair – repairs that had build up and the condo corps did not have sufficient reserve funds. So a common type of procedure is they apply for a loan to get the work done, the condo corporation would then place a special assessment against the individual condo owners and collect and pay back the loan over its term, usually a three to five year term.

I might add the special assessment to have an idea -- the priority – the special assessment sits in priority of any mortgage that is registered to any institution. So it's got a very high priority and up to this time, we've had many loans of this type with very good success because the priority is so high.

The common – the problem on the three loans that we had was that the condo corp had turned over the management to a management company. Again something that's not unusual, a number of condo corps for a number of reasons will look for some help to do the management. They'll have a board of directors, but they won't necessarily look after their own grass cutting, snow removal, repairs et cetera.

The problem was in this particular condo corp manager who had been in business for some time and he had arranged and negotiated the loans on behalf of the corporations and he negotiated with the contractors that would do the work. And after the home loans had been advanced to the corporation, they duly authorized manager of the condo corp, the part of Toronto for Bangladesh together with the balance of the loans from the condo corporations. The condo corporations didn't pay and a lawsuit commenced. Needless to say, the person whom we all believe was responsible and we also believe had taken the money, he has not returned to Canada.

As the – the police department would like to ask him a few questions. So we haven't seen him. We commenced a lawsuit against all parties, the condo corp, the lawyer, et cetera. And there was a lot of parties involved and there was a lot of different interests. And we decided that rather than waste countless hours of executive time and the expense of a lengthy trial that maybe somewhat precedent-breaking, and whenever you're doing some precedent-breaking, it could happen in different ways. I might add the one problem with our case was that some of the signatures from the condo corp side were forged and the allegation is the manager did the forging.

Anyways, the executive of the condo corp board in some cases denied some of the signatures and we think they have denial on a good basis. The end of the story was that we were able to get all of our CAD4.5 million back except for an after-tax charge of CAD1.5 million. We felt it was prudent to settle, get the matter put behind us and not have it as something that would continue to take time and legal expense to proceed.

So we believe this is the first time it's ever happened in our history and it was truly a non-recurring expense, a bonafide expense. We had to show it on the statement, but this is not going to happen next quarter. We're not aware of any such charge coming up in the future.

Now, the second item relates to CAD1.8 million in after tax charges relating to IFRS implementation. We had a similar charge in fourth quarter 2012 and we will have another after tax charge of approximately CAD2.3 million in the second quarter of 2013. But after the second quarter, the amounts involved on this IFRS adjustments will not be significant. They will be very minuscule on – for a couple more quarters after that, but well under CAD100,000 per quarter.

So after the second quarter, this IFRS charge will not be reoccurring. And that's why we set the two items out to give you an idea of the earnings power of the company during the first quarter. And as I said earlier, we thought we actually did a bit better than the CAD1.72. And we spelled that out to show you the two items and why we thought that they were properly set aside as adjusted earnings.

Now, during the quarter, strong return on equity of 24%. Credit quality remains solid, net non-performing ended the quarter at 0.32% or less than a 0.33% in the non-performing compared to 33 basis points last quarter. So it went down modestly. Now what I – what also was encouraging is historically, the first quarter is the highest of the year. Between Christmas bills, heating costs, seasonal layoffs, what we've found through the years, the first quarter non-performing tends to creep up a little bit and then tends to fall during the year.

The fact that the first quarter trend in non-performing was down slightly, just one basis point, but usually it's up somewhat, but it is down slightly from December 31 to March 31, is very promising for the quarters ahead. We're pleased that all aspects of our business performed well and we have not had problems with arrears or collections outside historic low return – no loan arrears, write-offs are all really very much in line with historic performance.

We did originate, we had total originations in the quarter of CAD1.38 billion, up 16% year-over-year. And the core residential first mortgage business, our core business that we've always excelled in, was up CAD990 million, just a shade under a CAD1 billion during the quarter, up from CAD922 million last year. So the core originations were up some 7.5% and the spread on those was good. It continued to be a very solid as I mentioned before three-plus spread on that business. We're always very pleased with that because that has always been a strong driver of our profitability.

We have discussed this over several quarters and I will continue to give you an update that whereby we continue to pursue a strategy that will allow Home to originate insured residential first mortgages to securitize them and sell them, and then afterwards service them on an ongoing basis. We would like to do that with a strategy that the mortgages do not end up on our balance sheet as part of our asset to capital ratio, and we've discussed this many times in many previous quarters. And that continues to be our goal and our strategy.

Now, we have made progress in our dialogue with regulators and other interested parties. And management remains cautiously, I want to just emphasize cautiously optimistic that a solution can be attained. I would love to answer the question of when, but unfortunately, we do not know when, but we do think a solution will be forthcoming.

As an indication of our cautious optimism, Home has for its part, started to increase its originations of insured first mortgages. In the first quarter, we originated CAD121.6 million in insured mortgages really for what is available a very low number. And we have added to the staff, added to the risk group and all the other control groups, and we have stepped up the originations of the insured single family dwelling for this quarter.

We believe we can increase our closings of insured residential first mortgage in this quarter to something close to double of the first quarter. It could be in the CAD200 million to CAD250 million. Normally, there would be an increase because of the weather, but we think because people buy more houses in the second quarter than they do in first quarter, but we think something beyond the uptick in the market we can have a very, start to build a very nice inventory. If we're able to obtain a CAD200 million to CAD250 million quarter, this would allow us to not only use part of the mortgages for our liquidity purposes and part of them for replacement assets on the existing mortgages that are outstanding. But we would also start to accumulate an inventory so that they are ready to be sold once we do get regulatory clearance.

In conclusion, as we look out over the second quarter and the rest of the year, we see no bubble but a slowly improving economy and an improving house market. No runaway improvement but steadily month-over-month. And in fact the first quarter housing sales were down 15%, prices were up 2%.

The Toronto Real Estate Board yesterday released their April numbers. Sales in April year-over-year were only down 2.1% year-over-year not 15% as it was in the first quarter. And the interesting thing is that the house prices in the Greater Toronto Area were only up 2% year-over-year, the same as in the first quarter. So, clearly, what we are seeing is a slowly rising sales coming back to year-over-year volumes and we see a flat price structure, which will make it affordable for people to get into the marketplace.

There also was – which we again think is a very healthy sign, there was an increase in the number of listings year-over-year and the number of new listings was up about 10%. Part of the problem was there was a period that new listings were not coming out, buyers got a bit discouraged. There wasn't enough choice to select among and got a bit discouraged. We now see that April was the first month which reflected our experience and the feedback we have gotten from real estate agents, from our mortgage brokers, from all the intelligence that we have in the country, where there clearly was an uptick in sales, an uptick in listings, and a flat prices year-over-year.

The Real Estate Board also made a comment that I – that we would like to confirm based on our intelligence and they said "it is almost – it has been almost a year since the federal government enacted stricter mortgage lending guidelines. It is realistic to summarize that some households who originally put off their decision to purchase, on hold, are now once again looking to buy." I would like to add that our intelligence from the marketplace is that this is very accurate. And first time home buyers who have been absent in the spring market are now reentering the housing market.

So, in summary, we see the economic conditions improving. Slowly rising house sales relatively flat house prices. And we believe this will help Home deliver and their ability to deliver another solid increasing earnings and earnings per share in the second quarter and throughout the rest of the year.

We also believe that the Canadian economy, for a number of reasons, is actually doing a little better than many of the negative pundits believe, and that will be confirmed as further statistics come out during the quarter. We will begin to get the spillover of the uptick in the U.S. market and falling unemployment in the States and many industries, U.S. being our largest export market, we have now seen improvement in some industries that are dependent on the U.S. export market.

So we look forward to a better second quarter that's steadily increasing, and we think the outlook for the company is pretty bright and we're quite comfortable with our ability to deliver the guidance we gave to you. If at some point we ever were not comfortable, we would so advise you, but at this point we think we're comfortable and delivering on the guidance that was given in the year-end results.

So, thank you for your attention and I'd now be pleased to answer any of your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Michael Goldberg with Desjardin Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Michael.

So there's no news on the approval of the strip sales on regular mortgages. But, this quarter, you originated almost CAD180 million of insured multi-res. Can we expect that you can sell strips on these as you did in the fourth quarter last year?

On the multi-res, we don't have to sell. It's an off-balance – okay, I'll – I'm going to have Bob Blowes, our CFO explain it but it's quite different. I don't want to misword it, but it's a different product and handled differently. Go ahead, Bob.

Thank you, Gerry. Good morning, Michael. On the multi-res, Michael, we don't actually sell a strip. The securitization results in virtually no risk to the originator. So we're able to meet the IFRS test. The primary risk in the single family residential is prepayment risk, and that's not present in this particular type of multi-res securitization. So we would expect that we'll continue to do that kind of activity, probably in volumes similar to what you've seen. And the profitability is a little bit variable depending on which channel the opportunities come through, but we see this activity continuing.

But they are not on balance sheet. We have a gain on sale and an off-balance sheet treatment after we securitize and sell. And there is a very – the key there as Bob has said is they are sold through a CMHC pool that is – does not permit prepayment. On residential mortgages, you can't do the same, because clearly under CMHC regulations, there are ways in which the individual can prepay. And I don't quarrel with that. I think that a home owner should have a way of prepaying. And if he sells the house, not be tied in for the full five years, and I think public policy would support CMHC on that. What we have to do is find another solution for those mortgages.

Okay. So on these multi-res, when they are securitized, they do go off-balance sheet?

That's correct.

Okay. My other question is your fee revenue of almost CAD15 million in the first quarter was up about CAD4 million year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter or about 35%. It's a big increase. Where does this increase come from? And how sustainable should we think of this CAD15 million levels of these to be?

Two things. I think it is sustainable and it came about because of both increased volume and a review of the fees that had been charged. And we just brought some of them back in line with what others in the industry are doing. So there was a few adjustments and with that sort of an increased volume, it's increased on a year-over-year basis, but I think it is sustainable.

Okay. And could give us some idea of the type of fees that were increased?

No, those are quite proprietary. And we make – to the relevant client, we make them everything is fully disclosed. But they are somewhat competitive and we don't advertise them sort of in a public way.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, Geoff.

First question I had was, I mean it seems that you've been a clear beneficiary from the OSFI B-20 rule changes. And my question is, at what point has it happened or maybe it hasn't yet – has the – what you might believe is the full impact of the amount of business that is flowing from the banks onto you guys? In other words, when we think about year-over-year comps, at what point should we think that the positive benefit from B-20 has been factored in?

I don't think it's fully factored in yet because the rules are being reviewed by OSFI. They are doing audits on all the companies as how the companies have interpreted and are lending according to the rules. There will be more clarity over the rest of the year after we hear some more clarity. Some are running B-20 rules on companies that are tighter. We think we've been very tight and turned away a lot of business that we know other regulated companies have not turned away. Once we've had an audit and we understand exactly what are the – what their thinking is because some of the points in the B-20 were open to some interpretation. We've tried to get the best guidance and followed it carefully. So we'll know better after we've had further meetings with them and they've done a review which is scheduled for later in the year. But it's not just us. They've gone around to all of the companies and they're trying to get a body of data that will allow them to proceed on a going forward.

I think, however, that for the foreseeable future, we will be a net benefit. Clearly, there were some people at the bottom end that we felt very comfortable dealing with, but because of the nature of the loan they would be noncompliant and we couldn't lend them CAD0.01 over 65% loan to value. They clearly have been scooped up by the number of mortgage and investment corporations that have sprouted out like dandelions after a rain in the summer. And there have been a number of them from coast-to-coast. There is a vast amount of money out canvassing that market. They would charge more than we would for a similar type loan, but by the interpretation of B-20 the way we have, they would be non-compliant and we have clearly not done those.

On the other hand, there is a group of people who are higher quality buyer that traditionally had been a bank customer, they've had shifted down to us. And with some work, they can be made B-20 compliant. It just takes a little more work. You can't just do it by ticking boxes. There has to be a more analysis and a fuller interview and more investigation. But there are some very strong candidates in that category. And actually those candidates are able to, because of their quality, and the banks could do them if they put the effort into it. So they are really a bank client that's got shifted around and the pricing on those loans is below our traditional spread, but the quality is so good. We are happy to do them and happy to get them on as a customer. So the whole shakeout from B-20 is, it's just not clear yet. And I know I can – it's not a very satisfactory answer, but I think it will be something that will evolve. I've tried to give you the pluses and minuses of each side.

Sure. And maybe from the way you guys are reading B-20 right now, and the customers that you feel are coming into your lap from the banks primarily. Are these customers that may eventually migrate back to the banks over a period of time or are these ones that are probably going to be in your lap for call it the life of their mortgage?

Both. There is some people who miss the bank by very little. If they go back and maybe it can be as simple as getting their statements from their business audited or getting a better degree of proof as to the income they are receiving from their business – might qualify at the bank. The bank generally will not do a lot of analysis on a statement and it either has the bottom line income or it doesn't. We are quite prepared to look at the statement from the individual and see how much has been deducted for – and quite legally so for other household members may have taken salaries from the business. How much is for vehicles that are not necessarily used 100% in the business. How much is for things like home office and promotion and other expenses. There is a way of looking at these and quickly being satisfied that the person really did make the income. He just use the tax benefit and the tax code and use deductions to minimize his tax which is still permitted in Canada and he has looked to minimize this tax in a legal way. But they are all spelled out, but you've got to go back and reanalyze them. So it's hard to say they are not all going to go away, they are not all going to stay, it's really dependent on the individual circumstances.

We think that – we think it's given us a whole new market. And we're delighted because it clearly has improved the quality of our book of business. We've increased the Beacon, the average Beacon score we've been doing every quarter over the last three quarters since B-20 came out every quarter, new originations, the Beacon score has gone up and the loan to value has gone down. So, to us, if you get better credit and lower loan-to-value, that's always good news for us.

Okay. And if you can just bear with me, one last question. The [ph] salary (30:54) benefits expense in the quarter was up a little bit quarter-over-quarter. I know it's maybe not the best way to look at it. And my read was part of it was head count, part of it was merit-based increases. And I know, I think at the beginning of the year, some of the CPP/EI stuff can be a little bit higher. When we think about this number going forward, is there anything that we should be thinking about in terms of additional head count or other pluses and minuses?

No, I think that to gear up for where we think we're going to be going, we need the head count. We're not planning to – we don't have any big hiring blitz on. We take on a fair number of summer students, which we find are very good to help us out during the busiest period of the year, which is now till September. And it's also the time of lot of the employees who worked hard all year like to take some time off with their families et cetera. And we – in the company with 600 employees, we hire over 50 university students, and that has always been a good strategy. So people can go away when they want and they often pick up roles quite quickly. And fair number over the years have either finished their degree and come back or one reason or another have stayed on and we've been quite successful with that. So I don't think there is going to be any dramatic head count change. I think the expenses will be more or less in line. I don't see anything getting cheaper. Nobody charges less these days. Landlord doesn't charge less, hydro and everything always is the same. Like you have a [ph] split in (32:40) infrastructure. What I think will happen is that when we kind of show you on the adjusted earnings we don't have those problems. We've got some pretty good runway with a better growth and not having those nonrecurring items come in, we see some – with expenses being in the same range, we see some good runway for earnings increase over the rest of the year.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Aaron Hoffman (33:14) with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Good morning, Mr. Soloway.

Good morning, [ph] Aaron (33:22).

You say you're happy with the low amount of delinquent mortgages and that they are within historical norms?

Yes.

But if you look at page 46 of your recent quarterly earnings report, you see a more than tripling of loans that are 61 days to 90 days in arrears. Are you concerned with the spike in delinquencies in a 61 day to 90 day period?

No. Because they've been analyzed and sometimes there is people moving through the system and they – it is what I had mentioned to you in the first quarter. There is always a bit more in the first quarter that come about with – and I'd spelled that out in my remarks because they have to – people will have Christmas bills, they have sometimes seasonal layoffs, they sometimes have heating costs that they don't factor in. And so it's not unusual to see a bit of a bump. The fact that it didn't filter through to the 90 days is really the part that we find most promising. And the latest reports I've had is that a lot of those are getting themselves resolved before they hit 90 days.

Well, I mean, this is a – tripling of 61 days to 90 days is very significant. It's not a small...

No it's significant to you. We have run this business for 25 years. There is a historic pattern. You could call it historic, you'll look at the number again in June and I'm telling you that that bulge there is not a problem. We've looked at it. We've analyzed it. A lot have been now brought up to-date. You'll see in the next quarter, it will be back. It's not unusual there to be some movement whether it ends up at 90 days, whether it ends up in 60 days, in the first quarter. I'd mentioned that earlier. But the rest of it, this is a – on a year-over-year basis, there is a much larger portfolio. Most of that would be just a bit of a bulge, but that's not something we're worried about. We do, we have analyzed it, we're not ignoring it.

Okay. Thank you.

We just disagree.

Thank you for your time.

You're welcome.

Our next question comes from the line of Fred Westra with Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Great. Thank you. Good morning.

Fred, good morning.

So just wanted to follow-up on the B-20 discussion. And I know we could talk it to death, but two questions on that. One, from your remarks, I just wanted to try to understand, maybe I misread some of what you said, but is the B-20 having a material impact on what we would call Home Capital's traditional mortgage business?

Okay. I think, I got to answer it by saying a portion and we haven't been able to analyze that carefully. Maybe there has been 20%, we don't know if it's more of the traditional business that we did. We have to hold now to 65%.

Okay.

There is a portion. There is no doubt about it. We might have been comfortable doing 70%. We might have – there might have been other – we would have worked to fulfill the requirements of the borrowers' needs, if it solved all his debt problems and even if he didn't have quite the income. But if there was a complete consolidation on a refinance, we might have gone over the 65%. But if he is non-compliant 65% is the line we don't do it. So a little bit has dropped off the back. Sometimes we arrange for the people to get a second mortgage, so we don't lose them all, but there is something that we hold it to 65% and we might help them to try to get a second.

Okay.

But there clearly is that – at the other end, there's a larger tipping of the bucket for those that are coming that might have gone to the banks in the past. And because of the nature of their application requires more work than in the past – at bank application, they come our way.

All right.

We've gained more than we've lost.

Yeah, no, no, no, that's fine. Okay. Thank you for that clarification. So the other question that I have is – and I'm just trying to get a handle on this because Home Capital, from my understanding, has always kind of done the extra work to rebuild the income statement, if you will, of the borrowers to get a true picture, as you described in your earlier comments of what their income is. And this is something that the banks are probably ill-equipped to be able to handle at this time, and this is part of the reason that you've got a larger tipping of the bucket at the high end of the market. And I'm hearing various views in the industry amongst lenders about whether the banks will ultimately gear up and trying to come back after this business in the shorter term, the medium-term or in the longer-term. What is Home Capital's view with respect to how long the banks may stay out of this market at the kind of gray zone between kind of near-prime and prime?

Well, unfortunately I'm not privy to their board meetings and I really don't know their strategy on this, but I'll just give you one comment. When I cited in the lending business with Home 26 years ago, everybody was concerned that the banks would take over our business because of they offered a little better yield. And that they'd say, well if we can do it, they can do it better. So far the most that's happened in 26 years is the various banks, each one in one way or another without getting into it now on this call, but have put a toe in the water. They've investigated, they put a toe in the water, they've looked to buy a company, they've done all kinds of strategies. To the best of my knowledge at this point, none of the big six banks even have a toe in the water on anything that is not completely the bank core business. So, clearly, they could go back and change and add people and do – look after this portion of the mortgage market. But we have seen no signs that they're going to change what really works for them. The return on equity of the domestic banking business for the banks is very high. The branch banking business with all of its product is terrific. And I think it serves the public well and it serves the banks well.

I'm not sure that they want to change the people who are selling mutual funds and all the other products that banks now sell – and investment advice and try to get them trained to figure out how to do mortgages that don't quite fit their computer program. They can, there is no prohibition, but my own mind is that it'll be a long time coming and it's definitely over the next year or so. We don't even see the slightest hint in the marketplace. I don't know – Martin, have you seen anything. I'm turning over to Martin Reid.

No. For them the expense of getting into to it and managing it is counter-cultural to the way they do their business. So we don't see that they're likely to get into our space.

Okay. Great. I appreciate that. So if you bear with me for one more question, sounds very positive that headway is being made with the regulators on some things. I know you're being very cautiously optimistic but your comment seem more positive this quarter around than in previous quarters. And the fact that you're starting to build up inventory being somewhat indicative of that. What would Home Capital's sort of – if you will share, target be for 2013 in terms of building up an inventory in insured mortgages if you're doubling in Q2? Would you kind of maintain that as a run rate or would you even consider growing again in Q3 and then again in Q4, so that it would be north of CAD1 billion in originations this year?

It will have to depend on the outcome of the discussion. If we don't feel as highly optimistic, we're not going to build the inventory.

Right.

And your – I would be – have a better idea of how to answer that question two months from now after the quarter is over. We're dealing with very delicate things and I really don't want to say anything that would aggravate anybody. They are – everybody is working hard to find a solution and I don't want to embarrass anybody or say the wrong thing. It's like a little bit of diplomacy that somehow the less you say the better off you are.

Absolutely. Understood. Thank you so much.

Our next question comes from Bryan Brown with Macquarie Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi.

Hi, Bryan.

Hi, there. The NIM on securitized mortgages, the compression wasn't very much this quarter, I believe just one basis point. And just wanted to know if you still see that range of 75 basis points to 90 basis points as an area going forward?

At this point, yes. We seem to be – that seems to be the pricing in the market that we can obtain these multi-res. You're talking about the multi-res spreads, the ones that we've sold or on the regular core?

The Accelerator-securitized. [indiscernible]

(44:14) Yeah. No – we've seen the market – the range pretty stable. They fluctuate, as you know, on a week-to-week basis, but our own forecast is, I don't see a rate change for the balance of this year. If there is not a basic change in the prime interest rate, I think the rates of the mortgages will be more or less in the same range they are now. I think it would take a rate change from – before we would see much of a dramatic change – I don't know, maybe I'll turn it over to Martin. Do you see?

Yeah, we see on the single family homes that are being securitized that that margin is likely to sort of stabilize at that level. In that is also the securitized multi-unit. The margins on those are lower, so there may be a little bit of shift due to the portfolio mix.

Okay. Okay. And I guess with the multi-unit residential mortgages, the amount that was sold in the quarter, CAD156 million, a lot higher than last quarter. And I think previously you guys guided to a range of CAD75 million to CAD100 million per quarter. So do you see that range increasing going forward?

Well, we had a good quarter and some of that came from – some of the uptick came from one very substantial company who at the same time refinanced a large block of mortgages through CMHC. They didn't do the buildings one by one. They did several buildings. And as a result, the one account, the one connection accounted for a large part of the increase.

It's a lumpy – the stuff comes-in in a lumpy way because there is substantial amounts it can come in as low as few million but it can come in as high as CAD25 million to CAD50 million. So it sort of depends on what individual companies are planning to refinance.

And I think if we saw CAD100 million a quarter, I think we'd be very happy. I don't think that we're going to – I don't see on what we've got in the pipeline that it's going to be in second quarter quite as big as it was in the first quarter, to try to give you that kind of a guidance. But you don't know, you can give a lot of commitments, you don't know what closes till the end, you don't know when all the – you might give people a commitment. But when CMHC does their inspections, they may come back with work orders, they may have stuff that needs to be repaired before they give the loan.

There can be a lot of lumps in the process. It's not like single family dwelling. So it's hard to say it will happen this quarter or next quarter. But I think our previous guidance – we're comfortable with that and we think we can fully achieve it. In some months, we might do better, which happened this quarter.

Thanks. That's helpful. And just one last one. For your overall loan growth, if we annualize the sequential growth for 1Q, I guess you guys even show in your results that you're just under the loan growth target of 10% to 15%. And would you attribute that mainly to seasonality?

Well, partly seasonality and we have had more runoff on the insured product than we've been replacing. So this will be one of the first quarters that if we remained hopeful that we'll be able to use the strip sales as a solution to the insured single-family, we're starting to build it up. So at this point, the 10% growth seems realistic mainly because there will be growth in the single-family traditional business, which we know about, but we also think there will be growth in our book of business from insured mortgages that we're going to be holding on our books until we come up with a solution.

Okay. Thanks. That's it for me.

Good. Thanks, Bryan

Our next question comes from the line of Shubha Khan with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Shubha.

So, originations, particularly of your traditional product, were quite solid in the quarter, which was somewhat surprising in the context of the slowdown that we've been seeing in the housing market. I'm just thinking about some of the things that may be driving that. And you touched on B-20 earlier. Was there any expansion in Home's market presence? I mean did you enter or expand in any new markets, particularly outside of the GTA or Ontario?

No. We stuck to our – I'm just – I've got Pino here. Just to double-check, Pino, the Senior VP of Mortgages, he'll come and answer that. Was there any market we went into, Pino?

No, Shuba. No new markets geographically. However, to answer the question, we do a lot of legwork prior to January 1 with our broker network. And I think we touched on this in the last quarter. We did a lot of work as far as getting B-20 ready from a Home Trust standpoint and then taking that message and delivering it to our broker partners. So they in turn could quickly identify a new market that was going to be coming their way effective January 1. So through partnerships with our brokers I think we got an early jump and we were able to take advantage of the marketplace even though there was a slowdown in purchases and a slowdown in the real estate market. Obviously, there was a lot of borrowers out there that were trying to change financings. And as Gerry said, a lot of customers that traditionally we wouldn't see from the bank or typically could go to their bank that were now deemed to be non-confirming mortgages. And our brokers quickly identified those and found solutions and those solutions came through Home Trust.

Okay. And just as a follow-on to that last point then. So I just want to confirm that you're still observing improving credit quality on new originations? In other words, the average Beacon on new originations is still increasing?

Yes. Yes, that's accurate.

Perfect. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Andrey Omelchak with Montrusco Bolton. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Congratulations. Excellent quarter as usual.

Okay. Thanks, Andrey.

The question I have is with respect to the dividends and buybacks. Clearly, you generated a lot of free cash flow. You have room to raise dividends. Maybe that's a better way to deploy some of the excess capital than doing some of the accelerated, for example, originations, of which, there are still some concerns on the regulatory front, whether that's going to be approved by the OSFI or not. And also that would probably send the right signal to the guys at – shouting the name, based on the macro-concerns without understanding the fundamentals of the Canadian market.

Oh, yeah, no, no. This is on the dividends and the buyback?

That's right.

Okay, Martin – Martin was just answering it and I don't know, maybe the guys who want to shortcut us off, I don't know.

Hi, Andrey. You know, two things. The current dividend payout ratio, allows us to sort of organically grow the business without having to raise capital externally and that's sort of a nice level for us operating long term as far as the growth side goes. Now, the other side of it is, we don't want to get into playing the game of battling against the shorts. They are just going to reload at a higher level if we're doing any kind of major buyback. We prefer to really focus on the business and generating the results. And over the long term, the market will find the true value.

Okay. Understood. But just a follow up to the Fred Westra's question. I have a sense that you have a greater visibility on the OSFI front to be able to do more accelerated originations. Can we extrapolate some of your actions to the – my comments?

You know what Andrey, we prefer not to say any more than what we've said. I thought I said it out pretty clearly. And I'd only be repetitive of what I said regarding OSFI and other regulatory bodies. We're cautiously optimistic I think is the best I can say.

Okay, understood. Thanks, guys. Great quarter.

Okay. Thanks. Sorry, but I can't say more.

Our next question comes from a follow up from Michael Goldberg with Desjardins. Your line is open.

Thanks.

Hi, Michael.

Hi. You know so there was an observation that the classic mortgage growth was strong. What I see, though, is that in the quarter the year-over-year growth actually slowed under 10% whereas it's running year over year at 20% to 30% of last year. Could you give us some idea of what the pipeline for growth in the classic mortgages looks like?

Okay. Here, Pino Decina will come and answer that.

Hi, Michael.

Hi.

Obviously, there was growth in the classic originations, but no, not as typically as much as there was in the past. And that's basically attributed to one thing and that was a slowdown in the purchase market over the first quarter.

Two main reasons for it. Number one, the regulatory changes what effect did that have on the purchase market. And then, obviously, the climate. The spring market really, really came late. What I can tell you is the past two to three weeks, we've seen a nice bounce back in the purchase business, which bodes well for the balance of the year.

And just to give you an idea, typically the ratio between purchase and refinance in a pipeline never sways more than 60%-40% either way, and it had gotten to probably 70% refinance in the first quarter. And again, that was not much inventory on the market, but what we are seeing now is it's almost getting back to a 50%-50% level. And that really has happened over the past two to three weeks. So, to answer the question, I think as Gerry mentioned in the call he gave earlier, buyers are back. They've been sitting on their down payments seeing what's happening in the marketplace. The nice weather has brought them back and we're seeing it again in the pipeline. So I think you're going to continue seeing some strong growth in the classic originations.

Thanks very much, Pino.

Okay.

Our next question comes from Atul Shah with BMO. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Atul.

In table 20, you show that the LTV for uninsured mortgages that originated in Q1 is substantially higher than the 69.8% that you had for the whole of 2012. Tell us are you in the LTV this year or what's happening?

Well the only thing is that, as I said what we're dealing with in some of those uninsured mortgages that are originated in the quarter is that we may be doing a little more because the credit quality is so much stronger that some of those you might have to go to 75%, you might have to do 80% in the normal course. They qualify people. They just – you just have to get their documentation together properly. And Pino, any comment on that? Yeah, Pino will comment on that.

That's exactly right. We talked about – predominantly over the first three months of this year the customers that we've been seeing, we wouldn't have seen in the past. And they're coming in obviously with a lot better credit quality as Gerry said. But their ability to demonstrate sustainability of the payment is the other improvement. And when we can see that, obviously, coupled with the good collateral as far as the real estate goes, we're happy to give them the few extra bucks that they need to make the deal work. So in the case of a re-finance, wrap up all their debts rather than leaving a credit card here or there. So with the better credit quality again coupled with the good real estate, we've been able to give them a little extra on the loan value.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay.

Your final question in queue comes from Jasmeet Anand with Home Trust. Your line is open.

Well, thank you all. Good questions. We've tried to answer them. As I say, we look forward to a strong quarter and the rest of the year, and look forward to reporting to you in about three months' time. Thank you very much for joining us. Good bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's teleconference. You may now disconnect.