Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — CEO, Director & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Senior Vice President-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Steven M. Tuchner — Founding Partner & Chief Executive Officer, Triumph Asset Management
Adam Seanor — Trader, M Partners, Inc.
Frederik Westra — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Securities)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Trust Company's Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to avoid any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Gerald Soloway, President and CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is a delight to report to you on Home Capital's second quarter 2012 results. It was a strong quarter for the company and Home Capital's net income rose to $53 million over $53 million or $1.54 a share. The result was despite having to record a $2 million charge relating to the tax change announced in the Ontario spring budget and subsequently passed into law.

The budget revised previously announced corporate tax rate reductions of a 0.5 point for 2012 and 1% decrease for 2003. Now most of the charge of $2 million reflects increased rates on deferred or future taxes and the company has had to revalue its future tax liabilities using a higher tax rate. Now, if anybody wants to delve into that more fully, Bob Blowes, who will be available off-line afterwards and will have all the calculation, our CFO, and be able to explain it. All I know is it took $2 million out of the quarter.

So although the tax charge resulted in a $2 million or a $0.06 reduction in our quarterly earnings, the good news is that it's a one-time non-recurring charge. However, I want to point out that the higher tax rates from the province will result in a future tax cost of about $0.01 per quarter going forward.

But to repeat, our earnings per share in the quarter would have been $1.60 or $0.06 higher than reported had it not been for the tax increase, and we're very pleased with those results. And that is compared to the $1.52 in the first quarter of this year, which translate on a year-over-year annualized basis of over 20% increase in profits or increase in earnings per share, both. So that's why I started off saying that I was very pleased with our strong quarter.

We are now one month into the third quarter and we see the positive earnings trend in continuing to continue throughout the rest of 2012. Let me tell you a few of the factors that contributed to our robust second quarter.

One, the net interest income was up 6.4% in second quarter, which is approximately 25% annualized. The total originations in the second quarter rose to $1.67 billion from $1.2 billion in the first quarter, and $1.19 billion in the first quarter – I'm sorry, $1.2 billion in the second quarter last year and $1.19 billion first quarter this year.

So if you work it out, you'll see quite a large percentage. But, bear in mind, I just want to temper it. It was a very strong quarter but temper that the strongest quarters historically over the 25 years I've been in the business clearly is the second and the third quarters. Canadians like to move houses, buy them, sell them, move – during the April 1 to September 30 period. Traditionally, the first quarter during the snowy months and the end of the year are the two slower quarters. But nevertheless, on a quarter-over-quarter, the second quarter was very strong and we're delighted by it.

The other good news that all of the increased originations in our loans had on the whole a higher beacon score and a lower loan to value than in previous quarters and that trend is continuing on a month-to-month basis. So we're very pleased with the quality of what we're originating and the higher beacon scores and lower loan to a value will ensure that the new underwritings will perform very well in the future.

Now despite the growth, during the quarter, we also strengthened all of our control functions. First, the risk function in the company we added to an already good department a new chief risk officer with 25 years experience in risk management with other regulated financial institutions. So we're delighted with our new chief risk officer.

But in addition, we were able to obtain two very senior individuals to join the company one at the credit risk level and the other at the operational risk. So the three new additions and an already strong department we think we'll have really quite an outstanding risk department on a going forward basis.

In the compliance and anti-money laundering group, we have added experienced staff throughout the group so that a department that was about four people at the beginning of 2011 one and a half years later is now 15 people and performing strong compliance and anti-money laundering discipline throughout the whole company. We are very delighted with the work they are doing. And the third of the control functions which is internal audit, which is also referred to as the third line of defense in the company. The other two lines, the front line people are the first line, the risk and the compliance the second line and then internal audit is there to make sure that everything is done properly and procedures are properly done. The internal audit group have benefited from the addition of senior staff over the past year and they have continued to do excellent work in helping the procedures and the controls of the company.

Just to reflect, the total head count of the company at June 30, 2011, was 527 people. It's now 554 a year later, but we've added as I've just mentioned a lot of people in the control functions. There has not been that large an increase in staff in the actual operation lines, but due to the efficiency in the company and partly from my new computer system which we installed a year ago, SAP, and it has resulted in increased productivity. And this very modest increase in head count is notwithstanding the total assets for the company are up over $2 billion year-over-year. And so, we are quite pleased with how the efficiency ratio is operating.

And I'd like to point out for the first six months of 2012 over the first six months of 2011. Now, last year the efficiency ratio was 28.6; this year for the first six months, it was 27.8. And remember, the efficiency ratio operates on the basis, the lower the better. So to be able to chop almost 1% off the efficiency ratio is a huge accomplishment when we continue to pour resources into all the control functions of the company.

The significance of the ratio, and I'm sure most of you know, but if there are any who are not fully aware, it's how much do we have to spend to earn $1 of income. So the first six months of this year, we only had to spend about 27.8% of that dollar of income in expenses. Now when compare that with many of the major financial institutions who need $0.55 to $0.65 of expenses to earn the same dollar. So, you can see we operate a very efficient operation and we're very careful about cost, but we are no way cutting back on all the control functions to ensure that we have a very safe and sound company.

Let me just chat a moment of other new direction we mentioned, we have talked about this before, but we have actually got it operational in the quarter. And during the quarter, the company securitized the sold $72.8 million in insured multiunit residential mortgages that qualified for off balance sheet treatment and gain on sale accounting under current accounting standards. This resulted in a securitized gain of $1.3 million on the quarter. We see this business in originating, securitizing and selling multi-res units as an ongoing business.

The real key to the business was being able to sell them into a pool that have no prepayments. Now, it won't work with single-family dwellings but it will work on apartment buildings where they can have no prepayment privileges, and if they are put in a specific pool, they will qualify for off balance sheet treatment. Anyways, we've cleared all that with all the accountants and everybody else and that resulted in this quarter the first quarter we've been able to do this, and it resulted in the contribution of $1.3 million gain.

On a going forward basis, we would say that based on our present business pipeline for this line of business, we think we can continue to securitize and sell approximately $75 million to $100 million a quarter on an ongoing basis. We would say we don't see this being a huge business. We don't see it suddenly doubling or tripling, but it could be a good steady business with over time there could be some modest increase in volume. But at the present time, the only guidance we say, we could see it at the present level for the rest of the year, and I'll talk further about it next year as we convey what we see in the marketplace.

And the rest of the portfolio, the credit quality is very strong. The non-performing is 0.31 at the end of June. However, in write-offs, the last quarter we had set aside 11 basis points. This quarter, it fell to 5 basis points of the write-off. And the company's objective is to have a provision for credit losses of between 5 basis points and 15, and we're delighted the quarter came in at the lower end of that scale. So, we see the credit quality on a going-forward basis continuing to be very good.

Despite the economic instability in Europe and a slowing economy in Canada, Home continues to see a relatively stable housing market and quarter-over-quarter improvement in our asset growth, our profit, our gross profit earnings and earnings per share. And the outlook for the second half of the year, we see that same trend continuing. We do see increasing earnings and interesting – and interest – increasing growth and increasing earnings per share, and we see that, as I say, trend continuing through the balance of the year.

We and management believe that the company will have a very good second half of the year. We remain cautious but optimistic, and we believe that we can deliver results that will meet or exceed all of our goals for the year.

So, thank you for joining us, and I'll now open to questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bryan Brown with Macquarie Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

Do you have any details on progress towards that strategy to stabilize the NIM on securitized mortgages?

Yes. What has happened is we've made an application...

Maybe, I'll just...

...maybe Bob – Bob knows it better.

I will speak up on this one, Bryan.

Okay.

So, Gerry was going to answer the question on the interest only strips, which we will come to a little bit later, but on the net interest margin on securitized portfolio, in this quarter we had a little bit of good fortune and had some unexpected prepayment penalties, but if you normalize those out of the NIM for the quarter on the securitized book, it would be just slightly above what we had been experiencing. So, it appears that our strategy is being successful.

Every quarter, we have to deal with maturities and we use the repo to – repo strategy to improve our rate of return. So, it would appear that that is producing the results that we would like to have, which is a stable NIM at or above the level that we experienced in Q1, just slightly better.

Okay. And I guess since you are about to talk about the strips, any word on an approval from OSFI?

No, we sit patiently awaiting the results of their review. We understand they have been working quite hard and that the answer to us may have wider implications. And so, I'm sure in due course we will hear, but in the meantime, we have no indication. We've had further enquires, further questions. We're working cooperatively with them, and hopefully, we will have some answers by the next quarter.

Okay. That's it from me.

Your next question comes from Michael Goldberg with Desjardins. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Michael.

So, you were just asked about the approval for the strips, what about the whole loan sales?

Yeah, the whole loan sales, we continue to move ahead but sort of slowly. The economics of strip sales turns out to be a much better business. We can always go back to the whole loan sales, and I think that what has happened is we're thinking of it more as an alternative strategy. If we could get the strip sales, I think it would be a much better business for us, but I'm sure that within the next quarter, we will have an answer. And if we can do it, that will be the strategy; if we can't do it, then we will pour on the coals to do a whole loan sale program.

Okay. And this year, you're benefiting from a rich mix of loan production. Should I expect that mix to stabilize next year or is it reasonable to expect further enrichment of the mix?

Well, a little bit depends on the regulatory environment. And we would like to do more insured product, but there is severe limitations at this point because of the – it's takes up balance sheet room. So I would say what you've seen in the quarter, why don't you program that out. I think that will produce – it's going to produce some very strong interest income for the balance of the year. And we see what we've done now to the sort of an ongoing base, and it's hard to say what's going to happen next year, but we are happy over the balance of the year. I don't know, Martin do you have...?

Yeah, on new originations, it will continue the way it has been, but on the portfolio, you should continue to see some improvement through 2013, as that insurance starts to roll off and we get a bigger proportion of the higher margin core mortgages.

Okay. And my last question, I guess I've noted that since the financial crisis, you seem to be hit by consistent concerns about all kinds of different things that you've – that have never happened yet the value of the stock has certainly been hurt by those concerns. Do you feel that there is something dramatic that you can or should do in order to get about – better value on the stock?

The market has its own opinion and there's not much we can do. We've thought about it. Anything we might do would be very transitory, very short term. As you know, we've been plugging along and the stock has moved along quite nicely for the last 20 years.

We haven't had a losing quarter for something close to 20 years at this point, and we continue to increase our profit. We increased the capital, but the valuation is something that the world has a perception that there's a problem with the Canadian housing, and we agree that maybe it's going to go down 5% to 10%. But where we have been since 1980 – since 2007, we've been saying to everybody, Canada is different than the States, don't use the U.S model. And you know, some people listen, some people don't. Some people see us a proxy for the housing market and they stay away with it. I think that sometime in the near future, there'll be a sense that the market will sort of recognize what we're doing, the strength of what we're doing and the valuation will it come back.

But in the meantime, to do anything silly to just get a one-shot movement in the price really wouldn't be good. As someone once compared us to the race with the tortoise and the hare, and we're clearly the hare. We just keep plugging along. Now maybe sometimes we're a hare on steroids. We get a little bit of a boost in growth and keep running a little faster, but we tend to stay away from flash and crash type of things. We try to be a pretty steady operation. And so offline if you have any suggestions, I'm happy to listen, but we're not really thinking of doing things that will just cause a transitory change in the price. Is that okay?

Thank you very much, Gerry, and I'll take you up on that offline offer.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Shubha Khan with National Bank. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Shubha Khan.

So just a couple of questions on originations. You obviously had a very strong quarter. How much of the $1.2 billion in traditional single family originations that you did this quarter was actually driven by expansion maybe into new markets or expansion in markets you've recently entered or was it just experience – or did you just experience -very strong demand in your core markets this quarter?

Yeah, it was demand in our core market. We really haven't expanded over the quarter into any new markets. We pretty much operate in the major markets across Canada. We are coast to coast. And we have seen a good steady demand in all provinces right across the country. And there is no doubt that the rates are extremely attractive, and it has caused a lot of people to want to get into the housing market and there still is quite a strong demand.

And we – the other way of testing it is one thing to have the market strong, but what happens, you always have a few arrears, you always have a few problems, but we find that we're able to sell off whatever does come back into possession in a very orderly way and there's no stress on the selling price and it's still – Canada is a good place for housing, it still is, and none of the dire predictions have come true. The market stays pretty stable.

And I – quite frankly, I'm a big supporter of all of the changes that were made in the insured mortgage market. I think they'll all go to strengthening the quality of people who are buying houses. They've also been reflected in the changes that OSFI's made on, and will come into force on the B-20. So, there's been a tightening of standards across the board, and no doubt there will be a few people on the edges that may have to postpone buying a house for another period of time. They might need a larger down payment. But I think the housing market's in pretty good shape. I don't see – we don't see across the country from all the real estate agents, appraisers, offices, coast-to-coast, we don't see any weakening at this point of any material nature in the marketplace.

Okay. So overall, I mean it looks like demand was strong in the quarter across all your core markets, but I'm wondering whether there were possibly any supply side factors at play here as well? I mean did you see perhaps any competitors curtail their Alt-A lending in the quarter or more specifically was any of the Alt-A volume driven by market share gains at the expense of competitors who may have pulled back from the Alt-A market in the quarter?

What I'm going to do is our – Pino Decina who is head of originations for residential markets, I'm going to have him answer.

Hi, Shubha. Yeah, definitely, we saw a spillover in the underserved market across Canada. And basically, it was a combination of few things, some tightening by the schedule A banks in the self employed type individual in how to sort of underwrite and deal with that segment of the market.

But coupled with that, we decided we really need to educate our brokers on solutions to this segment of the market. Our brokers for the past six months have been asking us for tools to gain more market share, to be able to compete against the banks. And this was really the area that we asked them to focus on. We've been identifying – as Gerry mentioned, our credit quality has been increasing. Well, the credit quality is increasing because more and more of these customers are just falling off the banks. And so we really focused on educating our brokers where this underserved market is? Where this new segment of the underserved market is? How to provide solutions? How to sell to this segment of the market? And of course, Home Trust is here to service it, and that's really been sort of the largest piece in our originations growth over the past quarter especially.

That's actually great color. I'll finish with one final one. You in your – Garry, in your opening remarks, you tampered your expectations on originations for the third quarter and fourth quarters, back half of this year, I mean, understandably because it's a seasonally weaker period, yet in the MD&A, you still indicate that you expect to hit your 13% to 18% loan growth target for the year, even thought you are running a little bit behind that right now.

So I'm just wondering whether you intend to hit that target by ramping up insured mortgage originations or whether you expect originations for your traditional product to be almost as strong as in Q2 which was a blowout quarter if you will or whether you will be purchasing any loan portfolios, how do you intend to hit that target?

Well, we don't have – we're not negotiating on any purchases, maybe I'll take that one off the table. But we do see – in all aspects of the business, we do see a steadily increasing origination and volume. And we also think that some of the growth will come by holding more of the renewals. We might have – we've got a number of different strategies on renewals that we've had some run off there that – just normal run off, but I think we can be a little stickier and be competitive. And I think we'll get some – it started this quarter and we'll get some additional retention.

And so when we put it all together, we're fairly comfortable that we'll be able to meet the objective. The total asset growth will be at the lower end of the guidance, because we have two factors going on. We have a rundown of the securitized mortgages, which – that is normal, the stuff that was originated and sold, it's hard to retain them with some of the packages that are available for the banks, that people are out and shopped and they are insured and they get all their documents, they have three months or six months to get ready. So sometimes they can get it a few basis points cheaper, and on the renewals, there is a fair amount of competition because these are people who have performed well for five years. They've got impeccable track record plus they already had to qualify for CMHC, which only makes them – the banks work very hard to get them on the books and rate is not a big factor, because they look to attract all their other business, but we have a few strategies and we think we can retain a bit more of the stuff that was already originated with us.

We think that originations, as we look at July continue to be very similar to June, and we see the pipeline over the rest of the quarter to be strong. The market at the present time is quite good. They're good quality people and we're quite pleased with the quality of business. So, we think this trend continues, but I don't want – I just didn't want to give the opinion that maybe in the quarter we were, we had a huge jump in dollars over this quarter, last quarter. The next quarter we're going to be up another huge jump. We'll be up over last year's third quarter, but there are limits to what one can grow in a safe and sound manner as the economy gets closer to winter.

Like you never do in the fourth quarter when the snow starts coming or the wind blows, in Toronto we don't get much snow fortunately, but there's just a slowing in the fourth quarter and the first quarter, and I just wanted people to realize that so that they didn't get over enthusiastic. I don't know, did I answer it for you?

You did. Thank you so much. All right. That's my questions.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

Just had a couple of questions. The first question you obviously talked about some of the hiring that you're doing internally. Do you feel you are right now with – from a head count and personal standpoint where you kind of need to be or are there certain areas of the business that you still kind of want to be able to maybe upgrade or at bench strength?

No. We always have a few – some open positions and – but what I think in the – what I wanted to emphasize is we've had a real growth spurts in the control functions that we – if we're looking forward to future growth, we need to get them in place, we need to get them seasoned; we have and we brought in some very good people and I think we're almost there in all the control functions.

In terms of the actual underwriters, there's always as teams grow and you need more people, there will always be a slowly continuing increase. But, the key staffing is in place, we're delighted with the quality of people. But when you have that many people, you have 550 people, there's always changes; somebody moves, somebody gets an unusual promotion that we can't match. It's just a marketplace. There's always a bit of a better movement.

Okay. And the second question.

Does that kind of answer your question?

You know it does. The second question I had was just with the OSFI B-20 rules and the impacts on HELOCs and with the equity line Visa product. And my guess is you're going to have to make some tweaks as I think you've talked about beforehand, but just I know it's a smaller, but it's still a reasonably profitable or more profitable part of your business. Just want to understand how to think about how that kind of origination activity is going to be going forward in sense that is it going to be where if that a transition period and you may not do as much you did before until you make those ultimate tweaks?

Yeah, we've got coming out in September a new Visa product. It's not going to be an equity line. It's going to be a Visa product that we're going to offer to all homeowners subject to a credit and income proof, and we think we might get some growth other than Visa in that way. It will be basically an unsecured card, but being able to offer people where we've done the full ratio of analysis on their credit, on their background, on their job, we think we can lever that and then offer them an appropriate unsecured card with certain caps on limit.

We would probably put a cap to start with on. So the best we would do is $25,000, and there wouldn't be a collateral mortgages as there is in the regular. But, we think we can get a high quality individual, we think we can be competitive on price, we would probably do it with either a no fees basis or very low fees. We think we can make a very appealing offering to the homeowner and we will – we're looking to try to launch that in September.

Bear in mind between new originations and mortgages and both insured and uninsured and in renewals, we touch almost 3,000 homeowners a month between the two either coming on our books I think last month 1,700 new mortgages came on the books and there was something like 1,200 renewals. So we think if we start with that group on the unsecured, we think we can get some good traction and get some growth in Visa. We will come back to the equity line of Visa; we're working on it, but we're not ready to announce it yet. We want to get it right, we don't want to just pull at it, bring it out, and then have to change it again. So it's sort of sitting in neutral. It's spreading water at the moment.

Okay. So if I understand what this product is, you're not going to be offering the equity line Visa anymore and this new product --

No, no, we're still offering it. No, no, no, we're still – but the criteria is changing.

Okay. So it's going to be another offering on the Visa side, unsecured, so presumably we'll have a higher interest rate to operate on it, but should you – a fair amount of work on the worthiness of the borrower as well as assets?

Absolutely. Absolutely. And what the – someone qualifies in the – has a high beacon and a good job, a good credit, has put a decent down payment on the house, we're quite happy to say, okay, we can offer you a card at this rate, and this amount of money, and it will be a no fee card. And if you use it, which we hope you do, we're delighted. And we would do and try that – we think there's a demand for it, but we'll roll it out; we'll test it, we'll try our first couple of hundred customers and let's see what they say. They can say no, they can say yes, they can say they want a lower rate, they want – until you test one fully, we – you don't fully know how – what the legs it has.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next comes from Bruce Tatters with Triumph Asset Management. Your line is open.

Hi, there.

Hi, Bruce.

Hi. It's actually, Steve, but --

Oh Steve.

Congrats on the quarter.

Thanks, Steve.

I was just wondering – it's an extension to what the Desjardins analyst asked, but given where the stock is and given how well the earnings continue to grow and the ROE continues to hold up, have you guys thought about or calculated a multiple on the stock, on the earnings, which becomes efficient to buyback your stock? That's it.

Okay. We have a very modest normal course issuer bid and we buy a modest amount that's in the publication on a year-by-year basis. To take a big allocation of capital and use it for buying back stock would require transferring money from the regulated company to the unregulated company and would require an application to OSFI for permission. We know generally unless there's some overwhelming reason, they're not very enthusiastic of taking the capital out of the core operation and using it for just buying back stock.

So philosophically, we have not really – we're not really that open to it. We think that that – we think that the growth of the company and the growth of the assets will eventually get the recognition that there really is a superior company here that deserves a bigger multiple. But until that happens, Mr. Market has his – every day he has his own opinion. And I think that would be what I would call would be one of the artificial things that could be fairly disruptive.

It's like somebody said, do you want to go private, and I said, oh my God that's not what we're all about and we'll try to give – deliver the best shareholder return we can, but going private is not really where the company is at. The company really thinks it could continue to grow, you look where we've come over the last period of time.

We're now the tenth largest deposit taking institution in Canada. We see lots of growth ahead and that growth and profitability is – effects of multiple only because there's a strong belief at this time by the Americans and a lot of shareholders, a lot of institutions that the housing market in Canada is going to hell in a hand basket.

And if you live and you live in a bombed out housing market, it's hard to believe that it really is greener north of the border and the housing market has gone through a terrible, terrible scenario in the States. It's a real destruction of value and value to homeowners and they had a multitude of – I won't go through them now, multitude of bad policies.

Fortunately in Canada, between the government and the regulator, they've enforced a number of policies that have strengthened the housing market not such as interest not being deductable on houses so that it is not – and that any mortgage over 80% has to be insured.

There's a whole bunch of things that why Canada is so different than the States in the housing market, but it takes a while for people to get over beliefs. People once believed that on a high-tech start up, if you had an office and you had an idea, you should raise money at 200 times non-existent earnings, that was a fashion at that time.

There's always been – people believe that non-performing mortgages deserve to be bottom strips and there's been lots of fads in the marketplace. One of them is, why are we not getting a better price. We can't deliver a better price, we'll just try to deliver increased earnings, increased growth, a strong and stable company. Our reward will come some day; I just can't tell you when.

Great. Thank you for the answer.

Okay. You're welcome, Steve.

Your next question comes from Adam Seanor with M Partners. Your line is open.

Hi.

Hi, Adam.

Great quarter. I just was hoping we could tighten the provision guidance just a little bit. The 5 basis points to 15 basis points, that creates a fairly big range of $0.06 to $0.08 a quarter if you run it through your model or my model at least. And so I was just wondering do we expect it to be closer to the bottom end of that range for the rest of the year or somewhere in the middle, because I mean so far we've been middle and then bottom.

Maybe Bob Blowes can answer that. But maybe I'll get him out his crystal ball first.

I know what we're dealing with but obviously...

Put on his swami hat and try to give you an answer.

Yeah. We have a range for a reason of course --

Yeah, exactly.

[indiscernible] (45:04) because we can't predict it, but there's – we're pleased at the level that it's running at and I think our expectation we would likely continue to be near the same level, the mid to lower, but anything can change.

Yeah. Okay.

The influences at the time. But, nothing on the map right now that would suggest otherwise.

Okay. So – okay. Okay. That's – everyone else has asked most of the rest of the questions I had so. Great. Thank you very much.

Okay. Thanks, Adam.

Thanks, Adam.

Your next question comes from Fred Westra with Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Fred.

Congratulations. That was a great quarter. Just a couple of follow-up questions here; on the equity line Visa, so my understanding is that that's in neutral, it's on pause for a little while while you tweak it. Could we expect it to sort of be up and running beginning of next year kind of first quarter 2013?

Absolutely, and it's not that we're not doing them. We're just doing them on a more restrained basis. It's just the number we're doing has gone down, but we're working hard and getting the new policy and we just want to get it right. So when we do, the new B-20 comes into force at the end of the year. There's no point starting to rev up any kind of a program now and then having to change it next year and having to go to people and say you don't qualify, or this and that. We would like to just start it and be fully compliant. And we think we've got a lot of good idea. It will – by the first quarter next year, I'm highly confident that it will be up and running and producing again.

And then the growth expectations for it would remain consistent with what we have talked about in the past over the medium term?

Absolutely.

Okay. And then on the securitized loans in the multi-unit residential, the $1.3 million gain on sale that you earned, is that gross? I mean, do you have acquisition costs that then get pulled out of that elsewhere in the P&L?

No, that's net of the cost, Fred.

That's net of cost? Okay. Great. Thanks. And then finally, I just wanted to revisit the discussion on strips and whole loan sales. I mean, I can understand OSFI is taking their time looking at the whole strip thing. In my mind whole loan sales and strips were somewhat independent of each other and the strips give you the ability to regain some additional balance sheet capacity.

The whole loan sales for understanding can be somewhat independent of that if you're able to originate those with the fund or you can still move those loans out of balance sheet as you do those transactions. So I just wanted to maybe get some color about when or how you guys are looking at that and maybe my interpretation isn't correct.

No, no, your interpretation is very correct. It's the same body of loans. They are insured residential mortgages that must be insured with one of the three insurers. Our analysis is that if we can do the strip sales, it's a much better business for us. It's the same product coming in and it's whether we sell them as a whole loan or we securitize them and sell them as a mortgage-backed security and then sell off the strip after that.

Now if we can do the strip sales, the economics are substantially better. If we're going to do whole loan sales to get the programs tied and to get somebody buying every month. We'd need to make volumes commitments; we'd need to set up certain software tweaks to the system. There's a number of things we'd have to do to get it working efficiently.

The feeling is to go and tell somebody and make an agreement with a major buyer and say we're going to sell you X amount a month and you setup your selling apparatus and we sort of shake hands and sign an agreement and go ahead and then three months later we say to them, oh, by the way, we can now do strip sales, we don't want to sell to you anymore. It really is bad business for one's reputation over the long-term. So we have basically tried to get the strip sale to a point, but without getting it fully completed so we fully understand all the economics and how it work.

We've kind of continue to plug along on what we need to do, but to some extent we'd really like to know what happens on the strip sale before we commit ourselves fully, because it would require certain commitments on our part that that would be more difficult to fulfill if we have one method makes 50% more than the other method for the same amount of work. It's not hard to figure out what we prefer to do. I would say within the next quarter we should within the third quarter in all likelihood we'll get an answer.

Sounds very great. Thanks for that color.

Okay. Thanks, Fred.

And there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, thank you everybody for joining us. It's – we look forward to strong quarters for the rest of the year. In terms of housing market and everybody is worried about it, we still see a sunny day ahead. We don't see any basic rain clouds and we think Canada will come through this housing market. If it does dip, it will be fairly modest in the 5% range, 10% maximum. We see a pretty good housing outlook for the rest of the year and forward. So thank you very much and look forward to chatting with you again next quarter. Good bye.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.