Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bonita Joan Then — Interim President & Chief Executive Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Corporate Director & Interim Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President of Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive Vice President-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Christopher Whyte — Chief Operating Officer & Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Sarah, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group's Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Laura Lepore, Head of Investor Relations, you may being your conference.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the second quarter of 2017. I'm very pleased to introduce you with me on the call today our incoming President and Chief Executive Officer, Yousry Bissada; Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, Bonita Then; and Robert Blowes, Interim Chief Financial Officer. We also have several members of our management team on the call this morning. Chris Whyte, our Chief Operating Officer; David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer; Pino Decina, Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages; and Benjy Katchen, Executive Vice President of Deposits & Consumer Lending.

Now before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and conditions of Home Capital and, as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

Now, with that, I will turn the call over to Bonita Then.

Thank you, Laura, and thanks to all of you for joining. We have a number of speakers today, so I'll keep it brief as I run through some of the recent highlights of the business, since we spoke in May. We hired a CEO, Yousry Bissada, a well-known mortgage industry veteran, who brings a great deal of relevant experience in areas such as finance, operations, fintech and digital that are going to be key to our future plans. You'll hear from him shortly.

We closed the first tranche for the equity investments from Berkshire Hathaway. We repaid the Berkshire Hathaway credit line, which should significantly help our net interest margin going forward. We are focused on bringing money in via GIC, which is safest from a liquidity point of view and it's working.

Daily inflows are now, once again, at levels that are in line with historical margins, demonstrating that the confidence people have in us is growing. We've seen a significant buildup in liquidity through deposit flows and asset sales. We now have total liquidity of CAD 3.9 billion, which includes the CAD 2 billion undrawn backstop line with Berkshire. This improvement in our funding situation enables us to increase our originations. [indiscernible]

(02:59) last quarter a highlight, so I'll leave those to Bob to discuss later in the call. But I will note that, once again, our portfolio performed strongly with low launch rates and we remain well capitalized, well in excess of regulatory minimum.

There was obviously a lot more that happened, but what I think these points drive home is that we have made a tremendous amount of progress in the recent months. The common theme here is building liquidity and building for the future, which sets us up to move the business ahead through the balance of 2017 and into next year. Certainly challenges remain, but we are now well positioned to face them. And while Home Capital today looks different as to the events of early 2017, I think there are many positives that we can take away.

We have a renewed board that's stronger than ever. We have partnership with Warren Buffett and we have an experienced and capable new CEO, who is focused on getting us back to business. So, perhaps it's time you've heard from him.

I'll now turn it over to Yousry.

Good morning. It's great to be here. As you likely know, today is officially day one on the job, but I've been getting [ph] steadily (04:17) more involved leading up to today, so I can share with you some preliminary impressions. First off, I'd like to thank Bonita, the rest of the management and the board. They've done a terrific job putting this company on sounder footing. I also want to thank Bob Blowes, who stepped into the role of CFO over the last few months and has had such an important contribution in that time.

Let me also thank the very many hardworking people at Home Trust, who stepped up when they were needed the most. I know it could not have been an easy job these last few months, but our people really rose to the occasion, and I know I speak for the entire board and many outside the company when I say thank you for doing so. We still have a lot of hard work ahead of us, but it's going to be a different kind of challenge. We're in a position where we can look forward and make fresh decisions about the kind of company we want to be and now we want to achieve our goals.

You'll appreciate that I'm not yet in a position to expand on exactly what that may look like, but let me tell you how I am approaching this. I plan to have a number of discussions over the coming weeks about our plans and strategic direction. I'll be talking to employees, customers, brokers, regulators, investors and many of our stakeholders and I'll be listening closely. [ph] Then I'll yield (05:29) the information to work with the team to create a new plan, I expect to have a lot of new things to work with.

I have also thought that Home is a terrific company with a strong foundation and a great deal of opportunity. It plays a really important role in the mortgage market and there are exciting prospects in the segments we serve. My initial impressions confirm that, this is a good business. There are excellent people here, people who know this market and know how best to serve it.

The nucleus is strong. For me ensuring that we have the right culture is critical, this is key. So, our commitment to doing the right thing, that has to be front and center. We're also going to make sure that company is innovative and delivers the best customer service. We look to be innovative on how we fund, while always keeping in mind that job one is stable funding. The company is experienced in this area, there's no doubt about that.

We will be looking to see what will work best as we move ahead, which will mean exploring options to fund mortgages ourselves, sell them as whole loans, use securitization and other ideas that we think may have merit. We have lot of important decisions to make and while I have every intention of moving quickly, at the same time, I want to ensure to take the right time to get it done. So, maybe this is a good place to stop and just say by the time we talk next quarter, I'll have a lot more to talk about.

I'll turn it over to Bob now.

Thanks, Yousry. And first of all, I want to welcome you to the team. I know everybody is looking forward to working with you and realizing on some of the plans that we all have and know can be for the benefit of all our stakeholders.

First of all, I'm going to focus on reviewing our performance in the quarter and specifically why we reported a loss, the steps taken to address the issues we faced and our outlook for the balance of 2017. I will then turn it over to Benjy for a quick update on our deposit business and then ask Pino to give us an update on our mortgage side of the business.

Before I get into numbers, I'm quite pleased to report that after reviewing the company's business plan and our cash flow forecast at the end of the quarter, this all suggests that the company's current liquidity level and current facilities for credit are sufficient for the ongoing business for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we are all of a view that there is no longer a material uncertainty that casts significant doubt as to the ability of the company to continue as a going concern, and we've removed that language from our Quarterly Report. We are grateful for the support of the terrific business partners who were critical to our success over the past few months, including the key investment by Berkshire Hathaway and this was obviously critical to the removal of the doubt and a test to the quality of our underlying business.

Turning to our results for the second quarter. On June 29, we announced second quarter operating results would be significantly lower and include much higher expenses as a result of the significant liquidity event that we faced late in April and early May. Management and the board acted swiftly and took deliberate measures to stabilize the company's liquidity position following the precipitous redemption of demand deposits, mainly high-interest savings accounts, which stood at CAD 2.4 billion at the end of the first quarter and today slightly under CAD 400 million.

In addition to having to fulfill the redemption of these demand deposits, we also needed to increase our liquidity to repay CAD 325 million of deposit notes, which fell due in May. Of course, we had our regular GIC maturities and we had to ensure that we can deal with a significant amount of mortgage commitments and renewals that were already in process and in our pipeline.

We took the important step of securing a CAD 2 billion emergency line of credit and we liquidated some assets. We sold most of our book of preferred shares in some of our uninsured residential portfolio, approximately CAD 300 million. We also arranged for the sale of CAD 1.2 billion of our large commercial mortgage assets and closed about CAD 100 million – CAD 190 million of that during Q2.

We also closed additional tranches of that mortgage sale in July, bringing the total cash proceeds from commercial mortgages to date to just about CAD 1.13 billion. We have since replaced the emergency line of credit with a new CAD 2 billion backstop credit from Berkshire Hathaway on better terms, including a standby fee which is less than half of the standby fee that was in place. And we've now fully repaid the outstanding balance. So, we are now dealing with the standby fee and not interest on an outstanding balance.

Today, I'm very pleased to report a significantly strengthened liquidity position just under CAD 2 billion in cash in addition to CAD 2 billon of undrawn credit facility. Now that also includes the initial investment from Berkshire Hathaway of CAD 153 million. While all of these steps were deliberate and necessary, we did incur significant costs in addition to our normal operating costs. We also announced the global settlement of the OSC and class action matters, which added to our expenses.

Net of insurance, we have increased the provision for costs associated – sorry, net of expenses on the class action and OSC matters, we incurred a cost of about CAD 7 million. We also increased the provision for cost associated with the repositioning of the business. These elevated costs totaled CAD 234 million or about CAD 174 million net of tax, which reduced our earnings per share by CAD 2.70 and created a loss of CAD 111 million or CAD 1.73 per share. The elevated cost included the following, about CAD 131 million in commitment fees and interest related to the emergency line of credit, and a small amount paid to Berkshire Hathaway for the outstanding line at the end of the quarter.

Approximately CAD 73 million was realized on losses on preferred shares, but I'll note about CAD 46 million of this had previous been recorded in comprehensive income, but not taken through the P&L. We also took a chance to look at our PsiGate business and our prepaid card business and made the decision to exit this activity. The result is an asset impairment charge, including the write-down of remaining goodwill, intangible assets and other assets within these units of CAD 7.3 million or CAD 6.6 million after tax or also CAD 0.10 per share.

Our expenses also included additional restructuring costs related to Project Expo, the company's cost saving initiative. We took a charge of CAD 5.8 million or CAD 4.2 million after tax, or also would be CAD 0.07 a share. Lastly, costs related to the OSC matter, as I said, were CAD 7 million and that translated to CAD 0.09 per share, net of insurance recoveries.

As we move into the second half of the year, we do expect expenses to moderate. However, we will continue to experience some elevated costs associated with the liquidity event. These will include standby fee on our new credit facility at 1%, a CAD 15 million loss on the sale of the commercial mortgages that I described earlier, some other professional fees and that's generally costs associated with regaining the confidence of our stakeholders.

Looking ahead, we expect that Q3 will result – Q3's results will be impacted by a reduction of interest income due to our reduced lending activity in the second quarter and the asset sales that closed late in the second quarter and through the last month. Our third quarter will see reduced interest expense as we have repaid the credit line and this will be partly offset by new rates, new higher rates on GIC, which we hope to moderate coming days and months. We will be working to reduce the impact of these factors.

Turning to our loan book, total loans under administration declined 4.8% to CAD 25.9 billion from CAD 27.2 billion at the end of Q1 and down 2.1% from the end of 2016.

At the end of May, we announced that we expected non-securitized single-family residential balances to decline by the year end. It's somewhere in the range of CAD 10 billion to CAD 11 billion. This is where we saw the most significant decline during the quarter with non-securitized traditional single-family residential mortgages down 6% to CAD 10.7 billion from CAD 11.4 billion at the end of Q1. This is mainly due to a steep decline in originations during the second quarter.

This [audio gap] (15:00) reflected the measures we took to manage our liquidity and it also included [audio gap] (15:06) support that we received from our partners as we diverted new mortgage originations to other lenders and to mortgage finance companies. I'll also note that there was a significant decline in our accelerator product or prime customers, as we saw the full effect of mortgage rule changes announced last October and we [indiscernible] (15:30) effect of funding for such originations.

During the second quarter, funding costs increased as a result of the costs of the emergency line of credit and deposit rates were increased during [Technical Difficulty] (15:42), which together increased our cost of funding. As a result, we revised our recommending criteria which increased lending rates for new commitments and reflect the headcounts.

While we did see an increase in lending rates during the second quarter compared to the first quarter, these were not enough to significantly offset the increased costs which were very high given the cost of the emergency credit line.

Turning now to credit losses. Overall, our mortgage portfolio continues to perform well. We continue to see provisions for credit losses that are very low and stable. During the quarter, the provision for credit losses as a percent of gross uninsured loans was 7 basis points compared to 8 basis points a year ago. We did see an increase in our collective allowance of $1 million and this was due to the growth of our lending, our land and construction loans in our commercial portfolio.

Looking ahead, we are focused on maintaining our liquidity and deposit stability. While it's too early to tell when we will be able to get back to historical levels in terms of performance, we have been encouraged by the healthy level of mortgage renewal activity that we've seen and we started to rebuild our mortgage pipeline. That said, we continue to be constrained by our deposit balances and flow and we'll determine lending capacity and then drive loan originations based on that capability.

We have also been encouraged by the recent level of deposit inflows and we are seeing our term deposit balances growing. Yesterday, we provided some information that indicated our deposits have been growing in the range of $10 to $15 a day on a net basis.

In our deposit maturity schedule, we have approximately $1.6 billion of deposits maturing in the third quarter. They will need to be replaced. We've already made excellent progress on this front, albeit at higher rates.

As of the end of July, we had rolled over about half of the maturing deposits. Our CAD 2 billion credit facility is in place until the end of June 2018. We do not intend to draw on this any further, but it's there in case we need it. We will assess the ongoing need for this facility later in the year. However, we are keenly focused on evaluating all opportunities to increase our funding sources. In the meantime, we continue to see good momentum on our deposit activity.

There are a number of reasons why deposit installed a renewed sense of confidence in our company and certainly a key to this was the investment by Berkshire Hathaway. To date, Berkshire has acquired just under 20% stake in the company and shareholders will have a chance to approve an additional $247 million investment later this earliest fall, bringing Berkshire's total holding to 38.4%.

Home's board has unanimously recommended to shareholders that this be approved and we continue to see a potential for enhanced shareholder value, while providing the company with strong sponsorship that can help reduce risks associated with the future as well as risks associated with policy and regulatory changes. And that brings me to guideline B-20. Guideline B-20 was revised and released for comments in July. The draft provisions include qualifying stress tests for uninsured mortgages, a prohibition on certain co-lending arrangements and additional guidance on income verification as well as an expectation to account for property, price inflation when determining the loan-to-value for collateral security.

Based on our preliminary analysis and our interpretation, the revisions to B-20 if they were implemented as proposed, would reduce and possibly materially the size of the uninsured mortgage market available to Home and also to our federally regulated competitors.

We all can also see that there would likely be an increase in the rate of renewals of margins with the existing lenders. I would like to stress that the guidance, the guidelines are still in the consultation stage and maybe further revised before implementation.

It is unclear in any event what the impact of B-20 will be on the real estate and the mortgage markets as a whole. We believe that if B-20 is implemented as proposed, it could well have a material impact on our business strategy going forward.

Today, however we cannot be certain of the final revisions and will just have to wait and see. With that said, I'll turn it over to Benjy to talk about our deposit financials.

Thank you, Bob. As Bonita said earlier, daily deposit flows have returned to historic norms. We are really focused here on our GIT business because we want to be term-funded, predictable, safe and match with our lending book; so that will be one going forward.

We saw, as you know, if you're following our disclosure, a decline through April and May and then a stabilization in June. The turning point where we began to see growth was a number of corporate changes we made including the governance changes and then the Berkshire investment in late June. Combined with the rate premium we offered, deposits started coming back.

Now our deposit rose at a normal pre-crisis level and it's allowing us to start growing the balance sheet, albeit modestly. Moving ahead, there are several factors that will influence the cost of deposit growth. On the positive side, we've been pleased by the support of deposit brokers and financial advisors over the last several months and our assets to the channel remained largely intact.

Our GICs continue to be offered on all the major boards and continue to be offered by over 200 firms nationally. The consumers across the country have responded well to the boost in rates at open financial and the marketing campaign to support that.

Oaken has been steadily adding new customers and has been growing at a healthy rate since the middle of May. On the limiting side, consumers and brokers are much more aware of the CAD 100,000 CDIC limits and generally are ensuring that their deposits stay below that level. Additionally, we and other smaller banks are subject to a CAD 100,000 limit on some deposit boards.

These factors will tend to limit the amount of deposits we and other smaller financial institutions can raise from the deposit broker channel. So, having Home Bank as the second issuer provides us with a significant advantage because we can offer two CDIC members to clients. Of course, the big factor is we move ahead with the rates.

RGIC rates in both the broker channel and at Oaken remain elevated. We started to gradually reduce the rates to more normalized level. Also, as the bond market responded to the recent Bank of Canada increase in rates, we've seen competitors start to rate their GIC rates as well. Gradually over the next several weeks, we will adjust our rates by balancing several factors including ensuring sufficient flow of deposits, managing our liquidity via the term structure of new deposits and reducing the rates to be paid to be more in line with relevant competitors.

Thank you. And I will now turn the call over to Pino.

Thank you, Benjy. The residential mortgage originations are beginning to move in a positive direction as well, though certainly, we are in the early stages. Mortgage brokers and referral partners are certainly sending us deals, reflecting their confidence in Gome and the fact that we're an important provider in this underserved market, and we want to be there for our brokers and customers by originating more loans. So, we'll continue to make strides towards coming back to market for as much of our product offerings. The first major step in this process occurred on July 17, when we revised our metrics of pricing lending criteria for our traditional business, the classic uninsured program [ph] now with (24:04) more competitive offering.

We are, however, continuing to apply a prudent, conservative, cautious approach to our underwriting and loan adjudication. From a credit risk perspective, I can tell you that we have held loan-to-value levels at or below our risk appetite. We have not been moving up the loan-to-value levels to get deals done. We're very pleased with the response to our classic program revisions, the quality of the loan submissions and the growth of the pipeline. Next, we will look to revise the pricing of our insured loan program and come back to market with a more competitive Accelerator product.

We have, however, discounted the ACE Plus product as the pricing was no longer economical. However, we do believe we can still capture a portion of this market segment through properly priced loans under our classic program. So that's where we stand on our return to the market. We're still hard at work and focused on further rebuilding our mortgage pipeline and it could take 60 to 90 days before we start seeing any impact on originations. And I'd say by the fourth quarter, we would expect to have a better sense of whether we are back to normal levels.

So with that, I'll now turn it over to the operator to start the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, Graham.

Good morning. How are you – everybody?

Fine.

So, you mentioned in your MD&A that in early 2008, you're hoping to put out a three-year target, am I correct in that it looks like, you're basically going to assess your business through the second half of 2017 in terms of traction in building your deposits and also traction on regaining your positioning on the lending side, and then from there you'll be able to put out a, what you think is a reasonable estimate of what the company can earn and produce?

So Graham, I'll answer to the first part of that, and Yousry is the person who'll be at the helm for – at that time, so definitely want to have him join in the answer. I think, you're absolutely right in terms of the next six months, it's probably going to take six months for us to understand where we're going to be able to function in the deposit market and in the lending market.

As Benjy and Pino said, signs today are quite positive. I think our overall evaluation is there is a shortfall of funds into that section of the – segment of the market. And so therefore there should be good opportunity for us to expand our mortgage business back to more reasonable levels and hope people will continue to have good access to the deposit market.

In terms of where we're going to land, we're first uncertain, and I think the company is going to reassess its views in terms of the extent of guidance, the term of guidance, et cetera. Maybe this is a good time for Yousry to have a few words on that.

Yeah, I don't have much more to add than what Bob just said that it's – on the funding side, step-by-step, we'll see how it goes on the deposits and mortgage [indiscernible] (27:57) and as we go we'll be able to have been in a better position to forecast as we said.

Okay. If I could follow-up then just on the business that you're doing today, the renewals and modest originations, it sounds like, can you give us a little bit of color on what the net interest margin is today on the business that you're writing and perhaps with your plans on the deposit side with your GIC rates where you think you can move that net interest margin to by the end of the year?

So maybe again, I'll start and I'll let the guys to pitch in. Over the last month, six weeks, we have been attracting deposits at rates somewhere between 50 basis points and 70 basis points higher than where we would like to be. So that's been heading into our margin on new business. And as I said, we rolled over about 800 million of GIC plus and they've been rolled over at those higher rate. So we want to take that into account in your thinking. We have been successful at looking at higher rates than we had experienced prior to our liquidity events and I think those are again in the range of 50 basis points to 100 basis points depending on the situation. But that flow have not been all that significant. So as we move into the next quarter, we'll be looking to bring down the rates on GICs and maintain as much of the pricing on the mortgages as we can. So, there's definitely going to be some erosion there, but we don't expect that's going to continue for more than a quarter or two. Pino, any?

Yeah. Just to add to that, so we mentioned our – we discontinued our ACE Plus product and you may remember, that was the sort of the starting point from a rate perspective in our traditional mortgage program. And today effectively, our rate starts some 50 basis points above where that used to be, so to Bob's point, we're certainly trying to match it up with the increased cost of the GICs.

Okay. And I assume that's both on renewals and new originations, the same rates apply?

That's correct.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Graham.

Your next question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Dylan.

A quick question on just the B-20 Guidelines. The co-lending or bundled restriction, just wondering if you can speak to, I guess, how prevalent that was in your recent originations and sort of what your view on that is, if it goes through as implemented or as proposed?

I may be – I'll add a couple remarks, Dylan, and I think Pino's probably the best suited to give you more color on that. So co-lending has been a part of our business for some time. I think it would be, as said earlier today, it would be hard for a lot of people in the major markets [indiscernible] (31:27) Vancouver to have the size of down payment that would be required to buy a house, if they didn't have some kind of assistance, often it's from family or other friends, but sometimes it comes through some kind of secondary financing and we have had a program over the last few years where we've made [ph] accruals (31:50) to parties that would provide second charge lending. We ended that earlier this quarter or last quarter; so we don't have a structured program on that, but it is part of the business. Maybe I'll let Pino talk about the sort of the extent of that.

Yes. So we discontinued the program Bob was referring to, which we called our bundled program back in May, and this is where we had certain partners that lend secondary lending behind us. So that's discontinued. What we do need to know now is, and we're trying to gain this information during the current discussion period of B-20, the long-term impact to co-lending as a whole, so it's about commission and that is referenced in B-20, and then of course what impact that will have, because certainly we do have a group of customers that on their own will seek to gain secondary lending behind our home trust mortgage. So, looking at that clarity, we just don't have it today.

I think today [indiscernible] (33:06) of view roughly one in 10 or one in 8 of our customers would have some kind of co-lending structures that we were aware.

Yeah. I mean, if we apply the same sort of numbers that we've seen in the past, our bundled program itself I think last checked was 5% or somewhere around there by origination, then roughly another 10% to 15% would gain financing on their own where need be, so certainly a [ph] sensible (33:39) rate than the 15%.

Okay. Perfect. And just one more question, if I can. Just – of the identified, I guess, one-time or unusual costs subsequent to the quarter, I believe you identified about CAD 15 million of losses on the commercial asset sale. Is there anything else that you can identify at this time or we should be looking out for, for the upcoming – back half of the year?

There's no individually big item, Graham, that CAD 50 million is the loss that we would take on the commercial loans that we talked about that and we had a press release earlier this year. And a lot of that is the deferred cost associated with originating those loans when they were put on the book. There was a small concession interest-wise to the purchaser just to bring a mark-to-market adjustment, but a lot of it's just the – is just the deferred cost origination.

We will have some additional professional fees through the next quarter or two, as we deal with some of these things that have been issues for us in Q2. They tend to have tails on them, but they are not individually large, but I said that we will be having – experiencing elevated cost because on an aggregate basis they're going to push our cost structure up for a period of a couple of quarters, I would think.

Okay. Great. I'll re-queue. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hi. Good morning. First one, just a quick follow-up to one of your statements, the July 17 changes to the traditional product to be more competitive, what does that mean exactly?

Jaeme, that's a couple of things, actually a few things. We looked at our loan-to-value offerings, we looked at, in certain markets, without certainly increasing them, but coming back in certain geographic areas that we've pulled back a bit on. The pricing itself were competitive and the dollar amount, so obviously with the increased liquidity, we had the opportunity to be in the more competitive in markets like the GTA for example.

Okay. So it sounds like you're just getting a little bit more aggressive, I guess, in terms of those products. How are you balancing that with your credit risk guidelines, where we see other players sort of pulling back a little bit? In GTA, you guys seem to be going the other way based on some of these changes you described?

Yeah. So maybe aggressive is not the right word, but certainly, I think we pulled back more than we would have liked and certainty we always apply credit risk perspective to our lending offerings, but we pulled back even further than that given the liquidity issue. So it will give us the opportunity to get back to the levels that we're comfortable with, keeping in mind the current climate of the real estate market as well.

Okay. Next question. I appreciate the acknowledgement in the operational risk disclosures around broker and borrower, misrepresentations can you talk about what drove that inclusion? Is there anything you're seeing today versus your past experience, for example, in 2014 and if you can maybe speak to some of the main changes that you've made as a result of reviewing what occurred in 2014 and 2015 that give you confidence around your controls and systems in place?

Okay. I'll let – it's Bob, Jaeme. I'll start with that and then let Chris Whyte, our Chief Operating Officer, talk about the specific changes. Bob, on the first instance, I guess I'm the person who inserted that into the MD&A and I think that's just an acknowledgement that this risk exists. I think we all knew that the risk existed in the overall market, but we were the victim of some problems in 2014 and of course that had a big impact on the company and so clearly a risk and we wanted to make sure that that was laid out in the documents and we have not seen anything recently that will give us any concern.

I don't know significant issue always an undercurrent of people trying to portray themselves as something more creditworthy than they are and we have a lot of controls to detect that and we do pick up items from time-to-time, but nothing this is the semi-core significant. So – but as I said we had a more significant issue in 2014, which we did not believe was material in itself, but led to lots of other things and maybe I will turn this now over to Chris to talk about the things we've done since the end of 2014.

Thanks, Bob. Yeah, I think since 2014, I categorize it sort of in two main areas. We made some very material and significant technology investments in our origination platform, largely around inserting automated governance and control features, and accessing the data in a more timely fashion. So we have a better handle on the document flow that's coming in and the ability to sort of assess whether they meet certain criteria. But in addition to that we didn't feel that was enough in and of itself. We've also materially invested in a kind of a secondary level quality control document and application overview by a different group of people. So we now have, I'd say, a much more robust quality control, quality assurance process that is also part of our normal business flow.

Okay. And if I can just sneak in one more quick one just on this topic about Bob, you made the statement that Home Capital is a victim. In the OSC statements, it suggested that there was some learned behaviors that may have contributed to that. I'm just wondering was there – what maybe changes you've made in your training systems or training of individuals and systems. And following on along that, with the OSC settlements coming up, is there any sort of statement of agreed facts or anything around that that we're going to learn or confirm of what the OSC was allegedly accusing Home Capital of during that period?

So Jaeme, I'll answer the last part of that question, and then, Chris will address the earlier part. So the settlements are subject to the OSC approval later this month and also a court approval, so there will be undoubtedly some discussion of what has been determined and agreed and so on at that time, I'm not a party to that, it's a confidential discussion between the company and the individuals and the Commission and the representatives of the class. So we just have to wait and see what it said later this month. So Chris, do you want to talk about the earlier part of that?

Sure. Actually it's a very good point. So I think [indiscernible] (41:54) events back in 2014, the entire mortgage origination and underwriting process has effectively been reorganized. There's been a significant amount of separation of duties built into the system, which was probably not in place to the some extent prior to that. In addition to that, there has been a coaching and feedback program that's still off the data that we get from some of this new technology, so that there is ongoing feedback in coaching, both through the data that comes through the system as well as from the commentary that comes from our quality control and quality assurance people and that step back to the line managers at the front line to ensure that they can sort of adjust their processes accordingly.

Chris, you mentioned comp?

Yeah. That's probably a good point as well. As part of that division of duties, we made sure that our staff that are responsible for decisioning and underwriting are not really incented on volume any more, they're incented on the quality of the work that they do, so that there is a lot of feedback from the quality assurance people and our internal compliance and governance people to ensure that that's – really the factor in driving their compensation is not how many deals or how much volume they do, but the quality of work they do in the decisioning process.

Great. Thank you.

Yeah. So, I think that's what we can say on that, Jaeme.

Yeah. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hi there. Good morning.

Good morning, Brenna.

I just have a quick question on the securitized balances on your balance sheet. They increased by quite a bit sequentially and I don't see a commensurate increase in accelerator originations. So, I was just wondering if you could explain where that increase came from.

Yes. That increase – a lot of that increase came from the maturity of securitized portfolios. And so, we would have the accelerator programs that matured and the assets came back onto the balance sheet. So, there is actually a reconciliation of the mortgage continuity on page 17.

That...

And the other – page 17 which will show more interest coming back on to our balance sheet from maturity of programs, and then we are no longer selling the residual interest, so we are not taking new programs off our balance sheet or rolling over programs [ph] or not being (45:00) taken off our balance sheet. So, that's the reason that you'd see the growth without the growth in origination.

So, because you're not getting the recognition from selling the residual interest anymore, it's bringing as...

Correct.

Okay, so as it matures from the off-balance sheet portfolio comes back on-balance sheet.

Correct.

Okay. And is that an area that you expect to continue to participate in, the CMHC sponsored programs?

Yes, we will. It depends on the availability of our funding for that, but we would think that that would be part of the future business model.

Okay. Thank you. I'll re-queue.

I'll just add to that, Brenna, that we likely would not sell the residual interest in the future, rather keep them on our balance sheet and enjoy the spread income on those assets. We did start that several years ago when we had a significant constraint on our leverage, but that is no longer an issue for us, as a result of some regulatory changes and the size of our capital.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Yeah.

Your last question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah, sorry, a quick follow-up on one of the comments in the outlook regarding non-interest expenses, and maybe being elevated here in the near future. Related to a wide range – or sorry, subject to scrutiny from a wide range of stakeholders, I'm wondering if you can explain what that means, what is the scrutiny, why is it driving higher expenses. Can you give some color on that?

Sure. Sure.

Yeah, I can respond to that, Jaeme. So, pretty much everybody that we're doing business right now wants to have an extra look at us. They're asking for more information, whether it's a trade supplier or new arrangements with brokers on both sides of the business. All the oversight bodies, all want additional reporting because they've seen us get to a very, very difficult situation, which we've recovered from, I think, remarkably well. But nevertheless, there's an ongoing monitoring by everybody we do business with. So, that's going to take a while until it settles down and gets back to sort of normal trade in terms of trade with everybody that we deal with.

Okay. And so that should probably continue at least through the second half here and maybe into 2018 as to take away some comfort?

Yeah, [ph] I would say yes (47:49).

Yeah. Since I'm the last person on the line [indiscernible] (47:54) ask a few more. I noticed an uptick in credit card delinquencies rising from half a percentage point this time last year to 1.3% in this quarter. Can you outline what do you think is happening there? Is there any geographic explanations or is this maybe a sign that some of your borrowers are under a little bit more stress than they were this time last year?

I'll let Benjy respond to that.

No, there's nothing of the unusual sort. Over a year ago, we acquired CFF Bank, which is now Home Bank and migrated the lines of credit that CFF Bank had at the time over to our credit card portfolio. There was an elevated rate of arrears and delinquencies in that portfolio as it worked its way through – it's just working its way through the income statement. [Technical Difficulty] (48:55) business is the Equityline Visa and that business continues to perform extremely well.

Okay. And just...

And so – I was going to say one other thing. The other part of that has to do with the prepaid and PSiGate business which, as Bob had said earlier, we plan to exit that business, so there was a bit of cleanup with that business that also was taken in the delinquency, arrears, [ph] write-off herein (49:24).

Okay. And last one from me, I'm looking at the interest rate sensitivity, pretty large uptick in floating rate assets this quarter and, in fact, a complete reversal in terms of that interest rate sensitive gap, which it seems to be driving a lot more sensitivity to moving interest rates. Can you explain what's happening with floating rate assets, and do you expect that gap to continue, so the sensitivity that's posted in table 22, do you expect those sensitivities to actually materialize given the higher interest rate environment we're seeing today?

So, the reason that – for the change is the sale of term-dated assets and the fact that we have not been in the market [indiscernible] (50:18) longer term and we've got cash that we have on – cash that's put into short-term security, so that's why we have a greater exposure. And we're assessing that right now as we go through sort of the restructuring, repositioning, but we will be looking at how we deal with that risk, we're not concerned about it in the very short term, but as we work through the model for the next year, we'll be addressing that.

Okay. And maybe I'll just get one last one in here, going back to the 2014 broker fraud incidents and some questioning around the underwriting standards and quality of mortgages underwritten through, let's say, end of 2014, how much of that book would still be on balance sheet as a result of renewing mortgage borrowers? And maybe if you can give some guidance around that.

Yeah. So, that's really, as you know, two parts of the business, the insured prime business which tends to be five-year instruments, and then the non-insured Alt-A business which tends to be short-term instruments. Those short-term instruments would be pretty much rolled off of the book and as I think we've said in the past, we reassess them as they came. There was a portfolio which was not the ultimate portfolio that was problematic or was the portfolio in which problems may have occurred. So, as we – we worked through a process to reassess those loans in much greater detail and some were renewed and a significant portion were just rolled off and that's in the non-insured portion.

In the insured portion, considerable amount has been insured and we just let them fall away. So, the exposure is low and we've had really no credit events associated with any of that portfolio. But I think that's performed as well or better than the rest of the portfolio. Our view is that, it was people who had money, had income, wanted homes and [indiscernible] (52:44) somewhat different than their real situation, but they had no intention of defaulting on their margins.

So, if I understand this right, let's say, the individuals or the underlying borrowers that existed in 2014 in the uninsured book, none of those individuals or borrowers would still be a Home Capital client today, or that's kind of what I'm trying to understand as...

Yeah, yeah, right. None that we actually believe were problematic. So, we identified a large part of population that had come through brokers that [indiscernible] (53:25) and then we narrowed that down. So, a small portion would be borrowers today, but they were re-qualified and there's no reason to think there is anything problematic with them. Ones where we thought on further investigation they might be problematic, we did not renew.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Alex Witten (53:52) from Nomura. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask or almost through with this call, I think no one has really addressed the other elephant in the room which is that Toronto home sales were down 40% year-over-year in July and prices appear to be down anywhere from 10% to 20% from their recent peak. So, I just wanted to get some comments on the overall operating environment outside of the operational issues. How are you guys expecting to [ph] defend (54:20) the drop in originations given the overall environment is very anemic right now?

Pino will comment on that.

Yeah. Thanks, [ph] Alex (54:31). So, first of all, I should just mention that we welcome what we see right now. I mean that from a lender's standpoint, there's nothing better than a nice controlled leveling off of the real estate market. We've always applied a very conservative approach to our lending and that includes the GTA and the Greater Vancouver area as well. We are monitoring the GTA very closely, both with 416 and the 905 right down to various postal code levels and applying the right lending matrix to those areas.

So, at this point, we're very comfortable with what we're seeing. The quality of the borrowers in our space continues to improve. The majority of the business that's coming in right now is purchase type business, which certainly performs better. And obviously on the refinance side, we're taking a very cautious approach. So, you're absolutely right, it's something that we've got in the forefront of our minds as we move forward into the balance of this year and into 2018, but certainly at this point we're comfortable with what we're seeing, yeah.

And I might just add to that, that we are currently growing slowly. We expect that that will be controlled because of the limit on our capacity through deposit taking. So, it's a time when we would be conservative in any case. So, we just take an extra measure of caution.

Okay. And just a quick follow-up on the home price declines from the peak that we're seeing in the GTA. If we take a 65% to 75% average LTV, any of these loans that were originated in the first quarter, if these home price declines continue at this pace, I mean you're going to be staring at a lot of loans that's potentially underwater. So, while your loss rate right now is extremely low, which you expect to see that pick up as some of these loans go underwater on the equity side.

We don't normally see people defaulting because the price of their home has declined. Usually, the driver is all employment issues like they just don't have the income, so while there could be an increase in losses given the default, home prices in itself don't typically drive defaults. So, we're being very cautious and careful and we've been positioning the book against a potential issue in the real estate market. We've been doing that for some time and hold a lot of capital to be sure that we can withstand an unexpected event and, as I say, we're proceeding with caution.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Your line is open.

Hi. I just wanted to...

Good morning, Michael.

Good morning. I just wanted to follow up on the B-20 question.

Sorry, we can't hear you, Marco. Operator, I think we have to move to the next question. We can't hear him. And that will be our last question.

Your last question comes from the line of [ph] Justin Church (58:14) from TD Canada Trust. Your line is open.

Good morning fellas. How you doing?

Good morning, [ph] Justin (58:19).

So, I'm young, I have a lot of time horizon on my hands and I see a steep discount in Home Capital Group, I'm just wondering how likely is it that you guys will top the CAD 2 billion credit facility in quarter four.

Our plan certainly is to stay out of the credit facility, and that all depends on deposit taking, of course, and mortgage lending. And deposit taking has been favorable over the last six weeks and our lending is lagging the deposit taking purposely. So, we're proceeding with a lot of care there. We have [ph] been building (59:09) considerable amount of liquidity, so that we would be prepared, should deposit takings start to fall back. So, we can't see the future any better than anyone else, but we've taken a lot of [ph] buzz (59:22) to prevent a need to get back into the credit line.

Okay, perfect. And just to follow up there. With Home Capital being at such a discount, and Warren Buffet having a meeting in September, do you think it's likely that you guys will improve the dilutive preferred shares?

Sure. Well, that will be up to the shareholders, and I wouldn't want to predict what shareholders will ultimately determine. The board is supporting it, we believe it's good for the company. We are looking forward to a stronger alliance with the Berkshire Hathaway Group, and we think that's still a substantial sponsorship for our company and helps us to prepare, should things go in a sideways direction.

Okay. Excellent. Well, thanks a lot guys. Look forward to the future here, and really bullish on Canada's economy. So, we'll see what happens.

Great. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thanks, everyone, and we look forward to speaking next quarter, although I probably won't be a speaker, it will be...

Well, then I look forward to it. It's Yousry speaking.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.