corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, my name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Incorporated Fourth Quarter


2010 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions]


Thank you, Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Home Capital 2010 annual results


and the fourth quarter results. We are delighted to bring you these numbers in this report for


another very successful year. But let me just tell you there has been a number of questions as to


why we are also having another phone-in conference call this afternoon. What our plan was to chat


with you this morning about the GAAP results of 2010, our business – all the aspects of our


business, what we’re doing, the arrears, the capital, etcetera., and our prospects going forward.


Then undoubtedly there is going to be a lot of questions about IFRS which in 2011, we will be


reporting under the – 2011 will be all IFRS and I know there’s going to be a lot of questions as one


of the analyst said there is a lot of noise around it.


I want to reassure you that there has been no effect on the business. The business is doing great


as you saw by the numbers. As one of the accounting team said, it’s just a different way to count


the beans in the jar. They – we will all get used to it. We’ll get used to the different base year. We’ll


get used to a different method. But the underlying economic business continues to be very strong,


and I thought rather than getting confused with talking about the business and the IFRS accounting


stuff, we thought, we’d put our whole accounting team. We have both Bob Blowes and Cathy


Sutherland and all the support staff, at 2 o’clock, you can phone in, they will be here till 6 o’clock if


questions take that long, they’ll give you all the time to give long detailed answers. As we’re the first


out, I think there’s going to be a lot of questions on the learning curve for a lot of individuals out


there, as it was for us.


And so, we thought, we try to segregate it that way. So, I’m going to get started on what would be


the normal business part of the conference call. I’ll chat with about how we’ve done and what our


prospects are, how we see the year ahead, how we see the economy and we will try to answer, try


to answer all your IFRS questions this afternoon.


When the banks come out, because they don’t have to report under IFRS until 2012. Their yearend


is October 31st and their first year is still a year – their first reports under IFRS is still a year away.


So hopefully, we’ll educate you and you’ll know how to ask a whole bunch of tough questions for


them when they are at that time.


Any ways, back to the results. Well, the results were – we had an absolutely super year. At a time


there was a fair amount of turmoil in the economy, there was all kinds of concern that the housing


market was overheated, under-heated, they would drew the stimulus half way through the year


extremely because of slightly rising rates, changes to CMHC notwithstanding all that I can’t – I want


to put in a positive way, we’ve had a very great year and this reflected also in what happened in the


fourth quarter.


Basically, we had net income increase on a very large base of 25% year-over-year. The diluted


earnings are up in the range of 25% year-over-year and one of the things that’s most significant,


most significant in terms of long-term wealth, how is your investment doing? Is your look to return


on equity? And as I’ve chatted with you before, it’s one of the true tests of seeing whether the
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


company is growing and you as a shareholder, how you’re doing? Are you earning a return on


equity every year and is it being invested in the company?


Well, 2010 was the 13th consecutive year – 13 consecutive year, lucky 13, that we had over 20%


return on equity and the last eight years of that, last eight years were over 25% return on equity


including 2010. We’re very proud of that, that’s a long consistent track record that has been


beneficial for the company, for the shareholders and for all stakeholders. The stock price year-over-


year, it went up also some 23% notwithstanding the turmoil in the market and how people look to


mortgage companies, year-over-year we’re up $41.85 to $51.79, just a shade under 24% and we


were very pleased with that. Basically all of our objectives were exceeded by quite a wide margin


and no matter how we sum it up 2010 was a very good year. Now just a little more detail on that,


one of the things that happened that was reflective of how we’ve been progressing in December of


the year of last year, S&P the rating agency, upgraded both Home Trust and the Home Capital.


Home Trust went from a BBB to a BBB Plus, we were very pleased with that and Home Capital


went from the BBB minus which is the holding company went from a BBB minus to a BBB. The


rating not only was significant because of their international view and how they view companies


around the world and how they saw us moving up in that world at a time that a lot of financial


companies were having problems, they also commented very favorably in their report on the


company’s risk management, the company’s credit loss performance and we’re very pleased with


the company’s robust growth in revenue earnings, solid capital base, strong level of capital. So it


was really quite a strong endorsement from S&P and our goal is to maintain and over time to try to


improve on that rating.


The other thing that I wanted to point out at yearend that is quite significant is our capital ratios. We


ended the year with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 18.1% and a19.4% for total capital and a nice


movement up over year-over-year. Now you probably all read about the new Basel III requirements


that are going to be phased in to the regulatory regime over the next few years.


And we have reviewed all of those requirements and if what is going to be phased in between now


and 2018 were in force today in February 2011, we would at Home Trust comply with all of the new


Basel III requirements now. Our capital is at a level that we don’t have to phase in with additional


capital. We have reached that benchmark now and that also is something we’re very pleased


about. If we do have to raise debt or preferred shares or equity, it will be for growth.


It won’t be for complying with the existing capital ratios. We’re there now and so we’re very pleased


about that and it shows the strength and sustainability of the company. The other thing is the credit


performance continued to do well. We think that the arrears peak occurred about a year and year-


and-a-half ago and clearly it’s coming now down to normalized level. We had a bump in the fourth


quarter on our equity line Visa. Clearly, there was a – on investigation, there was a fraud. These


things do occur between we believe at this point, there was a mortgage broker and a lawyer


involved and maybe others.


We’re investigating fully. But when we – at yearend when we put a circle around the whole matter,


we looked at every loan that had ever been closed by the lawyer and every loan that had ever been


sent in by this particular mortgage broker. The maximum exposure was $3.2 million if we didn’t get


a cent back on any of it. Now that we’ve had another six weeks to look at everything and at that


time we put a reserve of $1.9 million.


Now that we’ve had a chance to look at everything, clearly some of the mortgages are fine or


people are going to continue paying and they are not going in arrears. Some of them have – also


we do have a solid claim against our own insurance which would probably be in the range of $1.5


million and we still have claims outstanding both against the lawyer and the broker and the


brokerage house under their insurance policy. So, just to let you know, although there was a bump


up, it could well be that in subsequent quarters, once we’ve crystallized our claim with our