Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, Chief Executive Officer, & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Mark Kearns — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Q4 and Yearend 2016 Earnings Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Ms. Laura Lepore, AVP, Investor Relations. You may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended 2016. With me on the call today are Martin Reid, President and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Morton, Chief Financial Officer; Chris Whyte, Chief Operating Officer; and, Pino Decina, our Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and condition of Home Capital and, as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Martin Reid, President and Chief Executive Officer.

Thank you, Laura, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss our fourth quarter and yearend results. This morning, I will review with you our 2016 annual and fourth quarter results and spend some time talking about Home Capital's priorities looking ahead.

You will also hear from Rob Morton, our CFO, who will provide detail on the financials and our new long-term goals, and then we will end with questions-and-answers.

Let's begin with the highlights of 2016.

2016 has been a transitionary year for the company as we continue to strengthen our core residential mortgage business. This occurred alongside strong results in our commercial mortgage, consumer lending businesses, and Oaken Financial. We grew total loans under administration to CAD 26.4 billion at the end of the 2016, a 5.5% increase over the end of 2015.

Our strong balance sheet allowed us to return more than CAD 264 million to shareholders during 2016 and still maintained strong capital levels. We increased the dividends for the ninth time over the last five years, twice during 2016. Our adjusted return on shareholder equity was 16.3% and book value increased 8.4% to CAD 25.12 at the end of 2016. Unadjusted net income per share was CAD 3.71 per share, compared to CAD 4.09 in 2015. Adjusted earnings per share on a diluted basis were CAD 3.95 per share, compared with CAD 4.11 at the end of 2015.

Adjusted net income were impacted by several items of note. In the fourth quarter, there was a goodwill impairment for our PSiGate Business of CAD 9 million. We had a write down for intangible assets of CAD 5.1 million related to software development. Turning to originations. We generated CAD 2.43 billion in the fourth quarter originations, a year-over-year increase of 14.5% taking total originations to CAD 9.2 billion for the year.

This performance represents the good progress of our residential teams have made on improving service levels to the mortgage brokers, driving increased volumes. We saw our response times for commitments improved, improved turnaround times on documentation process and better service levels on approval and funding while keeping standards within our risk management framework. Our core traditional single family residential line saw its volumes increased 3.5% to roughly CAD 5 billion in 2016 versus 2015. Our high quality uninsured ACE Plus product continue to meet a growing demand for products catering to those they just barely don't met the insured mortgages, with originations growing to CAD 407 million in 2016 from CAD 253 million in 2015, when ACE Plus was introduced.

Accelerator of insured product saw originations increased 16.5% to CAD 1.6 billion compared to 2015. As expected, we started to see accelerator volumes softening late in 2016 due to the mortgage rule changes announced in October. As we commented in our earlier press release, we expect accelerator to be negatively impacted in 2017 as a result of these changes. However, we anticipate a relatively limited impact on net income.

Non-residential commercial mortgages were up 39.8% year-over-year while residential commercial originations combined were up 38.4%. Originations in our credit card business was up 7.2% to CAD 168 million while our retail credit originations were down slightly at 1.4% to CAD 184 million. While there were many positive things happening across various business lines, our overall performance was negatively impacted by lower than anticipated retention and renewal levels. This, combined with elevated expenses, resulted in lower net earnings. Efforts towards improving retention during 2016 were slower to take effect that anticipated. We anticipate these efforts to demonstrate results in the early part of 2017.

At the end of Q3 of 2016, we identified these issues and highlighted the need to take action. Over the last quarter, we completed a review of our strategies and we have refined our strategic plans to better manage cost, streamline our products, and drive revenue growth.

The outcome is that we have refined our strategic priorities to guide the business this year and beyond 2017. These priorities will leverage the company's key strengths, our talented team, and our commitment to service, leveraging technology, and our agility and strong risk management.

Before Rob speaks in detail about the 2016 financial results and our outlook, let me tell you about those priorities moving forward and why I'm confident in our abilities to deliver on our plans in 2017 and beyond.

Our first priority is to prudently strengthen our core, traditional residential mortgage business. Building our traditional residential business in a prudent and profitable way means we must continue to grow our assets under administration through our originations, but in particular through a stronger focus on retention, while ensuring the transactions are well within our risk appetite.

Changes to our retention process have taken place and the benefits from these initiatives take time to be realized. We anticipate the results of these efforts to show in the early part of 2017. We're working across a few key work streams to boost retention.

We're looking and actively managing the full life cycle of our customers while they have a mortgage with us and identifying all such points that offer an opportunity to promote retention. This includes looking at on-boarding mortgage servicing in our contact center scripts to drive an enhanced overall customer experience.

We work to improve our call centers handling of calls that signal the customer was likely to shift their business to another industry. Now, we're working on productivity improvements through more streamlined process, controls, and digitization to be able to respond appropriately at customer requests in a timely fashion.

Our second priority is to continue to provide innovative products and solutions to service all of our customers. As the regulatory landscape continues to evolve, we will remain innovative for new products to attract and retain customers. A product such as ACE bus is a great example of home delivering real solutions for our customers.

With recent regulatory changes or potential future changes, we're investigating new products and opportunities to offer competitive products and services to take advantage of any opportunities that may arise.

Our third strategic priority is to generate positive operating leverage. This will be achieved through both revenue growth and diligence on expenses. We're working towards improving the future revenues through current actions on retention as well as longer-term strategies in line with our long-term goals. However, in the near term, we are addressing our expenses through [ph] right-sizing (08:58) for the organization. We're installing our rigorous expense management process in all aspects of our business. We have launched a project called EXPO, an initiative that will target CAD 15 million of cost reductions, based on an annualized run rate of our Q4 2016 expenses, excluding items of note, savings over the course of 2017. We expect this work to be complete by the end of 2017, and however, we will realize benefits during the course of the year.

As we announced in our press release yesterday, this will result in a restructuring provision that we take in 2017 and more details on that will follow in our Q1 results. We will report on Project EXPO to you on a quarterly basis, and this initiative will encompass most expense categories including employees, premises, and other operating expense.

There will be difficult decisions in the coming months. However we are taking the necessary steps company-wide to strategically affect meaningful change. This effort in realigning our expenses will be done in a deliberate and strategic way so it's not negatively impact the work that is being done on a revenue-related initiatives.

In January, we began executing our plans, the portion of this work is related to a reorganization to create a more agile and effective organizational structure to meet our strategic priorities. We realigned some positions to optimize our structure, which is – which also resulted in a few of our senior team members leaving the company.

Moving forward, we will ensure that future cost will rise in a more measured way in a manner to move us to work positive operating leverage with a necessary investments that will enable the company to meet its strategic goals.

Finally, we will continue to focus on our final priority for 2017, which is to remain disciplined around balance sheet efficiency and the use of our capital. As we did in 2016, we will continue to maintain strong levels of regulatory capital, well above and in excess, of regulatory and internal targets.

In 2016, we were also active in our share repurchase program given the valuation of our company throughout the year. Those decisions remain to maximize shareholder value and we will continue to evaluate opportunities for the highest and best use of capital deployment. We will be strategic on how we can effectively deploy our capital, whether be through our dividends, executing on buybacks through M&A, or organic growth opportunities that made them available.

As we look ahead for this year, we expect that early 2017 will continue to be a period of transition. We will work through a retention and revenue generation initiatives as well as Project EXPO. I am confident in our team's ability to execute on our plan and everything that we control. There are, however, several external variables in our operating environment that are largely outside of our control. We continue to watch and expect the impact of the recently implemented measures to take the mortgage rules – growth will become clearer as we move further into 2017.

Further policy changes particularly pertaining to risk share, and they're also expected to be more defined as we move into the latter half of the year. The housing environment, although stable on a national basis, has elevated risks looking ahead in significant regional differences. It is a priority of ours to maintain [ph] agility (12:34) to react to our competitive and economic environments to achieve our goals. We are mindful of these factors, and have made an effort to capture some of those external volatility in our long-term goals.

We have entered the year with good momentum, and we remain confident in our ability to execute on our longer term plan. We are well prepared to get our strategic priorities and continue to create shareholder value. On that note, I'd finalize that we have laid out new long-term goals that reflect how we think about the potential of the business, and how we think about managing the business. We've run the Home Capital for the long-term and I think it's very important that the goal is aligned with that.

Now, I'll turn it over to Rob Mortan who will go into the financials in more detail. Rob?

Thank you, Martin, and good morning, everyone. In 2016, Home Capital reported full-year earnings of CAD 247.4 million and EPS of CAD 3.71 with earnings down 13.8% year-over-year. Adjusted earnings were CAD 263.4 million, down 8.8% from 2015 and adjusted EPS was CAD 3.95. Adjusted earnings include the impact of the several items of note, including a fourth quarter goodwill impairment charge related to the company's PSiGate Business, had total CAD 9 million after tax or CAD 0.13 diluted earnings per share, and an intangible asset impairment related to internally develop software cost, which totaled CAD 5.1 million before-tax and after-tax of CAD 3.8 million, and CAD 0.06 of diluted earnings per share.

Additionally, adjusted results include the impact of severance and other related costs accounted for CAD 5.1 million pre-tax and CAD 3.7 million or CAD 0.06 per share after-tax, which is less than the first quarter of 2016. Net interest income was CAD 485.2 million during 2016, an increase of 0.8% compared to CAD 481.1 million in 2015.

Lower average balances in our traditional single-family residential mortgages and their lower average rates were offset by higher ACE Plus and commercial loan balances. And, lower average interest expense rates for [indiscernible] (14:54) bearing liability.

Noninterest expenses were CAD 238.9 million in 2016, up 25.3% from CAD 190.7 million in 2015. This increase was mainly due to higher salaries and benefits resulting from the increase in the number of employees combined with higher operating expenses reflecting continued investment in technology, ongoing investments in the company sites to keep security platform, and cost associated with risk strengthening, risk management, and compliance with the [ph] structure (15:27).

Adjusting for the CAD 9 million of [indiscernible] (15:30) impairment of CAD 5.1 million intangible asset impairment and the CAD 5.1 million cost in severance and other related costs. Non-interest expense was CAD 219.7 million in 2016.

Our provisions for credit losses decreased 11.6% year-over-year and net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans ended the year at 0.30% compared to 0.28% at the end of 2015.

For the fourth quarter, the company reported earnings of CAD 50.7 million or CAD 0.79 of diluted earnings per share, down from CAD 70.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 or CAD 1 of diluted earnings per share.

Excluding the one-time items previously discussed, adjusted net income of CAD 63.5 million and CAD 0.98 of adjusted diluted EPS. Fourth quarter adjusted net income was 11.6% lower than the CAD 71.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, and [ph] 7.1% (16:36) lower compared to CAD 56.2 million, which we reported for Q3 of 2016.

Expenses in the fourth quarter were CAD 71 million, up from CAD 54.7 million in Q4 of 2015, and up from CAD 55 million in Q3 of 2016. Excluding the impact of goodwill and intangible asset impairments previously discussed, adjusted expenses rose to CAD 56.9 million in the fourth quarter reflecting amongst other items investment into our business and infrastructure.

As well as that while achieving our expense reduction target during 2017, as Martin just previously discussed, we will continue to be investing in the business in 2017, primarily an initiative that will track revenue.

Provisions for credit losses in the fourth quarter were CAD 2.4 million, compared to CAD 1.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, and CAD 1.3 million in the third quarter of 2016. The annualized credit provision as a percentage of – gross uninsured loans for the quarter was 0.07% compared to 0.04% in both fourth quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2016.

At the end of 2016, total loans under administration were CAD 26.4 billion, up 5.5% from CAD 25.1 billion at the end of 2015 and an increase of 1.6% compared to CAD 26.0 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2016. In 2016, total deposits reached CAD 15.89 billion, increasing 1.4% year-over-year and 1.2% from the end of Q3 of 2016. Total deposits raised to the company's efforts to diversify its sources of funds, Oaken Financial, by interest savings accounts and institutional deposits totaled CAD 4.59 billion, an increase of CAD 943.6 million or 25.9% over the end of Q4 2015 and CAD 26.8 million or 0.6% over the end of last quarter. We continue to have strong capital ratios including a total capital ratio of 16.97% and a CET1 ratio of 16.55%.

Now, let's turn to our outlook. While we did have challenges in 2016, we have delivered on several of our midterm targets. We were looking on our dividend payoff ratio. We exceeded our return-on-equity targets, and maintain the strong capital ratios. As we look out to 2017 in the longer term, we are introducing new performance stores and these include, on an adjusted basis, revenue growth of 5% or greater, diluted earnings per share growth of 7% or greater, and return on shareholders' equity, ROE, up 15% or greater. We have repositioned the dividend payout ratio under one of our four strategic priorities. We will continue to report on our dividend payout ratio as part of our ongoing disclosure. These goals are consistent with our strategic plans and long-term objectives. Our goal is to achieve these annually over the long term. While 2017 will be a transition period, where cost reductions and revenue generation initiatives continue to unfold.

With that, I will now turn it back to Martin for some final words.

Thanks, Rob. We look forward to reporting to you with our Q1 results on our progress on all of our revenue initiatives as well as an update of Project EXPO as we move toward positive operating leverage.

And now, we'll turn it over to Melissa for questions-and-answers.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. My first question was...

Good morning, Geoff.

Yeah. When I take a look at the originations, I mean, you had a pretty good quarter there. But when I take a look at the mortgages, both the on and off balance sheet outstanding, and take a look on a year-over-year basis, I think it was up 6% year-over-year. When you take a look at Q3, it was up 11%. So, it's slowed quite meaningfully. I know you've talked about, from a retention perspective, you're seeing some signs of that getting to where you needed to be, but it does, I guess, it seems like it's still a challenge. So, I guess I'm just trying to get a little bit more color as to about what timeframe do you think you can get in terms of where you want to be on having customer retention in a range that you're expecting.

And also, can you remind me in terms of where some of these customers are? Are they ones where the banks have the initial referral and they have the right to bring them back if they want to take them afterwards or are they going to other lenders?

Addressing your second questions, Geoff, it's not the bank referral [ph] fines (21:55). It's – if you look at our customer base over the last five years, the credit quality of that customer is a lot better than what it used to be. So, they do have a lot more choices. In terms of the initiatives, you're dealing – on the retention side you're dealing with customers where the mortgages are maturing several months out. So, the benefit of that does take a bit of time. I would say, in the first half of 2017, we'll see some meaningful results on that.

Okay.

Pino, do you want to add any color to that?

Yeah. Really the strategies that we put in place, you may remember in Q2 last year, we talked about a small specialized strategic team that we implemented in our renewals group. And really that was contacting customers at the time I think I mentioned, customer's looking for information statements on their mortgages or discharged statements. And it was really talking to these customers a better understanding, where they're going, why they're leaving, what offerings do they have. And in line with what Martin just mentioned, it's all about this new look customer that we've seen post B20 they have come onboard with a higher credit quality which also means, that they have more choice [ph] and (23:12) earlier on than clients that we've had in the past.

So, it's about developing new opportunities for our retention folks to better put their grips into these customers, and make sure that they stay on longer term.

Okay. Okay. Thank you for that. And I just had two quick questions. It's around how you talking about a little bit origination guidance for 2017. So, I think on the what we were classifying as insured, securitized mortgage lending, which I think is the multi-unit as well as Accelerator. I think you guys were indicating that what you had in H2 2016, annualizing that as to what you think 2017 kind of looks like, but I'm also guessing if that is the case given the government candidate changes last fall that in terms of contribution wise Accelerator would be lesser because that would have been more impacted relative to obviously the multi-unit side?

Yeah. The multi-unit is a low – the insured multi-unit is a low-margin business to begin with. Accelerator is relatively low as well although more than the multi-unit. It is the Accelerator that is going to be impacted by the rule changes and it is still early days, but we are seeing that impact and the real test will come with the spring market as to how much of a negative impact on Accelerator and what if any positive impact on our uninsured will come out of that?

Like what I was getting at is if you are annualizing the second half of 2016, and given multi is in a big part of that number, it does seem to suggest that it's maybe the Accelerator side won't actually be very much impacted in terms of on a year-over-year basis. Am I understanding that right or it actually is going to have a little bit more of an impact given the changes?

Well, I would refer to the press release we did earlier in terms of impact. I think, that's conservative, but I think that given the way things are now as part of the impact of the insured business, pretty good indicator.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just if can stick-in one last one. Again, on the origination side, on the commercial, that on the percentage basis grew and origination grew 40% in 2016. I think, your commentary mentions the rate of growth in 2017 similar to last year. So, are you suggesting that the CAD 1 billion in originations is going to CAD 1.4 billion or were you talking maybe perhaps more about the level kind of staying flat at what was previously a good year?

It'd be a consistent trend. You may see a little bit of a showdown in the percentage growth.

Okay. But you're expecting it to be up from the billing in than you did last year though?

Correct, yeah.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thank you, and good morning.

Hey, thanks.

My first question is a couple of – maybe a bit couple of big picture questions. Can you just sort of walk us through the decision to switch from midterm targets to longer-term targets? And what that says, I guess, maybe potentially about the near-term outlook over this transition year and maybe in the 2018?

Yeah. So the – in the short-term, as mentioned, we see the early part of 2017 as being a transition year as we had these expense initiatives and revenue initiatives underway. The targets are long-term, and I'll turn it over to Rob, our CFO, to talk a little bit more about that.

Hi, Jaeme. So, we thought that we had introduced a little bit of confusion when we talked about mid-term 3 to 5 d and previously two years ago. So – but we looked at the long-term ones is that this is the value that we are going to deliver to some shareholders over the long-term. But as I said, our goal is to achieve this annually, but over the long-term. So, I think if you look at the literature long-term and consider three to five years, but we see there – where we see the value of our business being. And if something changes, we'll change them but like I said, we expect that these will be achieved annually over the long-term and, as Mark said, 2017 might just be looked as a transition year.

Okay. And with respect to capital, obviously, you have had done away with guidance around, set one ratios and also the dividend payout ratio. Can you give a little bit of color about how you're thinking about where set one and return of capital to shareholders will be trending?

Yeah, it's really about the efficient use of capital and so, that is a combination of whether it would be buybacks or increase in the dividend. So, it is being opportunistic about that. So, it's not just as much emphasis on those things today as there ever has been. But it's really acknowledging the flexibility in terms of how we deploy capital.

And – it's Rob again – you're going to think the other thing was – we have been last reviewed, exact guidance on CET1, just like that we retains from capital ratio. That's one of our four strategic priorities. So, we just actually thought it was a little bit of [indiscernible] (28:52) and so, it is our strategic [ph] property (28:54) to do that. And then, with respect to your thoughts on the dividend payout ratio or buybacks or everything about whether one of those things as well as part of our strategic priorities. And I think our thinking hasn't changed [indiscernible] (29:10), we'll take the opportunity to raise the dividend where it makes sense and just getting buybacks and other forms of capital utilization and we'll report on those initiatives.

Okay. So, just two follow ups on that then. First with respect to the buybacks, they've been a little bit slow, I guess, in the Q4 2016. Only a couple of hundred thousand shares bought back. You know, I guess, is that a – should we interpret that as suggesting that maybe the share price during that period is not reflective of, I guess, good use of your capital?

We are looking at it opportunistically. So, the more of that share price is driven down, the more actively it will be. The intent is not to be active in the market all the time and on a regular basis. It is to be opportunistic with the – with these capital.

Okay. And then the second follow-up is in terms of defining what is strong capital ratios, is the [ph] bogey (30:27) at 16.5% or would you consider that 16.5% to be excess? Could you just trend somewhere lower perhaps in the line with other peers that operate in your target market. I guess how would you think about what is strong?

Yeah. So, we would say, we're positioned today as very strong. And if you look at the company historically, we've always maintained very strong capital level, and capital levels in excess of our peers. We do a lot of things internally in terms of measuring that determining what those levels are going to be. I wouldn't look for an appreciable drop if that's what you're trying to imply.

Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that color.

Your next question comes from Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Dylan.

Just a quick question or follow-up on the retention. I guess, just the confidence you have that things will improve in 2017, is that more of an factor that, I guess, the customers that you're targeting, they're coming up in a next couple months here, so you expect those to bear fruits in the first half of 2017?

Yeah. Dylan, it's Pino here. No, actually, the reason we're confident is I explained the work we did last year and it was really to better identify what we term as a high-fly risk customer. And so, yes, we've done a lot of work at the renewal stage. But really, we're at a point now of getting head of the game. So, it's really identifying these customers mid-term to work with them in advanced of their renewal and push them out further.

So, when you can get ahead of the game like that and we started to see that in Q4 rolling into January as well, it's almost like building a pipeline on the origination side. And so because of that, we're confident that with those few approaches, we should have better retention certainly in 2017 and the years beyond as well.

Okay. Great. And maybe, if you can just touch on any other initiatives on the revenue side of things to boost it, whether you have any designs on additional products or continue to focus on the commercial side of things, maybe just – if you can talk to that a bit?

Yeah. So – but, as we cover, but – the introduction or the complete [indiscernible] (33:14) blocked through to all of our brokers will help to prove that service level to the brokers, which should, in turn, result in better originations. We are looking at products in light of recent regulatory change and how we can take advantage of opportunities that may exist in the market given the number of people that are impacted by that. There's a number of other initiatives that we are looking at early stages, but the ones that are going to have the material impact short-term are going to be the service levels to the broker, those initiatives around that and around retention.

Okay. And just one more if I can, just on the intangible writedowns, just related to the core banking system, maybe just a bit more color on writedown of the capitalization there and...

Yeah, there is. There is a number of different modules, and software pieces that we develop or modify in terms of – for different aspects of the business. And on this one here, we were part way through it, and sort of revisiting the cost benefits and the decision was made that the – the benefit moving forward really wasn't there. And, so we chose to write that down. It's not to say that we couldn't revisit that at a later date, but at this point in time, the decision was made to – to write that down.

But that wasn't tied into the rollout of Loft or other...

No, no. Not at all.

...improvements? Okay. Perfect. I'll re-queue. But, thanks very much.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Hey, Graham.

Maybe I could just follow-up on that. So, where are you out with the broker portal rollout and also the broker loyalty program? Are they – are they fully ramped up or are you maybe you can give some color there?

Yeah, Graham, it's Pino again. The broker loyalty program is in full flight. We're in year two of it and we're very happy with what that's producing.

As far as the portal goes, I'll give you some color on that and maybe I'll go back a bit, too. We are in a position now due to continue to rollout of our Loft broker portal prior to the spring market. And really, we've applied sort of that 80/20 rule to it. So, by the time, the spring market hits 20% of our mortgage brokers, our most impactful mortgage brokers will be on Loft.

And the reason we're in a position to do that is really as a result of the work that happened in the back half of last year. So, you may remember again that, we talked about in the fall of 2016 implementing some enhanced process improvements to our delivery of mortgage originations. We tested that in our traditional mortgage originations group. We continue to rollout all the teams in our traditional group throughout the balance of 2016. And I am happy to report that all the teams in Toronto are currently on that.

And we're in a position now to deliver confidently what we call our 688 service level agreement. And effectively, what that stands for is six-hour business – six-business-hour turn time on commitments on all approved applications, eight-business-hour decisioning on supporting documentation, and eight business hours to instruct our solicitor partners.

So, those are the three key areas when speaking on mortgage originations. And I'm happy to say that in the month of December, although we did see a steady improvement leading up to it with the month of December, we saw all three meeting those service level agreements. It was perfect timing. No surprise, too, that we had a very good mortgage originations month, in the month of December. That continued into January. We're not going to stop. We're going to continue looking at ways to improve that 688 and drive that even further down, and that bodes very well for the continued rollout of Loft, where one of the key drivers needs to be serviced on our end. As obviously our partners will have full visibility into our service level. So, we think we are well positioned for that continued rollout, and that will happen before the spring market.

Okay. Great. And sir, did you say you're targeting down 20% of your brokers, on Loft before the spring market, and then I assume that the remaining 80% throughout the rest of 2017. Is that how should we think about it?

That's correct. So, we have a calendar that has really identified who those top producers are. We're going to roll them – yeah, effectively, they generate 80% of the volume, but we'll have those 20% of our broker partners on there before that spring market.

Got it.

And to your point, rollout the rest over the course of the balance of the year.

Okay. Got it. Jumping back into the retention issue, just appreciate the color you gave – you gave around the client is a higher credit quality client than five years ago. So, there is more potential that there is flight risk there, and you're getting on top of them early, how does that fall through into your outlook for net interest margin? Like are you having to – to some extent, are you having to compete earlier for these clients on price to make sure that they – that they extend their mortgages with you. And also just a higher credit quality client, is that filtered through into a lower mortgage rate on average?

Yeah. That's safe to say that, if you are going to tax them earlier and the client is in a position where they've graduated from a credit quality standpoint. Then certainly, you're going to have to be more aggressive on your pricing in order to extend out their terms.

Yeah. And just to add to that, these are clients that were already priced aggressively coming in the door. So, they were – you had that margin compression as they were coming in the door. You may have to be aggressive in pricing the renewal, but you also don't have the same kind of origination cost that you would on new customers. You're saying a little bit on the brokerage commission.

Are you not paying any brokerage commission? Is that what you mean?

We do pay some when the broker is involved. But there is a lot that there isn't. So, I would say, on an overall basis, you're probably bit of washed between the aggressive rate of what you are saving.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. And then on the cost side, I guess, just timing, should we be sort of thinking about this CAD 15 million in targeted savings to be fairly balanced throughout the year or is this expected to be more – or realized earlier in the year?

So, we are trying to realize things as soon as possible. But the way we look at it is the Q4 2017 run rate annualized should be CAD 15 million – minimum of CAD 15 million lower than where we were in the Q4 annualized run rate of 2016. So, some things are going to happen quick, some things are going to take a little bit longer. In terms of the any impact on the people side of things, we are trying to be very strategic about that and we are trying to make that – we don't want to make it a death by a thousand paper cuts. We really want to address that, address that quickly, so people know what the [indiscernible] (41:33) structure looks like and how we look going forward, and we can take it from there.

Okay. And is there an efficiency ratio that you're targeting once you hit these CAD 15 million savings?

We're not, because there is a number of things, you know – revenue can drive the efficiency ratio by itself. So, we are looking at it as an absolute dollar drop, on the revenue side, the number of initiatives there. We should see improvement in the efficiency ratio, but we're not targeting a specific efficiency ratio at this point. What we are looking is to get back to positive operating leverage and then drive that. Longer term as we get in a better position with that, we may revisit the efficiency ratio or have a little bit better guidance on the efficiency ratio.

Okay. Thank you. And then just the increased spending last year on technology and IT security risk management, should we expect the growth there to slow down? Have you sort of – have you got yourselves to a run rate at the – on...

Yeah. I would say that that's a fair assumption.

Okay. Thank you. [indiscernible]

(42:45)

Your next question comes from Mark Kearns from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Mark.

I had a question on LTVs and general sort of risk appetite you guys have in the GTA market. Seem like LTVs, over the last few quarters, on new onshore originations [indiscernible] (43:12), just wondering how you guys are feeling about the market and where you'd like those LTVs to go?

Yeah. Mark, it's Pino. I think that's pretty accurate. We're just taking – we're just watching very closely in particular in the GTA on some of the big ticket items not being aggressive on loan-to-value where we don't need to be. And when I say big ticket, we sort of look beyond that CAD 1.5 million mark now as sort of that step where you want to start the scale back [ph] the amount of (43:46) value. And I think that's prudent probably an approach that we're going to continue certainly throughout the year.

Okay. And then I guess my second question would be on [ph] credit (43:59). It seem like generally held pretty steady for the quarter, but I did notice that loans pass to but not impaired did tick up a bit Q-over-Q some of that appeared to be securitized, some just in the single-family space. Anything specific that contributed to that?

Nothing, nothing. No. No unusual trends or anything that we're seeing there. We talked before about sort of Alberta, sort of creeping up a little bit. But I think that's largely happened, but nothing in particular in terms of trends that we're seeing.

Okay. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

Your last question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Yeah. Asked and answered. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to management.

Okay. Thank you very much. And as mentioned earlier, we look forward to reporting on Q1 results where we hope to clearly demonstrate the progress on Project EXPO, addressing the expense side of the equation, as well as that progress on revenue initiatives and retention initiatives. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.