raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Home


Capital Group, Inc. Q1 Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time all participants are in


listen-only mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session,


instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions. [Operator Instructions]. I


would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Thursday, April 27,


2006 at 10:30 Eastern Time. I will now turn the conference over to Gerald M. Soloway, President


and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer


Okay. Thank you very much operator. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to report


to you on the results of Home Capital First Quarter 2006. Home Capital has ended its run of 42


consecutive quarters of increased profits quarter-over-quarter. We are not aware of any Toronto


Stock Exchange listed company that has a longer record of increased profits quarter-over-quarter.


We jokingly like to compare our earnings record to the Toronto Blue Jay’s baseball team going, I


haven’t done it yet. Going on a 42 game – consecutive game winning streak. I think any of you who


are baseball fans will realize that’s a very, very higher accomplishment and occurs very rarely. That


streak having been ended we are pleased to report that Home Capital has now started on a streak


of one consecutive quarter of increased profit year-over-year quarters so that we are saying there is


an increased profit in the first quarter of 2006 over the first quarter of 2006. Over the first quarter of


205, and we are hopeful that we can stride a new streak going forward on a year – over – year


basis. Now, how did we do during our first quarter? Just getting my notes here. Our key income


was up some 4.5% year – over – year. The basic earnings were 42 arise of 5% compared to 40


cents last year above 5.1 on a fully diluted basis. Returned on equity was 25.2, may be a little less


then 32, but sort of a – still a bloody good record of return on equity for the quarter. The total assets


year – over – year at 22.8% and if you take total assets together with the MBS [ph] originated an


administrate marketive with up above 28.4$. If you ask why it's not up more fourth quarter, I think


you look to where we were in fourth quarter, we had a very high liquidity if you look at the balance


sheet and then that we didn't all that liquidity to rose out of some sales of MDS in the fourth quarter,


so that there is above the 100 million decrease. The total market [ph] origination and this is


something we were very pleased to report. We are up some 28.6% year over year. We really had


quite a good quarter in getting new mortgages out in groups. This is as you recalled compared to –


above 11% in the fourth quarter. So the rhythms back, the move is over, capacity is now in place


and we see this kind of year-over –year increase in mortgage origination continuing on a going


forward basis. So far in April the April looks good and we stick to our goal of being able to attain


year-over-year a 20% increase in mortgage origination we think that’s a very do able thing for the


whole year and you know there is always fluctuations month by month and but we think under


goings forwards the first quarter started off well and we think similar trend continues in to the future.


In terms of one of the very – parts of our business is the equity line visa and there the receivables


are up to a 113 million over some 93 at the end of the year but the more exciting part and that’s


about 21% quarter over a consecutive quarter 77% over the previous year. But what we did is we


issued new cards worth 41 million unauthorized limits compared to about 16.5 million in authorized


limits last year first quarter. So we are running in authorized credit limits about 2.5 times last year.


So we are really quiet excited we know that at about 65 or so percent of authorized credit turned


into receivables usually within about 60 to 90 days after the cards put on. So we feel that although


there has been about 20 million about this 41 million has already been taken down and this will


continue to be taken down and utilize over the next quarter in addition to over new cards that were


issued. Everything is looking very good. We staffed up and I think we are able to accomplish even


more volume on a going forward basis so I know one of the questions Gerald we would like to ask


what's new.
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Well, what's new for us over the quarter is we started doing business in three new markets. We


started doing business in Anitova [ph] we back and we found this revenue notes here okay one


second. What happened during the first quarter, in those three market we have now down over the


first quarter about 4 million in new business so out of the, I think that I gave you a new mortgage


origination over the quarter of 426.7 million about 4 million of that was from markets where we been


before. Now I would like to report that guiding in the new market is not just starting to mortgage.


There is fair amount of legal work to get all the documentation and each province has its own


requirements get it up and running and get it approved. There is getting the appraisers in place as


you know, we don’t use every appraiser we want to make sure that appraisers have a philosophy of


being realistic and they don’t come in and there are not the appraisers who believe that goals going


to be at $1000 before June the 1st. We have got to have people who are going out pretty realistic


not get caught up in the trends to do the appraisal and that they do give the market that if we had to


take the property is realistic enough to sell the property without home taking a hit. On the other if


the upraises are too pessimistic you don’t get – from the broker network because the values are not


realistic and not be able to go a competitive source. So it’s there is sometime in province getting a


few upraises that are able to strike that balance and them in place and get them tested, get the


lawyers, get our property inspectors, So not with standing in all three markets we are up and


running we have done mortgages we are starting to market even more aggressively on the call


today normally – joins us. He is in – has started of very strongly and we are quiet pleased how the


one greater – area how it’s been producing mortgages and he is out there at a mortgage brokers


conference and basically to try to asses how quickly do we need to move to a branch situation


there to keep the momentum going so I should add that the 4 million doesn’t really the needle for


the quarter but it is quiet promising of what those three markets will be able to add to us on a going


forward basis. We always feel that as quickly as we can get to a branch situation the better off we


are, we are great believers in getting seen on the ground in the market in which we are lending


from – in Winnipeg area and they are basically driving the – and Quebec is run out of Ontario. We


have a Wyoming where lending team set up here and they are doing well and we are back in fourth


with Quebec and building up the infrastructure.


Probably of the three Quebec offers the biggest upside. The demand is quite strong in Quebec and


we being careful not to get ahead of ourselves as we have an up in running but we continue to


require a degree of local knowledge. Just make sure we do it right. We rather be a quarter too


slower getting and going for the last but it’s important that we tried to the best of the ability to get it


right so that’s going very well.


The other big initiative in the quarter was equity loan visa. So far in the marketing has still been


primarily through the mortgage brokerage network. We marketed to them and with our new gold


card and there responses been quite overwhelming as you can see by the numbers we issue to 2.5


times the authorize credit this year then over last year. We have a call center. Its equipped, the staff


is been hired, we have them trained and we are going to I am told by our IT people that made the


first they will be in the position to through the switch and it will be live to take call. We think that


within a week after that we will be able to start mailing the home service piece of literature. And this


will be our first joint marketing initiatives with a partner and we can tell you anything other then


we're highly optimistic about it, and we'll see what the response is like. For the equity loans reason


to handle 2.5 times, the volume and double the number of courage in the quarter. We were busy


hiring people, training them and getting all the processes in place. We're now up to close the 500 –


months. We think that we – run that equity lines. These are through the various initiatives and – I'm


surprised the marketing certainly we have an internal goal to try to get to a 100 – a months. Not a


lot of courage, but will keep you posted [ph]. We're not there yet, but we're working – and again we


the – respect we feel the tortoise approach to winning the race a little bit is a right way. Slow and


steady and every step is a steady step. We're not big ones for making a bunch of mistakes and


then having to go back wards. So, we do see that we're continuing to build it. We see that really


quite a big contributed to a long term earnings in growth. The other thing that happening and you


think that in the quarter. Long term corporate secretary sharing happiness, retiring have to be –


meaning, – has win with homes and I became involved in January ‘87 and before that she was a