Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino Decina — Senior Vice President-Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Research Associate, National Bank Financial Brokers
Geoffrey Kwan — Research Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Michael Goldberg — Research Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Atul Shah — Vice President, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Bryan Brown — Research Associate, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Jeff Fenwick — Research Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tracy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Incorporated Q2 2011 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I'll now introduce and turn the call over to Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. You may begin your conference.

Thank you. Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's second quarter 2011 results. All facets of the company have operated very well during the second quarter and during the first six months of 2011.

The second quarter 2011 adjusted net income increased 34.5% over the second quarter in 2010. We went from $35.8 million earned to $48.2 million in the second quarter and for the six months from $72.2 million to $93.8 million.

So when we look at the first quarter 2011, the first quarter, the one that we reported on a few months ago, the adjusted net income rose some 18.8% year-over-year. So that was good and was a very respectable result but however, when we look at the second quarter where the adjusted net income is up 13.5% year-over-year we are very pleased with the increased momentum of earnings quarter-over-quarter and even the first six months over the first six months of last year which is up about 26%.

Now along with that we've had a very strong return on equity. Our return on equity for the quarter was 28.2% and 27.5% for the first six months. We are well on track to have our 14th consecutive year with a return on equity over 20%, 14th consecutive year. And we are halfway through the year towards the goal of the ninth consecutive year with a return on equity over 25%. So the profitability is strong, it shows up in the return on equity and we're delighted with the earnings and with our return on equity.

The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share were $1.39 and $1.38 for the second quarter, an increase of some 35% and 34% from the $1.03 basic and diluted earnings per share in the second quarter of 2010.

The increased earnings and increased earnings per share however have started to reflect the benefits and the returns from having restructured and redirected our business back to our traditional lending pattern, which is about 20% insured and 80% uninsured. And that was the mix during the current quarter and is the kind of mix we're looking at on a going forward basis. Now we compare that to last year during the quarter we were about 53% insured and 47% uninsured, so we've made the shift, we've shifted the people, we've shifted the market and as you see, we've done so quite successfully.

Now I might add that before we made the change in our business mix, we – there had been comments and we had been concerned about the net interest margin on the non-securitized assets. Well, we've had a very good uptick there. The net interest margin on non-securitized assets for the quarter was 3%. That same figure during the first quarter was 2.6% which was quite an uptick and in the first quarter this year and it was 2.8% in the second quarter last year. But we believe now that we are hitting the 3% spread on the non-securitized assets, we believe that that's a trend that can continue throughout the rest of the year. We don't see dramatic jumps in it but we do feel comfortable that for the last six months the net interest margin on the non-securitized assets should be in the 3% to a 3.2% range for the rest of the year.

The – one of our other divisions which has done very well is our Consumer Lending division. And it includes Visa, the traditional card business, retail lending, which we've talked about which does water heaters and other consumer lending and PSiGate, which is in the merchant acquiring business. By far Visa is the dominant earner in the group and earns the largest portion of the income.

But what has happened is that, that is a group that is not affected by IFRS, the accounting last year and this year in that group is pretty much the same. There might have been a few non-material technical changes but that core group year-over-year was up 25.1% in net income and we went from earnings last year in the quarter of $6.56 million to this year $7.57 million. So it was up about 25% on an after-tax basis and we are delighted with the group. They've had low arrears in all facets of their business, they're earning a good return, the profit's increasing and we see continuing solid profitable growth in all parts of the Consumer Lending business for the rest of the year.

The Non-residential lending business has gone from $7.24 million in assets at the end of June, 2010 to $9.28 at the end of June this year. And not only has there been growth in the portfolio but that there has been net interest margin on the portfolio from 3.7% last year to 3.9%. So we've had nice growth in the portfolio, an increase in the spread, we have very little in arrears in this group and they're – although we have a general reserve, there have been no write-offs in this portfolio during the first six months of this year, so it's performing very well. And we see this as a portfolio which predominantly is made up of about 45% both on the store and apartments and small commercial retail outlets. Stores on main streets of various natures. And we've had good luck in that. They're well diversified and they perform very much like the residential area in which they are located.

Just to explain, if we do a store and apartment or a store alone on Bloomer Street, West and if the area has a good strong residential market, usually the retail in the area will be fine as well. We don't do lending in small towns on this product, we really find that in smaller communities you don't have the marketability. So this portfolio has performed very well with good returns. And the rest of the portfolio is well diversified over property type, location, predominantly in Ontario and so it also is performing very well. Strong covenants and strong returns. And I should just add the interest rate you might comment being a bit high but included in that is the amortization of fees and so one adds the fees, that's how we get the spread of 3.9% for this last quarter.

Looking ahead, we see modest steady growth in this business. We don't see any great expansion but we continue to believe that we can get modest growth, keep it well under control, be aware of what's happening in the rest of the marketplace and do so with good returns and low arrears and hopefully next to nil write-offs. It won't always be that way but we did have it during the first half of the year.

Now the credit performance of the whole portfolio, of the loans portfolio, remains very strong, with non-performing being 0.23% the end of June. It was improved from 3.4% last June, it was down to 0.24% in December 31, it was 0.29% the end of March because there's always a bit of a post-Christmas bulge and that went up a little bit and the present level is 0.23%.

We read the papers the same as all of you and we're aware of all the economic comments that are in the marketplace and all of the concerns people have of consumer lending and borrowing and et cetera in the Canadian market. And we have a great deal of early detection mechanisms and tracking that we have through our risk group and our various ways of monitoring. But I want to indicate we do not see any early signs that there will be a change in the level of non-performing loans that we've seen over the past six months. It will go up and down, this is just human nature and – but we don't see anything that's going to cause any dramatic change in the numbers for non-performing in the company as a whole over the next half a year. Hard to predict forever but I'm just sort of indicating what we see for the rest of this year.

Now as a result of these very strong results, the board has increased the dividend from $0.18 to $0.20 a quarter or annualized $0.72 to $0.80 a year on an annualized basis or it's about 11.1% increase. This is the 13th increase in the past seven years. We very much are in tune with the needs of our shareholders and we do like to continue to deliver an increased dividend and we look forward to being able to announce additional dividend increases in the future.

Now Home, I'd just make another comment on the quarter, they achieved these very strong results despite the fact, despite the fact, that approximately 20% of our key managers and staff were involved in the SAP conversion and all of our employees, all 550 employees were taking time off during the quarter, they didn't go away but they would take a day here and day there and that did affect the units having numbers away from the normal productivity and the normal work.

But as a result of that input and the staff dedication to both get trained and to help the outside consultants do the conversion, I'm pleased to announce that in early July on the Labor Day weekend, at the end of the Labor Day – I'm sorry, the Dominion Day weekend. I'm ahead of myself, the end of the Dominion Day weekend – it's no longer Dominion Day, that shows my age, it's the end of the Canada Day weekend. The Canada Day holiday we went live and I am delighted to report everything is performing very well. We are delighted with how it's working, of course when you convert a system there's always a few bugs but nothing that's materially affecting our ability to operate and start to organize our business around this new SAP platform.

And the benefit of this conversion will enable Home to both introduce new products, enhance reporting of all business operations with far more slicing and dicing and analytics, it will enable us to achieve new efficiencies and we believe it's crucial for us to have the platform in place for our future growth and profitability. And we are delighted that we have started using SAP and all of the key employees that we had working on various aspects of the SAP conversion are now starting to come back to their business units and this will greatly strengthen all of our business units as they get released from their SAP duty.

They'll also be a well trained core of professionals within the business unit who came from the business unit and go back and will be able to both train other employees and be able to help if there's any glitches and also to think through how we can improve our efficiency. So it was really a big win, it required a lot of people and notwithstanding all that, we still had the results which I previously declared.

Now during the quarter the capital ratios have strengthened and our Tier 1 capital ratio is now 18.4%. The total capital ratio is 22.1%, truly an extremely strong capital ratio. The asset to capital multiple, which was 15.2 at the end of the first quarter and after the debt financing and $100 million got put from Home Capital into Home Trust, we ended the quarter with a debt to asset ratio, or an asset to capital ratio of 13.5, well under all regulatory requirements.

Home remains vigilant for any problems that might affect the economy. And if one reads the papers there surely are a lot of risky things happening out there in the marketplace but we've had extremely strong results in the quarter and on a year-to-date and we believe that we have strong momentum going into the third and fourth quarter of this year. All aspects of our business are functioning very well.

And the most important thing is that we continued to see very strong demand for all our products with excellent security available and good credit histories from our borrowers. So the profile of the borrower if anything has become a little stronger and better, demand is strong and this makes us very confident looking forward. And my message to you is that we are confident that Home will generate above average earnings for the balance of the year and beyond.

So thank you very much and I'm delighted to receive any of your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shubha Khan with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Shubha Khan.

So, I'm looking at the growth or lack thereof in your in your securitized portfolio and I should hasten to add that on last quarter's conference call you did say I think growth would be virtually zero in that portfolio given the whole ACM limit issue but you issued debt during the quarter and your earnings growth was really strong, so you got some breathing room this quarter on the ACM. I'm wondering whether we should perhaps expect some growth, however modest in that portfolio or are you seeing a strong enough pipeline for your traditional mortgages to justify keeping – managing the securitized portfolio flat?

We have made a decision that the – that we could turn on the securitized portfolio if the economics were worthwhile. It becomes somewhat different for a bank who has all of the other retail products for a client. And I think the statistics are the bank picks up somewhere between five, six products from a mortgage customer so that many bank mortgage managers look upon market share and the spillover it does for other products, like their Visa, like their retail bank accounts with the fees, like the RRSP, like the mutual funds, all of those other products are available if you get a customer in on a CMHC mortgage or other insured mortgage and if he becomes your customer there's great opportunities to cross sell.

We don't have a retail banking network like the majors, the big six, seven banks, and so we have to look at the product on what the profitability is for that specific product. And at the present time there is very keen competition for fully qualified insured individuals. It's a great opportunity for anybody getting a mortgage to be able to go and get one because the qualifications are the same on a CMHC or another – one of the other insurers, Genworth insured mortgage, they're the same whether they come to Home or the Royal Bank or the National Bank, everybody operates to the same standard. And so it's a great opportunity for individuals who do qualify to get mortgages because the rates are low and there is very keen competition about the bank. But for Home, at this point in time, it's not a great business for us. The returns are fairly low, they do affect our asset-to-capital ratio and we got lots of room, but it's one of those things that where it's far more beneficial for us to grow our other product lines, it will be more profitable, it will give us better returns and we can do that at the present time in the marketplace.

We went into the insured product because we looked at August '07 and the commercial asset backed paper dried up, brokerage houses and banks in the States started to fail, it was a retreat to safety to go in and do a wholly insured product until we came out of what was a pretty ugly looking period in the States. Fortunately, it never really affected the Canadian market, the spreads have widened out, we did good business, we did good volumes, it was very profitable for us but when we look at it now we're reverting back and I think you'll see the mix that occurred this quarter of about 80% residential will be uninsured and about 20% insured would be the mix going forward.

We don't see it as a major – for us, a major growth product at this present time. Now interest rates could change, the market could change, we could gear that business up pretty quickly. We do have good relationships with the mortgage brokers, we do have an ability to go back and ask them for some of their insured business. At this point we've just indicated to them we'd prefer not to do it.

Okay, thanks. That's helpful. I'll just move on to the net interest margin a little bit, specifically the net interest margin on your non-securitized loans, it's been remarkably resilient, which is more than can be said of prime mortgages I suppose and you alluded to that as much in your opening remarks. Clearly the stable NIM is a function of the level of competition in the market. I'm wondering with the housing market cooling off a little bit have you seen any pressure on loan pricing for your traditional products or is the competitive environment largely stable and how do you see that shaping up?

Well, the competitive environment is stable. There is lots of competition in that area but it appears as though the level of pricing is such that we can make good margins on it. We have to always be very careful about good quality, good risk, not everybody who gets turned down at a bank is someone who qualifies with us. There's only a portion, because some people we just don't want to lend to and there's other people in the risk spectrum that might deal with them. But in terms of the space that we've occupied and that we've been doing successfully for some – over 20 years is we've developed into a national lender, well known to the brokerage community that we will, if a deal makes sense, the loan-to-value is low enough, the credit is good, there's a substantial down payment, it's good quality housing, we can get pretty comfortable and we'll use our own appraisal method and we can do that loan on a pretty low risk basis and that's really been the mainstay of our core business. So I see the margin staying steady and the volume staying steady, there still is notwithstanding a bit of a slowing down in demand, there's still strong demand for the products we're offering.

All right. Thanks.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Just had a couple of questions. The first one was just in terms of trying to expand the business with brokers that may have not really done deals in the non-prime space, is – can you kind of talk about, I guess, qualitatively how that progress is going and then are you able to quantify some of the success that you may be having in terms of converting those brokers?

Yeah. What I'm going to do is, Pino Decina is here with us. He is our Senior Vice President of Mortgages. And he heads up the mortgages and has close connections with the brokers. And I'm going to have Pino answer that question for you.

Okay. Thanks, Gerry. Hi, Jeff. The best way to answer that question is with the mortgage brokers that we deal with it really comes back to a relationship type business and trying to get deals from a mortgage broker who traditionally does A business and may in the odd time stumble on B deal it becomes a real education process on behalf of Home to that broker. So what we've done for that focus is really sort of re-jig our sales team, our mobile sales team and provide a one-stop service shop to our mortgage partners.

And to do that though, it becomes a bit of a challenge for lenders because you really need to find very experienced, very knowledgeable salespeople in all facets of the business. So that's sort of the transition that we made and we've become in 2011, a very well-rounded sales group on the road. So traditionally lenders will have salespeople that focus on B business or focus on A business and it's very difficult to cross over. What we've been offering our broker network is a salesperson that can walk into their office, look at any deal on their desk and tell them exactly how to put that together and that's really the key when you're trying to pick up some extra business in the non-prime side.

Keep in mind that about one out of every five clients traditionally get turned down by their bank. So if a broker has 5 to 10 deals on their desk, one or two of them are going to fall into the non-prime space. Those for us are the opportunities. So we can walk in, talk about those 10 deals, easily tell them how to get the prime deals done but then at the same time tell them how to get those non-prime deals done at the same time. And that's – it's a pretty powerful message. Can we quantify it? We are working on that. It is a – for us, it's a pretty valuable tool that we've been able to offer and it's a transition that we've made particularly in the last 30 days – or sorry, three to six months and it is a number that we're going to be tracking going forward.

Okay. And the second question I had is when I take a look at the credit trends in the business. I mean, overall they're still getting better. The arrears rates overall did pick up just a slight bit quarter-for-quarter and I'm just wondering if there was any incremental color you might be able to provide on that?

Two words, mail strike. That was for the end of June. We got pretty messed up with them working, not working, stuff not coming, stuff coming until after the beginning of July. So that's why the early arrears show a – there's a certain amount from the mail. Communicating as much as you do electronically with e-mail, there's still a group of people that still use Canada Post and we really think the color there is just mail strike.

All right. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, Michael.

Hi. Gerry. Has there been any progress with CMHC in developing a pool that would qualify for securitization where the originator retains no residual risk, in other words so that loans sold wouldn't be included in your asset to capital ratio?

I wish I could report otherwise. But at this moment there is no progress that I'm aware of. We continuously raise that with every level of government, with the regulator, with finance, with – we've had representations with the Department of Finance, we raise it with CMHC.

I know they are working diligently on it, but it seems as though they're – and I might add, we also have chatted with other members of the industry, everyone would very much like to have such a product available. CMHC has not come up with a product at this point. So, I can't give you a timeline. I can't give you any clarity. It's something that's beyond my powers. I can only report to you that there has been basically no visible progress to us.

So as long as that's the case, I guess you're on a strict diet with respect to insured mortgages?

Yeah, that would be. We're going to become super fit.

Okay.

Yeah, we're working – and just, we are working on a strategy to try to do a whole loan sale. And we're looking at that. But again, the margins on that are, if we have to – if the profits are meager and then on a whole loan sale, we have to share them with somebody to get it onto their books and do a whole loan sale, the whole process becomes pretty skinny and we keep looking for a way how to do it and I know some of the corporate groups within the banks are looking at how to buy the strips.

In other words, when we sell it into – on a mortgage-backed security, we have a residual income on the excess interest spread and that's really our profit. And if there was a way – if there was an active market in selling the strips, if one could value and sell them at fair market value just discounting for time, that would allow us to sell the mortgage on a mortgage-backed security, then when we have the strip, sell the strip to another party. But the technicalities and the difficulties have so far outwitted the very capable people at all the major banks' corporate groups. I think that the first one who figures out how to do it, they'll have a bonanza business. But at this point nobody has had the eureka moment and said I've got the way to do it. We're delighted to talk to whoever can do it.

And just following on this, how have mortgage brokers responded to your move toward withdrawal from the Accelerator type product, does it impact the traditional business that they give you?

No. We'll still do some and see, the big marketing was when we went into this business, we had a relationship with a brokerage house and we would say to them, you're now a very good customer and you're sending us of the one out five, you're sending us a high percentage of the one out of five that doesn't meet the bank criteria. Why don't you also – out of the other four, why don't you send one of those to us? Don't give up your traditional source, if you're dealing with bank A or B, continue to keep a good relationship, but give us a portion of those.

And so, we could very easily get the broker when we would match the bank's rate and fees and everything, maybe give the client, maybe give the broker, a little better service than their bank client. Other aspects were the same. They were happy to deal with us. We could persuade them to give us a portion of their business. We've had to go back and painfully tell them, look thank you, you responded beautifully, it was great, but the economics you want us to be here a strong stable company that's able to do your non-bank business. We can't do that and do all the CMHC insured business at the same level. So we have been able to tamper that down with no loss of relationship.

And they've accepted the realities of what happened and they just, instead of sending us three out of four and sending us one out of four of their insured product and three out of four to Bank A. They've now gone back to sending four out of four to Bank A.

And we feel that we could reenter the business at any time because they expressed regrets at us leaving. We really had out-serviced many of the majors, and we had made life easier for them. But if the economics are not there, they'd much prefer we're a strong, stable company able to accommodate them in other aspects of their needs.

Thanks, Gerry.

Okay. Thanks, Michael.

Your next question comes from Atul Shah with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Atul.

I have two questions. The first relates to the traditional single-family originations. You originated about $870 million in the quarter. Could you give us any idea of what would be a good run rate going forward?

Well, we always talk – when we think of a good run rate, we think a little bit like the Cookie Monster in Sesame Street; more, more. But you've got to do more only when you can have all the other processes in place. We've got to have all the risk. We've got to have the credit. So I could see a slight moving up in that volume. When you look at the straight volume quarter-over-quarter, it looks like we're actually down a bit, because last year we had a program with a company where you'd – I guess the best way to describe it is we would buy the mortgages, they would go on our books, and then they had the ability to buy them back.

And the spread wasn't that great but at the time, knowing they'd be bought back, we took the incremental extra income. That accounted for somewhere over $100 million in last year's quarter that those loans were on at the end of the quarter. We discontinued that program. They don't need it. We don't need it. So really the numbers for last year's non-traditional on a real core business was about $100 million less than the published figures. And as a result, we really did better this quarter than last year. So I think if we could – we would be very pleased knowing that the next two quarters demand does slow down, and if there is a slowing in the economy, if we could get it up to somewhere close to $1 billion a quarter, we'd be delighted in the non-traditional.

But I'm not saying that we can do that for sure. It's a marketplace that there could be a bit of slowdown, we might be very happy next quarter to report $900 million and if we get the right margins, that could give us a very strong incremental up shift in earnings.

Thank you. The next question relates to the SAP project that you just are I guess in the process of completing. Could you give us any idea of what is the total spend on this and you indicated you want to amortize this over the next 10 years, would this be on a straight-line basis, what sort of numbers are you talking about and also what sort of efficiencies are – do you expect to offset this?

We are in the process of amortizing this and it appears as though – and we're negotiating with our outside accountants. We think that we can probably – and this is not a final, we've not reached the point that we started amortizing. But we're thinking that it would be a 10-year amortization on most of the software and the set up and it could come in on a quarterly basis somewhere $500,000, $600,000 a quarter, maybe $1 million a quarter – I'm sorry, no, my accounting people are telling me I'm a bit low. I think its $500,000 a month and that's it. Now we get an offset by – we turn the tap off on the other system that we had which was SIP.

There could be a net, a net small increase. We think – we wouldn't have gone this route unless we did see efficiencies and literally the first couple weeks operations from a few small changes we – there was one unit that because of maternity leave and other reasons why people left, we suddenly could see vacancies of four people. But with the new system suddenly we only felt we could get by if we shrunk the total in the group by two, not give up any efficiency or strength and just go ahead with two.

So the gains are going to be small and incremental, but consistent. Every time there's people leaving, every time we look at functions that are being done where maybe over time what's done by three people, maybe it can be done by two with the new system. And we had to – when we moved to our old system, some 10 years ago, we had a long run over several years where we didn't layoff anybody. We used everyone because we need them and they are trained and they are skilled, but we found that we could move a few people around to where they're needed and some of the functions could be done by marginally fewer people, and the best thing is maybe you have three people in the unit, but even if the company grows by 50% over a few years we didn't have to keep adding people to the unit. So the efficiencies, we don't have a hard and fast number. Let me just turn you over now.

Hi, Atul. It's Martin. One of the other things we've done is we've set up a new group internally. It's headed up by one of our Vice Presidents and the purpose of that group is really to sort of reengineer processes and really work out efficiencies, leverage the strength of the SAP system and let's sort of redefine how we do our business internally, improving both the control side of it and the efficiencies, eliminating any redundancies.

So the answer is that when the thing is fully completed and there will be some amortization cost, we think between savings that we pick up internally and the ability to keep growing without adding people in the same proportion and terminating what we pay to the other system, there may be additional cost, but it's not that material.

Okay. Thank you

Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brown with Macquarie Capital. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

The net gain on realized securities, that was $3.2 million this quarter and with the TSX down in the quarter, what kind of factors go into deciding to realize those gains? And also given the balance of AFS securities, should we expect more gains in the near future?

Well, we don't budget it because you can't budget a gain – what you don't know. We think there probably – there are some gains that we pick up from some of the liquidity portfolio that's in commercial bank, debt paper short-term and other commercial paper. There is sometimes – when rates dropping, there is sometimes some gains there that we realize.

I can't give you any guarantees that we'll have the same number this quarter, but usually there is something. And I don't know, I can't give you a hard number. That's a number that – there is – if I look over the quarter, yeah, well, part of it was gain on derivatives and part of it was net gain realized on securities. But, although we had a good quarter in that, I don't know, it is not a guaranteed thing. Martin's going to answer.

Hi, Bryan. It's Martin. Just to give you a little bit of color on that gain. It was a bit of shifting out of financial preferreds and into other preferreds. Part of that is just looking ahead to Basel III which is still up in the air in terms of where those rules fall, but there are limitations on how much of other regulated financial institutions you can hold.

Okay.

So we realized some gains on some of that. So, it's not something that I would look to as a normal recurring source of income to that extent.

Okay. Sounds good. And I guess a couple of quick ones, the SAP system, I'm not sure if we got the capitalized balance amount. And just your outlook for the tax rate?

Bryan, this is Bob Blowes speaking. On the -

Hi.

Good morning. On the capitalized amount, we had capitalized just over $55 million and there is a bit more to come. We're still developing some of the functionality of the system. So we'll probably land in midway between $55 million and $60 million. So that's a little bit of unknown because of the development process at this point depends on some of the things that we decide to turn on and not turn on and some of the project cost, but you can use that as a guide.

Okay.

Yeah. And the – we will – we are expecting that we'll recover perhaps 10% of that through Scientific Research and Experimental Development Tax Credits. So we're in the process of application there and those will be adjudicated over the next 18 months or so. So that's, we'll have a little bit of relief there. Your second question was on – if you could just repeat that for me.

Tax rate.

Oh, tax rate. Tax rate it should be approximately where it was in this quarter, just around 26%, 27%.

Okay, great. And that's it for me.

Thank you.

Thanks, Bryan.

Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick with Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Jeff.

So I actually just wanted to ask about the dividend, Gerry. I mean, it's good to see it getting increased again and Home has been quite consistent with that, but when I look at the payout ratio it still remains relatively low. It hasn't changed all that much over the last few years here. Is there any thought or do you guys ever debate around lifting that payout ratio. Home is very well capitalized and on good solid footing here and kind of what's the view on that going forward?

Well, what we have operated on the basis that we like to increase dividends. We also like to be able to self finance our business. Raising the debt issue was because of the insured product on our balance sheet. It didn't affect our capital ratios, but the insured mortgages did affect our asset to capital. We don't like debt, we don't like preferred shares. We're pretty straightforward in how we – we like to run an all equity company. So, that is one principle on the one hand.

Notwithstanding that, during the quarter, we did gain more capacity through our retained earnings than we used up in our growth. So we've got ability for more growth. We probably have ability for more dividend increase. As you know from all of the banks and any of your conversations with them, the – both the banks and the regulatory regime are suggesting real caution around dividend increases. We got one now. We'll look at it on a continuing basis. To say that we're going to dramatically increase to say 30% or 40%, I don't see that in the immediate future.

What I do see is an ability, if our earnings trend continues as I see it happening, we'll continue to do small incremental dividend increases, and they'll be on a fairly consistent basis. But it also has to be done within the rules of the existing regulatory regime. So there is a bit of uncertainty and I can't give you a promise for sure, but that's one thing we're going to look at and do what we can to continue to increase the dividend, but there's sort of a number of cross factors involved there.

Okay. Great. And then maybe just talking back on the growth topic there, how are things going in terms of penetrating into new markets? That's been a feature of your direction over the last year in markets like Quebec, and maybe you could just speak to your penetration there and what the opportunity looks like going forward?

Okay. I'm just going to have Pino Decina, who's here and he'll talk to you about our progress outside Ontario.

Sure. Again, it's – that's also an area that's been very well received. Again, that would predominantly be due to the lack of competition and lack of service that brokers have been able to see in markets like Quebec and in Eastern Canada. We, as an example launched the Newfoundland province very early in 2011. We went into that market on a prime product about a year ago. So we could get a feel for the market, areas that we like, where we want to lend, develop broker relationships. And then about six months ago launched our B products out there. They've been very, very well received. As an example, Newfoundland mortgage brokers really had no one to service them on the B side, outside of private lenders and so that was very well received. And we see growth every single month coming out of that market.

Quebec is sort of the next area that we're looking very, very closely at. We've had some initial conversations with our top four brokerage houses in Quebec. We looked at areas that mutually would benefit both ourselves and the brokers. Again, we want to make sure any expansion into Quebec is into areas that fit within our credit model being urban, suburban-type real estate, good covenants, et cetera.

And given that model and given some gaps that brokers see in the market, we do see some opportunities to expand Quebec and we started that again with our top four brokerage houses.

Then moving out into Western Canada, we've done pretty much the same thing in Alberta and B.C., although, a little more cautiously out in Western Canada. All-in-all though, I guess the answer to that is outside of Ontario going forward, we do see some opportunities to pick up some additional originations in our residential B products.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

You're welcome. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from [ph] Lawrence Rosenberg with Madison Square Investments (53:31). You line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, [ph] Lawrence (53:38).

I was hoping you could please talk about the difference in your underwriting process and/or standards between the uninsured mortgage side and the insured, please?

Well, in the simplest form, on the insured product, the loan to value is much higher, they go up to 95% loan to value, and the criteria is set by the mortgage insurer. As a company, as a regulated company, we can only go up to 80% loan to value. Traditionally though on our uninsured portfolio, our average loan to value in the whole book of mortgages, residential mortgages is usually well under 70%.

At origination?

At origination. And then they are all amortized. We have no interest-only mortgages. And so if – what does occur is we operate with different dynamics. We appraise them. We have a double appraisal system. We look at a lot of other facets of credit, there are people for one reason or another it just doesn't fit the profile that's needed to get an insured mortgage. So the loan to value is much lower. We look at a lot of other things, and we've been able to, with our proprietary underwriting system, been able to really attract a very solid group of borrowers even though they may not be qualified for high ratio mortgages.

And I guess with the big banks perhaps being such dominant players across Canada, where do you see like the principal kind of competitive advantage that you bring to bear in the underwriting process that enables you to get comfortable with credits that they're not able to get comfortable with?

Well, first of all, the banks run a different business model. If I had 1,000 branches that I had up and running every day, I would have a different business model than we do. And the business model for them is to concentrate on the 80%, maybe it's even higher, the 80%, 85% of the population that they think they can service.

They are just not geared for the 15%, 20% that doesn't fit into their criteria. And I think, as I mentioned earlier, they are prepared to accept less margin on the mortgage business and not make a lot of money because they do get the benefit of very good returns on all of their Visa portfolios. They do in wealth management fine, but if they can cross-sell the client mutual funds or other wealth management services, it works very well for the banks. All of the other lending, the car loans, the personal lending, all of those aspects are good profit generators, all the retail banking.

I think if you look over the last 20 years, I don't think any of the banks has had a bad quarter in retail banking. The retail banking is a very stable good business for them and that – they generate that by going through very strict criteria to have a mortgage portfolio that is either insured or it qualifies for being insured.

And so it doesn't work for them to sort of look at the group, the piece of business that they can't do. So, I've been in this business 23 years and everybody says the banks are coming, the banks are coming. It's a little bit to me, and I don't mean to be disrespectful, saying there is a boogeyman out there, the boogeyman man will get you. Well, fortunately, we haven't seen the boogeyman. He may appear one day at the door and I'll say hello boogeyman, but so far there has not been a boogeyman.

The banks have not shown any interest in getting into the business and they would have quite a substantial learning curve. As I kiddingly joked with one bank executive, I said listen, if you really want to get into the business come along and bid $100 a share for Home and you'll be in the business with all the expertise and the knowledge and you won't have a learning curve, but he didn't take the up on the offer so we're back doing what we're doing. Did I answer that for you [ph] Lawrence (58:33)? I was a bit jesty there?

No that's absolutely fine. If you wouldn't mind just finishing up, when you decline a customer for a residential mortgage loan that's uninsured, what are typically the principal reasons why, is it that they don't have a sufficient down payment or is it something else?

Pino, what would you?

That would be reason number one that keep in mind, usually a client would try and get approved on the A side and traditionally if that's the case then down payments would be a little light, there is a big market still in 5% down, 10% down and if they fall off on the A side and try and get a non-prime mortgage then obviously the loan to values get reduced.

Now one of the things that we are able to offer that a lot of other lenders are not is – or cannot is the ability to offer a private mortgage behind us. With the amount of broker partners that we have across the country, we do offer the client the ability to get a Home Trust first mortgage, obviously at a lower loan to value that fits within our credit criteria. And if there's still a gap as you said, if the client's not able to come up with the sufficient down payment. We can facilitate that with them or for them with one of our brokers and get them sort a second mortgage behind.

And usually in those types of situations that will usually last for about a year or two and at that point maybe the client has picked up the necessary documentation or whatever it is that they need to get an A mortgage and they get it all wrapped up all over again. So it's a pretty good service model that we offer clients coast-to-coast.

Great. Thanks so much.

You're welcome.

There are no further questions at this time. I'd turn the call back over to Mr. Soloway for any closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you. So, thanks everybody for joining us. It was a great quarter, there's great momentum. We're looking forward to the rest of the year and we look forward to reporting to you in a couple of months, in three months from now. Thanks, everyone. Bye-bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.