corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, my name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome to everyone to the Home Capital Group Incorporated Third


Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to avoid any


background noise. After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]


Thank you, Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Okay thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen I am delighted to report to you in the Home


Capital Third Quarter 2010 Results. I’ll start off with the little message for the Home Capital


shareholders, roses the red, violets are blue, home dividend increased is just for you. So, with


apologies to all great poets, let me continue with our report today.


Home has announced an increase in our dividend some 12.5% from 0.16 to $0.18 in the quarter


0.64 to $0.72 yearly and Home’s delighted to be among the first regulated financial institutions to


announce the divided increase since the resulting advisory by the office of the Superintendent of


Financial Institutions or OSFI came out few weeks ago. So, we are up and running we are back on


trying to increase our dividend in accordance with the results and we think that we’ll be able to


continue with continued increases in dividend on a going forward, basis.


Now the results for the quarter were very strong. We had net income for the quarter up 18.8%, nine


months’ income up 25.5% year-over-year, and so all of the income industries are running quite


strongly quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.


The real test of how our financial institution is doing is return on equity and our return on equity was


27% for the quarter, year-over-year for nine months was 27.1, and when you compare that to the


Canadian economy, which is growing at about 2% a year, we believe that the company is doing


very well.


All aspects of our business have done well in the third quarter, and the year-to-date. Our total


origination of all mortgages for nine months in 2010 was – excuse me, 5.02 billion, a 44% increase


over the 3.4 billion originated in the first nine months last year. And we see and this is the important


thing, we see that strong trend continuing throughout the fourth quarter.


The classic residential mortgages program, those are mortgages that are not insured has


experience the same strong growth all year, and we’re working hard on building the classic


programs, lending programs across Canada. We’ve hired additional staff in all four of our branches


outside Ontario, Vancouver, Calgary, Montreal, Halifax on all branches and all regions have


responded with solid volume increase and I might add the profitability on the classic program is


much higher than it is on the insured mortgages.


Not – we’re still delighted to do the insured mortgages or Accelerator, but the classic programs are


really our core business. And we’re very happy to see how increasing staffing and marketing efforts


have responded so well.


And corresponding with volume increases one always looks at credit performance because it’s not


hard to put loans on the books, it hard to put good loans on the books. And the credit performance


of our loans portfolio has continued to improve.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Net impaired loans fell to 0.5% at September 30 of this year, lot better than the 1.22 at September


30 last year, and a drop from second quarter when it was 0.67%. And our outlook for credit


performance is very good. We’re now back to the level of credit performance before the market


started to soften in ‘07 before there was the credit problems around the commercial paper back up.


And we are very pleased we’ve got the non-performing back into the same level.


We also note that the Canadian economy has been slowing over the last period of time, and the


performance of the portfolio continues to modestly improve, which we think is quite significant. And


we also believe that in some respects, it’s almost a self-pat on the back, so to speak, pat on the


back for the effectiveness of our proprietary underwriting process that we use for non-insured


loans.


We’ve been doing this proprietary underwriting process for a lot of years, and even in a downturn in


the market, it’s proved to be quite effective and quite strong. And there also is that – the outlook for


the going forward, on credit and continuing to do the strong credit mortgages, but still get a


premium over the insured mortgages, that outlook is still very strong and good.


Now, we’ve done this with very high capital ratios in excess of all regulatory requirements. They


remain strong at 16.9% Tier 1, and the total capital of 18.1, and Home has achieved those capital


levels with, and continuing to operate without, any external preferred shares or any external debt.


So, both are available, if the need comes up at a later date due to growth or acquisition, or


otherwise.


Now one of the statements we made in our quarterly is that starting on January the 1st, 2011 the


company will change over to financial reporting and do the International Financial Reporting


Standards, or IFRS.


Now, really the headline news on that from our perspective is that – there is still no agreement on


the final rules, and no agreement on the final interpretation of those rules. Although it’s just a


couple of months away, we have retained 2 of the top 4 accounting firms in the country, and they


both agree that they cannot yet give us clarity on all the rules in the interpretation.


So it’s not because we are not being diligent and working as hard as we can. I don’t know even if


we were to – we haven’t retained the other 2 firms, but we know of people who have, and they


report the same thing. So, hopefully, the results or the firms or the interpretation people will get


together and we’ll have some clarity by year-end.


I might add that we’ve modeled out all the scenarios that are on the table and that we are aware of


and all of them say that our earnings next year will be no worse and the same as if they were under


IFRS – under the regular GAAP rules, but there is some modest hope, and when I say modest


hope, that we could see a bump in earnings up to about 10% under some of the scenarios.


But you can’t take that to the bank because nobody knows where the rules will end at the end of


the day. But I just want to assure everybody that our performance will in no way deteriorate if we


had been reporting the first 9 months under any of the scenarios that we are now aware of.


And I know that it’s been – the whole thing is a little bit foggy, and that’s unfortunate for some of


those of you who are trying to model out next year, but I think what I really can say is that IFRS will


not do any harm to our business, our ability to continue to grow, our ability to produce earnings of


the same capacity that we have; we see business as usual next year. There may be a difference in


presentation, but that’ll have to wait till the accountants and other people have agreed on what the


rules are, and what the interpretation is.


So notwithstanding all that, in summary, I want to say that despite a slowing Canadian economy we


see a strong fourth quarter; we see that momentum continuing into 2011, and we have an internal