Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Brian Robert Mosko — Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Jeffrey M. Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Don D. Destino — Managing Director, Harvest Capital Strategies LLC
Patrick Kuczynski — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities
Asim Imran — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Mike, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group First Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Gerald Soloway, CEO. You may begin your conference.

Thank you. Thank you, operator. I'm joined this morning with – here, in the room with, Martin Reid, Home's President; Rob Morton, the Chief Financial Officer; Brian Mosko, the Chief Operations Officer; and Pino Decina, the Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages.

So, good morning shareholders, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's 2015 first quarter performance. I'm also pleased to report that Home delivered solid performance during the first quarter, and I believe is on track to deliver performance in 2015 in line with its mid-term objectives.

The net income of CAD 72.3 million increased 3.7% over the first quarter 2014 net income of CAD 69.7 million. Diluted earnings per share were CAD 1.03 for the quarter, representing a 3% increase over the CAD 1 earned in the comparable period in 2014.

Return on average shareholders' equity was 19.7%, slightly below our objective of 20%, but the company is confident that it will attain a 20% return on average equity for the full year. If the company is successful in attaining a return on equity of 20% for all of 2015, it would mark the 18th consequent year where return on equity exceeded 20%.

The credit quality of the portfolio remains very strong with the net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans ending the quarter at 0.25% or a quarter of 1% on an CAD 18 billion loan portfolio. That compares with 0.33 of 1% a year ago. The 0.25 of 1% non-performing loan ratio is one of the lowest for Home in the past 10 years. The company is confident that with the improved control functions that have been implemented over the past 18 months, and with technology enhancements in our underwriting process, the non-performing ratio, the loan non-performing ratio will continue going forward.

All of Home Trust capital levels remained strong in Q1 2015, well in excess of all regulatory requirements.

Total assets under administration surpassed CAD 25 billion in the quarter, which are 9.6% greater than last year. Total loans under administration including off-balance sheet mortgages increased to CAD 22.74 billion, up 11.1% from last year. Traditional uninsured residential mortgage originations for the first quarter were CAD 960 million, compared to CAD 1,000,070,000 last year or about 11% less than last year.

The company remains focused on growing its traditional mortgage lending portfolio. And to help increase our volume for the uninsured and the insured mortgages, at the end of the first quarter, the company hired Joe Rosati as Vice President, National Sales. This is an added resource to our sales – our mortgages sales team.

Joe's experience includes over 15 years as Director, National Sales for Scotiabank and three and half years as Executive Director of IMBA, which is the Independent Mortgage Brokers Association of Ontario. We believe that with Joe's background and contacts in the mortgage broker industry, he can help drive our sales and credit processing strategies.

The first quarter traditionally is the slowest quarter for adding new noninsured mortgage – mortgages. And that was exasperated in 2015 by extremely harsh winter conditions. What happens is people do not like to list their homes in the middle of a blizzard or heavy snow conditions. And as a result, there are fewer properties for sale and usually fewer sales.

But in addition, the company also continued to apply caution towards lending approach, given the continued macroeconomics uncertainty. We're talking about a falling dollar, falling oil prices, gloomy economic reports during the first couple of months of the year. All of which caused Home to take a very cautious approach to some loan opportunities that might – I say might – might have been approved today as the Canadian economy looks somewhat more positive than it did three months ago.

The company also launched the first phase of new originations -- of a new originations technology platform, which will allow the company to increase its underwriting capacity, operational efficiency and controls to support future growth in its loan portfolio. Now, after a few growing pains, we're confident in saying, it's now fully integrated into the lending process.

Home's other businesses performed very well, including during the first quarter, the commercial mortgages and the other loan advances, which were CAD 139.6 million in the quarter compared to CAD 99.6 million last year, or up about 40%. Consumer retail advances were CAD 35.5 million, up from CAD 27.2 million last year or 30.5% from a year ago.

However, the uninsured single family originations were down during the quarter due to the same reasons as the uninsured loans. But we see both the insured and uninsured volumes growing over the rest of the year under our existing sales group, and with the addition of Joe Rosati.

Over the last two years, we have worked diligently to acquire more of our total deposits through a series of diverse measures, which are Oaken Financial, high interest saving accounts – savings accounts, and institutional deposits.

The total of the three initiatives at the end of March was CAD 2.83 billion in deposits, compared to CAD 1.72 billion at the end of first quarter last year. These new direct deposit initiatives now account for approximately 20% of Home Trust total deposits. And we'll see those initiatives continue to grow throughout the year.

The company also approved a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.22 per common share compared to the dividend of CAD 0.16 that was declared at the end of the first quarter. And if the earnings expectations continue to grow, we look forward to future dividend increases in the future.

The company's exposure to the energy producing regions of Canada, which include Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Newfoundland and Labrador, are only 4.2% of our uninsured loans and have an average loan to value of 55.7%. The non-performing number in those provinces is 0.23% compared to a company-wide total of 0.25%. Those provinces portfolios are performing very well. And given Home's limited exposure, we do not expect a significant increase and credit losses from those regions.

In conclusion, the company continues to deliver solid results in terms of growth, returns and dividends. We continue to remain cautiously optimistic that 2015 will be another record year for home in all aspects of our business.

Thank you. We'd be happy to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question is from Shubha Khan from National Bank Financial.

Hi. Thanks, good morning.

Good morning, Shubha.

So, I had a couple of questions related to the originations in the quarter. And I may have missed it in your prepared remarks, but were there any execution issues related to the rollout of your originations technology platform? I think that's what you called it...

Yeah. No, no, there was a few delays. But there was not – we didn't lose the deals. But some stuff might not have got closed by March 31 on the transfer of the systems. They were on refinance situations, not on purchases. Of course, on a purchase – has a high priority. But there was a little bit of fuzziness around that, but it's all working well now. Just on any new business, there's always a few hiccups. To say it was perfect and no hiccups and no one had a complaint, that's not right.

So, it wouldn't have been a material contributor to the year-over-year decline in traditional mortgage originations then?

No, but it might have accounted for a couple of percent.

Okay. And then, if I look at the dollar value of existing home sales, which were up 12% year-over-year, and then, some of your peers posted pretty healthy origination volumes in the quarter as well, do you get the sense that you may have experienced some market share erosion in the quarter because perhaps you were more conservative in underwriting new business relative to those peers? Or how...

You know what? That's possible. But I should tell you that having been in this game a fairly long time, I've been CEO for over 25 years. But you know, when they – when you start seeing flashing orange lights and you're going down the highway of running the company with a long perspective, you learn to respect those flashing cautious lights.

And as I said in my prepared remarks, the cold weather were a factor. There was a lot of macroeconomic things that were a factor. We probably – and I don't apologize, we took our foot off the gas a little bit. We're little more conscious. We're little more cautious of risk because one of the things that you have to keep focused on in business is you try not to let sort of the ups and down get into the way of doing which I have to do.

And rather than play for the quarter, we played for the whole company. And we look for quality and we look for good business and – a little slower in the quarter. We don't see it disastrous. We've shown that we the ability to generate sales and volume. And I think you'll see a growth the rest of the year. So, sure, it was awesome. We're quite open about it. And – but I don't see that we can't go back and increase that and meet the competition. So, I like the company's change.

Okay. But subsequently, your quarter-end, it sounds like your – the level of caution has subsided a little bit because you – you get the sense that macroeconomic conditions are probably perhaps not as bad as you initially thought. Is...

Yeah, yeah – no, no. And what was coming out of the bank at Canada and the dollar is not going up CAD 0.50, and the oil is not going to CAD 32 and there's a lot of things that are happening that in the first months of the year, we just took a little more cautious view. We don't apologize for it.

That's just the way – there's another comment that I'd make on this that, if one is thinking that the economy is going to tip over, a little extra caution leading into it is not a bad thing, and look for quality and look for caution.

And you know the old saying, when the tide goes out, you quickly know who's swimming nude. And you know, in business, we're careful about risk and we know when the economy turns. We want to be fully covered.

Okay.

I gave you – is that not a good line?

That's a great line.

Yeah.

One final question on this topic before I re-queue, and that's surrounding the language in the MD&A in your 2015 outlook section regarding loan growth. And that's related to both traditional and accelerated mortgages. It looks like it's changed a little from the 2014 annual report. And I hate to sound pedantic, but it's the reference to growth being consistent with 2014 is no longer there. So, I'm just wondering whether your outlook has changed since the – you released the annual report or are you still looking for a fairly consistent growth relative to 2014?

We're looking for consistent growth, but we're trying to reflect the reality that the first quarter was down a little bit. And we just want to not – we rather over -under-promise and over-deliver. That's always been our style. So, it's a cautious statement, so that we – we try to reflect what the realities are in the marketplace.

Okay, perfect. Thank you.

You're very welcome.

Your next question is from Jeff Fenwick with Cormark Securities.

Good morning, Jeff.

Hi. Good morning, Gerry.

Good morning, Jeff.

I wanted to talk a little bit about the expense side of things. There was a pretty notable jump there in salaries and benefits heading into the first quarter. Well, I know there is always an incremental expense to start the year. But, what was the play there? Did you have some incremental hires coming on? Or what other factors were going on in the quarter?

Yeah. I'm going to turn this over to our Chief Financial Officer, Rob Morton. And he'll have some comments to say on that.

That's a good question. Thanks for asking it. Here's a couple of things. We didn't really grow our head count to significantly three or four people. There is an over-weighting of expenses – on salary expenses in the first quarter, when we had to catch up.

The other thing I would point out is in the fourth quarter and it is closer than we had actually – we had changed our depreciation on our SAP system. We changed it from 10 years to 15 years. And that was all taken in the fourth quarter. And so, it was a one-year item. And that was close to almost CAD 4 million.

So, it's actually not a significant jump on an adjusted basis as when you look at the fourth quarter.

So, we look at expenses and we're careful. We're not like the Senate of Canada where we give out a lot of free expenses. We monitor them every month and not wait for five years to go back and try to reclaim them.

That's good to hear. So, Gerry, I just wanted to talk about your ROE target there. As you say, it ticked down there a little in the quarter, still optimistic on the year. I guess I kind of look at it in the context of how much capital Home Capital has and your Tier 1 ratio being as high as it is and relative to the amount of growth that you're generating currently. I mean, seems like maybe you've got a little too much capital, frankly.

I know most [indiscernible] (19:20) wouldn't want to say that, but I know you've increased the dividend payout ratio. What are the things you're looking at here? Could we be looking at some share buybacks? Or are you maybe looking at some M&A opportunities here, like things that you could utilize that capital towards?

Yeah. We have – and these are all – none of these are at a stage that are ready for – they do not gel. They're all in preliminary stages. But we have been looking very carefully at a modest M&A – a number of M&A situations where we might be able to find a bolt-on to the company. But none have advanced to the agreement stage. If anything happens, we'll be glad to deal with it. But that's one of the thing that's on the table.

A share buyback is not on the table at this point. I'm not saying it's never on the table. But I think we'd be looking more to grow the assets and grow the income than buy the stock back. We have also some internally generated, some very good opportunities, whereby when they gel and they're finalized, you'll see we'll take up capital going forward. And so it's always nice to have it a little ahead of time.

Also, if you chat with any of your other regulated institutions, and this is not unique to Home, I think as a general policy, you don't see the big banks in Canada or the major financial institutions – I don't think that there's a great excitement of using capital by buying back shares on the regulatory regime. Now, we don't disagree with that. It's not that we want to do it and we can. But I know generally that there's a – the regulatory regime would prefer to see the capital in the company.

So, yeah, maybe a little ahead grow into it or over a period of time. So, we're aware of that and we're aware that probably we're earning a lot more than 19.9% or 19.7% on the capital we really need. But over the years, we've learned I'd rather have a few bucks in my pocket and rather than be exposed, so that you can't take an opportunity when it does arrive.

And as I say, we have both M&A and internal business opportunities that if they did gel, and they did come to fruition, would require substantial capital. And it's nice to be there ahead of the time, not after the fact.

Okay. And maybe just one last question, if we can circle back on the originations and talk a little bit about the [ph] prime (22:19) single-family Accelerator product. I mean, that seems to be an area where you've had maybe more lumpy performance in terms of originations. And it's hard to read, how much of that is you being opportunistic based on competition and spreads versus just the challenge of competing in that space. And how should we be thinking about that business and the potential for it to continue to grow volume over the next year or so?

Well, I think if you look forward, whether the mandates from the hire we had will be to try to take some of the lumpiness out of that business. That's one of the things that Joe – one of Joe Rosati's mandate. He did work for Bank of Nova Scotia. They have a big national program. He's used to running a big program. We need to develop with broker rewards. We need to develop the kind of broker rewards and incentives that some of the other major contenders have.

So, it's not – and we build [indiscernible] (23:20) right into our business as an ongoing part. We have been in the past a little bit opportunistic, where we're more excited when the margins are good. We're not as excited when the margins kind of disappear. But I think to build it on an ongoing basis, strategically, we're going to put all the pieces, we'll have the proper rewards, incentive; we'll have the proper sales force. We'll – well, you will see it will develop into a less lumpy business going forward.

Okay, great. Thanks for your answers.

Thank you. Thanks, Jeff.

The next question is from Graham Ryding with TD Securities.

Good morning, Graham.

Good morning. If you could provide some color. You've got some investments and partnerships in the payment space. Just wondering if you can elaborate on I guess why you're investing in this market and how you see it complementing your existing lending businesses.

I'm going to turn this over to Martin Reid, our President, and he's close to that business and he will answer your question, Graham.

Hi, Graham. It's really, really PSiGate, which is a sub of Home Capital, which is in the payments business. Some of those partnerships are where people have got sort of global payments happening. And they may have their coverage for Canada currently maybe with the U.S. provider. And to reduce cost, they're looking for a local Canadian provider. It's a worth filling that void for them. That's where a lot of those partnerships are. And also, probably, you saw earlier some press releases related to prepaid cards as well where we think we [indiscernible] (25:12) and it's all related to PSiGate.

Okay. So, I guess my follow-on then would be how does PSiGate – how do you see that complementing your lending business?

Yeah. So, it does a lot of e-commerce payment processing and with a focus on sort of the small, mid-size entities. So, everything from a small mom-and-pop shop business that's online to some of the sort of mid-size companies. So, there is a bit of a void there where the likes of Chase Paymentech or Moneris wouldn't necessarily provide the kind of service that those clients are looking for.

On the mortgage side of the business, we have a lot of self-employed people. Some of those would be – have their businesses online. So, there is a little bit of tie-out to that. It was a company that we bought back in 2006.

Yeah. Okay. Got it. That makes sense. The other question I had was just on the Greater Toronto housing market. April stats suggest the market's actually been quite active from a sales and price growth perspective. Is that a reflection in your view of limited supply of houses for sale? And maybe you could provide some context on whether you think this level of activity is sustainable.

Well, I don't want – I, first of all, think it is due to a shortage. And there is a great demand we find with everybody who's within Downtown – or in Toronto where within commuting distance of Downtown Toronto, that Toronto is a huge magnet and the same in Vancouver for jobs.

The way the economic shifts are the – it might be a lovely town to live in, but places like Ingersoll and Woodstock and London, although they may be growing, do not have the magnet of jobs and business centers that a Toronto or a Vancouver, the main cities have.

And as a result, when there's greater demand, prices go up, people are ready to pay, especially with a low interest rate. But we try to lend very cautiously because what happens if rates are up 100 basis points over the next couple of years? And so, we can't tell you whether it's sustainable, not sustainable, but we got to make sure our borrowers are sustainable.

They have good employment. They've got the ability to absorb a rate increase when the mortgage comes up for renewal. And there could be adjustments. But there could also not be adjustments in the price. It could be that the magnet of the big cities, those who are on the sidelines waiting for a price decrease, may not happen for many moons in the future.

The people who are buying are of good credit quality. They have big down payments. They're – all the fundamentals are very strong. You saw it by our nonperforming ratio. These are people that are paying.

And the irony is that probably the – if I looked over the nonperforming in urban areas over the nonperforming in rural areas are where rural areas being communities or areas where they – the town, let's say, under 10,000 people, all most all of our arrears are in smaller communities.

They're not in any of the urban centers. They are not in the Vancouvers or Torontos or Calgarys across the country or Montreal. They're usually on outlined areas. So – and the demand is in those areas.

So, I've tried to give you an answer, but I don't know if there's anybody that has a perfect crystal ball on it. All we can do is follow fundamentals, lend carefully, lend cautiously and make sure the borrowers have capacity to absorb a rate increase.

I don't know. Does that answer it for you, Graham?

That's perfect. Appreciate it. Thank you.

Okay.

Next question is from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

The first question I have is just going back to the originations, I totally get how, given what was going on with macro, why you guys would be more kind of cautious on originations in the traditional business. Just trying to understand I guess from the prime insured side, are you guys saying that you were also kind of a bit careful there, too? And just being in a shared product, is that part of the reason why the origination is kind of were where they were?

Yes.

And – sorry, you [indiscernible] (30:17)...

And Rob Morton will give you more color. Okay.

And, Geoff, as Gerry pointed out earlier just with the technology change, there were some bumps there. Just given the smaller size of the Accelerator product, it was probably a little bit more noticeable there.

Okay, so with – so there's a little bit teething pains, but were you guys being a little more cautious on underwriting? I'm just trying to get a sense of has it been because maybe brokers have been losing some market share? [indiscernible] (30:43) there's more competition within the broker channel? Or to which...

None of that's changed. I think it's very similar to what it was last year. There isn't a dramatic one quarter change. There's been no new competitor. There's been no new change of brokers. Brokers are exactly the same in my estimate. The banks haven't taken a bigger share, none of the figures have shown that. And banks are also into the broker network.

I think you'll see all of those return to a more normal level. But I don't apologize for being a little more cautious during the first few months of the year. We have seen enough ups and downs that if the numbers are down one quarter, it's not the end of the world. We're here prying for the long term.

And so, we do what we have to do to make sure that the company's strong and safe and sustainable. And we're a little more cautious – at some point, we're a little more cautious.

Okay. In terms of on the Accelerator program last year, you did about CAD 1.8 billion – I think it was about CAD 1.8 billion on the origination's side. Do you kind of have kind of a range or ballpark that you think you would like to be able to get this year?

I don't know whether we – I'll have Pino Decina – he's going to come around and sort of answer your question.

Hi, Geoff.

Hi.

Yeah. So, with the prime lending, there was this obviously some talk now about the April market. That's a good sign. We really started seeing the purchase business coming back. When we talk about our conservative lending the first three months, that's typically because of the nature of the deals.

There's really no surprise that in the past couple of years, the amount of tightening that's happened on refinance transactions in the A space across the board has been really attacking that type of transaction. And when you look at January, February, March, purchase transaction's down. We really look closely at the percentage between purchase and refinance.

In winter months, we expect that refinances probably be about 60% of the applications come in. When you're cautious about the market and all the sudden refinances start to increase over 60%, we take an even more cautious approach to that underwriting, right. You see numbers that come in, in April as far as the Toronto real estate market. The average sale price going up, the days on the market going down, 10% which is great. Active listings now in April have gone up. So buyers have more choice as to what's out there and we're already seeing it in our pipeline. So, we fully expect this to normalize within the next 30 to 45 days, keep in mind that pipelines need about that long for the deals to close, but all the signs are happening right now and we like what we see.

Okay. So do you feel at the end of the day, you might be able to do better than what you did kind of the CAD 1.8 billion last year or...

We always want to do better, but I don't want to get pinned down. I think you've asked a question three times, I've danced three times, you want to dance some more?I'll dance the more with you.

Okay. Maybe I'll just – the other question...

Okay. Go on for the next one, we don't want to get down to a number.

Last question I had was just on the NIMs on the securitized book that was down kind of quarter-over-quarter. I know it can be lumpy for a bunch of different reasons, but given where it was in Q1, is that kind of where you think it might be going forward or is there different levers that might bring it on a normalized basis up or down from where it is?

We're sort of looking at that, it's not something that we really had thought a lot about, but we're just looking at the numbers here, just a sec.

I think you had it – said was 60 basis points down to 46 in Q1 on a quarter-over-quarter basis?

In Q4, there was a little bit of – there's a little bit of season stuff in there that would have boosted the December 31st number.

Okay.

So, I think that – I think that's the one that's a little bit distorted.

Okay. So, the 45...?

I would say, if you normalize probably somewhere between the Q1 2015 and the Q1 2014. [indiscernible] (35:45)

Okay. So, a kind of between 46 and 54 basis points, I think, if i have the numbers, right?

Yeah.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Thank you. Thanks Gerald.

Next question is from [ph] Aren Hoffman with National Bank Financial. (35:56)

Good morning, Gerald.

Good morning, [ph] Aren. (36:01)

I know you have lots of questions on mortgage originations. I just wanted to – you stated that a large part of it is due to Home Capital is more conservative lending in light of the of the – in light of your forecast is stable or slightly lower home prices, I just want to know if do you think some of the decrease is due to fierce competition among the lenders in the space you lend in, is that part of the reason?

No.

Not at all. Okay.

No. I've answered it five times and I don't know and I have spelled it out and it's really – I'll sort of go over the comments again. I think it's due to three or four reasons, it's not just one. I think one of the big reasons starting it off was weather. Second of all, the macro, we definitively and I made it very clear and I stick by it, we had concerns about the economy and there were some situations both on the insured and the uninsured, we were probably more cautious than we are now about some situations.

And as Pino spelled out, when you start seeing a whole ton of refinances on CMHC and you start worrying about, are these people fully qualified to support it, why they want to suck every last dollar of equity out of their homes, whether it be on regular lending or insured lending? The cautious lights go up. It's a yellow sign, it's a yellow light. It's not a red stop. But as I said earlier, what we've learned over the years is don't ignore yellow lights when you see them up there. There was a bit of a yellow light. So we just – we're a bit more cautious. And then I said, there's a little bit of lumpiness out of the – a little bit of lumpiness out of the new platform and there could well be, I don't see it as a new competitor, but every hour the brokers see that the companies are a little more cautious. If they think they've got a marginal deal, they might try another company that's not being cautious, right. If I was a broker, that's perfectly logical.

So you put it altogether, and the numbers come in a little bit. But sometimes the numbers have come in substantially over the year-over-year. So it's not because the competitors are any better or smarter or more of them are – to the best of my knowledge, there's no new banks that got licensed in the first quarter. There's no institutions that went around December 31 that suddenly popped up during the first quarter. Things happen, life goes on. Some things they turn out a little better, they turn out a little worse. We concentrate on credit quality. And so we do a few less loans, that's okay. We step on the gas for the rest of the year.

But credit quality for us, as I mentioned and I was a bit – and I know I was making a jest, talking about when the tide goes out, you know who's been swimming nude. And I guess the same with companies, if you get into a bit of a recession, you quickly know who's been putting on a bad book of business. The decline with a bad book of business can go down much faster than one – so, I'd say there are the shareholders and the analysts, we're fine, company is good, non-performing is very low, the lowest in 10 years. We have a good solid year. In fact, we are a little more cautious, nothing wrong with that.

I guess, what I'm getting at is...

No, no, you always have a lot of worries. So, that's okay. That's your job.

Exactly. Well, I guess, what I'm getting at is your earnings growth was 3% year-over-year. You have a target of 8% to 13% for medium term in earnings growth. Should not that target be revised down given your cautious stance on lending on the entire Canadian real estate market? Shouldn't you revise those targets down?

No. I think, we...

No...

... we can still reach them.

Okay.

You might beat me up about it, when we talk again in three months, but I think we – at this point, we're still pretty optimistic for the year.

Okay. The final question I have is, if you're looking at page 41 of the quarterly report, I noticed there's a spike in past due loans, unimpaired loans that are 61 days to 90 days. So that category increased from CAD 4.8 million to CAD 17.7 million, which is an increase of 270%, just in one quarter, quarter-over-quarter. Can you shed any light on that large increase in that one category?

Yeah. It's February. There's – days get lumped together, Brian will explain – Brian Mosko, come on over, Brian. But you hit 60 a lot sooner when you have a short month as opposed to when you have 30 or 31 days, then it may go – so two periods get lumped together. Go ahead.

Yeah, Gerry just explained it. It's – it happens cyclically. If you look at the prior year's month, the quarter – year-over-year quarter, did we show that?

No.

No, we didn't. I'm sure it was exactly the same, if you give me a shout after the conference call, I'll give you that number. We have no issues whatsoever, and no trends that are worrisome.

Clearly, it's nothing to do with people overexerting – overexert themselves during the Christmas season, and not...

Yeah, because we've seen our April numbers as well, and delinquency is equal or better than it was at the end of the quarter.

Okay. Thanks for your answer.

Thanks, [ph] Aren. (42:27)

Next question is from Don Destino with Harvest Capital.

Hi, guys. Thanks.

Good morning, Don.

Couple of questions. Just a mechanical question. I noticed the accelerator product had about CAD 180 million of originations, but the balances went up by CAD 300 million, but just – I think maybe I don't understand the model, but how does that happen, how does that work?

Well, our CFO is tracking down – and was that on a certain page? I don't know.

Oh, gosh. I can try to find the pages in real time. I don't want to have every one wait on the call, but if you have...

Okay. [indiscernible] (43:14)

...in there was the accelerator originations, it's about CAD 180 million. I mean you have a schedule with our accelerator balances and it's up about CAD 300 million.

Well, the only thing that comes to mind is a pool came off, securitization came back on our books and didn't get – came on our books and before it's renewed and put into another pool, it could be there. But, I'll tell you what, if you want to get back to Bob – Rob Morton, our CFO, and – afterwards, then he'll be glad to take the time to answer it. There's nothing wrong there.

No. [indiscernible] (44:01)

He'll go through. He'll walk you through it.

Yeah. It's tables 8 and 9. So, we can maybe walk through that later. And then just generally, I 've heard you and appreciate the caution or on the economy. I mean, how much subjectivity is there in your reserve – you're bringing down the reserve ratio, which seems contra to some of the commentary about the Canadian economy and about the housing market. Would it makes sense to at least hold the line if not increase reserves a little bit given that commentary?

We're just looking at – I should tell you the reserve gets carefully reviewed both by the audit committee of the board, by our outside auditors, Ernst & Young, by the regulator and the risk committee. So, Rob's looking for that right now, but that's a number that gets very carefully scrubbed, it's not really a management number. It's a number that everybody is – had to say in.

And again Rob will be able to address that with you when you phone about the other matter as well.

Okay. [ph] I'll look forward to that followup. (45:23) Thank you.

Next question is from Patrick Kuczynski with IA Securities.

I'm just trying to reconcile net income with comprehensive, usually it tracks pretty closely, but this time around, there was big unrealized loss. So I was just wondering what that pertains to?

Yeah. Hi Patrick, it's Martin. That's on investment that are held to maturity.

In terms of fixed income?

Yeah, it's basically preferred shares, but preferred shares that – with callable dates that behave like fixed income instruments.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

The next question is from Asim Imran with Macquarie.

Hi, how are you. Just a question on margins following your comments on – your understandable conservatism in the current macro environment. Could you also talk about how you look at pricing and spreads in this more conservative trends you're taking?

Well, the pricing and trends have been the same, it's just a matter of whether you decline some situations. I don't think there's been much change in spreads or the pricing has been pretty much the same, maybe a touch softer on the pricing. But also, deposits have been – the costs have come down a bit. So the overall spread, it always varies from quarter-to-quarter, but I don't think there's a lot of difference on how we're pricing our loans or – I don't know, Pino, do you see any big difference in the quarter?

No, I think you just have to be careful, especially in the first quarter again, when purchase business is limited. Those are the transactions that typically you want to be doing. So maybe you got to be a little sharper on those. And then, obviously on the refinance business, we continue with our model on this.

Yeah. And let me tell you when people are – it's just a very simple thing. If you get something that you're all very excited about in the sense that someone's buying a CAD 2 million house in a metropolitan area, and he's putting down CAD 1 million, but he doesn't qualify at the bank. And he's got a strong BEACON score, but something about as proof of income would not qualify him at the bank. Yeah, you're going to be pretty competitive on that. And that would probably – that's what Pino's referring to. So – but there's really been no big pricing difference, I would say over the quarter.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Okay. You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

The next question is from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Just had one last follow-up. The comment that you guys are making, in terms of seeing some increase in the refinance applications, is there any kind of color you can provide around that? And has it been a geographic type of thing? Has it been a vintage or other type of characteristics?

No. No. I think it's just – one of the things that you see a little more of during the first quarter when brokers are not as busy with purchases, they tend to – they grab time to work on refinances and maybe as – we just – we're looking at those refinances a little more cautiously. But it came from across. It's basically from C2C, they came in. And so it wasn't any geographic area and it wasn't anything unusual. But for a lot of people, if you can get CMHC insured loan and compare – and the rates that come with CMHC, if you can pay off any other debts, it looks pretty attractive. And I don't knock the individual for trying to do so. If he's got any other consumer debt or he's got a car loan or he's got anything else, then he can get a five-year money under – well under 3%. It's got to be pretty attractive. And so there is a consumer – the fact the consumer looks to refinance and to get the cheaper debt, I applaud the consumer for sort of looking to better themselves. And it doesn't mean we don't do them. We do a lot of that, but sometimes, we might limit how much we do and sort of pick and choose among those that really – we feel very comfortable that they'll be able to handle the matter. Even if it is an insured loan, we don't want the hassle with individuals that are destined to not succeed.

Okay. And sorry, and the refinance, are they coming out of the accelerator or from the traditional program? And also, too, is, with the refinance maximum being 80% loan-to-value, I mean these people would still have a decent amount of equity. Are you able to kind of say, roughly, what the typical post-refinancing loan-to-values look like?

Well, most of them ask for 80% – here, I got Pino back. He'll be more accurate.

Yeah. I think Gerry was touching on, basically – if you look at first quarter, obviously, it's always traditionally a little slower for the mortgage brokers. If you think of our model where we service clients that are not approved at the major banks – but the point being, in the insured space the programs are just part of the programs. And I think what you've seen over the past couple of years is, sure there might be the odd lender that might do something that another wouldn't, but typically we're all pretty much inline. So that if a borrower can't get an insured deals from a bank because they don't get approved through one of the three insurers, sending it to Home Trust, it really won't matter.

As you said, the refinances have really tightened as far as the amount of equity individuals needed in the property. I think that was a good move. It has been a little more difficult for those borrowers to get approved. And the point being, if they're turned down by CBC or Genworth or Canada Guaranty. Home Trust is limited as well. So, that's typically what we're seeing, turndowns that were coming, as Gerry said, deals are being recycled just because generally it was lower in the marketplace.

And sorry – and are you doing refis on the traditional business or is just in the accelerator?

No, we're doing it on both sides of the business, but again, we want to make sure we have the right borrower that they're refinancing for the right reasons. As Gerry mentioned, you want to be very, very careful with individuals are taking equity out of their properties, and you don't see a valid reason for it, there's no benefit for it. You're very cautious when individuals are doing that in a short timeframe from they originally purchased the home. So in other words, they're trying to get their initial deposit over a short period of time. Those are all the things that we watch for, we always have and always will continue to do so. So...

And, sorry. When you're saying kind of tracking, making sure it's for the right reason. Sorry, this is my last question.

Yeah.

Is it – like you're asking them, why they need the money for the refinancing and/or someway to kind of track where it might be going, or...

Yeah, you want to always trace the money, right? So, generally, follow the equity that's coming out. If it's for an investment, if you can have a lawyer direct the funds, that would be great. Again, interview the clients, understand the reasoning behind it and then direct the funds accordingly. And that makes a good sense. At the end of the day, you improve the situation for a borrower, we're always happy to help them.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Okay.

Thanks, Geoff.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Okay, thank you very much. Thanks, everybody, for joining. As I said earlier, I think we're going to deliver good results over the rest of the year. I think the initiatives we have are solid and sound, our book of business is good. And I look forward to reporting to you after the second quarter. Thanks very much for joining us today. Goodbye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.