Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good Morning, my name is Courtney, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Fourth Quarter Results. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Thank you operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's 2014 fourth quarter and full year results. I'm also pleased to report that Home Capital delivered a solid performance in 2014 against all of its objectives for the year.

The net income was CAD 313 million in 2014, which increased by CAD 56.6 million or 22.1% from the net income reported in 2013. And during the fourth quarter, the company received a CAD 32.7 million gain or approximately CAD 24 million after tax related to the prepayment of CAD 234.9 million of water heater loans that was repaid by a customer.

This was a very good transaction for Home as we were repaid the loans and collected a CAD 32.7 million prepayment penalty. The prepayment penalty compensates the company in excess of the future net interest margin that will be lost as a result of the sale.

If we deleted the CAD 32.7 million gain on the water heater sale and the few other small items, the adjusted net income was CAD 288.4 million, an increase of some CAD 30.7 million or CAD 11.9% from adjusted net income in 2013, which reflected higher loan balances in the traditional mortgage portfolio, sound net interest margins, low credit provisions and a consistently low efficient ratio.

Diluted earnings per share were CAD 4.45 for the year, up 22% from the CAD 3.66 reported last year, where adjusted diluted earnings per share were CAD 4.09 compared to CAD 3.68 one year prior, an increase of 11%.

The total adjusted revenue exceeded CAD 1 billion for the first time in 2014. And we know that when Home's revenue exceeds CAD 1 billion in a year, it really feels that the company is starting to grow up.

The return on average shareholders' equity, always an important margin of how the shareholders are doing in the company, was some 23.8% for 2014, and the adjusted return on equity was 22%. 2014 marked the 17th consecutive year when return on equity exceed 20%, a record in history we are very proud of.

The credit quality of the portfolio remained strong. Even though total loans under administration increased to CAD 22.56 billion, the provision for credit losses was only CAD 13.1 million, a decrease from the CAD 15.9 million recorded the previous year, almost CAD 3 million less.

In addition, the net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans ended the year at 0.30%, under a third of a percent compared to 0.35% at the end of last year. The net write-offs for the year also improved, and they were only CAD 10.3 million, representing 0.06% of gross loans compared to 0.09% of gross loans the year before in 2013.

So the credit quality of the company has been and remains very strong and we see that continuing going forward. There has been a lot of comment and concern about the Alberta real estate market since the 60% drop in oil prices over the last six months. And I will outline for you, Home's very modest exposure to the Alberta housing and real estate market.

As I stated at December 31, Home had total loans under administration of CAD 22.56 billion, and of that total 5.1% or CAD 1.15 billion were in Alberta, and of that total 53% of those Alberta loans were insured by CMHC or Genworth. Now, the total uninsured loans in Alberta were only 47% of the Alberta portfolio, and only 2.4% of the total loans for the whole of the company. The 47% comes out to CAD 546 million.

Now, of that 2.4% or CAD 546 million in uninsured loans in Alberta, the largest category were single-family loans with an average loan to value of 64.9%. Lots of room if the real estate market in Alberta [indiscernible] (7:06).

The balance of the portfolio in Alberta of approximately CAD 100 million is predominantly either commercial loans or residential units that are more than four units which are classified as a commercial category. And the average loan to value on all the commercial loans in Alberta was 46.3%. So, we have been a very careful lender on the non-residential and it's at a very low loan to value.

I might add that our arrears in Alberta are also substantially lower than our Home portfolio. So, I repeat that our Alberta uninsured loans are only CAD 546 million out of CAD 22.56 billion. They're performing very well and they're very conservative loan – low loan to value.

And I'll give you these numbers to illustrate that although – that our Alberta loan book is not a concern, although we continue to monitor it very carefully. At this point, it's a very conservative portfolio that is performing very well.

Now, during the first quarter of 2015, Home plans to launch a new mortgage originations platform. This new technology will increase efficiency and enhance the accuracy of our underwriting practices. This is the first phase of a long-term investment to add new features, controls and metrics to our procedures and supports our goal of continuous improvement in the mortgage process.

Excuse me, I'll take little drink. Okay, ready to go again.

This platform is currently being tested, and we expect to go live by March 31, 2015. As you know, today is February 12, just two days before Valentine's Day. Home's Board of Directors has declared a Valentine's Day gift to all shareholders in the form a dividend increase.

And to all of Home shareholders, we dedicate this little poem which you may have heard before. Roses are red, violets are blue. This dividend increase is just for you. As a result of the company's solid performance, profitability and strong financial position, the board of directors has declared an increase in the quarterly dividend of CAD 0.02 to CAD 0.22 per common share payable on March 1, 2015. This represents a year-to-date increase of some 37.5% in dividends paid to shareholders.

This dividend increase is the 22 dividend increase in the past 10 years. When appropriate, we will work to continue this trend of increasing dividends in the future. On a slightly different note, on February 6, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation released their 2015 housing market outlook for Canada. And they expected sales to remain flat and the average house price to increase by a modest 1.5% across Canada.

What is interesting to us is there was no talk of a housing bubble, and there is absolutely no talk of an interest rate increase. If anything, there's more talk about an interest rate decrease at this point. So we think, Home thinks that 2015 will be a good year for the housing market, with modest price increases. We go along with that trend. And we see a steady level of activity all year long. We also see a very good year for the commercial lending. Between the low rates and the level of activity for businesses, we see an increase in the store and apartment and small commercial market for Home.

We have added senior staff to the underwriting group who are in place now and additional senior staff to the control groups and credit, and we anticipate good growth in the small commercial portfolio throughout the coming year.

Home has previously set targets on an annual basis. Like most major financial institutions Home has now moved to setting mid-term targets of three years to five years. Accordingly, we have set the following goals on a three-year to five-year basis. First, the diluted earnings per share, we will try hard to achieve on average annual growth of adjusted diluted earnings per share of 8% to 13%.

If we can do better fine, but we've set a target that we think is sustainable for us over the next three years to five years. The return on shareholders' equity, we hope to achieve on average an annual return on equity in excess of 20%.

As stated, we have exceeded 20% return on equity for the past 17 years, and we will try very hard to continue that trend. On capital ratios, maintain strong capital ratios that exceed regulatory minimums by a safe margin, commensurate with our risk portfolio. In the dividend payout ratio, we look for a payout on average 19% to 26% of our earnings to the shareholders.

We remain cautiously optimistic that 2015 will be another record year for Home, in all facets of its business.

Thank you for your attention and I'll now be happy to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. First question I had was, in the quarter on the securitization gains on the prime side, that I think was 69 basis points. That's, as you've talked about has been – there has been competition in the prime space. Just wondering where you see that today, because it's come down quite a bit over the course of the year. Is this kind of more representative of what we might see over the next few quarters?

It seems though, Mr. Soloway has disconnected. Please standby. We'll reconnect the host. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator. We're attempting to reconnect the host. Please stand by. Ladies and gentlemen, again, this is the operator. We're attempting to connect to the host. Please stand by. [obscenity] (18:09)

Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Soloway has now reconnected. And, it'll just take one moment while I open Mr. Kwan's line. And, Mr. Kwan, if you could please repeat your question.

Yeah. Sorry, just – my question, I was asking about the – on the securitization gains on the prime side. I think in Q4 you guys had 69 basis points, and I think that's come down over the course of the year. I'm just wondering the way you see things right now over the next few quarters, is what saw in Q4 indicative of what we might see in the upcoming quarters or were there may be more one-time things in nature that was driving it down to that 69 basis-points level?

Okay. Thanks, Geoff. First of all my apologies to everyone, I inadvertently was moving the phone, so that I could have – it could be an access for others to answer the question, but I think I did something that got disconnected. But anyway, to answer Geoff's question, at this time, the margin seemed to be fairly flat. I don't see an uptick in the margins on the insured loans. It remains a very competitive area. I think with rates as low as they are, clearly, all of the – I think, you'll find throughout the lending community that margins on the government-insured product will be barely tight for the next little while. And there is a fair amount of competitions. So, I think that's – we think we can get the volumes up and that will happen naturally, because we have good relationships, but I don't see much expanding on the margin front in the near-future. It remains quite competitive and quite tight.

Okay. Thanks. And the next question I had was on the PCLs on the consumer loan in credit card portfolio, if you kind of take the total provision and the percentage of total loans in that category. If I have my math right, I think it went up quarter-over-quarter from 57 basis points to 79 basis points. But when I take a look at it like a total dollar provision it stayed un-changed, but I would have thought that also you would have with the water heater sale coming down like was it just a function of – I guess there weren't really any provisions in the water heater portfolio, or...?

Okay. Just one sec, I have Martin answer that, Martin Reid.

Hi, Geoff. It's much more a function of the change in the outstanding portfolio.

Okay. So, it was a function of the mix just post the water heater disposal?

Exactly.

Okay. Okay. And just maybe one last question. In terms of what you're seeing so far this quarter on origination activity, and potentially any early signs of any credit issues. But specifically on the origination, I asked that, because with the latest start to the housing season last year Q4 was arguably stronger than it would be expected from the seasonal perspective in Q1 often also being seasonally weak, I just wanted to get some color. How much you think?

Well, the color so far is our numbers are surprisingly similar to CMHC. It's similar to last year. The quality coming in is good, we're doing good business, but we haven't seen any kind of a surge year-over-year. I don't know whether it's the weather, whether – we just. We don't see any big expansion on the residential market based on the first five weeks of the year.

But, January is a very unpredictable month. It's no worse than last year. It's just slightly ahead, but I don't know if someone said January is the coolest month of the year. It's weather-related, it's a whole bunch of things. We don't have much analytics on it, but we don't see the housing market going crazy over the next few months. We see – last year, plus a bit of an uptick.

Yeah. Geoff, it's Martin here. You're seeing softness in the Calgary market. And, you know, sales were down about 38% there and new listings were up. But if you look at Vancouver, Toronto are holding in quite strong, and little bit of softness in Montreal, but generally across the country, fairly healthy.

Okay. So, I guess, that the rate cut doesn't seem far to be having much of an impact. And then, I'm guessing on the credit side you're not really seeing anything kind of early signs of anything.

No. Credit remains very strong.

Okay.

People are still paying their bills.

Great. Thanks.

Your next comes from the line of Shubha Khan with National Bank Finance. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Shubha.

Good morning. I have a follow-up to Geoff's first question there on the spreads on insured mortgages or accelerated mortgages. I guess, when I am looking – based on the data that I'm looking at, mortgage rates have barely moved.

But then coupons on NHA MBS and CMB seem to have fallen in line with bond yield. So, I would have thought it would be reasonable to expect income from securitization to sort of rebound early this year. Is that a fair assumption to make? Because, or – your earlier comments suggest that that's probably not fair. I'm wondering whether I'm missing something in terms of what we're seeing on five-year mortgage rates and then NHA MBS coupons, et cetera?

I'm going to let Martin Reid answer that. Hi, Shubha.

Hi, Shubha. Yeah, mortgage rates haven't come down to the same extent that the bond rates in the Bank of Canada rate came down. But we are just at the early stages and coming into the sort of the busy season, the more competitive season, we do anticipate that that will be a lot tougher and a lot more competitive. There is opportunity there. It has widened out a little bit, but we wouldn't anticipate any major widening.

I see. So, if I understand you correctly, then you're assuming that the competitive conditions are such that you expect mortgage rates to come down in line with NHA MBS coupons, et cetera.

Yeah. And, Shubha, what happens is, many companies don't post the lower rate, but they'll do specials with brokers. And for the political reasons – and I'm not – critical of this, but we will find out the many large issuers of CMHC. We'll say okay to our broker, here is a special discount, here is a special – and they may not post that across the whole company.

But in the securitized CMHC marketplace, we find the spreads have not widened out to the extent that it may have for people by looking at the posted rates. That's what we're saying. I don't want you to anticipate automatically we got that extra [ph] 20 (25:59). Everybody seemed to have reacted one way or another with the broker network. Well, let us see if we can do a little more volume now. And, if it happens we'll be glad to tell you about it, but I just don't want to say that we see a fare automatically.

Got you and I understood. And, in terms of accelerated originations, which also moderated in the quarter, and I guess you treated that to competitive conditions and prime insured as well. But if I recall correctly, you previously indicated that you're looking to ramp up the originations in that business up to CAD 300 million, CAD 350 million a month over time. Does the competitive environment, the current competitive environment sort of do derail that plan in any way or – and what sort of steps might you need to take to regain whatever markets you may have lost in insured mortgages?

Well, it's a very price competitive product, more so than probably anything else we have. And, we're in the business for the long-term, and we think we get some efficiency gains out of our new origination portfolio. We think that it will also help to put greater controls, greater efficiency and we will look to – you can increase the volume very easily on that business by adjusting rates.

And, I guess, whether we put a lot of energy into increasing the volume when the rates were very tight, we just – we look at these things on a continuous basis. I think it will be there historically. The spreads are a little higher than what they have been lately. I think, they should widen out a little bit more for the companies back to where they were earlier in the year. But the only thing is I didn't want to promise that it was there already, when I hadn't seen it fully developing.

But it's one of the business that we know what you have to do if you want to increase the volume, you drop the rates, the volume increases. It's a real – for economic experiments, it's a real unusual – it's a real efficient method. It's a little bit like term deposits on money coming in. You can attract a lot more money with an extra 10 basis points and you can attract a lot more volume on the insured market with 10 basis points discount, but you've got to figure out at the end of the day, can you do it efficiently. Just to do volume for the sake of volume has never been our objective. We'd like to get a decent return for shareholders.

So, we see last year's volumes continuing, we don't know if there's going to be a big ramp up or just continue with sort of last year's volume. And we'll look at the market and the opportunities. If the markets are there, we're going to be there, Jack the Bear will be right there.

If they – if we're doing it to spend dollars, we may step aside and just do a smaller volume, like it's one of those things we continuously monitor.

Okay, got it. One final question and this is related to uninsured or your traditional product. Should we anticipate more sort of pressure, downward pressure on the margins there given the higher volumes of originations that you've been doing post B20, so the higher credit quality that you've been originating since B20 was introduced.

No, I think it's leveled out quite well at this point. I think what I smell there is even more of a faster bump upward than I do on the insured. I'm quite comfortable those margins are holding in quite well, and they may creep up a little bit as the year goes on. So I don't see quite the same pressure on the uninsured market as there is on the insured.

Okay. That's perfect, thank you so much.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Stephen.

I guess, I'll take you a little bit back, if you can go back of few years of the credit crisis. Home did a very good job at shifting product mix to insured products, increasing liquidity on the balance sheet, protecting the balance sheet and really felt no effects, I would say, of the credit crisis. What I'm – what I guess I'm hearing now is that despite all the hike with Western economy and oil price pressure, there really isn't a – in your view a need to do that kind of similar action or similar shift. I just want to make sure I'm reading that correctly.

Well, you're reading correctly as we keep analyzing we've got far more robust treasury, a far more robust risk group that looks at that on a continuous basis. And we sit with above regulatory requirements approximately CAD 300 million, CAD 400 million more than the regulatory requirements. So we have a chunk of extra capital, not that we hoard it like a miser hoards their gold, but we're not going to spend it foolishly, but we've got a big capital cushion. We monitor all our businesses, it's like what we've done in Alberta. We always had a little more concern about the marketplace that was so dependent on oil and I think when you heard about our balance there, we feel very comfortable that no matter what happens in Alberta, we'll come through okay.

We're comfortable with the portfolio across the rest of the country. We don't see at this moment the same kind of crisis that sort of been enunciated by some of the media. I think Alberta will have a difficult year, there'll be oil problems and layoffs are very legitimate concerns and we're pleased that our portfolio is where it is in Alberta, as I say, it's under 65% and under 50% on the nonresidential.

So we're quite comfortable with where we're at there. We think across the country we're also in good shape. We – for an old goat like me who's seen the 1990s where you can get 25%, 30% of the value wiped out in a few years in Ontario and the 1987 crisis, and the 2001 crisis in the States, we've seen it several times and we continue to operate on a fairly cautious basis. So, I don't think at this point we're planning any dramatic changes, but Martin's got a few [ph] problems. (33:38)

Yeah. Hi, Stephen. As Gerry pointed out, we are taking a cautious approach and we did lower our guidance and a lot of that is really just acknowledging that there are increased risks out there. We're not seeing anything in terms of the housing market that would spook us, but we do recognize that the risks are – the downside risks are a little bit greater with what's happening in Alberta, et cetera.

Okay. So your mid-term guidance, this is published in August or September, may have looked a little bit more robust. Is that fair to say?

Correct. Yeah. Yeah, if you sort of took the whole energy prices out of it, probably would have been little bit more robust.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, Graham.

Good morning. May be I could just start with the origination platform that you're building out or you're launching in Q1, is this really an expense initiative or what's behind the – this – the thought process here?

Okay. I'll give that one to Martin.

Yeah, it's a combination of things. So, part of it is on the efficiency side, and we do see – it's not going to happen immediately, but we do see further down the road, improved efficiencies on the underwriting side. And then part of it is going to be better service to the mortgage brokers, as well as sort of enhancing the control framework within the organization, so – and this platform sits on top of SAP.

Okay. And is this a some material expense that we're going to notice or a CapEx spend or how should we think about the impact here?

It's not a dramatic expense, no. It's – about CAD 5 million to CAD 6 million would be amortized over time.

Okay. And the dividend, you gave guidance that you're looking at 19% to 26% dividend payout range on earnings. How should we think about that in context with the recent increases, three quarters in a row now of dividend increases, [ph] this is just you (35:55) sort of try quickly get up to that range?

It's one of those things that that's what we're targeting, and it's hard to talk about future dividends, because so much happens in the world in 90 days from now. But what we've tried to do is give you our perspective, we've raised it some 22 times in the last 10 years. We do want to keep enhancing the yield with the guidance as the highest it's been since we started in the dividend trail, we're looking to try to increase it quarter-by-quarter. And we do that cautiously like the way we run our business. We want that – when people get the dividends they have the comfort of knowing that they will be sustaining them and they don't bounce around. And so, I guess, we got to look at how the world unfolds 90 days from now as to what the – what our next move is. But I should tell you, it was because of both the results we had and the board's opinion and management submissions, where everyone felt that we could comfortably bump the guidance upward, and bump the dividend upward. And, I guess, for any company, we can't promise we're going to do it every quarter. But we're going to look to see whenever the market conditions are proper, and the business is good, and we don't see arrears as a problem, we'll keep looking to increase dividends. I don't know, does that – it's one of those I can't give you a hard answer.

Yeah, [ph] I know that – can (37:40) you provide some color, I just wanted to get a feel whether you're looking for regular dividend increases or you're more focused on the dividend payout ratio as you guide?

Well I think both.

Yeah – because we just increased the range over the next little while, it will be much more about the growth of the income, and growing with that, but over the longer-term we'll look to continue increase in that range.

Okay. That's helpful. Maybe just last quickly if I could, the banking license application. Is there any update around that or your expected timing perhaps? And then how should we think about how you're going to leverage any branding around that. Do you keep focusing on the Home Trust brand or do you shift towards a Home Capital Bank brand if you get the application?

Well maybe I can answer that very quickly. In terms of the application itself, it's all been submitted, we've given all the notices. There was a number of advertisements in the Canada Gazette. People had a chance to object. To the best of my knowledge there were no objections, there was – the application is now there. In Ottawa, pending, I guess, it's coming up through its turn in the pile, and we expect at some point over the course of the year we'll be hearing more about it.

At this point we've heard nothing. And we think in due course that will be – it will come forward, we may have more color on it. But so far, there has been no objections to it and it's just a matter these things take time. What we did plan to do is when we have the retail, we have it to drive the retail deposit taking through the bank. There is, in the Canadian public, a little more comfort around a bank name than there is around a trust company's name. All our research show that. There is very few large deposit-taking institutions left in Canada, where at one point there were a number of large ones and all of which have been merged into the bank. We just think it would make deposit taking a little easier and a little wider appeal to a lot of individuals. Even though, both entities have the same deposit insurance with Canada Deposit Insurance, perception is such that the Home Trust Bank would a safer place than Home Trust.

So, we're looking at it and we hope we'll have more news for you in coming quarters. But the main purpose was not to go off and do something different than we're doing. It's usually is a tool to how to make our own business a little better and use it mainly as a deposit-taking mechanism.

Great. And would you consider leveraging that bank brand towards the direct-to-consumer platform, or are you going to keep Oaken Financial separate?

Yeah. Hi, Graham. It's Martin. Yeah, so Oaken Financial will likely sit on top of the bank. So, Oaken Financial will still be that brand to the customer, and it'll sit on top of the bank. So right now it flows through to the [ph] Trusco, (41:20) it will flow through to the bank. So really, the bank is just a carve out of our existing business, with Oaken Financial.

Okay. Thank you.

All right.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Aren Hoffman, with National Bank Finance. (41:36) Your line is open.

Good morning, Gerald.

Good morning, [ph] Aren. (41:40) How are you doing?

Good, good. I noticed that management at Home Capital, is expecting a lower real-estate prices in the coming year. Do you expect that to contribute to slower lending environment at Home Capital?

Did somebody – did one of the executives say that or was it in the quarter, I don't recall that.

It's in the – in the quarterly report, it talks about management's expectations. And one of the assumptions that mentions and I'm quoting here, there will be modest declines in housing starts and resale activity, with stable to modestly declining prices throughout most of Canada. This is the very last page of the quarterly report on the assumptions. It's the third last assumption.

Okay. Well, the accounting people are always very cautious and I think that was prepared by the accounting people. I think – and it's wise to be cautious, I think from the business people, I gave you the update really, I think the CMHC comments are really in line with where we're at. We do think that it will be a flat year to modest increases in prices, although Alberta may be down a bit, but I think across the rest of the country, it going to be fine, the prices will be modestly ticked up. But, we're just not – I guess, all of us, whether it's the accounting people and the President, they were all sort of say -- the CEO – were all saying, it's going to be a fairly flat year we think in prices. And maybe price to the country maybe down a little bit. But we don't see anything, any drastic move. Even in Alberta, I think the movement downward in prices will be fairly modest compared to other recessions.

I think the lending by all the lenders in Alberta has been fairly cautious. I think people have substantial equity and although there is – again it'd be people, because the lack of jobs, being moving out and certain amount of activity. We're not that concerned. We think that the country as a whole will have a fairly decent year. I don't know, does that help you?

Sort of. I am just wondering if this is kind of slow, slow your loan growth down the fact that – as you said relatively flat prices. How does that, do you expect that to slow down your loan growth?

Not much. We think that we can gain market share, because we know what has happened is we now have products at the cheaper end of the uninsured. We are dipping into the bank range on some of the products we're doing, not all of them, but some stuffs that might get approved at a bank with some difficulty. People are coming because of the lower rates and the B20. There has been some shift that quite high – credit quality. So we think we can increase our market share. We think that all the initiatives we have growing should be pretty strong for the year.

Okay. The next question [ph] here there (45:20). I noticed you have lower loan loss provisions on uninsured loans this quarter. This doesn't strike to me as Home Capital being very cautious, any comment on that?

Well, I've got – what we do is, we have loan loss reserves about anybody who [ph] is in arrears (45:44). We have a general reserve that gets added to every month. And maybe we can look up and get to you. Do we have – do we publish for how much we have in the general?

Yes, we do.

Okay, just see if you can find it. I know it's up year-over-year.

CAD 34.1 million.

And I think there is – and what is that compared to a year ago? We're going to look that up, maybe you go on to another question and we'll get – we're looking that up. Okay, we are – wait a sec, here we are.

So, CAD 34.1 million in our general reserves.

Yeah.

And that's up by just under CAD 3 million increase.

Okay. So, although the arrears have gone down, the general reserve is up CAD 3 million, which is unallocated to anything of a specific nature that's continued to upward as we [indiscernible] (46:40) on a monthly basis unrelated to the losses. And the actual specifics relate to loans that have mixed payments or we have some knowledge that there is a problem or there is something there we don't do a specific on a performing loan. I don't think that's a practice in the industry.

The specifics are down, that's because everybody is paying.

Yeah. That's a good thing, that's not a bad thing. And the non-performing is down, so the specifics are down.

So you're lower – I mean, what I see is slightly lower loan loss provision, that's just a reflection of what delinquency announced, basically you're taking...

Yeah.

...provision based on days in arrears?

Yes.

And actual loss experience.

Right.

Yeah, no, no. If we got a notice, let's say, just – I'll tell how early we would get on it. Let's say, it was a – a person had missed a payment, but we heard that he was going out of business, we would immediately look at that as a – in [indiscernible] (47:54) situation and put an allowance on it, even though the second may keep us in good standing for a month or two, we would not – we would be proactive and looking at whether there could be a loss of that down the line. But if it's a normal performing loan, residential loan and there is no indication of NSF or arrears or problems, we don't put a specific on it, that's covered by the general. And where we keep adding to the general is the portfolio grows. So, in terms of losses, the general is there which in actual experience is more than a couple of years of losses is all built into the general that never gets clawed back, you only increase it from time to time.

Right.

And so, we have, even if we didn't put anything up for specific, we have as part of our financial statements the next two years or three years of specifics is already baked into the general. But the general never gets clawed back, it's just part of operating procedure.

So, for example, you have an increased loan loss provisions for Alberta, just because of the weakening economy there – that's not, you do it based on the delinquency, the amount of days, the loan is delinquent, for example?

Yes.

Great. Okay, just one more question here. I noticed Home has lowered targets for growth and adjusted net income and growth in total loans under administration for 2015. Is this a reflection of Home's cautious outlook?

Okay.

Yeah. It's not for 2015, it's for the next three years to five years and part of it, as I mentioned earlier, we do acknowledge that there are greater downside risks. We're not seeing anything in the marketplace at this point that is a cause for concern, but we do recognize our greater downside risks.

We don't want to put too higher number out there and disappoint anyone. We want to feel that even if we do – if the oil problems in Alberta and the peace in the Ukraine doesn't hold together and it becomes uglier with the financial turmoil, if the Greece situation and the euro becomes worse. We don't want to project too higher growth figure. We looked at CMHC, we looked at other – a lot of economies. So we say, maybe we really have to listen to all those in the either projection. And also, now that we are at the size we are at CAD 22 billion, you can't crank it up and grow as fast as where we were at half the size. So, we just thought we give goals that we felt highly confident about being able to achieve over the three year to five year period.

Yeah. No, I thought you'd set those targets lower, because you missed this past year in terms of those figures you didn't achieve your targets in those two?

No. No, it's a matter of reality. [ph] Look at all of it (51:09), you look at the market, you look at how well you've grown, you look at how – to us growth is good and we like growth, but we also like profitability and non-losses. We're old fashioned. We don't like to lose money and sort of – we got to see the opportunities there. We got to see the margins. And we won't lend just for the sake of lending. So, opportunities in products come and go and sometimes you – I'm just saying that we have a degree of caution over the next period of time between all the things that are happening in the world. And in Canada, so I think those clearly reflect a little more caution than maybe we might have expressed a year ago.

So, you're not putting the pedal to the metal, you're being a bit more careful with your lending and you're most concerned about being conservative in that regard?

We are always careful, but we're telling you what we see ahead. We see that there is probably more bumps in the Canadian economy. And we don't see that we can grow [ph] our worth (52:21) 20% this year. And it think it's just sort of a simple example. We see growth that we think we're pretty comfortable. I told you one area that we think we can do a nice little uptick in the commercial, we see some good opportunities there. All the collateral businesses are growing, but if the housing market is relatively flat, it's going to be hard to do more than by creeping into market share of other people to be more than the guidance we gave you. It's just a reality. [ph] Could be (52:56) the housing market starts to grow a little faster then we're going to grow faster.

We won't – I guess, the fundamental principle of how we operate is, we won't do growth just for the sake of growth. It's got to be sound, profitable and economic make sense. And I don't know – that's the bottom line in all these predictions. We just think it will be – might be a bit slower than last year in terms of growth and year-over-year growth. And so, we're just trying to reflect that.

Right. No, it sounds like you're being prudent and I appreciate that. Thank you for your time.

Okay. We always try to be prudent [indiscernible] (53:38). You're very welcome.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Joe Robertson (53:43) as a private investor. Your line is open.

Good morning, all.

Good morning, [ph] Joe (53:50).

I guess, considering this the line of discussion on growth, your fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share grew by just over 6% from CAD 0.98 to CAD 1.04 which is well below your previous guidance of 13% to 18%, and your new three year to five year guidance of 8% to 13%. So I just want to understand what happened in Q4 that your growth was that much lower? And I thought I heard you say earlier that January was not particularly strong. So, I'm just wondering what happened in Q4 and what makes you believe that your new target of 18% to 13%, sorry 8% to 13% is achievable, given the 6% growth in Q4.

Okay. [indiscernible] (54:35) Martin's going to answer the question.

Part of that's in Q4 was the sale of the water heater business. So the sale of water heater business [ph] there was (54:47) interest income that wasn't received for part of the quarter. So, if you added that back in, we would have been either right on the bottom end of the range or very close to it.

Okay. So you would have been closer to 8%, bottom end of the new range. Is that what you're seeing?

Yeah.

No, above that, close to the bottom-end of the old range.

Close to 13%?

Correct.

I see. Okay. So that puts it in a new life.

Yeah. So, some of that interest income is embedded in that gain on sale, which we backed out to normalize.

Okay. But knowing that, that interest income will not be there in Q1 of 2015.

Yeah.

How does that impact your ability to hit the new targets?

Yeah. So, again, that's – sort of shifting those targets down a little bit lower, we still see that business growing, so getting – the whole retail credit business, fairly good growth in that business, and over a period of time, getting back to where we were on that.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to Mr. Soloway.

Okay. Thank you, everybody. Thanks for listening in today. We continue on target. We stick to our [ph] knitting (56:16). We think we know what we're doing on a day-to-day and month-to-month basis. We don't plan any revolutionary new businesses. We'll stick to the businesses we know. And I look forward to reporting to you at the end of first quarter and thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.