Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Jeffrey Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jeff Hall — Analyst, IG Investment Management
Roland Thomas Keiper — Chief Compliance Officer, Clearwater Capital Management, Inc.
Steve Laciak — Analyst, Dundee Securities Ltd.
Marko Kais — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Marc Charbin — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Chris, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer of Home Capital, you may begin your conference, sir.

Okay. Thank you. Good morning, shareholders, ladies and gentleman, I want to start to say that I'm sorry for the flood of supplementary disclosure over the past few weeks. There's been a lot of information for everybody to process. But I'm pleased to report on Home Capital's second quarter 2015 results and I look forward to answering your questions later in the call.

Now before I get to the mortgage originations, which I know everyone is keen to hear about, I want to give you the high-level financials for the company this quarter, which in spite of originations, continued to demonstrate the strong performance of our overall business.

Net income of CAD 72.3 million was down 1.9% from the CAD 73.7 million in the second quarter last year. However, net income from the first six months of the year was CAD 144.6 million, up from CAD 143.5 million in the first six months of 2014. That's an increase of approximately 1%. And diluted earnings per share were CAD 1.03 compared to CAD 1.03 in the first quarter of 2015, and CAD 1.05 in the second quarter of 2014. So, the diluted earnings per share for the first six months of 2015 were also at CAD 2.05 compared to CAD 2.04 last year.

And for those of you who have followed Home Capital for some time, you may recall that in Q4 last year, we sold a portfolio of water heaters, which resulted in a profit of CAD 24 million, which was added to the fourth quarter earnings. However, had we kept this portfolio, it would have resulted in estimated increase diluted earnings per share by approximately 9% – CAD 0.09, not 9%, sorry. CAD 0.09 in the first quarter of 2015.

And finally, our return on equity was strong at 19.1% for the quarter just ended against 19.4% for the first six months of this year. And although prior to 2015, we had 17 consecutive years of return on equity over 20%, the 19.4% return on equity for the first half of the year is still an excellent number and as an indication of delivering – being able to deliver future shareholder value.

Now, although originations were down over the first six months of the year, and we'll have more to say about that shortly, overall profit was slightly ahead due to several factors, and these include; stable net interest margin of 2.28% in the first six months of the year compared to 2.23% last year, strong originations in the commercial lending and other lending portfolios, strong credit performance with net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans at 0.33% in the second quarter compared to 0.32% in the comparative quarter last year.

And total write-offs on an entire portfolio of over CAD 25 billion in assets under administration were CAD 1.1 million in the quarter and CAD 3.1 million year-to-date. That represents 2 basis points in the quarter and 3 basis points year-to-date on an annualized basis. That is an improvement from the results of last year and the second quarter of 2014, which was 6 basis points for the six months of the year of 2014, and 5 basis points in the quarter.

So, credit quality is definitely on the uptick. And the investments that we have made in strengthening our underwriting controls, together with a healthy and stable, and I repeat that, a healthy and stable real estate market have resulted in increased credit quality of the portfolio. We at Home continue to expect that Home will meet its three-year to five-year midterm targets, reflecting the continued strength of the overall business. It's diverse source of growth and the company's expectation of improving origination volumes – originating volumes for the remainder of the year and going forward.

Now in light of this performance, the board of directors approved a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.22 per common share payable on September 1, 2015. And overall, Home Capital continued in Q2 2015 to build on its presence as Canada's leading alternative financial institution, serving an established, but underserved and growing market niche. And we're also proud to note that in the quarter we opened our new Oaken Financial stores in Toronto and Calgary as we continue to build out our deposit diversification strategy.

Once a couple of years ago, we depended on brokers for almost all of our deposit funding. And today, over 20% of our deposits that we require for the business come from other sources, including Oaken.

Now on to mortgage originations. As previously disclosed, Home Capital reported a drop in Q2 2015, traditional and accelerator residential mortgage originations of 15.4% and 54.9% respectively compared to the second quarter last year. As we've said in our previous disclosure, Q1 and Q2 mortgage originations were affected by a handful of factors, but let me take a second to walk you through the timeline of events that led us to today.

In late 2014, simultaneous with the company's own internal review of broker relationships and operations, an external source alerted Home Capital's board of directors to possible discrepancies in income verification information submitted by certain mortgage brokers.

The company immediately commenced a thorough investigation of the allegations, including the reliability of other information submitted with the loan applications. With the assistance of independent professional advisors and the independent directors of the Home board, we determined that the falsification of income verification documents that were submitted had occurred.

It's important to note that although we found no evidence whatsoever of falsification of credit scores or property value. So, let me emphasize, the beacon scores on credit were accurate in our file and the property values were as we had appraised. Now once we identified the brokers associated with this issue, we immediately took action to begin suspending our relationships. And in total, we suspended 18 individual mortgage brokers and two brokerage houses as a result of this issue.

In total, this was 45 brokers out of our nearly 4,000 broker relationships, 45 out of 4,000. I want to stress also that the delisting of this small number of brokers in no way represents the majority of the brokers that we transact with and who work very hard to ensure that the quality of business meets our very high standards.

The next step of our investigation led us to conclude that it is unlikely that this matter will lead to credit losses. We are still actively monitoring the subject mortgages and there have been no unusual credit issues, no credit issues with the portfolio that we've reviewed. We are actively monitoring the subject mortgages and have determined that they continue to perform in line with our broader portfolio.

And finally, we did a broader test to ensure that this was not a widespread issue in its portfolio and we are comfortable that it's not. So, as all of you know, the result of this process combined with a few other factors led to the drop in originations – in the origination volume in the first half of 2015.

When we suspended the 45 brokers, we lost the volumes that they could have brought in and the 2014 originations associated with these brokers represented some 5.3% of the outstanding loans on Home's books at December 31, 2015 and 4.3% of the loans under administration. The 2014 originations associated with these brokers totaled some CAD 960.4 million of the CAD 7.6 billion of single-family residential mortgages originated from all sources in 2014. That number represents the value of all mortgages originated from these sources in the year and not the value of the mortgages associated with discrepancies in their [indiscernible] (12:34).

In fact, these mortgages would contribute less than 2% of the company's 2014 net income. So, in addition to the direct impact of the suspended brokers, we believe a few other factors impacted the drop of volume – the drop in volumes. When we enhanced a number of our loan approval and documentation – document verification process to ensure new loans continue to reflect Home Capital's risk appetite, we rightly increased approval time for some application and let some customers to turn to other funding sources in the short term.

These enhancements include such things as request for more detailed documentation and income verification from brokers, which slowed the approval process. And originations were affected by seasonality, the current competitive markets for prime insured mortgages, you may recall we had a rough winter, but the current competitive market for prime mortgages in Canada and the company's conservative approach to growing its residential mortgage business in the current Canadian economic environment.

As a result of this, this all caused a lot of stress, but we at Home are confident that these measures, in spite of their short-term impact on origination volumes, were prudent and essential steps to maintain the long-term health of our business. And now you've heard me say this before, perhaps too many times, we won't apologize for being prudent and cautious and ensuring that we have a strong performing book of business.

Now in addition to understanding just what happened to origination volumes, I want you to be aware of everything we're doing at Home Capital to improve volumes going forward because even though we believe this is a very manageable issue, we know we're not where we want to be and we have lots of work to do. The company has taken several steps to improve origination volumes in the second half of 2015. We've implemented new sales measures to build on our already strong pipeline for residential mortgage originations.

We did this by restructuring our business development group to broaden the number of broker relationships as well as deepen existing relationships. This will help us to lever the solid demand for the company's traditional mortgages within our established regions. We're also working with our broker community to help them adjust to our enhanced approval processes and we can report that we're starting to receive positive feedback. We expect origination volumes to also improve as a result of our business partners' increased familiarity with the new processes.

And we are looking forward to introducing towards year-end, a broker loyalty program that will reward brokers for both volume and quality of business and we are introducing our new broker portal to better serve the broker community. We're making solid progress with these measures and we've already seen an increase in originations near the end of the reporting period when compared to the first half of 2015. What we have seen in July so far is also promising. And I expect this trend to continue.

Now, I'm sure there will be many questions on this topic, and we'll be hence happy to answer them to the best of our abilities during the call. And to recap the Q2 results, profits have been relatively flat year-over-year for the first six months. The mortgage portfolio continues to perform exceptionally well with continued low write-offs and arrears. Net interest margin remained stable for the first six months of the year compared to last year. And although the second quarter was a little lumpy from an origination standpoint, the company is healthy, vibrant, and all businesses are running strongly.

And again, although we had slower originations in the residential portfolio, I think the good news is that our profit was stable. And that was due to the increasing strength of our other businesses, such as our conventional mortgages had very good growth year-over-year. Retail credit after the sale of part of the portfolio is growing nicely. And our [ph] builder (18:18) products are doing well. And they have all contributed to our profitability.

Looking ahead, our focus remains on generating future growth that is sustainable and prudent, and are making the investments in our business that will help us achieve that goal. So, to long suffering shareholders, I say stick with us because we are committed to delivering and over the next few quarters, we will demonstrate that.

And on a final note, I would like to say thank you to Jim Bailey who has stepped down from our Board for his valuable service to Home Capital over the years. And I would like to congratulate him on his forthcoming 77th birthday next week.

Now, we'd be pleased to take any of your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Shubha Khan from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning. So...

Good morning, Shubha.

Good morning. Couple of questions on the broker terminations or suspensions. First of all, were either the CMHC or OSFI involved in either alerting you to a potential underwriting problem or in directing you to suspend the broker relationships that you identified? Or how shall I think about that?

The answer to both of your questions is no. And then, I'll elaborate. We self-identified. As I said in my remarks, there has been anonymous letter, not a whistleblower, but an anonymous letter sent to a member of the board or the board as a whole. We'd sprung into action. We did our internal review. We had help from the outside, reviewed all of the mortgages that – we're in the process of doing a test on the mortgages that the people have sent. We did spot test.

We [ph] thought (20:44) – we were satisfied with the group of brokers we've suspended were a group that we didn't want to do business with. And I might add that this is an ongoing thing. There's always brokers coming off and coming on. And I think in the first six months of the year, we added some 300 brokers to our list.

And there is some that we continuously monitored the list, some people, such as retirement, old age, they leave the business and go into industry. Somebody's working for a competitor and they still have their mortgage brokers license. We may put them on a temporarily suspended license. So, there's a variety of reasons why people come on and go off. And the fact that this group came off, it was generated by the quality that we saw internally.

And, Shubha, it's Martin.

This is Martin.

Yes, it's Martin here. I just want to add that we did inform the insurers and OSFI very early on and we kept them in the loop throughout the whole time.

Okay. Just following up on that point then, how, if at all, does the fact that there was falsified income information for specifically accelerated mortgage applications, so your insured product, how does that impact insurance coverage? I mean, do the mortgage insurers then put back the credit risk to Home Capital or do they...

No. We spoke to them – we went and we chatted with them and we told them the whole story. They do – all the insurers do annual and semi-annual reviews of our portfolio and our arrears and compares with all the other companies that they insure. I might add, our performance has been at the top range of all the other companies that are doing insured product, including the major banks, including others.

They have internally – they expect a certain percentage across the country, they expect a certain percentage will be offside. So far, we have not had to make any claims. And it's – the performance on the group of files surprisingly enough is better than average. You might wonder about that, but the two big important factors is their Beacon score was exactly accurate because we pulled it ourselves and we control the appraisals and we know the value is good.

So, people – there may have been someone in the pipeline that adjusted the proof of income. But often, there are people when we look – go into the files carefully, there often are other people living in the houses, like another generation are living in the house and helping to support it. And that's why there's not been arrears. But we can't tolerate and will not tolerate any documentation that's not fully accurate. And we just put additional monitoring processes.

It's our understanding that based on what we discover, the insurers and the other regulators have taken that data and used it in advising and counseling other companies to be aware of the same risks because some of the same brokers are still in business and they may well reform their processes. But the regulatory and insurers are aware of who we've had an issue with. And I'm sure they'll be educating companies. And I'm sure others will, over a period of time, use various forms of our enhanced due diligence that we've now implemented.

Yeah. And, Shubha, it's Martin here again. And as well as – it's been determined that there's no employees that were complicit in any of this. So, there is no fraud from the company perspective. And that's really sort of key to the insurance.

Okay. And – perhaps, if we can sneak one last one in there before I re-queue, when you say you stepped up income verification procedures, and that it had possibly impacted the length of the mortgage approval process. I mean, how does that compare to what it was before? I mean, is it a day longer, two days longer? And how does that compare relative to your peers?

Okay. I'm going to turn that over to Pino, who's Head of the Mortgage Group.

Hi, Shubha. Yeah. To answer the question very simply on a file-by-file basis, it could take much longer than before. Obviously, as you're performing the income verification enhancement by phone call, to be clear, you may get a response immediately, you may not. And it's as simple as that, but we took it a level further.

It wasn't simply confirming the employment with sort of a senior person at the shop. We wanted to speak to someone independent. So, that would be obviously someone in human resources department. So, inevitably, you may not get the answer immediately, you have to wait half a day, a day in some cases. And we were prepared to do that.

Yeah, yeah.

Well, I might add, we've speeded up the process. We are a bit – we fumbled the ball a little bit at the beginning, but we've got our processes down. And I think now, we can give service levels comparable with the other competitors in the market.

Yeah. And then there were additional changes in our process. And we talked about this with new technology coming in the very end of Q1 and through Q2. And staff just started learning the new processes, with the new technology as well taking a little bit of time. And that's probably more relevant in the accelerator product, where it really is a commodity product. And the brokers are looking for that quicker turnaround time. But we were pretty confident that we'll get back to those service levels to the broker.

I'll be adding [ph] some more thing (27:04) to that maybe. To Martin's point, we've sort of improved the process over time as well in the past six months. And we actually have some dedicated individuals that are focused on this task alone. And the reason being is because we can perform the function simultaneous to the other underwriting. So, although it is an extra step, the step can be done at the same time. And so, again, we're looking at finding ways to bring our turn time back to the levels they were at.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks. I'll re-queue.

Your next question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys

Good morning, Dylan.

Quick question, just on the CAD 960 million originations you identified. Just a question on what percentage – do you have an estimate of those loans have what be considered to have suspect documentation? Is it all of them? Or is there a certain amount that are on the level?

Well, the vast majority were on the level, thank goodness. But once – I'm going to turn this over to our Chief Financial Officer. And Rob will answer that. He's closer to the numbers.

Yeah. So, we don't actually have an exact number. What we did though – I'll tell you what we did. We tested the mortgages of this group by taking a sample. And that enabled us to get a sense of the scope. And we're comfortable it's not widespread or – relative to portfolio. And I think just to add a little bit of color to that, we flagged the entire population, which we disclosed and we continue to monitor their performance, and we'll continue to do so.

So, just to be clear, it's a portion of the CAD 960 million, a very small portion that you consider would have falsified documentation?

It's a very small portion.

But we did flag the entire population just to be prudent.

And I guess just on my next point – that's helpful. Just if you can walk me through, I know you sort of talked about some of the guys you identified certainly having other sources of income in the house, but maybe can you just walk me through the process of you guys doing your due diligence on the sample size of loans that you looked at just to sort of clarify your comfort with the credit going forward on those loans?

Yeah. So, we started doing the sampling when we identified the problem. We kept broadening out the sampling until – effectively following the evidence until we could find no more evidence. And in terms of – and it was around income verification but as well around the credit scores and around the property values. And the only instances we found issues were with the income verification.

So, no issues with the credit scores, no issues with the property values, so we're comfortable – but this is not a credit event that – and we do not anticipate any higher arrears or losses as a result of it, that this really is an income verification. These borrowers are making their payments. As Gerry mentioned in his opening remarks, it's performing much better than the overall portfolio.

And the one thing I will add, just as a little color to that, is during our due diligence, it was concentrated among brokers. And that's why we made the decision to take the action that we did.

Yeah.

And just one final question before I go back in the queue here, just I know you identified the 2014 originations. Is there any previous originations from these brokers on the books from prior years?

There would be some. We don't have those numbers off hand.

Okay, maybe I'll follow-up afterwards on that. But a portion or a small portion of – compared to the CAD 960 million, anywhere?

The bulk would be in 2014, in particular the classic mortgages, which tend to be relatively short in duration.

Right. Okay, perfect. All right. I'll re-queue. Thanks, guys.

Your next question is comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick from Cormark. Your line is open.

Hi. Just wanted to follow-up on that line of questioning there in terms of the split between accelerator and traditional product that was in the mix there, that was an issue. Was there a – was it more prevalent in one or the other between those two? And I ask that question because obviously if there's some issue around the income, the traditional tends to have a very high level of equity of the owner in the house

Hi, Jeff. Gerry. No, the nature of proof of income on the uninsured, a very small percentage are actually straight up wage earners; far more a larger percentage of our traditional business are people who have business [ph] for self (32:12). And that we've always looked at very carefully. And we didn't find any unusual problems on the proof of income on the traditional mortgages with these brokers. It was – the problems mainly were in the insured product. And the 60% or so that was insured – as you know, we made very, very little. I don't know – what would in the last – what did we make on the insurance?

47 basis points.

Yeah. So, even if you talk about big numbers, you talk about – we were off CAD 300 million, CAD 400 million on insured product, we're not talking a lot of money at 47 basis points. It's not which the way the – some people have interpreted it, like the whole company is shaken. It hasn't affected our ability to move forward [ph] that (33:21) have to make – to have a flat quarter-over-quarter profit wise.

And we see that business, we want to get it right. We want to be in that business. We want to be in the insured business. It's a nice additional business. We pick up other relationships. And we'll get it right. I'm not at all worried about us being able to get it right. Being able to get the relationships with the rest of the broker community has been good. We've had a long history with them.

And maybe we were a bit too cautious and we discontinued relationships with a few more than we should. But we have an on-boarding process that we could look at sometime in the future. And if the brokers have a tightening review process of how they take the applications, of how they check, we're not asking them to do underwriting, but some of them to do a little bit of work and just make sure what the source of their client referral and what they have.

And when I look at the rest of our broker community, there is no problem. They comply. They're sending stuff to other institutions. They don't want to send stuff that's not accurate. As I say, it was a very small group that – on the insured product where [indiscernible] (34:45) and in abundance of caution, we probably cut off more than we should have. But our feeling was, let's get all this under control. Let's get all the evaluation of all of the stuff they've got on their books, and maybe a year or two out, we'll look at re-onboarding them.

But I don't want to talk about that now. We want to make sure that the source of this problem, we've got it covered. We've got a way of doing it properly. And we've set up a system that we got complimented by one of the mortgage insurers who was unique in its tough control of this small group that is doing nothing, but confirming income on insured mortgages, and we got quite a compliment from one of the insurers that they had hoped that all the other companies would – who do insured mortgage would copy it.

So, there, we're ahead of the pack for the moment. And maybe a few brokers don't want to waste – or have us take that extra day or two in some occasions. And some stuff we can do very quickly. It's fine. You've been following us a long time. From time-to-time, originations on insured product can go down. When the first of the IFRS came out, I think Martin has a number on that. he'll just fill you in on that.

Yeah, we were – if you look at 2011, we were down 19% in total originations, down 61% in our accelerator product, and yet profits continued to grow. On an IFRS basis, we were up almost 23% year-over-year. So – and years after that, business continued to grow. So, the profitability is not just about originations. That is a key component, but it's not just about originations.

And maybe just one follow-up there is what would be the loan-to-value typically on those accelerator mortgages then because I think people are just worried about it? Look, I can't pay the mortgage, it goes into default. You don't have a lot of cushion there if it's a high loan-to-value mortgage.

No, that's why they're insured. Predominantly, there are people who put 5% or 10% down. That's the 90% to 95% loan-to-value. That's why, they're insured loans. And the practice is the majority would be 95%. I'm sorry, is there a number?

Hi, Jeff, on – and I believe this is on the portfolio, so not just these identified mortgages. The average loan-to-value would be 84%.

On the whole insured.

Yeah, on all the insured.

Okay. And I think it's just one of those things that skeptics look at and they worry that maybe your insurance might not cover it. They could deny the claim and then you're left with a lot of equity there to protect you in the event of default. So that's why I asked that question.

Yeah, yeah. No problem.

And then, maybe just one other one that I've had some questions on as well is around liquidity here on the other side of the business. And when these kind of issues happen and there's some concerns, like there can be concerns on the liquidity providers as well. So, have you seen any changes in terms of either CMHC's willingness to continue to take a product and put it into the CMB or their MBS programs or any issues in terms of the buyers of your residual interest [ph] off a (38:04) single-family?

Yeah. No, we haven't seen any issues at all. And as I mentioned earlier, we have kept everybody informed. So, we've kept the insurers informed. And I think they've liked the approach that we've taken in terms of dealing with it. But no, we haven't seen any issues in terms of liquidity.

All right, that's great. I'll re-queue. Thank you.

Thanks, Jeff.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Morning, Geoff.

The first question I had was, so you guys mentioned that you had to notify the OSFI and the insurers. Just specifically around OSFI, I'm just guessing they probably wanted to get a better understanding of what was going on there. And really my question is around the having – have they completed their kind of presumably some sort of review of your underwriting and everything's okay? In other words, have called it a clean bill of health to [ph] go (39:04) and do originations under your underwriting standards now or is there [indiscernible] (39:09)...

Geoff, Geoff, Geoff, Geoff, you've been following this business for a long time. If I was to say anything about OSFI and their procedures and what they say, I'm under penalty of debt. You don't talk – we as a company don't talk about OSFI and what they've done. We advise you that we've notified them. We believe everything is okay, but I don't want us – they don't do things like you say.

And I'm sure they're listening on the call. And I'm not going to aggravate them and aggravate myself by making any comments on their conduct. I'm sorry if I have to cut you off. But I'd like you, you're Royal Bank, ask your Chairman of the Royal Bank if he'd like to comment on his OSFI relationship the next time they have a quarterly recall.

It is confidential, Geoff.

Okay.

And we're bound by statute to not reveal our communications with them.

Okay. Just wanted to make sure...

Sorry about that, but it's just a reality.

Thought I just asked the question anyways.

Yeah. No harm.

Just want to make sure I understand it. On the originations you talked about, so 2014, you identified the total number, of which a small percentage you believe had these discrepancies. And then, if I understand it right, pre-2014, there may be some issues, but you haven't maybe had a chance to go back that far and it may be more confined to the sub-prime side. I just want to try and get a sense as to, is this maybe just a 2014 issue or are there potentially some stuff before that?

Martin is going to answer this, Geoff.

Hi, Geoff. Yeah, we are investigating those ones as well. And we will do the enhanced due diligence on those ones. We just don't have the number offhand, but the bulk of them would be within 2014.

Okay, that's great. And the last question I had was I can appreciate that there are brokers that may engage in these types of practices. But I'm just wondering from Home's side, what's in particular like – how did this happen? Was it protocols that may not have been followed 100%? Was it protocols that you may have needed to enhance is what you talked about? And maybe just if you can talk about maybe some specifics – I know you talked a little bit about it, but what's some of the specific changes you've made in terms of the enhancements on a going forward basis, just obviously want to avoid having this happened in the future?

Sure. Yeah, and just to make one thing clear, Geoff, we haven't been – there's no proof that the mortgage brokers themselves are responsible for this. But the business does flow through them. So, we hold them accountable. And whether it's their referral sources or wherever the issues are coming from, we hold them accountable. And that's really why we cut them off.

So, in terms of what we've done on our side, and some of this was going to be happening anyway, which is a separation of the sort of the internal sales function and the underwriting function, and that's part of what's caused a little bit of friction in terms of our service levels to the broker. But that sort of segregates the duties. And in terms of making sure that the way the deals flow through and flow through the different teams, it's a little bit more random than what it has been in the past.

Gerry mentioned the separate income verification team and that is focused on that. And so they will, in effect, become specialists in income verification because they will see all kinds of things. And – so, rather than having sort a broader group doing it, this specialized group will see it and they'll be able to deal with it a lot more effectively.

Yeah. And let me – just to specify, I think as a company goes through its various phases, and you've been following us for some time, as we get bigger, there's things that one has to do. If you're a small company, you may be able to operate one way. But we reached the point in size and asset and generation of volume that really it was prudent on a long-term basis to separate the sales group and the underwriting group.

And that we've done and I think we've worked most of the bugs out. And it's starting to roll out throughout the whole company, and will roll out over the balance of the year. But we think that, that would be one of the things where there is that complete separation, which there is as are big banks. And we've never thought of ourselves as a big bank.

But it's one of the things, as you get to be bigger and you get to be a big boy, you got to make – you can't wear shorts, you got to wear long pants. And this is sort of the long pants of the underwriting process. And we're putting it on. We're putting it on with a belt and suspenders, and making sure they stay up, and it works well. So we're on the right track and we're rolling. And I don't see this – I think we've got lots of controls in place to prevent it occurring again.

Yeah. And, Geoff, just to add, we've touched on this before in terms of the new technology that will help in that – will enhance the controls, but also help in terms of the efficiency in the service back to the brokers. So, that is going to take a little bit of time in terms of getting those service levels back. But we think the technology that's being put in place will make us much more efficient to help from a cost perspective, but also help from a service perspective to the mortgage brokers and put the right controls in place.

Okay. If I can sneak one last question just, it sounds like you guys, I mean, aside from the income verification that you're okay with these types of borrowers, when these mortgages come up for renewal, I mean, is it something that you guys are comfortable renewing them or – just wanted to know.

We'll look at them on a file-by-file basis as we now do. And in some cases, we may require additional income verification. We'll be looking at these files very carefully when they come up for renewal.

Yeah.

Essentially – they'll be re-underwritten essentially.

Hi, Geoff. It's Martin. So, the – we are proactively going back through those and updating the documentation, and then as well on renewal, where we haven't got to those borrowers on renewal, we will be picking out that as well. So, we've got a fast track program to get the documentation for all of those words updated.

Okay. Thanks, Geoff. But we've got a big lineup, and thanks for the call.

Nope. Thank you.

Thanks. Next?

Your next question comes from the line of Scott Waugh from Investors Group. Your line is open.

Good morning. It's Jeff Hall from Investors Group. Gerald, if I could, first of all, ask you just to clarify – the release yesterday said specifically that the investigation determined the falsification of income. You've mentioned a couple of times this morning that it's income verification. Is – was it a case of that piece of the information supplied to you is just not verified or it was verified and knowingly verified as false?

No. Like we didn't have a – if we got an employment letter, previously our policy was not – if the letter was on letterhead, and it looked it had all the characteristics showed on the credit bureau as where the guy worked and seemed to be reasonable, we just accept it, which is in an accordance with CMHC standards. If we're not aware of any reason why it's not an authentic letter, we just accepted the letter. And that is in accordance with the insurers' standards and what they require. So, we had done that.

What the deficiency was that some of these letters had been altered. Some of them were the income, in order to qualify instead of making CAD 64,000, suddenly the person made CAD 84,000. And there are other issues about the form – the verification. We didn't independently phone and verify that this was accurate. We didn't phone the Head of HR or somebody at the company with the senior position and say this Mr. AB, does – or Miss AB, do they make this and what's their position, et cetera, et cetera.

We now have – as Martin spelled out, we now have a team that we won't do an insured loan, which requires proof of income more at a different level without getting into this with a different level of proof of income than is required on the under CAD 80,000. But on the insured loans, we will verify by multiple means and methods to confirm that the letter is accurate, the person does work there, that there's no question, that everything in that employment letter is accurate. Did that answer...

That's helpful. And it leads to my second question then. On the insured mortgages, what is it – are these mortgages now flagged, so that if anytime they go into some type of default arrears, they can be put back to you? What is the period in which you can say that all of these have met the...

Okay, Martin is going to answer that, Jeff.

Yeah, now we have had those discussions with the insurers, and so they are insured.

Okay.

So, when they do go into default, unless there is some fraud on the part of the company, then they would maybe put them back to us. But there's nothing to suggest that's the case. So, they would still be insured.

Okay.

And they're all performing – as Gerry mentioned in his opening remarks, they're all performing at or better than the overall portfolio.

Okay. So just in general, what is the period of look-back time in case of fraud? Is it six months? Is it a year? Is it for life of the mortgage?

In terms of CMHC or the insurers?

If a mortgage goes into arrears, there's a motivation from the insurer to look for a way to put it back. What is the period of that?

Yeah, so – anytime over the life if – if it could be shown that the company was complicit in it, then they can put it back. Otherwise, it's insured.

Right. And is it the company as in Home Capital, or is it a broker, which went through Home Capital?

It's Home Trust, the operating entity of Home Capital. Yeah.

So, as long as you have followed all of their underwriting requirements? Okay.

Right.

And they come in and they audit and they do regular audits on that.

Sure. Okay, thank you.

And I should tell you to-date, all of the insurers have conducted audits. They've looked at the files. There's not been the slightest suggestion that if there is a claim or there was a problem that they wouldn't pay it. They have all indicated our arrears and our underwriting procedures are solid. And we do not anticipate any problem if any of them did fall in arrears about getting the claim paid.

Yeah. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Roland Keiper from Clearwater Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Roland?

Hey.

Yeah. Hi. Good morning.

Hi. Just two issues, I wonder if you could go through the math that underlies the 2% net income estimate just because average balance that these severed brokers had on your books in 2014, in term – and what interest rate that would be and what type of NIM in millions of dollars that might have produced. You've gone through the math clearly to have your findings of 2% estimate. And I just want to better understand it.

And the next question is I see the loan-to-value has bumped around in Q1. It dropped and it appears that your appraisals went up materially in Q1, and that seems to have reversed itself in Q2. And I just want to understand the background behind what appears to be an adjustment in your appraisals in Q1 compared to Q4 and then what appears to be a reversal in Q2?

Rob. Okay. Rob Morton, our CFO will answer that.

Hi, Roland. I'll take that. So on the first one, what we did was we took the origination volumes that were identified with these delisted brokers, and we applied the margin that we have for 2014. We come up with what we thought the estimated revenue was when we compared that to our 2014 net income, so it's an approximation and that's how we came up with the 2% because there was CAD 6 million roughly on top of CAD 313 million.

And as for your second question, we actually got the LTV wrong in the first quarter and we – so we actually – some of the data that was pulled was incorrect and [indiscernible] (53:01) portfolio was double counted, we determined it was a material and we chose to fix it this quarter. A couple of people caught that in the first quarter, so we restated Q1 to be correct.

Okay. Thanks, Roland. Next?

Your next question comes from the line of Steve Laciak from Dundee Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Thank you. Home and, I guess, Canada in general, when you look at our banks are under attack by American innuendo, that home lending has gone the roots of NINJA loans in the States. I was on the first National call a few days ago and they as the largest prime lending originator in Canada said that lending today is the tightest it's been in 20 years, some of the FICO scores – average FICO scores of 750. Can you speak from a historical perspective? You've talked about, I guess, all your implementation of [ph] aid (54:13) and everything else, but from a historical perspective, how is lending in the non-prime space today versus the last 10 years, much like First National commented on their prime lending space?

Well, as an old veteran of the wars, I've been at this game for over 25 years. I think that comment is accurate. And I think it's – it's been a long process that spilled over from financial problems, first in the early 1990s, and then in the late 2007, 2008 in the United States, where the U.S. government had to bail out certain financial institutions. I know that politically in Canada, there is no appetite for government to bail out any independent bank or financial institution. And legislation, and this is not – this is just an accurate statement. There has been a long-term tightening of underwriting criteria. And I think, in all types of business, and in all types of financial problems, and the regulators in Canada, they operate by legislation through the direction of the Parliament of Canada. And I think one of their mandates is not only, the company should be safe and sound, but also, I don't think any government in power, any one of the three parties with some power wants to explain to the public, why they had to use public money to bail out a financial institution.

So, I think they've been – the regulator has followed the directions they've been given, and step by step on a fairly methodical basis, tightening has increased over the years. And I don't think it's a bad thing. I think it's because, politically, that's what Canadians have wanted and that if all the institutions have to be very careful, it may have some short-term effect, but I think in the overall run, there's not been a deposit-taking company or bank failure in Canada, I think, in well over 50 years.

Hi, Steve, it's Martin. I just comment on sort of the how that customer base in our traditional mortgages has sort of evolved over time. Yeah, if you go back 20 years ago, it was a much more blue collar trades people, you look at it today, it's a much more white collar, it's IT consultants, financial services consultants, it's doctors, [ph] dentures (57:03), lawyers, who've got their own business. So the quality of that client is, as Gerry mentioned, much stronger today and some of that is due to regulatory tightening, some of that is just due to the growth in the self-employed that's happened over the years, even what we see in the new immigrant portion of our business, there – whereas many years ago, it was really just a straight quota system on the immigration. It's much more of skills based, so the new immigrants that we're seeing that from our portfolio are much higher credit quality than what they would've been 20 years ago. And you could see it in our portfolio and the credit scores, how they migrated over time and continue to improve, and I think that's the same in the industry, generally.

If you may allow me a second question, like I'm just watching Twitter feeds here. And I mean management collectively are being accused of being liars and thieves, that they should resign and everything else, okay.

Oh my god.

No well, you should pay attention to what's going on in the netherworld out there and that's been driving your stock down. You've had enough weak Canadian shareholders, who's sold into Twitter feeds, okay, who are scared. Any thoughts, I know that they would have to be instigated by the people who've taken the losses, they're probably afraid to commit that they've or to say that they've actually sold into the Twitter feeds, but any thoughts of lawsuits against these innuendo generators.

Well no, there is – to answer that. I don't think there is, on any evidence that I've seen, and I did practice law for 24 years, I don't think at this point, we have any evidence to start commencing any lawsuits. We clearly want to get on with our business and the best answer to all this is produce solid profits the rest of the year. Produce the earnings per share, increase the originations, show you the numbers, show the great company that we've been, continue with this trend of high return on equity. We did deliver it for 17 consecutive years for this year and that's really what we're focused on. Lawsuits are for somebody else, not for us. We don't have a lawsuit mentality.

So, thanks Steve. Thanks for your questions. Next. Next question, operator.

Yes, sir. Your next question comes from the line of Marko Kais from...

Marko?

...TD Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning. Are you Marko?

Yeah, that's right.

Oh, good morning.

I just want to understand the departure of the individuals and control functions that kind of coincided with this mortgage fraud thing, namely your CRO and the board member, Mr. Bailey. Was this in any way related or how should we think about this?

No, I think Mr. Bailey taking them, one at a time, clearly stated it was for personal reasons. Mr. Bailey states his own mind. If there is other reasons, he would have said so. I think that it's unfortunate that sort of people are linking the two but he was a very valuable member of the board. We appreciated his input. There's nothing to do with that and I think the -- I don't know what, Martin is going to answer it.

Just on the other ones, on the risk side, our Chief Risk Officer left for personal reasons at the end of the year. We promoted from within, Greg Parker, who was our Treasurer, a very strong understanding of risk. On the CFO side, Bob Blowes who was our CFO at the time a while back had announced his intentions to retire. We brought on Rob Morton well in advance. There was a – there's actually about, I think, it was about three-month or almost a four-month overlap where Rob Morton had joined us – and current CFO.

And let me just add that when Bob Blowes resigned as the CFO last year. The rest of the board thought so highly of his ability and his wisdom and his over 30 years of experience working with Ernst & Young that he got elected to the board at the last Annual Meeting in May 14, and he's a very valuable. We've kept his skills and we've had the benefit of the new skills of Rob Morton. So, we captured both sets of skills in that matter, it wasn't a loss at all.

And just a one more question from me...

Okay. Thanks, Marko. Next?

Your next question comes from the line of Marc Charbin from Laurentian Bank. Your line is open.

Good morning, Marc.

Good morning. Regarding your comments about maintaining discipline in the current environment, are you seeing any evidence of undisciplined pricing from your competitors?

Well, I don't know, I think that everybody in business tries to do the best toward – for their business but I don't think there's anything crazy happening. People are very cautious, I think, throughout the whole industry. They're cautious on risk and maybe it's competitive on loans that were, they're really very attractive because of their high beacon score, high proof of income, low loan-to-value, and properly so, for that type of borrower that everybody likes to put that on their books, but I would say quite frankly that there isn't anything unusual going on in pricing.

Yeah.

Marc, it's Martin. I'll just add. In the prime space, it is definitely very competitive in a few factors with that I think with TD forming their partnership with National Bank has definitely made them a much stronger competitor in the broker space. Just in general, the big banks with the Bank of Canada cutting rates, mortgage rates started drifting down, their margins are being squeezed on the prime business, as a lot of that gets funded with their branch deposits and you can't go any lower than zero and the cost of funds on that. So, their margins are being squeezed a little bit, so they're trying to make up for some of that by just getting more market share at the lower margins. So definitely in the prime space it's more competitive, but to Gerry's point nothing – nothing unusual in terms of pricing. [indiscernible]

(01:04:08) any new large competitors competing for your traditional products?

No.

No.

Okay. And lastly, net interest income is up about 3% over year, but your costs are up about 17%. I understand there is compliance and regulatory costs that are unavoidable. Is there any other cost that you can't control?

Okay, I'm going to turn that over to Rob because he's the numbers man.

Okay, okay.

Yeah. I mean, that's a tough question on the ones that we can't control. We continue to make investment in foundational IP enhancements, as well as the control functions as you mentioned. The problem with our efficiency ratio, as you've seen, is higher and that really reflects the increased expenses in the quarter set against flat revenues. So, we're spending on budget. And so we're really...

Actually below budget...

...maybe below budget. So we're spending to support our ability to grow our business. So right now, while there are some property expenses, [ph] small as we could (01:05:113) control, we're spending to grow our business.

Yeah, we do see, this is Gerry again, we do see a bright future, and we're – haven't stopped spending on the technology and things that will increase and enhance our ability to keep growing. We see this bump in the first half of the year where we're flat earnings year-over-year is a bit of a bump and we do see the second half of the year being. Well, will be – you'll see better numbers and better performance, we believe when the next the time we're talking.

Okay thanks, Mark. And I think because of time, I think, what – the next one will be the last question, operator. But we will be happy to – that was the last question I'm just – okay, thank you everybody and thanks for joining us today. And we'll be conducting various investor group conferences around with the various brokers and we look forward to dealing with you and your questions. Until next quarter. Thank you very much for joining us today. Thanks. Bye-bye.

Ladies and gentleman, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.