corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group First Quarter 2009 Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session and instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.


[Operator Instructions]


I would like to remind everyone, that this conference call is being recorded on Wednesday, May 6,


2009 at 10:30 A.M. Eastern Time.


I’ll now turn the conference over to Gerald Soloway, CEO. Please go ahead, sir.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Home Capital’s first quarter 2009


earnings report. I’m delighted to report that Home had an excellent quarter and all aspects of our


business had a good quarter. They all did well.


The net income was up 24.9%, the basic income up 24.7%. Fully diluted earnings were up 26.4%.


And we had a return on equity of 27.9%. For 11 consecutive quarters – I’m sorry, 11 consecutive


years, Home has delivered a return on equity over 20%. And based on our first quarter 2009, we


are well on our way to delivering a 12 consecutive year with a return on equity of over 20%.


In the first quarter, originations, which I will chat about first, the mortgage originations were really up


two parts. There was the residential mortgage originations, which were 690 million, again 602


million last quarter, or up 14.7%. The non-residential originations went down from last year at 265


million to 35.7 million this year.


And this shift in originations was planned and executed as a way of reducing Home’s exposure to


the marketplace and mitigating our risk on a going forward basis. We are quite pleased with the


way that portion of origination has decreased.


I want to just give you a little guidance and a word on the originations going forward. Looking ahead


to the second quarter, based on our originations to date, and our strong pipeline, we expect to fund


over a $1 billion in originations this quarter. And the amount of non-residential mortgages on that


portfolio will be almost a minimal. It will all be, almost all of it will be residential first mortgage


originations and we are looking forward to a very big quarter, in the second quarter, the one we are


already in.


In the last quarter, the residential first mortgages and that’s both the combined insured and


uninsured residential mortgages, but the insured part were somewhat over 70% of what we did in


the last quarter. We see that trend of insured continuing and it may well be over 70% will be insured


of our residential originations will be insured this quarter.


Now, let me turn to the securitizations, because there is often a lot of questions about that. We had


a strong quarter in securitizations. And in the first quarter, the securitizations, we use them to


securitize about 63% of our total originations in the quarter.


However, we’ve noticed that interest rates in the past months has again been changing, so that the


difference between attracting term deposits and keeping the mortgages on our books has once


again started to become more attractive.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


And so the alternative to that was, as we have been doing with securitizing and selling. But I want


to point out that the keeping on our books option has become more attractive because of the ability


to attract term deposits that are – that will give us a good spread if we keep the loans on our books.


And in the second quarter and going forward, we probably will keep more of our insured mortgages


on our balance sheet and fund them internally. However, that would be on a pool-by-pool basis


going forward. I wouldn’t be – I am completely unable to predict all of the interest rate movements


and terms.


All we can do is assess the market at the time the pool is ready to be sold, and if the benefits are to


keep it on the books, we’ll do so, if the benefit really to the company is to securitize and sell, we’ll


do that. But you will see on the books, there will be a trend of an increased portion of our book-of-


business will be insured mortgages, because we will just keep them, because the economic


reasons call out for that.


A word about Visa. There was a growth in the income year-over-year about a 11.4% and the write-


offs and losses are running about a third, one-third of 1%, which is well below the 3 to 5% industry


average for credit card balances. So we’re quite happy with the quality of the portfolio that we have.


We also acknowledge that the portfolio size has been flat over the last quarter or so. To remedy


that, we have hired several key people and plan to rollout new Visa secured products this quarter


and the next quarter. We have no plans to do an unsecured credit card. We are very pleased with


the credit quality and the results from the returns of doing the secured products that are either


secured by a collateral mortgage or are secured by cash.


And looking forward, we see good growth in Visa assets and profit over the balance of the year and


going forward. We’ll talk more once they have rolled out and we have the numbers. They probably


won’t be coming to market on some of those products till the beginning of June. So they may not


have a very big effect in the second quarter, but we do see them having a big effect going forward.


Now, let me now give you a word about the uninsured residential first mortgages, which is our


traditional business, which has treated us very well in the past. And you have probably noted that


we’ve been very careful the past 1.5 years in our uninsured lending.


However, the market has changed. We’re now becoming more comfortable with the present values,


which are about 10 to 15% in most markets, over what they were at the high watermark. They really


do look like they’ve – residential market looks like it’s stabilizing, albeit at a lower level, but that


really does show signs of stabilizing.


And especially, if one can kind of give this broad sweep, it’s probably stabilized or we have seen


the signs of stabilization in Ontario, Quebec, and the Maritimes. We are not yet fully seeing the


stabilization that we would like to see in Alberta and BC. So we will remain, until we can see that in


the marketplace, we’ll continue to be a little more conservative in Alberta and BC and continue to


offer insured products, we probably won’t plunge back into our uninsured products in the two


Western provinces until we see it stabilizing a little better.


We do see, though, that we will be doing more of the uninsured first mortgages as we move back to


our traditional Alt-A products, which we have done very well on historically.


Now, one of the things that I’d like to also chat with you about is the non-residential mortgage


portfolio. This is a portfolio that’s performed very well. We’re very pleased with it. But we want to


advise you that we do not anticipate any growth in the non-residential portfolio over the next few


quarters.