Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Stephen Patrick Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Aren Hoffman — Research Assistant, National Bank Financial – Wealth Management
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group First Quarter Conference Results. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you, Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer you may begin your conference.

Okay, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and fellow shareholders. I'm delighted to report to you today on Home Capital's first quarter results for 2014. Home Capital reported a strong earnings increase, with net income up 18% – or 16.8% year-over-year. Home's diluted earnings were $1 per share, up 16.3% year-over-year and our return on equity was strong at 23.1% for the quarter and continues to be in excess of the company's performance objective of 20%.

Last year, Home completed its sixteenth consecutive year of delivering a return on equity in excess of 20% and we are off to a very good start to continue that streak in 2014. Total mortgage originations for the first quarter grew from $1.38 billion last year to $1.68 billion this year, up 21.7% year-over-year. The growth was partially driven by increased insured mortgage originations, which grew from $121 million last year to $289 million this year.

Our traditional residential mortgage originations grew from $990 million last year to $1.07 billion this year, up about 8%, that was somewhat below our projections, and we believe that the very harsh winter in Canada had a hand in this. However, the good news is as soon as the sun came out and the snow started to melt at the end of March, we noticed a dramatic increase in activity and from the end of March to the present date we are somewhat ahead of our budget. So that augurs very well for the rest of the year.

The credit quality of our loan portfolio remain strong with non-performing loans at the end of the quarter of 0.33%, a little less than 0.35% at the end of last quarter and 1 basis point ahead of a 0.32% to a year ago.

However, included in the quarter ending non-performance number of 0.33% is an insured multi-unit residential loan with an outstanding amount of $9.7 million, where the company expects no losses as the loan is fully insured by CMHC. In the absence of this insured loan, our non-performing ratio would be 0.27 of 1%, 27 basis points, which is very low for Home's well performing portfolio. Home delivered very good results with our securitization program with income from securitization gains of $8.7 million in the quarter compared to $5.8 million in the fourth quarter of 13 and $1.5 million one year ago in the first quarter.

We see the whole securitization program as an important part of our ongoing income and this low risk business has continued to grow substantially. However, we caution our listeners that while the results for the balance of the year will be strong, sometimes the timing of the sales does not always fit into the quarter. In other words, there can be some lumpiness in the securitization gains.

In anticipation of questions, I'm not aware of any problems, but this is the message that has been delivered to us by our counsel that we should advise people it's not as consistent or steady as a regular interest earnings, but we do not anticipate any problems that we're now aware of.

Leaving that aside, we initiated three new programs over the last year in order to further diversify our deposits from a predominantly large deposits broker funded model. Number one, we introduced our high interest savings account, which ended the year with the balance of $450 million. Secondly, we also launched Oaken Financial, a direct-to-consumer deposit brand. The Oaken balances have grown significantly over the last year to reach a balance of $337 million at the end of first quarter 2014.

And thirdly, in the fourth quarter of 2013, the company issued a five-year $300 million deposit note. We anticipate another issue of deposit notes before the end of this quarter, which in all likelihood, should generate the same or modestly greater results from the amount raised in December.

So since launching these three programs last year, these three new deposit programs have raised over $1.1 billion to date, and together with our traditional base of broker funded deposits, we have comfortably financed the company's performance and growth and helped Home to maintain very strong liquidity ratios.

And as we look ahead to the rest of the year, the company anticipates continuous growing demand for all its products and expects that the positive performance during the first quarter will continue. The company continues to deliver solid results in terms of growth, high returns and increased dividends. And the stock market, as you're well aware, has recognized this, which is resulted in an increased stock price.

Despite the modest economic improvement in Canada, Home's performance continues to reflect the strength and the successful execution of its core strategy. Now, that was the end of my prepared remarks, but before we went on to the questions, I'd like to give an invitation to all shareholders, guests and interested parties to the Home Capital Annual Meeting which is held next Wednesday, May 14, at 11 o'clock in the morning at 1 King Street West, it's in the Grand Banking Hall here in Toronto.

And shareholders and I say other guests and interested parties are invited to join directors and management after the meeting for lunch and refreshments. We encourage all to attend and we'll try to put on a good show. Anyways, I think now we can turn back to the operator.

And I think, Tracy, and if you could open the line for questions, please. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

I had a couple of questions. Just first off, looking at the prime side of the market that you guys are in, we've seen some pricing competition from the banks. And I'm just wondering how are you finding that in terms of with relatively speaking slower housing activity? Is it a lot more competitive out there to kind of get that loan in the prime side of the market than maybe last year?

Well, there is a couple of things that have gone into the pricing. It's not just being a little more competitive. As we grow bigger, we probably philosophically will look to do a larger volume but a few less exceptions and a few less worthy. You can get a premium, but they're a little more on the edge. We can see by our decrease in non-performing that we have tightened up the quality on the intake. And if you tighten it up, sometimes there are a little less yields. We're not concerned about it.

We think that the strategy of maybe giving up a bit a year lowering the loan to value, that if we're going through a period where the markets are little buoyant at this point, we're going to have lots insurance and a big cushion, because inevitably the market will rollback 5%, 10%. It could be like it was in 2009; it rolled back a little bit. But we think we're positioning ourselves so that we can handle that with really no trouble.

So the answer is we are – the margin has come in a little bit. It's not just competition. The fact that we can – in bad weather and everything, as I said we were able to increase our originations and through that first quarter quarter-over-quarter was terrific. And I should tell you that since we got rid of the snow, I know you in Vancouver, Geoff, have always had good weather. We've had a rough weather in the rest of the country – a rough winter in the rest of the country. And I think that the analogy that was told to me by one of the brokers, that a lot of people who are anticipating to having an open house and have 50 people come through their house with rubbers and a foot of snow outside the house, it's all primed ready for listing, will soon after went open house look like it's been trashed.

So people just held their houses off the market and the activity came back as the snow melted, the activity really turned up and we've just been delighted with what we've seen in April and what we've seen in May to-date and the pipeline ahead for the next month or two. So I don't think it's a matter of not having the assets. I think it's a matter that we had a little shift in our lending and the spread may be more typical of what it was in the first quarter, it's not likely to go up, but the volume would likely go up. I don't know; does that give you a perspective.

Yeah. It does. And my second question actually ties into what you're talking to at the end in terms of the spring housing season this year and maybe not putting it into comparison relative to Q2 is always better than Q1 and Q1 was slower just because the cold winter. It sounds from what you're saying that the activity has definitely picked up and I'm just kind of curious how you would describe it relative to what might be, call it a typical Q2 housing season. Does this feel like it could be a stronger version of a Q2 or is this maybe more typical of what you expect to see in this type of market?

Well, I think it's a little bit of pent-up demand. I think there is – people who deferred buying in the first quarter that some are coming forward I agree. Second quarter is always stronger. That's just behavioral conduct that's always every year of our existence so second quarter does bigger volume than the first quarter. But I don't know; we see it as a very healthy market, people with large down payments.

We think that all the tightening up that the government has done with little tweaks here and little tweaks there, I think the housing market is in much better shape to sustain the downturn and I think anybody on the sidelines appreciates that the CMHC sets of tweaks, they have clearly over the four or five sets they have done over the last two years. I think they tightened up substantially. I think that what they've tightened up with the regulated companies with the B20 and other provisions, I think the housing market is in terrific shape, because the key to the housing market is that there'd be equity, so people want to stay and protect it, which they now clearly have.

And the second part is that the people are buying of sustainability and I think that's another part of all the tweaks that have happened. So, we happen to be among the group that sees the market quite healthy, and we don't see prices out of alignment. And I can see some areas are high, there are places of North Vancouver and that seem absolutely generous to us here in Toronto.

And I'm sure that someone from Vancouver looks at parts of Toronto and they shake their head and say, gee, they're kind of expensive. But people are buying and they're buying with good down-payments. And they're not – they seem to have sustainability and then we see the arrears sort of creeping downward, all of which are very good signs.

Okay, thank you.

Okay.

Your next question is from Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities.

Hi, Michael.

Hi, Gerry. Are you seeing evidence that your increased interest in doing prime mortgages is actually getting you into the new mortgage brokers? What kind of evidence can you give us? And when will we see the increased penetration leading to increased more traditional Alt-A mortgages that you'd like to get out of these brokers?

Okay. I'm going to turn it over. I'll just answer one thing. It has increased open doors. We won't name any names but it had really opened the couple of doors that we didn't have opened before and that I think you'll start to see it over the rest of the year, but I'm going to let Pino [audio gap] (17:20 – 17:26).

Hello.

Please stand-by. It looks like the presenter line has disconnected. [audio gap] (17:32 – 19:04)

Hello.

I've touched on anything.

Yeah, [indiscernible] (19:09),

I tried to move it and I think I jerked it off. Hello.

Gerry, we got cut off when you were handing it up to Pino.

Okay, I'm sorry. Pino, go over. I don't...

Sorry, Michael.

I'm a good lender. I'm not a great technology guy. Okay. Here, Pino is going to handle the rest of the question. Go ahead, Pino.

All right, thanks, Gerry. So...

Can you hear us okay, Michael?

Yes I can.

Okay. Thanks. Sorry for that folks.

So yeah, Michael, I think we can actually start to see the results of that as quick as the end of Q2. And to Gerry's point, we're going obviously see it over the course of the entire year. But we're already starting to see the traction in the pipeline in Q2.

We obviously know those large lenders or brokers I should say are in the marketplace that traditionally did not do a lot of Alt-A business with us, that we're predominantly very strong in the prime space. We put together programs to build relationships with those brokers and we've obviously seen the results of that. But then concurrently, looking at the pipeline, there's that spill-over into the Alt-A. So, I think, you're going to see those results in the end of Q2.

Okay. Another question, it was reported this week that the average detached house prices in Toronto at $965,000 or up 13% year-over-year, in Vancouver at $1.2 million are up low single-digit. What would have to happen for prices of detached houses to become vulnerable?

Vulnerable in what way; that they go into default?

No, that the prices go down.

Well, I think that at the first rate increase, there's going to be a leveling out of prices. I think there'll be a lot of media attention, and then there'll be – I think, it will scare a lot of people the minute there's a quarter-point increase. I'm not telling you – this is based on past experience. I think that would attempt to slow the market down, but I think it would be quite healthy if we had a period that prices treaded water or came back off 5%. It's not – income is not going up 10% a year. People's salaries aren't going up that amount.

So, I think there has to be some leveling out of the housing market. I don't think it's a bubble. I don't think there's going to be any collapse. I don't think that somebody should be afraid of the housing market. It just may be and it may not be. I don't have a crystal ball. It may be that houses will come off like [ph] '09 (22:14), rates started to rise to resolve the problems in the States. The way the market came about is housing prices came off 5% to 10% in some areas.

But, then quietly recovered and sort of kept going ever since. So that's our crystal ball, however, cloudy it might be.

Thanks very much, Gerry.

Okay. Thanks, Michael. [Operator instructions]

Your next question is from Stephen Boland with GMP Securities.

Hi.

Good morning, Stephen.

Good morning. Just one question on the market for strips, you mentioned the CMHC tightening, I guess your capacity, I guess within the CMHC, maybe you could just talk to that, as well as the market in general, in terms of buyers, are you seeing more buyers getting aware of this market and since maybe last quarter we talked?

Sure. We don't have enough strips to supply the demand that's been requested of us. We get a steady stream of people calling us. It's quite an attractive investment. Everybody needs to take some time to figure it out, because the stream is – it's not a credit risk, this is a prepayment risk, but the prepayment on conventional mortgages, they're five years residential. There is some provisions in the mortgage [ph] that after us (24:01) over the last couple of years, they can pay out with I think interest differential as part of CMHC. And I guess part of the risk on the strip is how much prepayment history has there been.

And historically, especially with rates as low as today, there's been very, very low prepayment risk and so in terms of selling the strips, we've been gradually been able to get slightly improving prices and we have – and the market is not yet matured. I think it'll mature a bit with more people entering. We heard of another company entering had strips for sale, just the last couple of weeks. And I think there will be more in the market, there will be more trading in it and it will become a more sophisticated market. But at this point selling them is not the problem. All we have to do is make sure we originate according to CMHC standards, put them in the pool, securitize and then there's always demand at the other end.

So supply is the issue. What's the – is it the type of mortgage that you're doing that's the supply issue or your...?

No, the supply issue is we can only gear ourselves up so fast, in other words, it takes time when – if to give you an example, like last – I gave you, we went from, I don't know, $120-odd-million to close to $300 million year-over-year. And that's with bad weather, and we're hoping that number could be a lot higher in second quarter. But there's nothing unusual about the mortgage, it's a straight up mortgage, but there's different companies with different strategies. Not everybody looks to securitize and sell. Some keep it on their balance sheet.

To fit our strategy, it's a very low risk one, but we just didn't want our balance sheet plugged with having CMHC mortgages on it, which would prevent us from other types of lending. So it's almost like a servicing business. There's a little capital used to accumulate it, but it's a very low capital-intensive business using the method we're using. And we were the ones that went down and came up with the solution, got the regulatory ruling, and as I say, a couple of other companies who kind of joined in and are starting to do it, and it depends on each company's individual practices. As far as I know, none of the big six banks at this point have done it.

Okay. That's great. Thanks, Gerry.

Okay, you're welcome.

Your next question is from the Aren Hoffman with National Bank Financial.

Good morning, Gerald Soloway.

Good morning, Aren. Nice to hear from you again.

Yeah, so I've just got one main question here. What do you think of the two recent CMHC changes of ending insurance of second homes and self employed borrowers and the previous elimination of the investor immigrant program, given Home Capital's focus on: A, new immigrants to Canada who have no credit history; B, small business owners who cannot show enough income to qualify traditionally; and C...

Aren, Aren, Aren, just a second. Why don't you break the questions down and I'll have a much better ability to answer them properly. So your first – I'm not cutting off from the other questions, but your first question was, what effect on Home – if I got it right, what effect on Home on CMH changes to eliminate the second homes and eliminate the business for self...

Yeah.

Okay.

With regards to – first one was new immigrants to Canada who have no credit history.

I think it's going to be difficult for new immigrant to get a CMHC mortgage. Now, I should tell you, that is not different. There has never been a time that CMHC said, once people are here and are landed and have their first job without a deposit without a credit history, there was never a time that they would make it easy for that classification of person to get a mortgage.

There were some people who had second houses. Let's go back to the first one. The first one is a very small part of the market where people have looked for a second [ph] mortgage (29:00) house with CMHC financing. CMHC has drawn back. One of the competitors to CMHC, there are three competitors in the market, we know that one of the other competitors is still looking at doing a second house, not a third or multiple, but they will review a second house. So, there is some room in the market for somebody who can have both a house and a country home or cottage, or a rental home under CMHC, that's still possible with one of the lenders.

Now, the other one – but we see that as beneficial for us, because if they get turned down from CMHC, whether or not the bank will do it on a conventional basis, it's something that we definitely look under our Alt-A, and the same with the business-for-self whose proof of income is not satisfactory for a 90% loan at CMHC. We might be very comfortable doing something for them at 70% or 75%.

So, it's good for you as long as they come up with the 20% down or whatever the requirement is, it might be 30% or it's good for you that they can't qualify for CMHC in that regard?

Now to go a step further, we may be limited on how much we can lend, but we have developed relationships with secondary lenders who might go in behind us with different lenders in different parts of the country. We have no economic relationship to them, we get no economic benefit. But if the broker comes and we say we can only do say 65% or 70% or 75% and they need a higher ratio, we're able to give the individual mortgage broker, in each part of the country, two or three lenders that work with us will accept what documentation we will send them with the client's consent, and work with them to try to fill that financing gap.

So at this point, I don't think it had much effect on the marketplace. And for us it's modestly positive. Did I answer all your questions or you still have one more?

No, no. The final point was how will this affect Canadians with former credit difficulties that have been resolved including discharge bankrupts, which I know is part of Home Capital's focus? Will these changes have any effect on discharged bankrupts or Canadians who've had their credit problems worked through?

No, I don't think so. I think that, if the sufficient time has gone by that had fulfilled without getting into all the nitty-gritty of their criteria. If it fulfilled CMHC's criteria prior to these changes, it will fulfill them now. They didn't change any of those rules.

Okay. Well, I guess the main impact I see here is small business owners. I mean, obviously their income is primarily not – it's self-employed income, so they don't show all their income necessarily and CMHC has obviously tightened documentation with regards to self-employed borrowers. So you're saying that effect should be positive if anything?

Yeah. For whom? Pino is going to answer that. He – okay, go ahead, Aren – go ahead, Pino. That's Aren on the phone.

Okay. Thanks, Aren. Yeah, you're absolutely right. But I think you have to – what I can tell you is what we've been seeing for the past year. Remember, these latest round of changes, B21 recently came about. But I think you got to go further back to the first round B20. And I think it was very interesting when CMHC released its changes that they quantified the amount of business that they currently do in that segment and for the stated income, self-employed borrower was less than 5%. Although the changes occurred now, they pretty much have been underwriting to that standard for the past year.

So, the market has already adjusted. Lenders are fully aware that CMHC [ph] heard of (33:26) was reducing its appetite towards that segment of the market. And I'll tell you why. It does require as we know on our business having dealt with this segment for over 25 years, it does require more due diligence; it does require more work on the underwriting. And to Gerry's point, there are 2 competitors in the insurer space that are willing to do that due diligence.

So for the past year, Genworth really has been the insurer that knows and understands that self-employed stated income type marketplace, adjudicates well to that marketplace. And when you look at their results that segment is actually the top performing segment in Genworth's book.

So to that point, although the changes are happening today everybody's been pretty much operating this way for over a year now.

But don't you think these changes will limit the pool of buyers and thus cause stress on the housing market overall, especially the condo market?

I don't think so, because again to CMHC's point it was less than 5% and dropping of their intake of applications. There are other resources as Gerry said that these individuals can go to, whether it be other insurers, whether it be other lenders, whether it be private sector and they've all been in place for the past year. From our standpoint, we haven't seen a drop off. So again, I think the market has easily adjusted.

And if there was a little slowing, we don't see that as a bad things like we don't think prices can go up 12%, 13% a year if inflation is going up at 2% or less. Sooner or later it will peak itself out because salaries may be increasing, but they're not generally going up at this faster rate. So these things have a way of balancing out salaries or income our capacity to borrow and capacity to service. There is some symmetry to it, not always immediately, but over time.

So to sum up CMHC's changes may restrain growth in prices, which is actually a good thing.

I would think so.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks Aren.

Your next question is from [ph] Brad Kerley with Northway Capital (35:49).

Good morning.

Good morning, [ph] Brad (35:56).

Question for you on your type of product that you're lending to, I see in your financials, you break out geographic areas. But I'm curious to find out in terms of what you plan to, how much of your portfolio is broken up into condo versus single-family attached buildings and specifically could you talk to the – we're seeing here in Calgary a rise in the condo markets getting quite frothy and any views on how the condominium prices in Calgary, Vancouver, Toronto are going to go in the foreseeable future?

Okay. Good question. We have not been historically a lender to condo buyers on the first round, most – and I'll explain what, most condos when they are under construction or prior to construction in order for the builder to get construction financing he has to show a percentage of the units that are sold with qualified buyers. And that could be 60%, 65% of the units have to be pre-sold or else the builder will not get his construction financing. The banks tend to qualify those individuals on the basis of people they will give a mortgage to.

So if somebody has put 5% or 10% or 15% deposit down, the bank doing the construction financing will look to get that residential customer and will qualify them according to the bank's criteria. So a large number of individuals end up with the banks who are buying a condominium. We of course are active in the resale market. And at this point, we have about 7.7% of our residential portfolio are in condos. And of that 7.7% somewhere around half of it is insured with CMHC. So we don't have a large exposure and we do look at very much at a building-by-building situation. But we are quite happy to do condominiums. We think they're just very much part of the market. And if it's insured, our results, we analyze this carefully, the results on the condo insured loans are the same as the rest of the book of business of insured loans. So we have not seen any difference there.

Calgary is sort of I think moving into a more intensified condo market and they'll be as you're – you can see by looking at the skyline, there's a lot new projects that are coming up or are under construction. We're quite happy with the value and again on a building-by-building basis lending in the Calgary market. But I'll just turn it over to Pino, is there anything you'd add to that?

No, I think you pretty much got it all. Although it's not a large part of our portfolio, we obviously keep an eye on the behavior of the condo market. We watch both on a new construction and on a resale basis how it performs, what portion of the total overall market it makes up. And we're also very, very cautious as to the number of units we will lend in a building. We don't want to be overexposed. We carefully select the buildings we will lend on and then further keep an eye on how exposed we are to individual buildings as well. So, again something that obviously we keep an eye on, on a monthly basis.

Does that answer your question, [ph] Brad (39:59)?

Very well. Thank you so much.

Yeah, no, no, come in – do you deal with our office there?

No, I don't.

Well, we should have someone introduce themselves to you and if you need any mortgages on the condo area we would try to assist you.

Sounds good.

Your next question is from Graham Ryding with TD Securities.

Thanks. I was wondering if I could touch on your net interest margin on the non-securitized portfolio. There was a couple of factors that seemed to cause it to decline this quarter. Should we expect those factors to remain in place? And the outlook for NIM here going forward, is it to be flat or should we see more compression in this part of your book?

I don't think there'd be more compression. But I don't see a big uptick too in terms of guidance going forward. I think that we have consciously decided to be somewhat on the cautious side and there are occasions when we hold the loan down to 65% for a lesser rate than go to 75%, even if the person qualifies at 75%. So the present NIM is probably a good indication on the growing forward. And with all of this discussion of possibly the housing market being a little exuberant and maybe they're being in adjustment, we've really concentrated our efforts on two things in big broad headlines continue to grow asset quality is very important to us and liquidity.

And the liquidity, where I mentioned we're doing the notes; we do the high interest rate accounts; we do the direct-to-consumer. We're trying to make sure that we don't have any mismatching, and in fact, we've been operating on the basis that we will over-match our maturities, in other words, we'll have longer-term deposits to some degree, not out of line. But we'll have some degree deposits that are longer term than our average maturity on the mortgages.

So we've just taken a half-a-step back. We still see good growth, good profitability. We maybe give up a little bit with a few points of NIM here and there. But what we think it's all for good reason and sustainability and continued chugging along at this kind of growth rate.

Okay, great. And then, looking at your securitized book, you obviously are quite active in what you sold off-balance sheet this quarter. When we're sort of looking two, three, four years out, should we expect this securitized book to continue to trend down that's on-balance sheet?

I'll let Bob Blowes, our Treasurer, answer that.

Hi, Graham. Yes, I would think that's a good way to think about it as we – our business model is changing, so that our balance sheet will be composed primarily of non-securitized loans, and again, primarily in our core lending space. And as we originate new insured residential loans, for the most part they will be securitized in the interest-only strips sold. So one of the earlier callers mentioned moving more into a servicing kind of model with respect to that kind of business, there are some limitations as to how much of the insured portfolio we can remove from our balance sheet through interest-only strip sales. And CMHC has currently placed a limit of 50% of outstandings. So that it will be part of the equation. But you wouldn't expect to see a declining securitized on-book portfolio.

Okay. But to a maximum of 50% [indiscernible] (44:25).

Yes, that's the current guidance, and they may move that one way or the other depending on how this unfolds and other factors in the environment.

Yeah. We have no control over that, but we got lots of capacity under the present rules.

Yes.

Okay, great. And just with your direct-to-consumer deposit issue via the Oaken Financial...

Yes.

How are you feeling about the uptick on that so far and is there still more work to be done in this area?

No, we're just scratching the surface, where maybe I'll explain the e-banking.

Yes.

Yeah.

So, Graham, there is a couple of factors there. One is – in many ways that depends on the promotion and pricing, and we adjust our strategy there from month-to-month based on the other factors in terms of funding or where fundings coming from at the time, what the market presents. And we see lots of opportunity to be more aggressive in the marketing of the Oaken brand through promotion and pricing.

And then the bigger factor I think is our move to an e-banking platform to support Oaken and that is not too far from launch. It's a very exciting initiative for us and that really gets us into the – on to the screens of depositors across the country. So that's another part of the strategy, which we'll see unfold in the next few weeks.

So we're very bullish on Oaken and the possibilities there. And I think, Gerry has said on many occasions, if you put the deposit opportunities in front of people at the right pricing, the funds will come.

So, currently consumers are accessing Oaken products either via telephone or in person.

Yes. Yes, you can go on the Oaken website and see the pricing and so on, and you can get some information. But actually at the moment have to transact business through telephone or in person?

Yeah. We don't have the electronic solution where people can sit in their home and just send us money, so that's coming soon, stay posted.

Of course, you can always use the mail.

So you expect the e-platform in Q2 or Q3?

By Q3. Yeah, because it should be in Q2, but I don't – technology start-ups with all the checking one has to do and have it as secure as you can. I'm not sure it will be launched before the end of June, but it's close, it's very close to the end.

Great, thank you.

There are no further questions. I turn the call back over to Mr. Soloway.

Okay. Well, thank you everybody, and thanks for the call. Thanks for questions. We remain very a bullish about the year ahead. I think it's going to be a good solid year for Home. And we're not ignoring the market conditions that are out there and the concerns people are having. As I said, our concentration on asset quality and our concentration on liquidity are both very much at the front of our thinking and we think we can deliver good solid year to you.

So thank you very much for joining us. And look forward to chatting with you again in three months' time. Thank you, bye-bye.

Thank you for joining, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.