corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Home Capital Group Inc. Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a


question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].


I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Thursday, August 6,


2009 at 10:30 A.M. Eastern Time. I will now turn the conference over to Gerald M. Soloway, Chief


Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It’s my very great pleasure to report to you on


Home Capital’s 2009 second quarter results. For the first time in our history we have had earnings


per share hit $1 per share for the quarter.


Our earnings – total earnings were up some 29.4% year-over-year and our return on equity was


27.9%. The other very significant headline on the results we had was that total assets, together


with mortgage-backed securities and Canada bond – mortgage bonds originated and administered


by the company, grew to $9.44 billion which is some 34% higher than it was a year ago.


This quarter also marks the 13th consecutive quarter that profits and earnings per share increased


quarter-over-quarter, lucky thirteen. And with results like that at Home Capital, we truly believe in


the old saying, home sweet home. Prior to the second quarter, we had – an increase in earnings


had been for the last few quarters driven by increased securitization gains and increased volume in


the securitization area, but not so this quarter.


As we had indicated in previous conference calls, the amount of securitization has increased, but


the income went from 24.3 million to 22.8 million in the quarter. And the gain in earnings that we


have put up this quarter, mainly came from net interest income from mortgage lending, which


increased during the quarter from 20.5 million in the first quarter to 24.7 in second quarter, an


increase of some 4.2 million pre-tax.


Now the increase in net interest income came from two main sources, primarily the 350 odd million


increase in residential mortgages that we kept on our balance sheet. These are mortgages that


were not securitized, but were originated and kept on our books in accordance with the – what I


would call the old home trust lending policies.


Secondly, was an improvement in our spread, which resulted in the net interest margin between the


company’s assets and liabilities for the second quarter rising to 2.9% compared to 2.6% in the first


quarter. When you have a $6 billion balance sheet of 30 basis point rise in the quarter, it does


produce some extra income. So, that’s where the 4.2 million increase in net interest income came


during the quarter.


There were two other events of note during the quarter that I wanted to comment on at this time.


One was the announcement that Home Trust was appointed by the Government of Canada,


Department of Finance as trustee for the General Motors Corporation Warranty Assurance


program. This trustee appointment is related to the Government of Canada’s $10 billion


participation in the restructuring of General Motors Corporation.


Now, just so that there is clarity, the fee income from the trustee appointment has been and will be


modest, its modest income from it. However, we felt very proud to be selected by the Department
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


of Finance for the trusteeship and we believe that the trusteeship is, in part, a recognition of our


strong financial position. So, we see it as a real feather in our cap for obtaining that


The second item of note is that for the 10th time in five years, we have increased our dividend.


We’ve increased it to $0.15 a quarter, $0.60 annualized, and as we have committed in the past, we


will continue to do so. As our company continues to increase in profitability, we will look to benefit


all shareholders by steadily increasing the dividend on a going-forward basis.


I would like also to now talk about arrears because that’s something that’s very much on


everybody’s mind and something we work very hard at. Although the arrears did increase to – this


is the impaired arrears, those over 90 days, did increase from 1.3% to – from 1.2 the previous


quarter and 0.9% at year-end, we have seen some very encouraging signs in the arrears portfolio.


We have always published the non-performing, which is the 1.3, but there’s another number we


also focus on internally which is proved to be in the language of the day has been very encouraging


green shoots, and that is the 30-day arrears. How many people are in 30 days arrears at the end


of each month?


Now, in Ontario, where we have 73% of our mortgage portfolio, the 30 days arrears peaked in


December at 2.8% and since then they’ve gone steadily down. And so, at the end of June, they’ve


gone from 2.8 at the end of December to 2.1 at the end of June, down about 70 basis points.


This, over a period of time, will result in lower arrears because the files do work their way through


the system, some people solve them, some properties have to be sold. But the 30 day bucket is a


very significant bucket to us as bit of a tell telling us what’s happening coming down the line. So,


we see very good progress in Ontario.


Now, interestingly enough, we see the same 70 odd basis point drop in the portfolios of Quebec


and all of the Maritime Provinces. So, Ontario East to the Atlantic, they’ve all performed about the


same. We have very little portfolio in Manitoba and Saskatchewan and we’ve really seen very little


in arrears there. The portfolio that we do have is predominantly insured and even that’s very


modest.


However, the story in BC and Alberta, where between the two provinces we have about 20% of our


portfolio, has not shown the same green shoots. We have – when we look at the early arrears in


BC and Alberta, they’re only down a couple of basis points from the beginning of the year to June


30th. They’ve come down a little bit but not nearly the improvement we’ve seen in Ontario East.


As a result, it’s now for over a year, we are only doing insured loans in BC and Alberta. And hope to


minimize our risk by staying out of the market until we see the improvement in values and in


housing market that we’ve seen in Ontario.


Now, we are very comfortable that we – and confident that we think the West will continue or we’ll


start to see some improvements over the balance of the year. But we are using an abundance of


caution and we will not start lending for our own balance sheet in the West until we are quite


comfortable. We may lend in doing insured loans and keep them on our books, but if they are not


insured, we’re going to be abundantly cautious on the West for the balance of this year anyway.


Now, in terms of the quantity and quantum of arrears and write offs. We are quite comfortable that


the amount we’ve set aside in the first half, the first two quarters of the year, will be approximately


the same amount that we’ll need over the balance of the year for setting aside for non-performing


loans.


We monitor our arrears very carefully, sliced and diced in about 20 different ways by areas,


communities, provinces, early arrears, and we do not see any troubling trends in 80% of the


portfolio. What we haven’t seen yet is the improvement we’d like to see in the West. Now, we’re