raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Incorporated Q1 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a


listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions. [Operator Instructions]. I


would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Wednesday, April 27,


2005 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern. And will now turn the conference over to Gerald Soloway, President


and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald Soloway, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, operator. Good morning everybody. I’m delighted to report you on Home


Capital’s 39th consecutive quarter of increased profit. It was an absolutely super quarter for the


company and I’ll just run through the highlights of that and then go on to questions. The income


was up some 35.4%, the basic earnings were up 33% or $0.40 from 30 last year, the fully diluted


earnings were up 34.5% from 39 this year, from 29 last year. Our return on equity, I will say this


slowly was a record 32.2%, the return on equity keeps bumping along a plus 30, which is really


superb in the context of Canadian deposit taking financial institutions, really a record number.


Assets grew mortgage originations, we had a super quarter. We are up 32.4% from 300 million to


332 million.]


Let me just pause there for a moment because if people look at the fourth quarter number and said


oh! You didn’t do as well as you did fourth quarter. Well, there’s a funny thing about Canadians.


They don’t like to move in the middle of the winter. When it’s 2 feet of snow and there is a blizzard


out the 15th of January, most people just say, “hey! I’ll put up clothing to the day that’s more


weather friendly”. So as a result you looked back at our first quarter, year-over-year, you have to


tracking on a year-over-year basis, not on a fourth quarter. The fourth quarter and in fact all of the


other quarters, there are far more robust in origination of new mortgage loans. So, the fact that we


were able to be up some 32% really indicates that we are firing on all pistons and that everything is


looking very strong that we should have a year that mortgage originations you take last year’s base


and we should be in the 25% to 30% range depending on a variety of other factors, but we look like


we should be able to sustain that for the year.


The second, next thing I wanted to mention was the balance on the Equity Plus VISA. It was up to


almost 64 million from 28.5 million a year ago and again that was a super quarter for us. All of the


things we’d hoped for in Equity Plus VISA had been accomplished and that business is really


beginning to click in a very big way. The other comment I have is on the net impaired loans. There


were 0.45 and compared to 0.40 at December and 0.31 a year ago and legitimate question is


what’s happened. I first of all point out there has been no losses, net losses in the mortgage


portfolio for the last 13 quarters that’s three and a quarter years.


What happened is up to a year ago, we almost had no over 90 day arrears in the Toronto market.


Toronto’s, the GTA has now caught up with the rest of the country and we are running similar


arrears in the GTA towards which we are running in the rest of the country, there is no spike, it’s


just that in the Toronto market we run average loan to values that are about double what they are in


the rest of the country. So that the portfolio as a whole at the end of March has a $155,000 average


loan but when you are in the Toronto market as a metropolitan Toronto market, you are dealing


with loans that are almost double the national average. So the number of loans that are in arrears


have been remarkably similar considering our growth, but we have some larger loans in the


Toronto market and on million dollar houses. We still stuck to our same principles, we still have like


four or five loans in the whole company that are over $1 million. That’s still not a mark that we go


to., These are just average homes but there is a few more homes in the Toronto market that it just


adds to total, but what I wanted to do is assure you we’ve looked that carefully, we’ve scrubbed it
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


as clean as we can, we do not anticipate any losses. They are perfectly normal houses and the


trend that we have had for sometime of being able to sell them or people refinance them or they


solve their own problem, that trend is continuing and we don’t anticipate any material losses over


the rest of the year in the mortgage portfolio.


Now one of the most exciting things from the quarter was that we had a superb efficiency ratio. As


you are aware, we had a 36% efficiency ratio or if you use the tax equivalent basis then it’s down to


35.3, which is a superb number for us, but it’s more significant in that we spent the quarter building


up our infrastructure. We believe that if we are going to go and double the assets in the next three


years, it’s really crucial for us to put an infrastructure in place that is seasoned, people have a


chance to do their job and we have all the right systems and controls in place. So, we have beefed


up our credit department. We have hired two senior credit people and probably will hire some more


over the next few months as they get integrated and we have not – we are putting a credit group in


place that will be seasoned and professional and very knowledgeable, well ahead of the growth that


we expect to happen over the next year. The other thing we’ve done is we hired a number of


important positions such as the Director of Human Resources and new Director of IT and some


senior people, two senior people at VISA. In addition to I don’t want to leave anybody else, but a lot


of other very important people. Really that will be in place to help us with the growth on a going


forward basis and so we feel we really beefed up our staff and we are continuing to hire and


notwithstanding that increase in staff, we still have brought in very good efficiency ratio.


Now I should also tell you on a going forward basis, we have great confidence in our business. We


rented an additional 20,000 square feet, which will move into in the last quarter of the year as I


have indicated. We probably hired 15 new people in the quarter although the net employees of


[indiscernible] 10, I think we had some maternity leaves, one or two people left and so there was a


net growth of [indiscernible] 10, we have continue hire in the month of March because we feel


people are the key strength that we have in the company, but we really see a super year coming


up. We see the future good and I am now going to – before the front conference call, I hope I don’t


preempt some of the analyst’s question, but if I tell bed time stories, there is boogieman that don’t


exist. And I guess I hear them every time I do an analyst meeting, every time I have conference


call. So I just go through the three boogiemen that we have not seen and do not exist. Boogieman


number one, we do not believe that we run into the law a big numbers. We think that we can


continue to grow with the same pace and that we are nowhere near running into law of big numbers


that because we are now 3.2 billion of assets, including mortgages under administration, that we


cannot double that number three years out.


Looking at number one, we don’t believe. Two, we do not see the second boogieman; we don’t see


any competition being a problem. The people who are out there competing and you’ve read about


some of the people who are non-regulated lenders such as Exceed [ph] and Wells Fargo and


GMAC. They operate in a market quite different than ours and we have not bumped into them from


a competitive point of view. And the third big boogieman; is we don’t see the banks entering our


market. They are all very busy looking south. They don’t look west, they look South and they’re


very focused on looking South and at the sideways glance they look out of their corner of their eyes


at each other hoping they get weakened or not from the federal government permitting them to


merge, but we have not seen even the study program, there’s really no interest in what we do.


The reason why we are so bullish again and I’ll just repeat this is we see a very large underserved


target market in Canada. There’s 20% of the population, that’s six million Canadians, that’s 1.5


million to 2 million households who do not qualify at the major banks and major financial


institutions. That is our target market. When you talk about 1.5 million to 2 million households and


we only have including mortgage bank securities, 20,000 mortgages, we don’t think doubling to


40,000 out of a target market of 1.5 million to 2 million, is a big deal. And we don’t think that s hard


to accomplish, as long as we stick to our principles, hire the right people, grow organically. We are


not looking to buy anybody. We think we can do it all with the good people we have and the


additional ones who are hired we could do it organically.