corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Amanda and I’ll be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank


you.


Mr. Soloway, you may begin your conference.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Good, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Home Capital’s conference


call for 2009 fourth quarter and full year results. Home Capital had a very good year in 2009. We


had net income in the fourth quarter up 39.4% year-over-year. The net income for the year was up


32.9% over 2008. The basic earnings per share were up 39.3%. The basic earnings for the year –


per share for the year is up some 33%. And the total assets including balance sheet securitized


mortgages that ended the year, we came in at 11.5 billion, up again 36.6% from the 8.4 billion a


year ago. All of which added to a return on equity, which was 28.4% for the fourth quarter against


28.2% for the year.


What this was is the 12 consecutive quarter with a return on equity over 20%, and for the last seven


years, Home has delivered a return on equity over 25% in each and every one of the last seven


years, an amazing record for a regulated financial institution. I think that 2009 results have shown


that our business model has delivered superior results through both good years and as we saw in


2008 and ‘09, some years that were not so good.


Our business model is a very simple one. We target underserved markets within the Canadian


financial services market. We avoid wherever possible the trend towards external debt that has to


get repaid and usually you have to pay it back at the worst possible time. So we avoid it wherever


possible. It doesn’t mean we’ll never use it, but we use it and repay it. We’ve also avoided the trend


towards preferred shares and we have neither of those on our balance sheet at the present time.


We tried to hire superior employees and train them and promote people within the company. And


then we do that in order to deliver superior service to our customers. And we try to be very aware of


all the risks in all of our businesses. We believe in delivering strong capital ratios. At the end of the


year, Tier 1 was 16.4%, total capital was 18%, which has almost doubled the regulatory


requirements. And we believe that it’s the best record among the publicly reporting deposit taking


institutions in Canada.


We ended the year with some 491 employees, up about 96 employees from the 395 we had a year


ago. We at Home are doing our best to help reduce the Canada’s unemployed. But we didn’t hire


just to reduce the unemployed. We hired because we needed the people. And we’ve hired across a


great range of skills and backgrounds. We’ve hired from a range of having a Ph.D added to our risk


management group to a number of CAs, a number of MBAs through to the entry level mortgage


officer position.


And we hired those because in 2010, we are going to need every one of the 491 employees we


hired, plus the new employees that we’ve been hiring to accommodate the growth we see in 2010.


And we believe that there are three key growth drivers that will deliver increased profitability and a


strong return on equity once again in 2010.


The larger source of growth that we see for 2010 will be in our regular core residential lending


business. We now see a stable and much healthier housing market across almost all regions of
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Canada that we saw compared to what we saw a year ago. Looking ahead, we believe that the


Canadian housing market will stabilize and strengthen throughout 2010 and we do not see any


bubble.


The second driver of growth will be our insured acceleration program, which offers a full range of


insured mortgage products. Most of the mortgages we originate under the insured accelerated


program we sell through CMHC insured mortgage-backed securities or through the Canada


Mortgage Bond Program. And even though we believe that the spreads for the insured mortgages


may well narrow during 2010, we do see an increase in volume and we expect the increase in


volume to offset the narrowing of spreads and we see good gains in this business throughout the


year.


The third driver is our Visa and other retail lending programs. We have implemented new and


innovative marketing initiatives to grow the portfolio and we expect to generate a solid increase in


profitability in the Visa segment of our business. The retail lending portfolio, which up to recently


has been fairly small, was strengthened with the signing of a long-term financing agreement with


National Home Services. We believe that the 2010 funding will be 90 to 100 million and these will


be in Home water heaters. The nature of the way the deal is structured and the guarantees that we


have in place, we feel this is quite a low-risk business for us and about 59 million of the 100 million


has already closed at this time. So, we see a nice bump upward in the income both from the retail


lending portfolio and the Visa portfolio.


Let me talk to you a minute about the net impaired loans over the past year. The arrears graph


looks something like an inverted or an upside down V. We started last year in January the 1, 2009,


with a non-performing rate of 86 basis points. That steadily rose until about the end of May when


we found it peaked for us in non-performing loans. And we did have a published figure in June of


1.3%, which was a little under the peak we saw in May.


We – I gave advise throughout the year that after the beginning or after the beginning of July, we


continued to see the trend downward in non-performing loans and that trend continued from the 1.3


at the end of June to 85 basis points at the end of December.


Now, the – what was extremely encouraging, for us in the five, six weeks of the New Year, we have


seen that improving trend continuing and the acceleration of runoff of non-performing loans. The


drop is happening for two reasons. One is, we are not seeing as many properties go into arrears,


because people are able to solve their own problems. Either they can’t afford the house, they sell it,


get the benefit of a good housing market and sell to a third-party or they’re able to refinance or


they’re able to with the jobs sort out the arrears and get themselves back and perform – get them


back to being a performing loan. And we’ve been, as I said, very encouraged by the 85 basis points


that’s continued to come down in the first five weeks of the year.


And we expect the non-performing number, it will continue to slowly improve throughout the year.


Now, if they’d be lumpy, because one quarter you might get a few more properties, it takes a little


longer to sell. That’s just part of the arrears game that we know how it performs. But I think in terms


of overall performance, I think we’ll see a continuing steady improvement in that number through


the rest of the year, which is very encouraging.


We also – I should just make a comment that there was some analysis reports about we had some


gains on taxes in the fourth quarter. The Province has lowered its rate and then there is an


adjustment on the going forward. But I’d like to point out that in the third quarter we had a gain on


derivatives of some 11.3, which came in, in the third quarter, which in the fourth quarter got


reversed to some three million negative, which is a number that bounces around.


The taxes with the way the governments have changed the taxes and I got to tell you that I didn’t


think we’d see the day that they’d be enacted and passed, but they have been enacted and passed