corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Inc.’s Third Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.


[Operator Instructions]


I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Monday, November 3,


2008, at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. Please go


ahead, sir.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Well. Thank you operator. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to report to you on


Home Capital’s record third quarter results. Home had net income of $27.9 million, which is up


22.3% year-over-year, and for the first nine months we earned some 79.6 million, which is 20.7%


over the comparable period last year. Our basic earnings were up 22.7% to $0.81, and our first nine


months came in at $2.29, up 21.2. We had a return on equity of 27.6% for the quarter and a 27.8%


for the first nine months.


I’d like those on the conference call to just stop and think how many deposit-taking institutions in


Canada earned 27.8% return on equity during the first nine months of this year. And I also put to


you how many of you listeners have had your net worth, however it was invested, have had your


net worth increase 27.8% during the first nine months of this year. I think that’s truly a remarkable


achievement in light of the environment we’re operating in.


Home’s growth continued, total assets on mortgage-backed securities that we originate, administer


and then we get them back at the end of the term, all those securitizations were up to 28.5% year-


over-year growth and we had record originations of – total origination of 1.1 billion during the


quarter. All of which leads me to paraphrase a quote of Charles Dickens from the Tale of Two


Cities, “It is the best of times and it is the worst of times.”


I say it’s the best of times because Home recorded the all-time record profits, record earnings per


share, growth over 28%, high return on equity and that is the best quarter that Home has produced


in its history. However, it’s the worst of times when one looks at the financial volatility and unrest


that has been experienced around the world and in the United States, both for financial institutions


and other companies. It has deteriorated to a degree that has not been seen since the Great


Depression almost 80 years ago. So we have the best, we have the worst.


What has Home done to cope with this environment? Well, there is a number of things and I’m


going to go through them with you now because I want to spell out what we’ve done because of an


environment that has been highly volatile for financial institutions.


I first of all give a lot of credit to the fact that Canada has had the benefit of a better economy than


the United States and there have been no financial institution failures in Canada of regulated


companies. However, I think I want to advise you that we do see a softening in the housing market


in Canada and Home has been proactive to mitigate this softening. What we have done is we’ve


directed our focus on new complementary lines of business, which we have branded Accelerator.


Now, Accelerator is only residential first mortgages which have been insured predominantly by


CMHC, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. I think it’s now called Canada Mortgage and


Housing, and that’s no longer Central. Sorry, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, CMHC.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Up to October 31 of this year, approximately 44% of all our new residential mortgages have been


insured so that the risk is transferred off of Home’s books leaving us with most of the economic


value and we have been able to have these mortgages securitized and sold. We are working on a


going-forward basis to have this rise to some 50% of our residential mortgages on a going-forward


basis over the next few quarters. This takes a huge risk off of our balance sheet and transfers it to


the mortgage insurers.


The Accelerator Program has increased our group of products that we offer to the mortgage


brokers and has resulted in increased volumes for both the insured and the uninsured mortgages in


a slowing market. So, the first step we have done is create the Accelerator and it is helping to


create a one-stop shop for the mortgage broker network which is very appealing, and we are


delighted by the early results we’ve received from it during the course of this year.


The second thing to be proactive, we’ve increased our liquidity. We maintained very strong liquidity


ratios and we have not experienced any stress in obtaining or attracting additional term deposits


from the public. I might add we do not engage, nor do we attract wholesale deposits, which are


usually in large amounts, which have been more difficult to obtain. We were never in that market,


we’re not in the market now. All of our deposits come from the public where the deposits are


guaranteed by Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation, CDIC, and people are insured for up to


100,000 per account. So the money is coming quite attractively. We maintain liquidity at about


double the guidelines set by our regulator, but I should point out that the cost of the term deposits


has increased to historic levels over what we – over the Canada Bond curve which had normally


been the way that they had been priced in the past.


I might add that this is the cost for all deposit-taking institutions. They are running at this point to


cost of term deposits on a five-year basis, something close to 2%, 200 basis points, over the


Canada Bond curve, and they are available and term deposits are attracted by the public, but as I


pointed out, the cost has very substantially increased.


So, the third thing we’ve done is not only maintain high liquidity, but the third thing is our treasurer


has created a new product whereby we originate a new product in a pool of new mortgages. Now,


these are one-year mortgages. They could be older mortgages that have a maturity date of one


year or less. We obtain the insurance from CMHC and we sell these mortgage-backed securities to


other chartered banks. At that point even though we have to insure the pool, pay the expenses of


securitization and sell them, the rate at which we are able to sell them is substantially less than the


cost of obtaining those deposits from the public.


Now what it also does as an added benefit is it takes the risk on those pools again off the books


because they’re all insured. So that not only do we get a lower rate, but if there is a claim on any of


those mortgages over the ensuing period, it’s covered by CMHC. So it’s another way we both lower


the cost, get them insured, get the risk off our books, transfer it to a third party.


There has been a little – some of the analysis who – analysts, I guess, who have been making


comments on our company, I think have been a little misguided on how much we were going to


make on mortgage-backed securities in the quarter. Until I read the analysis that have come out, I


was delighted on how well we did, but I can see where the analysts saw that we did, because it’s a


public number, we securitized 544 million during the quarter, that they assume that they would all


be done at our historic yield, somewhere 3 to 3.5% yield on those pools.


What in fact happened is that there was a – the yield on the one-year mortgage-backed pools,


which was a little over a 90 million, is the yield on those pools is much less than when we sell a


five-year pool, because under accounting systems, you’re only dealing with the present value on


one-year as opposed to the present value on five years, and we also had 175 million of CMHC


insured multi-residential units and again the return on those was modest. So, I want to point out