Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, CEO & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Phil Hardie — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Blair and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to Home Capital Group Third Quarter 2016 Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Laura Lepore, Investor Relations, you may go ahead.

Thank you operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our third quarter financial results. With me on the call today are Martin Reid, President and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Morton, Chief Financial Officer; Chris Whyte, Chief Operating Officer; and Pino Decina, our Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and condition of Home Capital Group, and as such comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to predict and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

With that, I'll now turn over the call to Martin Reid, President and Chief executive officer, Home Capital.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss our 2016 third quarter results. This morning we will talk about our results, some of the more recent mortgage rule changes, activities, and some of our business lines. Rob Morton, our CFO, will get into more detail on the financials, and then we'll wrap it up with a Q&A.

First, let's discuss our quarterly results and our view on the company's performance. The highlights of the quarter compared to the same period the prior year include net income per share was CAD 1.01 for the quarter, compared to a CAD 1.03 in Q3 2015. This reflects the impact of the reduced share counts due to share buybacks. Reported net income was CAD 66.2 million for the quarter, down from CAD 72.4 million in Q3 2015.

Our strong capital position and confidence in our business supported an increase to our quarterly dividend by CAD 0.02 to CAD 0.26 per share. This is the ninth dividend increase in the last five years, and an 18% increase over a year ago.

We had total originations of CAD 2.54 billion in the quarter compared with CAD 2.5 billion, which takes total year-to-date originations to CAD 6.8 billion from CAD 5.9 billion in the first nine months of 2016, up 15% on a year-to-date basis.

Our Traditional and ACE Plus originations were up 1.3% in the quarter compared to the same period in 2015, and up 5.2% year-to-date. Accelerated originations were down 3.9% sequentially in Q3 versus Q2, but were up year-over-year in the quarter by 7.3%. Keep in mind, going into 2017, this is the product most affected negatively by the recent mortgage rule changes.

Non-Residential Commercial originations were up 58.5% for the quarter and up 40.3% year-to-date. And, originations in our credit card business were up 10.4% to CAD 48 million in the quarter, while our retail credit originations were down 23% to CAD 43.8 million.

We have performed well on a number of measures, but it is clear that management is disappointed in the growth of revenue, net income, and loan balances, which have come in lower than expected. Operationally, we have made changes in our business but it resulted in expenses increasing at a much faster rate than the growth in revenues.

These, combined with a more challenging and uncertain business environment given the regulatory changes, adds greater uncertainties to the growth in revenues going forward. As a result, we will be revising our midterm targets.

Going forward, our focus will be to position the company to achieve positive operating leverage, along with the management team, we will be taking a hard look at expenses companywide and importantly we will also look at opportunities and new initiatives to improve revenue growth to help deliver that positive operating leverage.

We will announce more details of these initiatives as well as revised midterm targets no later than the release of our Q4 results in February. We'll also note that our future plans to reduce expenses will be over and above our other initiatives focused on revenues that are already in motion such as improving service levels to mortgage brokers by reducing turnaround times on commitments and approvals while maintaining strong risk management standards, getting more benefits from our broker loyalty program, Spire, and our broker portal, Loft, and driving initiatives to improve customer retention through improvements in renewal efforts as well as slowing down early redemptions.

In our October 20 press release, we spoke about the impact to our current portfolio with the announced Department of Finance changes. As we announced, the bottom line impact of these changes was not significant, particularly in light of the fact that insured mortgage lending is a smaller part of our business as well as being a low margin business.

To reiterate what we said in October, we see the potential impact of these changes to be as much as 60% drop in originations of our accelerator product. This will reduce after-tax net income by about CAD 4.8 million or CAD 0.07 per share. This analysis also does not take into effect any opportunities as it may arise because of these changes in our uninsured business.

The first area of impact is on the high ratio insured mortgages where customers are willing to qualify using the five-year Bank of Canada rate. This higher rate will mean that a number of borrowers especially first-time buyers would either not qualify or would qualify for a smaller amount than they did previously. The second area of impact is on the low-ratio insurance program and the two areas most affected are refinances and rental properties. This business will likely still qualify for a mortgage, but just not for an insured mortgage. They will likely shift from lenders' insured portfolio to their uninsured portfolio.

The potential opportunity for Home will be a function of pricing for that product. Although in theory pricing should increase, it is still unclear whether competitive pressures will keep pricing low or whether it will rise providing Home with an opportunity under one of our uninsured products, time will tell. We believe we are in a good spot to navigate these changes and any future changes that may arise. I would also reiterate our supportive mortgage rule changes that work toward a safe and sustainable housing market.

Additionally during the quarter, we changed the name of CFF Bank to Home Bank, and the integration is now largely complete. This will facilitate our efforts to continue diversifying our funding as at the end of Q3, 29% of our deposits were from diversified sources.

So that's a big picture. And now, we'll turn it over to Rob Morton, our CFO, to discuss some of the financial metrics in more detail.

Thank you, Martin. Our portfolio measured by assets under administration stood at CAD 28.3 billion at quarter end compared to CAD 28.4 billion at the end of Q2 and CAD 25.4 billion at the end of Q3 2015. Reported net income was CAD 66.2 million for the quarter, down from CAD 72.4 million in Q3 2015. Revenue on an adjusted basis declined to CAD 243.9 million from CAD 247.2 million quarter-over-quarter for comparable years.

Year-to-date reported net income was CAD 196.7 million for the first nine months down from CAD 217.0 million for the same period in 2015, and revenue on an adjusted basis declined to CAD 727.7 million from CAD 747.3 million. We continue to have strong capital ratio including a total capital ratio of 16.97% and a common equity Tier 1 or CET1 ratio of 16.54%.

Turning to look at noninterest expenses, in third quarter these expenses were approximately CAD 55 million, essentially flat from the second quarter of 2016. However, the efficiency ratio trended higher to 37.7% from 37.2% last quarter. As Martin previously spoke to, we are focusing on increasing our operating leverage by approving revenue growth and taking a harder look at expenses, which will have an impact on the efficiency ratios going forward.

Now in terms of our credit quality, net nonperforming loans as a percentage of gross loans remained low at 0.31% compared to 0.33% in the second quarter. Provisions for credit losses in the quarter were 0.03% of gross loans and net write-offs were 0.03% of gross loans. As a reminder, our key sale performance is better than our historical experience which is more in the range of 5 basis points to 15 basis points and as we've said for some time we would not be surprised to see that number higher.

Finally, I'd like to point out that the company has reviewed all of the customer files and the income documentation submitted in respect to the mortgages referred by the 45 brokers who were suspended and there have not been any unusual credit issues on these mortgages. The value of outstanding mortgages originated by these brokers in the loans portfolio at quarter end was CAD 1.14 billion as compared to CAD 1.3 billion at the end of the second quarter and CAD 1.55 billion at the end of 2015.

With that I'll turn it back to Martin.

Thank you, Rob. So to sum up, we are making progress on building back our originations in our core and insured mortgage product. However, the environment looking forward is uncertain. And we can't just rely on growing out of our expenses. To achieve positive operating leverage, we need to revisit our expense run rate and right size them.

This is a top priority for the board and management and I look forward to speaking more about this over the next quarter. We continue to generate healthy earnings, supporting a strong capital position and with very strong credit performance. We also see that we are well positioned for any other regulatory changes or changes in the housing environment that may occur.

We need to continue focusing on growing originations, improving renewals and retention, and addressing a growing cost structure. I look forward to updating you on these initiatives as well as an update to our midterm targets with our Q4 earnings release.

And with that I'll turn it over to Blair, our operator, to start the Q&A.

[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, gentlemen. Just a quick question, just if you can give me an update on the progress on the retention of the traditional portfolio, I know it was a focus last quarter and continues to be a focus, but just hoping there'd be an update on that?

Sure. I'll touch on first and then I'll pass it over to Pino to give you a little more detail. So, I would say we largely stem the outflow. We still need to make some improvements so that we're getting a lot more portfolio growth. And that's really what we need to get the earnings back on track. We are making progress in the origination side. We've done a number of things internally both in terms of resources as well as leveraging that are reporting an information to sustain that. But, the progress on that is not showing in the balances at this point.

Yeah. Dylan, it's Pino here. And the other thing we're looking at is as we develop strategies to improve our retention of all of our customers including our classic book with traditional mortgages, we're looking at the reasons why they're leaving across all fronts. So, not just that, the maturity where the largest focus obviously is always placed but midterm. So, we've pretty much segmented the strategies into two groups. For clients that are within 90 days of maturity and obviously those are renewal strategies, and then outside 90 days more of retention strategies. And, trying to keep them on our books, graduating them onto a program if they're in that position, looking for other products to meet their needs and retain them with Home.

Okay. All right. That's great. And, just a question, I'm not sure if I heard it correctly. But, did you say the review of the portfolio title, the suspended brokers, is complete, and if so, are you guys still planning to I guess break that out in separate disclosures going forward?

Yeah. No, we have finished the initial review of all of that. There're a number of those customers that still need to be renewed, and we'll address them in the normal course of business. But, from a disclosure standpoint that we are completing there is no credit events with the portfolio.

Okay. So, sorry, but I guess will it be broken out in the disclosures going forward or no?

No.

Okay.

No, it will just be part of our regular portfolio.

All right, okay. And just I guess on the dividend, we saw the increase this quarter and just wondering as part of your target review, with growth being slow, do you think maybe an increase in the payout ratios going forward or how are you looking at that?

We will revisit that, but the focus is really on getting expenses down and returning to positive operating leverage. But we will review the payout ratio and where we are with that.

Okay, perfect. I'll reach you. Thanks guys.

The next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

How do we think about the expense sort of guidance you've giving us. On the one hand, you've been ramping up your expenses this year around a bunch of new initiatives and now you are talking about taking a hard look and reducing your expenses. So should we sort of think about your expense base in two different buckets? That you've got new initiatives that are causing expenses to increase and you've got your certain general operating expenses and that's what you're going to be taking a looking at?

Yeah, I would say that's pretty fair. We don't want to curtail expenses where it make sense either from improving efficiency or driving revenue perspective. But we want to make sure that we are driving efficiencies throughout the organization. So, to your point, the focus is probably a lot more on OpEx than it will be sort of in one-time. But we will be looking at one-time sort of project related expenses as well.

And is that something that you will give us further clarity on in Q4?

Correct, yeah.

And then on the net interest margin, we saw some compression again this quarter on your sort of core portfolio. Is that largely related or the big driver there, just higher competition and some rate pressure as opposed to the growth of your ACE Plus product?

Yeah, I'll let Rob answer that.

Hi, Graham. So, with respect to NIM quarter-over-quarter, you're right, we saw some compression and it's really primarily due to the increase in the average cost deposits as a result of our deposit diversification strategy. Oaken has a higher cost versus the fixed term deposit net brokers and so that this is what we are seeing with respect to this right now.

Okay. And how should we think then about the outlook for your net interest margin for that core portfolio going into 2017?

Well, we're continuing to approach our deposit diversifications and we're going to have to take that into account, but the other thing that's playing with this is of course with the rate of oranges, so it's also the top-line growth and we haven't seen any there. So, I think, as part of us coming back with our guidance we're going to have a little more clarity around what we're seeing there. There is a lot of uncertainty, right now, what's going to happen to REITs, just [ph] have they made (16:58) announcements. So, we're of watching out ourselves right now too.

Has there been any change? Historically, you guys have had a decent amount of pricing power in non-Traditional product. Has there been any change on that front?

No real material changes. It's a little bit more competitive maybe but there is no new competitors coming into that space or anything like that at the stage of the game. There is a better quality customer that falls into that space that is priced more competitively and there are more lenders available for that customer versus what I would say with our Traditional customer five years ago.

And Graham, it's Rob again, you see that in our tables when you look at the rate under traditional product year-over-year and it really is I think the higher credit quality of borrowers.

Yeah.

Okay. And maybe one last one if I could. Just where are you at with your focus on reducing broker turnaround time and also the rollout of your broker portal?

Yeah. I'll let Pino touch on that.

Yeah. We're making actually very good progress on that front. We've essentially pieced off our delivery into three sections, turn time on our approved applications as far as commitments to our brokers – mortgage commitments. The second piece is the review of documentation. And the third piece is our documentation with the closing solicitor. So, all three fronts also being looked at very closely. Right now, we're getting very close and rationally seeing our successes in the past quarter where our commitments are issued within six hours on approved applications.

So, we're very pleased with that documentation review. We want to commit to within eight business hours. So, one day and then likewise with our solicitor partners. So, across all three fronts, we're seeing very good movement, we're monitoring these each and every day, and enhancing our processes accordingly to ensure we meet those timelines.

Great. And on the broker portal rollout?

So, broker portal rollout, we've actually just completed a full enhanced training for our staff here in Toronto. We're going to do the same for our branches. And then, start a more robust rollout in Q1 of next year to our broker partners. We have made some enhancements to the portal based on our pilot partners that we put on it and so we want to make sure our staff are up to date on those changes and again for a loan starting Q1 next year.

Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you very much.

The next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. In your MD&A...

Hi, Geoff.

Yeah. You mentioned talking about upgrading processes, changing business relationships, increasing regulatory compliance and introducing additional risk management procedures, just wondering if you maybe could give some examples of some of those things that you're doing when you made reference to that in the MD&A?

Sure. Yeah. In terms of the processes, a lot of that is around the residential business and that turnaround time automating that moving toward a digital file or digital process. In terms of the business relationships, there's a lot more work being done on our broker partners and who we are in board also working with some referral arrangement. As we've mentioned before, we've got a couple of bank referral arrangements in place today. We are looking at broadening that and are currently in talks with a couple of people as far as that goes.

In terms of the increased regulatory and compliance activities, I think obviously we made that very clear in the summer time. There is heightened regulatory oversight in the mortgage business and they expect for all business to be operating in a much higher level than what's previously earned make sure that we are covering off all the 5Cs of credit and not just focus on collateral or anything along those lines. And then as far as risk management, we've been doing a lot of beefing up the risk management within the business. So we have an enterprise risk management group, but separate from that within the business, there is a lot more focus on beefing up the risk management within the business line. So, really start of taking it to that first line of defense and strengthening the first line of defense.

Okay. Okay, thanks for that. And my second question was, when you're thinking about trying to get to the EPS growth that you'd like to have, is that going to be coming more from being able to drive more originations and loan growth? Is it a matter of spending less? I'm just trying to get a sense of where you're going to see more of that bang for the buck in terms of growth to the bottom line?

Yeah, it's difficult to tell. I mean, the obvious thing is that this is going to be more challenging given a lot of the regulatory changes, some of the concern in Vancouver housing market and Toronto housing market, that growing the originations and revenue side of it may be a lot more challenging than we thought. Our expenses for the last two years have grown at a much faster rate than revenue side has and we need to get that back under control. And then I think once that is back under control and sort of right sized for our business, then I think you'll see the two sort of growing hand in hand. So you'll probably see a little bit more work over the next while on the expense side versus the revenue side. I think it is possible that the revenue side does much better than we anticipate, but we can't count on that.

Okay. And just the last question I had. Pino, I know you made reference earlier when talking about the question on the traditional side in terms of clients. I apologize if you might have talked about even on the last conference call, but what have you been able to find in terms of your analysis of why you're having that turnover within the traditional side of your business?

And then, as an add-on to that, when did you guys kind of noticed that this sort of activity was a lot higher than what it was historically?

Really, the difference in the past, let's say, one to two years versus what we normally saw from customer behavior on our traditional book is that these customers were more apt to graduate midterm. So, this is why I mentioned here we're really segmenting them into maturity, retention strategies and then unscheduled sort of prepayments.

And, typically these customers you've heard us tell the story over the years, traditional or classic mortgage customers, usually take about 20 to 22 months to graduate. And when we say graduate, that's going from an alternative A mortgage to an A mortgage. What we found though and you heard Rob and Mark talk about. So, in the past couple of years, the traditional customers come to us with a lot higher credit quality and the [ph] beacon scores (25:23), the reasons why they're not being approved by the bank, these are real near prime customers. And so, that lifecycle is really shortened. They're graduating in a much, much faster pace and from our standpoint, we have to develop more strategies around impacting these customers early being there in that sort of one-year mark to make sure that if they have enhanced their credit to the point where they can get a prime mortgage that we're there for them. So, we're leveraging both our retention team that we talked about earlier in the last quarter. We're utilizing our call center. We're utilizing all resources that we can at different touch points so that we can keep these customers on the books.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Sorry, thanks. I just want to touch on with the change in the regulatory policy there and you talked about your insured portfolio. One of the things you guys always talked about was being a one-stop shop for brokers and if you're not able to offer that as your product to certain brokers, does that [ph] infect (26:44) your ability to get traditional business as well?

We'll be able to do insured business. The question's going to be how much and to what extent is it worth doing. So, there's always going to be certain amount that's worth doing for the reasons you outlined in terms of being that one-stop shop. But it's going to get harder and even for the broker. The broker is going to have a lot more customers falling into that uninsured space. So, the brokers are going to have a little bit less emphasis on that insured space than what they have had historically. So, for us the insured business has always been secondary and that will continue to be the case.

Okay. Maybe you could just touch on your guidance for that you put in your MD&A that probably reduce your midterm targets, which I think is 8% to 13% EPS growth and ROE of 16%, and you're going to update that in Q4. Before the changes in the government policies would that comment still be done, like – I mean, it's not just because of the changes in the regulatory front, right?

That's correct, yeah. It's not just because – what the regulatory piece does is just add some uncertainty in terms of what that may be. So – but we would have been looking to guide lower anyway, but the regulatory features just add some uncertainty looking forward.

Okay. And in Q4 I think – sorry you've already said this, you will start updating the street in terms where you think your efficiency ratio and your some of these expense initiatives will start taking place in 2017, is that a fair comment?

Yeah. So we want to come to the street with updated guidance and there is a more information in terms of our initiatives around the expenses and ideally some targets around what that translates into.

Okay. And just question for Pino on this – on the broker turnaround. You gave some timeframe there six hours, one day, one day, does that put you back in your minds like back to the competitive square with some of which I would say your main competitors out there in terms of their turnaround times or is there still a lag that you have to narrow?

No. Absolutely that puts us back to where we want to be and where we've always been. The six-hour turn time on commitments that was a mark that we set internally, because that's as excellent in the marketplace and that's where we wanted to be. So this is perfect because we're rolling into the Annual Mortgage Broker Conference at the end of November. We want to be communicating these SLAs as we speak to our partners.

Indications over past three months as we've been rolling these enhancements so has been tremendous. We're getting positive feedback from our brokers, and so we're very excited to be able to roll this across the country.

Okay. And sorry Martin, I'm going to hog the pluck a little bit here. Just can you – I know you did comment on some of the stuff on the W5 story, does that kind of blown over? Have you seen any reputation risk there from that story you guys I mean comment specifically on in there?

Yeah. We finance cash flows, we're not involved in sort of the front ends of that fees. I know there is a lot of concern out there in terms of sort of the door-to-door type, approach to selling those products. But we are just behind the scenes of buyer of the cash flows.

Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning. My first question is related to non-securitized residential mortgages of attritional product. Obviously, origination growth has slowed a little bit, so too has the average balance of the traditional mortgages. Actually the decline has accelerated over the last four quarters, and run-off in that portfolio has also picked up. I'm just wondering if you could give any color or guidance going forward on the run-off in that portfolio?

Yeah. So that's really the initiatives on the retention side. So, it's a combination on the originations and our retention through both the renewal and the early redemption fees. So the renewal and yearly redemption fees have accelerated, and Pino talked about that earlier. So trying to stem that while we build up the originations should get the growth and the loan balances back on track. And that's really what we're trying to do.

Okay. So just on that, the comments about retention seem to be more directed towards retaining "graduates", what percentage would you say is retained at the traditional level as opposed to graduating to a higher credit quality product? And I guess what successes are or what strategies even point to retain that traditional near prime alte client?

Yeah. Jaeme, it's Pino. That's definitely one of the things we're assessing right now because as I mentioned the look and feel of a traditional customer certainly changed over the past 12 months, 24 months. The timeframe in which they are graduating is certainly much shorter. We know where they are going, we know why they are going. And so we're really trying to pick up more data on that behavior and sort of what period of time that's happening over so we could have better effect in our touch points with our clients during their lifecycle.

Okay. And so sorry just a follow-up one more time on this. You just said you why and where, can you just dive into that a little bit more?

Yeah. So we know they are graduating, we know they've gone from near prime to a prime customer. We know they're going typically back to their bank of choice, which typically is what happens with our traditional customers. What we're finding though is that timeframe is shorter in a certain group, and that speaks to again the credit quality of these traditional customers as they've been on-boarded in the past 12 months, 24 months.

Okay. So I guess, a fair characterization would be then that the slower originations haven't been able to replace what is a faster speed of graduation?

Yeah, exactly.

Okay. Next question on the deposit front. Obviously, I guess, a pretty sizeable decline in the net interest margins driven by those deposit costs, and you talked about maintaining the strategy to I guess, it was Rob talking about the maintaining of the strategy to focus on the Oaken Financial channel, can you just talk about your rate outlook there?

Looking at websites right now, the rates are still well above competitors' rates. Maybe you can just sort of give us some color around where you see GIC rates moving?

Yeah. So we see that remaining firm. Now, the cost of acquisition of the Oaken customer is a little bit higher than through the broker channel, but usually, over the life of the customer, that does come down a bit, as you get the renewals on those customers. So, still fairly new business, so we would look for that to moderate over a period of time.

And that direct business is typically higher than it is through the broker channel. And our focus has been much more on the term GIC versus overnight savings account, which is where a lot of people who tend to be focused.

Right.

So, it will remain elevated but probably moderate a little bit.

Okay. And is it usually, the two-year GIC or the one, like one-year GIC? What's the breakdown between I guess the selection that your customers are choosing?

Yeah, it tends to be sort of in that one-year to two-year, given where rates are, a lot of depositors don't want to extent term very much, but it tends to be sort of in the one-year to two-year, which for us works out well in terms of matching against the asset value.

Yeah, okay. And then, last, I just want to touch on the dividend increase again. Obviously, it brings you up towards the upper end of the 26% or 19% to 26% range...

Correct.

...I guess, why increase the dividend now when you're undergoing a strategic plan in process when there's still some uncertainty with medium-term targets and potential impact to regulatory changes? I just want to get some more clarity on...

Yeah.

...why this quarter and not maybe wait until after you set those targets?

Yeah. It was primary plan and we also see that even with a lot of the changes were coming, we still got a lot of capital, so it's not a big dent to capital, so we do see that we've got sufficient capital for that uncertainty for those potential regulatory changes or the downturn in the market and even with the dividend increase.

Okay. And so just a follow-up on that. Does that signal then that potentially share buybacks may decrease or is that still a component that will run out at a similar rate as Q3?

So we are in process of going through our strategic planning for 2017 to 2019 and we will revisit that but I would say in terms of use of capital given where the share price is now, NCIB would probably be the preferred choice in terms of using capital.

Okay. And lastly just on capital at 16.5% rate now. Capital levels in 2014 or 2015 were north of 18%. Obviously, you're still reviewing this but is 2016 in a comfortable level or do you see maybe the potential to migrate that capital level a little bit higher just given where we are in the cycle of the Canadian housing market, and just more uncertainty overall?

Yeah. I would say we're pretty prudent at the levels that we're at now in light of a lot of uncertainty in the horizon. I'm not sure that it needs to migrate up in answer to your question.

All right. Okay. I'll turn it back.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question, comes from the line of Phil Hardie from Scotia Bank. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, Phil.

Just one of the areas I think, I've seen some I'll call it surprisingly strong loan growth over the last 12 to 18 months has probably been the Non-Residential Commercial. So I think, in light of that I mean, can you do a bit of a deep dive in terms of kind of those loans?

And then secondly, maybe talk about from a board perspective your risk budget and what that means in terms of what I'll call business mix those commercial loans you're going to play into in terms of the overall portfolio?

Yeah. So the commercial business we sort of grew call it 2006 through to about 2008-ish and then sort of level off for a bit. As part of what we're going to with the residential mortgage transformation, we're also looking at on the commercial side beefing up a lot of the infrastructure around there and a lot of the support around that to grow that business, and there's really sort of two areas of opportunity. One is in your traditional larger commercial business and there is a fair bit of opportunity in that space and in particular as it relates to the GTA market and then the other areas where we've always done quite well and we've added resources and there is good opportunity there is in the small commercial, and that would be very good store and apartment and a lot of your install type construction. So we see that opportunity in both of those. In terms of risk appetites, we do have appetite for more of that business. It's not going to be a dominant part of the business. The residential will be the dominant part of the business for sure, but there is definitely room to grow that.

Okay. And given some of the higher capital requirements with that likely to kind of weigh on the midterm ROE if that mix grows from where it was?

Well, we would look at the return on that business in the light of the higher capital, so we will look at our risk adjusted basis.

Okay. Fair enough. Okay, then changing gears just quickly more recently had a fee reduction, do you think kind of the current quarter reflects, I'll call that sustainable run rate for fees at this point?

I would say, yes.

Okay. Excellent. Great, thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over the Martin Reid for closing remarks.

Thank you, Blair. I would like to thank everyone for calling in today. We continue to generate strong profits and strong capital base, good credit performance and growing dividends. I look forward to updating you over the next quarter on our initiatives to reduce expenses and grow revenues to continue making the company stronger. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.