Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive Vice President, Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Stephen Patrick Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Jeff Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Frederik Westra — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Securities)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Julie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to talk to you about Home Capital's third quarter 2012 results. Despite a slowing economy in Canada and a slowing in the housing sales in Canada over the past quarter, Home is pleased to announce a record third quarter 2012. Earnings per share were $1.65 a share, up 18.7% year-over-year. The return on equity was 25.6% for the quarter; and for the first nine months of the year, 25.7%. Home has delivered a return on equity over 20% per year in each and every one of the past 14 years.

We believe that with the nine-month return on equity in 2012 of 25.7% that the whole year will be the 15th consecutive year with a return on equity over 20%. And we believe that that tells you a lot about a company, as it shows consistency, careful operations, strong risk management, strong internal audit controls, compliance in place; and last but not least, return on equity is just a number, but it shows a management team built for the long run, not just for a sprint of one quarter or two. So, we believe the return on equity is a very good barometer of how well we've been operating.

I would like to now continue with the highlights of the quarter, which – the next item I'd like to chat about is our credit quality. The credit quality in our loans portfolio remains very solid.

The net non-performing for the quarter was 28 basis points or 0.28%. Last quarter, it was 0.31%. Last September 2011, it was 0.32%; December 31, 2011 was 0.25%; and again, this quarter was 0.28%.

They're all in a tight range, and the entire portfolio is performing very well, within expected levels, if not, to some respects, even better than our expectations.

The total loan originations in the quarter were $1.68 billion versus $1.3 billion last year, and on a year-to-date basis, it's $4.53 billion against $3.87 billion last year. It's about a 17% increase year-over-year. And we believe this positive trend in year-over-year will continue through the next quarter and into next year.

Our Visa originations were somewhat behind last year's originations. And the reason for that was due to uncertainty in some of the provisions of the new OSFI lending guidelines known as B-20.

So it took us a quarter or so to fully understand the new B-20, modify some of the terms of our Equityline Visa, so that at the present time, our offering is now fully compliant with the new B-20 regulations and we have re-launched the product. The foot is off the brake for this product, and we think we will see a return to last year's level of originations over the next three, four, five months. On a year-over-year basis, you'll see that coming back up. And we see this being a very good product for future profitable growth for our Visa group of products.

As a result of Home's positive results and the Board and management's positive outlook of our business – and that's the outlook in the present Canadian housing market – and our look into the future as we see it, the Board of Directors of Home Capital announced an 18% increase in the dividend or $0.04 a quarter. So, the quarterly dividend moves from $0.22 to $0.26 per quarter or $1.02 for the year.

And this quarterly dividend increase is the 15th increase in dividends over the past years. And that reflects Home Capital's strong, profitable growth, increasing controls and risk management techniques. And we also are looking to enhance long-term shareholder value. And an increase in dividend to a desired range of approximately 15% of our profits is a way that we believe does increase long-term shareholder value. And we also see it as a big vote of confidence by the Board in the company and the marketplace it operates in.

Now, I get a lot of questions about the Canadian condo market, and I just want to give you a little clarification of how Home fits in the condo market. Now, the total lending exposure to the Canadian – this is coast-to-coast – condo market is about 7% of our residential mortgage portfolio. However, you must bear in mind, slightly over half of all our condo loans are insured by one of the mortgage insurers, so there is no credit exposure to Home.

And the balance, a little over 3% of our portfolio – I want to point out that about 60% of the remaining portfolio, which is uninsured, are condos that are townhouse projects. They are the type of projects that are very popular in suburban and urban areas, just not in the core. You get more intensification in a condo corporation building townhouses than one would get if they were single-family dwellings or semi-detached. And they're one way that makes – full-scale family housing with the right number of bedrooms – makes it available for working families.

So we have done those for a long time. We've been very comfortable with that, and we find that they perform exactly the same as single-family – excuse me, single-family dwellings; maybe an analogy to the high-rise condo market. Anyway, a very small part of our portfolio is uninsured high-rise, and probably not more than 1% or 1.5% of our portfolio is in high-rise condos. We have always been a very cautious lender in the high-rise condo market. Our exposure to that market segment is very low and we're very comfortable with the loans that we have on our book.

Now, the other question I've been asked consistently is how has Home been doing with their application to OSFI for permission to sell the strip of income left after we securitize and sell insured mortgages and permission to remove the loans from the calculations of asset-to-capital ratios. The short answer is, no answer yet. We know that OSFI is working hard on this issue. We've had communications with them, and we are cautiously, I got to say, cautiously hopeful that there will be a decision on the issue before year-end. But I want to tell everyone that is only our opinion. We've had no official word on when the opinion will be and the results of their study will be released.

Sort of summing up the quarter, I just want to point out that our outlook for the Canadian housing market and for Home's continues to be very positive. We see that the company has been able to continue prudent profitable growth even in a slightly declining economy or a slightly declining housing market. We have strong risk principles, strong risk tolerance – well, a low risk tolerance but strong risk principles, and we operate within our risk expertise and appetite.

So we do see the continuing growth. We see a continuing high return on equity. We see low arrears for all our products going forward. We see very large opportunities for growth in the future. We will continue to be careful in our growth. We're a careful cautious company. We didn't put together 15 years of a return on equity over 20% by being reckless, doing things we don't fully understand and being fully comfortable with.

So we see that trend continuing; and as the comment that was made by President Obama at his victory speech the other night, the best has yet to come. And we think the same is true about Home and I look forward to reporting to you next quarter on our full-year results. And I'm sure there's lots of questions. And operator, I'm quite happy to take the questions at this time.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

I had a question for you. I think in the press release you guys were alluding to doing a bit more on the Accelerator side of the business, and that wasn't an area where you guys had curtailed just kind of the assets-to-capital issue. But when I take a look at where you are today versus back in 2011, you're not too far off that. So is the decision to do this because of all the maturities you've got coming up on the securitized mortgages or is there some other rationale behind it?

Well, there is two things. We are cautiously optimistic we'll be able to sell strip; and we've also within our balance sheet and with what's being run-off, we have some room to put some more insured mortgages on the balance sheet. So if we're going to be a little more active in this in the next period of time, it takes up – it takes a bit of runway to get the product geared up again, and so we've just been marketing it a little more.

We haven't really pushed too hard, but we've let the brokers know that our rates are now quite competitive. We're getting program lined up that, if we do get the green light, we'll try to increase the insured loans at that time.

But we think we've got some room on the balance sheet to do a little bit more and we just wanted to indicate that that probably those numbers were insured would go up. They won't go up dramatically, but they may go up a little bit over the next few quarters.

Okay. And then kind of in a similar vein, when you do get the response back from OSFI, are you planning to the press release it regardless of what the direction of that decision is?

Sure. We've talked about it so much. We will let everybody know. As it is, it's not something we built into our forecast for profitability or what see happening. Our optimism is based on our balance sheet at the present time and the rules as they now exist. This would be an add-on, and we think it would be a very positive add-on. But the old expression, don't count your chickens before they're hatched, and we just go along and not counting on this; and when it happens one way or another, it happens. But in the meantime, we got to run a business and that's what we did this past quarter, we think, very successfully.

Okay. And the last question I had was, going back to when we had the kind of the Canadian housing downturn in 2008-2009, you guys had talked about it really about how you're changing underwriting well before it happened in Canada; and at the same time, you came out of the downturn starting to write new business when a lot of people were pulling back. What are you feeling about that today? My sense is that you're underwriting in just a slowing housing environment as opposed to being more cautious on the underwriting, as you would have called it four years ago. Is that a fair characterization?

Well, I would put it this way that we see the Canadian housing market as being overhyped of the downside. There is bloggers, there is people out of the States who see very gloomy Canadian housing market. But I should point out, they've been gloomy for the past six years, five years for sure. Since 2007, we've heard nothing but negative; the Canadian housing market is going to hell in a handbasket. And it just continued on a fairly orderly basis.

Now, clearly at this point, with the slowing in sales, the housing market is returning to a degree of normalcy, and we welcome that. So if the sales slow down a little bit; if in fact the number of high-rise condos gets slowed down, that's healthy for the market. That's no disaster. It's still – even if it's up – even if the number of the housing market, if number of sales comes off a bit and even if prices, which – there is a difference between number of sales and prices and often the paper mix the two of them up.

They'll talk about sales being down 20%. But the reality is that prices are not down. Go, try and buy a house or buy a condo, you can't get them cheaper. But we see even if the housing market comes off 5% and 10%, a little more in the stuff over $2 million, it might come off a little more. But in the 99% of the loans we have that are under $1.5 million, we see the market as being – well, value of houses under $1.5 million, the loans aren't over $1.5 million. But we see a very stable, so just the slightest touch of softness depending on the market and that we're very comfortable.

We go through the same principles. We double the price of properties. We check the people very carefully. We comply with all of the new B-20 requirements. We make sure people have the capacity to pay. And we've always been a leader in how to evaluate somebody who is a business for itself and maybe doesn't have audited statements. And we will continue to be that. And we think we've put in a lot of effort; we have a lot of analysis on various profiles; and we think we can be fully compliant with a new B-20 and still continue and have a very strong business.

They've not gone out an intended the regulation is to cut everybody off. What the intention was, was to tighten the overlook – overview, tighten the risk principles. And I think they're all very good, and I think we can comply, and I think we can have a very flourishing business.

So we're pretty optimistic and pretty happy. We're sort of used to – like a blogger this week from out of the States gave another gloomy prediction, the end of the world is coming. But I guess maybe he's a Republican and he foresaw the election happening, I don't know. But anyway, all kidding aside, we'll continue to be in business fully compliant with all the regulatory requirements. I don't know. Did that answer the question?

It did, great.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you.

Thanks Geoff.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Thanks. I guess just following on Geoff's question about your Accelerator product and moving some of the – possibly moving some of the mortgages off balance sheet. When I look at your assets to capital multiple, it's creeped to that 14 number again. Is your decision – I guess if you can be able to move things off balance sheet that will help that multiple, but if not I guess you're going to – may need more capital at some point. Is that a fair statement?

It's something we look at every – continuously and it's something – there is a Capital Committee. We track that very carefully. I think at any point that if we felt that looking at the outlook that we needed to raise more capital, we would. At the present time, we're now planning it. We think we can operate fully within the capacity that we have already in place.

The other comment I would make that maybe of some interest is that normally historically the first quarter is a little slower, and so that multiple may go – asset to capital multiple may go down over the next few months even with us continuing to do business.

But if we – we project ahead on a one – a very short-term or one year [ph] and up (0:21:38) two year, three year basis. And if we needed to raise a little more capital, we wouldn't hesitate to do so. But I should tell you it's not on the table at this moment.

Okay. And just second, a little bit more on the environment, with all the regulatory changes. You've talked about getting better beacon scores into your portfolio. Could you just maybe elaborate a little bit, like is it you're seeing better applications coming that you may have not seen six months ago?

Yeah. What I'm going to do is turn that over to our Executive VP of Mortgages, Pino Decina. He is here, and he will just give you a flavor of what he sees coming in.

Yeah. It's – the trend is definitely consistent. We've talked about it for pretty much all of 2012 that each and every month, we see a customer that comes to Home Trust that traditionally we would have never seen in years past; and as we get closer to the end of the year and other lenders finalizing their B-20 definitions, that continues to increase. And so, as you mentioned, the beacon score is a prefect example. Each and every month, we see that rising and it's been no different.

The interesting thing, and I had this conversation yesterday, a good example would be individuals that are classified as new immigrants, and this one that's popping up a lot. And it's not that we're seeing more new immigrants coming to Home Trust. It's the definition of the new immigrant that's changing.

So right now, we have clients coming to us saying that, they don't qualify under a bank's new immigrant program because they've got less than, for example, two years of credit history. Well, if I go back a year ago, that criteria was maybe six months or 12 months. So that stepped up to the two-year mark.

So again these individuals, in years past, wouldn't even to be classified as new immigrants. So again, it's a steady improvement of the credit quality; as Gerry mentioned, the capacity of these borrowers to repay the equity in the properties; the beacon scores. The – all around the credit quality is steadily increasing.

That's great. Thanks.

Okay.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg [Desjardins Securities]. Your line is now open.

Thank you.

Hello, Michael.

Hi, Gerry. Can you describe to us how more cautious mortgage lending by the major lenders, the A lenders, how does that impact Home?

Well, I think positively it's a bit of trickle-down. If the major banks, which have – and the A lenders have about 80% of the market was the number I always threw out, and those who didn't qualify was 20%.

If there is a shift in underwriting by the major banks, so that we think at this point they're only accepting – they're turning down about 25% of the people who come in instead of 20%. And we think that that pool of people, who we would lend to, as started to increase. And we think it's going to be increased for a while.

There may come a day that they'll re-look at their definition and their qualifications and how they qualify people and et cetera. But at this point, we think it's a slightly increasing pool and that – not everybody in the 20% that get turned or the 25%, we would turn down a fair proportion as well. But the fact that the pool is expanded, we see it as very positive for us on a long-term basis until they swing back again.

Okay. And my next question, do you need to increase the number of teams you have or do anything else to support a further – in the neighborhood of a 30% growth in Classic mortgage production like you've generated year-to-date? And is that level of production growth in your traditional mortgages for 2013 reasonable?

Well, we think 20% is reasonable; I think maybe not as much as this year, because the housing market could well slow down. But I think we've – when we look at all the new relationships, brokers that we've added over the course of the year, we've steadily added people to the organization. I think there is a – we're up to 570-something. We're just looking up the number. Year-over-year, there is a continuing expansion of staff, and the staff is not just in the underwriting; it's in all the control groups as well. We've never had more people.

You've known me a long time when we were a really small company. But we have to grow at the same time we grow the underwriters and the mortgage officers. We have to add to all the control groups. We have to add to the risk. We have to add to internal audit. We have to – just you see other day, we hired a very strong person in internal audit. So we continue to expand the control groups. We continue to expand the underwriting, and it's very much a business that expands across the whole line. It's not just adding a few more teams and a few more; you've got to be able to support them. You've got to have the credit people in place.

And year-over-year, we are up to 579. And I guess we just have the number for the quarter. But -I'm sorry, September was 531. So we add a few people year-over-year, but it's consistent through the year. Last quarter, we were 554. So there is 25 people got added over the quarter.

And we will continue to do that. We will add various positions and various controls, and the business is out there. We just have to be able to do it, and we've been very careful not to grow faster than we can fully control. You don't get 15 years of return on equity over 20% if you start getting reckless. So, we're pretty optimistic we can see the 20% growth next year.

Okay. And lastly, could you give us more color on the new high interest saving and unsecured Visa products? Will Visa product require a higher level of reserves?

No. But I'll turn it over to Martin, and he can describe, first of all, the high interest savings.

Hi, Michael. On high interest savings account, it's really to sort of diversify our funding within the broker channel. So, it's offering another product, but we don't see it as becoming a dominant product for Home like it has with some other financial institutions. It's just one more tool in the toolbox.

And the Visa?

And on the preferred Visa, it's really a targeted effort toward a specific client base, a very strong credit quality, and that's really how that's being managed.

Okay. So with the Visa, the goal is to get on to broker deposit panels. Is that it?

Correct, yes. And that is happening now and – but it's a way for us to diversify within the broker channel, offer another product. It helps us well from a risk mitigation standpoint in terms of interest rate risk. We do have some short-term assets. So, it gives us another product in the toolbox to manage the interest rate exposure.

But we do not see it becoming a dominant product in our deposit. We still see that we are – the intent is to match fund and most of that's coming through fixed term GICs.

Yeah. We're not going to do five-year lending with demand deposits.

Yeah.

But if we got up to 5% or 7% of our deposit base with demand deposits, it's probably a lot less than many other institutions, because we don't have any savings account, which are all demand accounts. So, it's just put a little layer in there of a bit of cheaper money and – that we can manage within that.

Yeah, yeah. But it will be a relatively small part of the whole deposit mix.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Shubha Khan from National Bank. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Shubha Khan.

So, just a quick one to start off with. I wanted to ask you about your B-20 readiness. Can you talk about the kinds of tweaks you've made, if any, to your underwriting on the traditional product in order to become B-20 compliant? And when those tweaks would have been made, what I'm trying to get at is whether those underwriting tweaks affected Q3 originations in any way or whether that's something that we'll see flow through the results in Q4 and beyond?

Well, the details of how we tweaked are between us and our regulator. They are sort of a proprietary effort that we've done and I'm not really all that comfortable talking about it on a public basis. So all I can tell you is we have a very robust risk department. They reviewed the policy. They've made comments. We've submitted them. At this point, we seem to be on the right track with all the B-20 amendments and we will, undoubtedly as everybody in the business with their new policies, will get feedback from the regulator in due course. We'll modify it in -

[Inaudible] (0:32:59).

Okay. Maybe Martin could finish.

Yeah. Hi, Shubha. I just want to add to that.

We have been making changes all along. So it's not like it's a one-time, Jan. 1 it impacts. We have been tweaking our underwriting.

Okay. Now, that's helpful. And then maybe, Martin, this is – this one is for you as well. Just looking at the margin on securitized assets, last quarter you said that the impact of prepayment penalties was probably uncharacteristically high.

Yeah.

And given the magnitude of the decline this quarter, I'm just wondering whether prepayment penalties were probably too unusually low this quarter? And secondly, you have these strategies in place to offset the margin pressure. Is – they didn't prove particularly effective this quarter. Is it just a question of – or is it just a case of you wrapping up those initiatives and maybe they take hold next quarter and beyond?

Yeah. So, last quarter was bumped up because of the prepayment penalties. We've returned to a little bit more of a normalized level, maybe a touch lower than that. So I'd look forward to sort of settle in sort of the 85 basis point to 95 basis point in that range.

Okay.

And there are initiatives through the use of repo, et cetera, to try and sort of maintain that or improve that margin.

Yeah. And just of the – over the course of the year, the insured product that's down about $1 billion, they were five years back when rates were a bit better and the rates were bit higher and the spread was a bit bigger. So as they roll off, the step is being put on as more consistent to what Martin is saying in the 85 point, 95 point spread not over a 100 point. So I think where you're seeing it now is pretty much in line with our projections. But I just want let you know we don't see it as suddenly running over 100 basis point on the insured product.

Got it. Thank you so much. Bye.

Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brown from Macquarie Capital. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

The NIM on the non-securitized assets, that picked up quite a bit this quarter. And I thought that the NIM on this product was supposed to be in a fairly tight band. Maybe you could just give some color on what was behind the increase in the NIM.

Okay. I'm going to turn it over to Bob Blowes, our CFO, and he will tell you about the good news on the NIM.

Good morning, Bryan.

Good morning.

So what we're experiencing is – a in the NIM is really reflective of what Gerry, Pino and Martin spoke about before in the context of the changes of the lending guidelines of all the lenders. So, we're seeing opportunities for better quality loans on an overall basis, higher beacon scores, lower loan-to-value. And what that has done is give us an opportunity to be selective – a little more selective on our lending. So we are able to increase the spread on our – on the lower end of the borrowing spectrum and use our current spreads on higher quality borrowers; but just incrementally increasing the spread, as we continue to write new business. So, this is reflective of a change in the market. It's hard to say how long that would last, because there will be some movement towards an equilibrium, but we've been a beneficiary of some market changes.

Okay, great. And the multi-unit residential mortgages sold in the quarter, I think it was at the higher end of the range that you guys discussed last quarter.

Right.

And I guess I wanted to know how you see that trending going forward.

I would think it would stay within the range that we had suggested. It depends on the source of mortgages that we ultimately sell and market conditions at the time. So we're not adjusting our sights upward at this point, where we have an event – some events which were positive. But on an overall basis, we would stick with our previous guidance on that.

Yeah. We think that if we can – per quarter, we can sell a $100 million, we can book something like $1 million pre-tax plus, then we'll be very pleased. That would be within the sort of what we think our capacity is in the demand. There also has been a huge amount of refinancing in the multi-res area over the last few years with the low rates. And so a lot of – there is a lot of situations where the owners of buildings have in fact taken advantage of the rates. We think there is a good steady supply, but we don't see it exploding in any way.

And the margins on any particular deal are somewhat variable, depending on the nature of the underlying structure and the source of the mortgages in the first place. So it's not going to be within a tight band on a quarter-to-quarter basis.

Great. Thanks for that and that's it for me.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick from Cormark Securities. Your line is now open.

Hi, there. Good morning.

Good morning, Jeff.

I think most of my questions have been answered, but I just wanted to follow-up on the discussion on capital. Gerry, you mentioned you're really not – you're not really looking to add to it right now. But when I look at your mix today, you don't have a lot in the way of tier-2 capital. I'm just thinking might it not be beneficial to get out there and raise a little more debt capital ahead of the Basel III guidelines coming in January of next year?

Well, I'll just give you my philosophy. If you raise debt, you got to pay up back, and it's sort of a very fundamental thing that – I've always felt that if I don't need the money, just to have it hanging around – I'll pay for it when I need it.

I've never been a big proponent of sort of over-stocking capital. It's expensive, even if it's debt or preferred shares. Equity would be prohibitively expensive at a time we don't really need it.

But I also – if we need it and we can use it, by all means, it's worthwhile and it pays. But just my view of the credit market is that the pricing on debt will rise fairly slowly. I don't think we're going to suddenly see Canada five-years jump 100 basis point overnight. I don't smell it at this point, anyways. And it's a good suggestion, and I'll let Martin comment.

Yeah. Hi, Jeff. The other thing I would add there is the initial capital constraint for us is really on an asset to capital multiple basis. So we're – we have very high levels of capital on the Tier 1 in total basis. But we do – as Gerry mentioned, we do look at it proactively, we do look ahead, and if we do see the need, definitely we'll go to the market. But we just don't see it at this point.

Yeah.

Okay. That's fair enough. And then just one more question on growth here. When I look at your mix today within your portfolio geographically, I'm just wondering is there – maybe there is an opportunity here to expand more out in Western Canada. What's your feeling about that?

Well, we like to lend in Western Canada. And we have a new member of our staff – we got a Senior Vice President out there, and he's been doing very well.

Maybe I'll just turn it over to Pino. He'll comment on the West.

Yeah. Jeff, what we did, about 18 months ago, we moved one of our underwriting VPs out to BC. We had a situation where we had a new manager in our Vancouver office, a new manager in our Calgary office, the Winnipeg office, which was just up and running.

So we sent one of our senior people out there. He's been out there for 12 to 18 months. He's actually decided to make Vancouver a home base for him, which is great, because he's brought these three managers really quickly up to speed. We've got a really nice response from our broker network out there. Obviously, there's opportunities in the market with the general tightening that we're seeing from banks coast-to-coast.

So we're very optimistic about what we can do in Western Canada going forward.

Yeah. And what has happened is our manager out there has managed BC from the point when he came when the arrears were quite high, and to the point now that it really is similar almost to Ontario or a little more. But really BC, the collection time is much longer. It takes a longer period to get possession and to sell.

But he's done a very good job. The portfolio is quite clean. And this is at a time that Vancouver – if anywhere in the country got a bit overheated, it was Vancouver. But I think slowly some of the hot air is coming out of the Vancouver market, and it's probably coming back over the next period of time to pretty stable rates or sustainable rates.

And so we feel we're well positioned with the management out there that we can do it. We see Alberta sort of perking along nicely. It had a bit of a soft period over the non-performing a year or so ago.

So we see the west as quite a good prospect. We've put the management and the resources in. So we see some more growth there.

But the collection time in BC and Alberta is approximately two to three times the collection time in Ontario, and you've got to factor that in if you have a default. You've got to have enough – a low enough loan-to-value that it can sustain a long period of non-performing.

So we just naturally are very cautious in the West. We're happy with the business. It is good. And hopefully, we'll see an uptick in it.

Okay. Thank you. That's all my questions.

Your next question comes from the line of Fred Westra from Industrial Alliance. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Fred.

Yeah. For me, as well, a lot of the questions were answered. But perhaps just going back to the comment you made, Gerry, on the Visa Equityline being re-launched, so can we glean from your comments that the expectation within Home is that you will see growth rates resume in the sort of 20% to 30% range, or you're kind of bringing those in a little bit?

Well, I think 15% to 20% would be more comfortable.

I think that it takes a little while to stoke up a new – the product. It had been in a holding pattern for a quarter or two quarters. We – and you'll see the total receivables is pretty level during the quarter – during the first three quarters of this year.

And what has happened is the Visa component has gone down a little bit, but the retail sales component has gone up. And the retail sales is the part that predominantly that is a business to leasing water heaters and other heating and air conditioning equipment. It's financing it and putting it on their utility bill – their gas bill with the gas company.

And that's proved to be a very good business. The arrears are extremely low. The returns are quite respectable. And that's got a very – now that could easily be up 20%, 25% over the next year.

I'm not sure that Visa would. The Visa, we're quite careful, and I don't see explosive growth in it. But I could just see good, steady growth. The margins are very good.

And we just don't want to do anything by taking our eyes off a very careful profile. We are aware that there's statistics saying that Canadians have a lot of debt, and maybe they might have a few problems. We'd rather have a slightly slower growth and make sure that who we're lending to really can pay and we're not taking any flyer.

So we reactivated the program, but we'll do so on a cautious basis.

Okay, good. Thank you for that. Second question is just on the expense line, overhead expenses. It seemed to bump up sequentially quite a bit.

You made some comments about head count increases. So I was just curious whether that was more related to the underwriting side or maybe a little bit more related to oversight? Has the build-out on oversight kind of been completed and it will just be incremental going forward from this point? And is this expense level sort of kind of what we can expect to see as a run rate?

Okay. I'm going to turn that over to Bob, Bob Blowes.

Good morning, Fred.

Good morning, Bob.

Yeah. So I think there are really two factors driving that rate, and you've – one you've struck on, and which is the increase in the oversight capacity.

And so we've made some fairly big increases in the control departments, which would include Senior Vice Presidents and other management staff. That is kind of a step function. So we've stepped up in all of the control departments, and we would not expect that we'd be adding at the same rate as we go forward. So that would tend to temper the growth in the overhead.

Okay.

And the sort of non-production departments of the cost structure.

Yeah.

We also are bearing, at this point, full amortization charges for our SAP platform. So that had a fairly big impact over the last three quarters. In 2011, we only had a very small portion of that, because we had just got into a completion of the project.

We will continue to add technology tools over the next two years to really take advantage of the platform that we have. So I don't think that we will see declines in technology costs, either in technology support or in depreciation. So that will tend to have some upward movement.

So I would tend to think of this as being on a trajectory that's a little bit tampered from what we see today, but not falling dramatically.

All right. Thank you.

Okay.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg [Desjardins Securities]. Your line is now open.

Thanks.

Hi, Michael.

Gerry, should we expect the securitized mortgages to continue to bleed off, and is the $350 million to $400 million per quarter that you've had so far this year reasonable? Would that be just the fourth quarter or through 2013 also?

Well, if – I think that whether we get rights to sell the strip or not, I think the run-off on the portfolio will not be quite as swift. I think there will some run-off. But we think we can also do some new originations.

And probably if it got up to a – we have an interim target for the next month or two and up to the fourth, and starting next year, of maybe doing $100 million a month in the insured mortgages. And the first quarter, you've always got to bear in mind, is not always the truest indicator. The first quarter is always the slowest for the year.

But I think we'll be able to give far better clarity, once we get the decision out of Ottawa. And I have no way of knowing. It's all unofficial. But hopefully, by the time we have our next quarterly discussion and we put in our fourth quarter numbers, we'll have an idea where that's going and whether it's something that we'll be able to do or not able to do. And then, I'll be able to give you a lot more clarity. But at this point, we're waiting, and what we're doing, we're doing. But I just wanted to let you know that we'll probably to do a little more than we're presently doing, but it won't be full steam ahead.

Okay. And my other question is just to clarify. Would it be fair to explain the increase in non-securitized NIM that you described as competition for lower and traditional mortgage business drying up to some degree, and if that's the case, then why?

Michael, it's Bob speaking. I would actually characterize it as opportunities – a greater opportunity in the non-prime space for all competitors; and therefore, the better quality borrowers in that space are rated price-wise at the level of lesser quality in previous quarters; and that lesser quality is now, there is an opportunity to adjust prices and they're favorable to the lender. And that would be consistent, I think, with all lenders.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to presenters.

So, thank you, everybody. Thanks for joining us. As I said, we have a good quarter. We had a good quarter. We're looking forward to delivering another strong quarter in the fourth quarter. And all I can say is, I think that the housing market and the outlook is, from our perspective, not nearly as gloomy as what you read in the paper or what you read from American bloggers. So, have a good quarter and hope to chat with you again in January or early February. Thank you. Bye-bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.