Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Phil Hardie — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Jeff M. Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Stephen Patrick Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Beth, and I will be your conference operator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to our Home Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Annual Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Gerald Soloway, CEO, Home Trust and Home Capital. You may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very pleased to report on Home Capital's fourth quarter and 2013 results. It may be cold outside in Toronto this morning and as it has been for most of the month, but Home's financial results should warm the hearts of all of our shareholders.

The highlights from the results are as follows. Net income was up 16.7% in the fourth quarter and year-over-year the income was up 15.6%, a solid result. In the fourth quarter, the results were slightly higher than the year as a whole and that shows a little extra momentum going from the fourth quarter into 2014. The second significant note is the company increased its dividend from $0.28 quarterly to $0.32 quarterly, or $1.28 annually. This represents an increase in the dividend of 14.3%, and as this is the second dividend increase in the last year, the total dividend has increased by 23% year-over-year. And that should also help our shareholders forget about the cold winter we've had.

The Board of Directors of Home yesterday approved a stock dividend of one share for each issued and outstanding common share affecting a two-for-one split. We believe that the stock dividend will provide both greater liquidity and improve the public's accessibility to the Home Capital stock. It will at a lower price.

The last time Home did a stock split was in January 2004, 10 years ago. At that time, the stock price the night before the split was announced was $16.95 million, and the Home stock closed last night, again pre-split at $76.55. That represents a stock price that is 4.5 times higher than the stock was 10 years ago. A 4.5 bagger as it is sometimes called. During that 10-year period, Home has increased its dividend 19 times, and during the last 10 years, which includes a financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, Home has averaged return on equity in good years and bad of over 25% per year for the last 10 years.

And after today's stock split, we are highly hopeful that Home can deliver another good result in the future from the stock split.

The other highlights of the quarter where that Home Trust is gaining momentum in the business we call the Accelerator business, which originates insured single-family mortgages, securitizes them, and then sells them after the sale. Home is then left with a strip of excess income. We sell the strips of income or as sometimes referred to as residual interests. And we have obtained regulatory approval for off-balance treatment after the sale of the residual interests. And that regulatory approval was obtained during the third quarter of 2013.

And now, as a result of that, we have increased our efforts in growing this business and the company recorded $3.5 million in gains in the fourth quarter and $5.4 million for the year. Now, the other business that Home is very active in is the origination of insured multi-unit residential mortgages. As again, all of which are insured, we securitize them and sell the loans.

Home earned $1.2 million in the quarter and $5.7 million for the year from that business, which has been operational – which was operational for the full year. We see that both the strip sale or the residual interest sales and the sale of the insured multi-unit residential mortgages resulted in a gain of $11.1 million in the year 2013. Both of these activities receive off-balance sheet treatments, and we expect both businesses to provide ongoing increasing income in the years ahead.

We would advice that probably the multi-unit residential business will grow more slowly. It's a steady business; it will be there on a consistent basis because it also consists of renewals of existing businesses and originations. And we see that continuing at a good modest clip, maybe in the 10%, 10% to 15% range year-over-year.

The insured single-family business, we think that will grow somewhat faster, because we had been in that business before, and we can see a solid increase this year. It's a bit hard at this point, be gauged on January and February numbers to-date to really give any kind of accurate guidance, but we'll be able to give more accurate guidance after the first quarter numbers come out and after the second quarter develops, but we do see that business growing quite substantially.

The total mortgage originations for 2013 were $6.92 billion against $6.01 billion in 2013 or a 15% increase. We are cautiously, one always has to be cautious – we are cautiously optimistic that 2014 will be another year of solid growth in the origination of all of our mortgage businesses.

The consumer retail portfolio reached $340 million at the end of 2013 and it is up 25% over the previous year and it is continuing to grow on a steady basis. Now, in order to diversify our funding sources, we originated two new sources of funding during the fourth quarter. And the first one was we launched a new direct consumer brand Oaken Financial, which offered a line of consumer deposit products, and which included a Guaranteed Investment Certificates and new Oaken Savings Account as part of its strategy to continue to diversify funding sources.

We think you'll begin to see the advertising. We've rolled out some of the advertising. The response has been very good. We're quite delighted in the way the public has responded to the new offerings and we think that will continue to grow in the years ahead. The second new initiative is that, we've successfully closed an inaugural issuance of institutional five-year deposit notes.

Given the strong investor demand, the transaction was upsized from $250 million to $300 million and it was priced at the tight end of initial guidance. We expect to become a regular issuer of wholesale deposit notes, likely on a semi-annual basis, but there are occasions when there may be market conditions that would make it attractive to do it more frequently than that. Predominantly, this has been a five-year product and it is very nice to know that a portion of the balance sheet is fully – it's termed out for the full five years.

Since the end, the other issue that's come up is that since the 2007, 2008 when the U.S. housing market went into a [ph] free-for-all (11:18), we have been asked, when will the Canadian housing market follow suit. We first of all say that, it won't happen in our opinion, and we continue to answer the same way we have for the past five years, six years. We haven't changed our position. We can answer that numerous times. It's always a headline story when an economist, or a journalist, or a columnist comes out and says, dire things are going to happen to Canada. We do not believe that a U.S. housing market meltdown will come to Canada. Full stop, we don't see it, we don't believe it, we can give all the reasons in a more academic approach. But our regulatory system is vastly different. Canada did not have one regulated financial institution failed during the crisis where there were literary hundreds failed in the United States.

And we have a different housing market and different practices, not the least of which in the United States mortgage interest deductible and it's not in Canada. So, there's a great incentive to pay one's mortgage not to maximize them. But we do believe that the Canadian housing market will be stable, will be stable in 2014, and that Home will have another solid year in 2014.

Those are my prepared remarks. We welcome your questions. I'll turn it back to the operator now and she'll take your incoming questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan, RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

I just had two questions for you. The first one was, as you alluded to at the beginning, it's been harsher than usual winter across Canada. Can you talk about what sort of the impacts that you've seen on housing activity so far? I know it's only been about a month-and-a-half into the quarter.

Yeah, that's why we wouldn't get too upset if there are any signs of slowdown in the number of transactions. The housing market has stayed very strong. We continue to see people who have to put up properties for sale, or even when we get properties back. We're finding that they move off the books quite quickly, so the buyers are out there. There has been a little slowness on the part of vendors to put it up for sale, not getting the benefit of that lovely warm BC winter.

Here in Toronto, when the streets are slushy, you got a foot of snow everywhere and you have an open house and you have 100 people come sloshing through the house with the kids in the boots. And it's been a deterrent for people to list houses, so we find there's a bit of an inventory shortage and that may slow the numbers down for January and February in actual new house sales. But the mortgage activity has been strong. We still see a very good volume. January was a little ahead of last year under very severe conditions because Toronto got hit about a week before – not even a week, a few days before Christmas.

When we had a big snow storm and the hydro was down and things were really ground to a slowdown in all of Toronto and Central Ontario. And what we found was that the mortgage brokers packed up and went away for the Christmas vacation, the lawyers went away, the real estate agents went away. We still ended the year fine, but we really were – we were aware that there was a slowdown of activities. If you can't look at the houses, you can get a lawyer to help you, a lot of people just postpone stuff. So I don't think they are lost buyers, I think they are just waiting for the inventory to come back on the market. And I think you'll find that the spring will be a very exuberant spring right across Canada.

Okay, thanks. And then the second question I had was just the governments looking to make some changes to the immigration system in Canada. I know that there are still probably some details that need to be worked out, just wanted to get your first thoughts on what that might mean for your business?

We don't think that will be very material. Most of the people who buy a house either come with substantial amount of money or else it's a whole family contributing to get their first house and their first mortgage. I think the two profiles will still be there. It may slow down some people coming in on some categories, but by our analysis, we don't think that has any material change in the business.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Phil Hardie, Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning and congratulations on a good quarter.

Thanks, Phil.

Just got a question, maybe you can give a bit more granularity in terms of some of the outlook on net interest margins, and probably kind of a second part on to that, how that relates with the new deposit base? But more specifically, overall NIMs clearly improving from loan mix, but then looking at the trends within kind of non-securitized and securitized, certainly compressing in the back half of the year compared to the first half, and then looking through the guidance when you talk about stable NIMs for uninsured and then [ph] some compression (17:47) on securitized. Is that kind of year-over-year or is that more recent trends? And maybe you can get a little bit of granularity and color in terms of why we're seeing some of the volatility in NIMs we've seen even comparing back-half of the year to the front-half?

Well, dealing with it one at a time, on the securitized lending, we're very much a product of the competition in the marketplace. We can compete very effectively on service and availability, and take care of the broker and the client, and that can be very good. There is no competition on pricing, because if you want 10 basis points more, and say, can get it in another source, the insured single-family mortgage is to a large extent somewhat of a commodity type business. There is not a lot of individual company pricing power.

So there will always be periods when it's a bit slower, it's a bit bigger, the spread on the insured product. But historically, there has always been a realistically good spread. You can make a good profit on it. You can see by the $11 million that we made between multi-res and single-family. And we see that growing quite nicely, even if the spread comes in, but there is times it will expand. And I can't give you a lot of guidance, because quite frankly, I don't know myself.

One of the banks could decide one day to put on a big sale, they want to boost volume. Basically, everybody has to follow suit, because otherwise, you just lose a portion of your business. But, as long as we do can do it and still be profitable, the fact with 10 basis points up or down we'll still do that insured business.

On the uninsured business, probably spreads have come in the – a little bit. What the 20 did and this is okay for the long time, the long-term outlook on the company. There would have been situations where under the new regulatory regime we would have gone prior to the new B20. We would have gone 60 – above 65 and done 75 at a premium rate. But, if the market is such that because their proof of income is not as – it doesn't comply with the regulations, there will be a certain number of people that will have to – not give them any more than 65%. And at 65% the product is more competitive and there maybe have to be a little bit of a reduction.

That however is – I don't see that as a bad thing. I think over a long-term as we keep growing and as good as we are with our underwriting et cetera, it's not a bad thing to have a little extra loan to value installation into our loan portfolio. I think over the long-term we have stress tested extensively what would happen if there is a 25%, 35% drop in the resale value of housing if housing went down. And we still come out of it very good, because we're doing a lot of product now at 65% loan to value, so there is lots of equity there. And we're talking about even in the worst, since the big depression, the worst dip in Canada was about 20%, 25% in the early 1990s and we survived that. So when we are doing 75%, so we're quite comfortable with where it ends up and even if the spread on the uninsured tapers down a little bit, it's okay in the big picture.

Okay. That's great color. Maybe, I can just extend my question to may be focus a little bit on deposits and [ph] great (22:11) to see the diversification in terms of deposit sourcing through retail and institutional. And maybe the question more directly is, is that an initiative, which is more, I'm going to say, call it treasury related in terms of risk management and funding, or is there some potential that the more diversified deposit base allows you to, I'm going to say, reduce some of the excess liquidity that you've been holding and while it spreads may hold, at the same time the reduced liquidity might give a lift to NIMs.

Well, it's probably a bit of both, but I'll let Martin answer that. He is closer to that.

Hi Phil. I'm not sure I [ph] will build (22:55) in any pick up in NIM due to maybe reduced liquidity. It's much more strategic. The initiative is not about trying to improve the NIM through reduced liquidity. That may be an outcome, but I wouldn't build that into your model.

Okay.

We just think it's nice to have a number of pots to dip into in case one of them became a little more difficult. And instead of just the one method of [ph] the deposit of (23:32) brokers, the way we've been operating. The fact that we've been able to move to a direct to consumer on the one end, the offering we made on the institutional deposit notes. We've got a short-term initiative that was in previous quarters, which has taken in almost $0.5 billion since it's started, which is a [ph] Heiser program (24:00) with the deposit – with the stockbrokers to attract short-term funds. So, there is quite a mixture of new initiatives so that we're not dependent on any one source. [indiscernible]

(24:14), very, very smart move, and congratulations with a great quarter.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg, Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Michael.

On how much of these securitized assets on your balance sheet, you think you can sell residual interest? I have a couple of follow-up questions.

Hi, Michael. It's Bob Blowes speaking. Michael, there is a reasonable amount there, but it's really not our focus. As you think about those on balance sheet assets, they're becoming shorter dated. And the gains that would arise from the sale of those would – consequently would be lessened. And really our focus is on the renewals of existing assets and looking for the opportunity to do those renewals in an off-balance sheet methodology.

And then secondly, the growth of prime book through increased activity in the Accelerator program. So, we're not really focused on that particular part of the book. There's potentially some opportunity there, but it's not large.

Okay. And [ph] how (25:39) do you think the potential [ph] all right (25:41) that you want to think of it as gain margin might vary it over time? Should we think that for all the Accelerator loans originate that your intent would be to sell residual interest on those loans?

Well, some of the originations are not all five years. There is sometimes people only want them for a year or short-term or two years. We found that it's usually better to keep that portion of the portfolio just on our books. We have lots of room now. We're not up against any of our multiples. The selling of the strips has taken a lot of ease of our portfolio. We got lots of room.

And so, we don't look at it quite that way. We look that we will moderately increase the program, which takes in the insured mortgages. But bear in mind, the insured mortgages were playing in a $600 billion pool of insured mortgages or a little $550 billion from CMHC or $500 billion, and then there is, I don't know the Genworth numbers and the other numbers, but it's a big pot. And you only need a little bit more every month then you could have quite a substantial business.

At one point before the rules changed, we had the business up and we were doing in excess of $3 billion a year in insured loans. With this past year we did 100, we did $1 billion. We think that there will be a nice increase. But when increasing the insured loans, it's a matter of you've got to provide the service, you got to train the staff. The last time around some of the staff moved over, we didn't lay anybody off. We just moved them to other places. But sometimes they're happy where they are and you can't always move them back just as easily. You got to get the relationships working again, people have to start going.

So, I think the way to look at it is it'll be a steadily growing business with good numbers for the next couple of years. It may plateau after that to be the more normal 10%, 15% growth in originations a year, but we can see much better than that over the next couple of years as we ramp up the business. But it's very hard to predict where it's going to be. You've got to be very careful with criterias. All the insurers are quite vigilant that properly so that you don't put anything on that's not in complete compliance with their programs. So, I think you'll see the insured single-family residential mortgages grow faster than our portfolio as a whole, but we won't be there at our old 2010 target for a few years.

And I don't know how clear, as I said, I can give you more clarity after maybe comes the end of first quarter, the end of second quarter. I can give you more clarity, but it's a bit hard at this point to know how the response will be and how we'll be able to do by the end of the year.

And so, just so I understand should I think that the intent is really to [ph] sell splits (29:24) mostly on the five-year term loans?

Yes.

Okay.

That's what we mainly market.

Okay. So, at the same time as your Accelerator originations have picked up, the growth of classic mortgage originations has slowed to about mid-single digit year-over-year, is that intentional, if so, why? If not, what's happening?

It slowed, but it's – we're out there competing. There is a matter to some extent that during the course of the year we were feeling our way with the new regulatory regime. There probably with some loans we didn't do that the regulatory regime and the rules have been clarified a little more, we may be able to do them on a going forward basis.

We think that we can grow that portfolio by 10% over the coming year. I don't think it will be single-digits. But, it's sometime a bit hard to say how much the growth will be. There is nothing intentional. It's just market conditions and I think the other thing is there was – on our behalf because of the new regulations that came out, there was a great deal of caution not to be [ph] and entered (30:57) contravention of any of the new regulations, but there has been a number of meetings and clarification, and I think there will be a larger number of mortgages – percentage of mortgages that we're able to accommodate in the [ph] year and (31:12) accommodate from a regulatory, not from a financial point of view.

Okay. And my last question. In the third quarter your G&A expenses had risen to $17.5 million from $15.2 million in the second quarter, and now they're back down to 15.7% in the fourth quarter, but there is something unusual in the third quarter versus something unusual in the fourth quarter.

I'll turn that over to Bob.

I'll speak to that for a moment, Michael. We have been on a program or strategy of moving some of our IT providers from an outsource basis to an in-source. And what that means is, when we outsource we pay the provider overhead and profit and also the direct costs of the individual providing the service. So, over the course of the last quarter, two quarters really, we have been working very diligently to move more to an in-source model. So, that has been reducing some of our costs. And where we would – we're going to continue with that strategy. It's a little bit difficult because these individuals are not easy to attract on an ongoing basis. But that's really the genesis of that change.

So, why is it the third quarter number was about $2 million higher than the two quarters surrounding it?

We have to do with – well, as I said, some of these reduction is because we're not paying the profit and overhead to the outsource providers. And also that can be connected with the amount of IT work that is operational on what is project related. So, it can be variable from quarter to quarter. But the overall trend would be to reduce those costs by focusing on an in-source model.

Okay. Thanks again, congratulations.

Okay.

Thanks, Michael.

Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick with Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Hello, good morning.

Good morning, Jeff.

So Gerry, I just wanted to circle back on the funding front. I mean, you've got some new initiatives out there with Oaken, but I wanted to talk about your principal channel, the broker network for GICs. And what are you seeing in that space today? Is it seeming to be business as usual? I have been hearing some commentaries that the banks have started to push back a little bit, making it a little bit more difficult for some smaller guys to be on their systems there. What's your take on what's going on there today?

Yeah. No doubt the – this has helped to spur us on that in case there is any serious rollback from the banks, we want to be fully have other sources. The banks have tightened a little bit, each one in its own way. They have need in some cases for the deposits themselves. We still get a healthy portion from the deposit boards of the big six banks. And of course every company has better relationships with some companies than others. It's not uniform across the whole big six.

But we work at it and we were quite pleased that at this point with everything there to satisfy our needs. But if we're able to just pitch the idea of the institutional five-year deposits, and we're up on a program now to do $600 million a year for five years. For five-year money that would be about $3 billion, but we can see that program if needed. It could move up fairly dramatically if we were to offer shorter terms and come to market on a more regular basis. We don't need it. So what we're doing now, get known in the market, be a regular issuer.

And we see that was a very positive initiative. We were lead to believe that the first time issuer will have a hard time. It will be hard to sell. But not only did it oversell, but I think there was something like about 60% over-sale. We could have done a much bigger issue, but that was enough for the first time, so that is a very good sign.

And the second sign that – the going out with the Oaken and starting to advertise in the media and starting to do it across the country, it's responded very well. We've purposely with Oaken not gone out with just a demand product. We're offering a one-year open after 90 days, we're offering an 18-month, and we're offering a three-year – a five-year is our sort of headline numbers. And we're quite pleased with how the distribution of incoming deposits is right across the board. So we're getting a fair amount of five-year money, a good slug of 18-month money, and not going with the model of the ING, which is everything on demand.

It leads to terrible risk analysis when you have your whole book of business subject to a demand or a turn in the market. And we deliberately said: we've got some time; we're not under any crisis; we can roll these initiatives out. We understand from the banks, from their own self interest, which I don't – they're perfectly entitled to do that. As you've said, they've cut back some of the accessibility to their channel, but so far it's working out well, and the new initiatives have all far exceeded what our expectations were from initial offerings. So, business is good. It's coming in and we don't have a problem at this time.

Okay.

And we're getting ready in case there is a problem in the future.

Sure. And I guess maybe we can put that around, look at the front-end of the business in terms of originations. I noticed on the geographic breakdown basis, a pretty big impressive growth number in terms of volumes outside of the Ontario market. So, maybe you can just give us a little color on what your plans are there at Western and Quebec and can you sustain that sort of growth rate going forward or how would you describe [indiscernible] (38:06).

Just a second. I've got Pino Decina here and he is our Executive Vice President in-charge of all the residential and he'll comment on the volume outside Ontario. Go ahead.

Hi, Jeff.

Hi.

Yeah. So, we obviously, I think we started to sort of middle of last year into the fourth quarter that we really looked for opportunities outside of Ontario. We've ramped up our staffing in Western Canada. We've really got out and solidified our broker relationships in Western Canada, particularly with a couple of the larger broker outfits which are based out of BC. We've got some good wins heading into 2014. So, we see good growth coming out of Western Canada.

As far as the East goes, the merit times continues to be strong for us Atlantic, Canada. [ph] Newfoundland (39:10) is another market that we've been picking up a lot of market share in and Quebec continues to be a good market for us as well. So, all of those are good opportunities, which sort of take the pressure off us here in Ontario, although we obviously continue to see good opportunities outside the GTA to do increased business in 2014 as well.

Okay, great. Thanks for your answers.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Aaron Hoffman (39:43), National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Congratulations on another record quarter, Gerald.

Thanks, Aaron. Nice to hear from you again.

Yes. I know you're talking about stable real estate prices in the next year, but what kind of market adjustments over the next few years do you see happening in Canada, particularly Toronto condo market, maybe Quebec market, after such a massive run up in prices? Do you see anything over the mid-term horizon in terms of price adjustments?

Well, I'll give you a similar answer to which I've given you the last three or four times you've asked this question. And we still feel very comfortable that the condo market in Toronto, which has had a great amount of growth, I agree. But there are not a lot of vacant condos completed, finished condos at this point. You cannot get, there is no condo builder in the city that I'm aware of. And we have a lot of contacts.

Nobody builds a condo building on speculation. They all go to the bank for financing and the bank – any of the major banks will not give them $0.05 unless they have enough presales to cover the cost of construction. The builder has his equity in the deal. Also, he has his profit in the deal and the portion the bank will lend is the physical cost of construction and will only do so if there is presales. And the presales are very heavy in the sense that they're demanding a minimum of 20% paid well in advance of closing for people who qualify for mortgages and the bank will qualify the people. To the extent when there is offshore buyers, many of the condo builders have indicated that they're demanding 35% deposits in advance.

Well, anybody who puts up 35% or pays it before the building is built, you can be pretty sure they're not going to walk away. And so, I think that the condo market although you see a lot of units up, you don't see a lot of vacancies and the resale market is still good. And this is not a political comment. I'm not making – I'm talking now as a reality.

The last 25 years, there has been no substantial subway extensions; there has been no substantial new highways; there is no new ways to get into the city. And as a result, there is a great demand both among young people and older people that the city is very attractive and condos are very attractive as a place to reside. And so, I think you'll find, if you're talking to any of the condo builders, yeah, they're quite happy. They have not seen any stress. They built their buildings. They can sell out the inventory and they don't start building until they have the presale. So, I don't really see a negativity in the condo market. Can it come down 5%? Sure, it can. Could the housing market come [ph] off (43:12) 5% to 10%? Of course, it could, there can be conditions.

But I think there is a basic – and even if rates go up a bit, I think there's a basic built-in demand in the housing markets across Canada. I see the markets continuing to be stable, to be modestly up, and even if I'm wrong, it's modestly down, I think we still can have a great year.

But you talked about presales. There's no way people can get financing three years, four years in advance of an actual completion occurring. I mean, they can get their 10% or 20% down, but there's no way they can get that mortgage in place, not knowing what their income will be, what interest rates will be. That financing cannot be in place three years or four years in advance, [ph] even if it needs changes (43:58)?

No, no. Yeah, but the banks will approve a person as a buyer, if he has the down payment, and at the present time has the background and the job, and the stability, they will tentatively qualify people and the builder goes ahead.

I'm not particularly worried about that because I think the quality of people, who have been buying the units have been very high. The small portion that has been bought by offshore builders are contributing – offshore owners are contributing to the housing pool in Ontario, and especially in Toronto. And other than non-profit or a charitable basis that I can say this, there's been almost no buildings built in the GTA on a pure rental basis in the last 10 years. So it's not like a rental stock that's continuing to be resupplied. If anything, the rental supply or the rental stock gets diminished because buildings become old, absolute, torn down.

We will continue to have this discussion, and I'm sorry. [indiscernible] (45:19) Oh, yeah, [ph] Martins (45:20) here pointing out, we have very little condo. I think our total is 5% – 7% and half of that's insured. So, we're not a lender to the – a primary lender in the condo market. Only the resale condo market, people come to us. On the first pass, they tend to get financed from the bank who has done the construction financing.

So, you don't think there is massive overbuilding in the Toronto condo market, and if there is it's not even a concern to you because your limited exposure. Is that basically your stance?

That's my story and I'm sticking to it.

Okay. Now, I've got another question here about your multi-unit residential originations.

Yes.

You have an increased focus on those, I've noticed, in the last year really. So, what region of Canada are these focused in these multi-unit originations?

They're basically coast-to-coast. We work with a number of partners and that are active in the business. And if the building – first of all, the building has to be approved and then comply with all the CMHC. There is only one insurer on these and that's CMHC. The other two mortgage insurers are not competing in this market at this time. So, we're talking about CMHC insurance. They set the criteria. They review the applications. And then the company does the – its own underwriting, but there is a lot of due diligence also by CMHC before they issue their certificate of insurance.

So it's not a big margin, but it is a nice margin and it does not require – it's not part of your asset base or capital – or asset to capital ratios once it's sold. So we like the business and as I said in my conference call, we see this one growing more or less the same as our regular residential portfolio. This is not one that has a lot of dynamic growth. It will have growth, but if we do 10% extra a year we're going to be quite happy. The single-family, we can see growth in excess of that in the year ahead.

Okay. Just one final question, Gerald, are you concerned about the recent increase in percent of non-performing loans that I see on your financials?

No, it really boils down to a couple of loans. We had one loan that was there at year-end that the builder had five or six town houses there. He had financial troubles in his core business and that affected this building project. But all of the units have been sold. The last one closes, I guess, tomorrow, Valentine's Day, somebody bought a present for their wife or partner. And we will be out of that, and there was a huge amount of surplus for other creditors.

The second project we had is a builder, again have outside problems, and there has been a sale through the – again through the trustee and the sale was almost double what the amount of our mortgage was, and it was a cash sale and that will come off, if not in this quarter, it comes off next quarter, it's just waiting for the approval of the court.

And the third one, which brings us down if these three are out, we would be down below where we were the previous quarter, there is a third one. There is a retirement home in Montreal that CMHC insured. And CMHC has preceded, we operate with their caution, they keep advising us we want to go a little faster. They keep advising us that they're the ones that are picking up the deficit, and understandably for their own political reasons, they don't want it sold. I don't have a problem with it. All three will get resolved with no losses, and it will be back probably under 30 basis points or 31 basis points. So the reasons are isolated, it's not a [ph] broad day's (50:02) problem.

Okay, and thank you for your time.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Steven Boland, GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

Just want to talk to you a little bit about your guidance or your performance targets for 2014. I noticed your increase for the amount of loans expected to grow 15% to 20%. And when I look at your maturities this year, which are probably in the $10 billion range, I think it's close to that number, you have to, I guess, assume either a large amount of renewals on that maturities or a huge amount of origination growth. So I'm wondering if you can maybe just walk me through the numbers.

I'll hand you over to the master of the budget, Bob Blowes, and he'll give you his comments.

Yes. Good morning, Steven. There is a – we have a very significant renewal rate, very high renewal rate in our portfolio. So, the phenomenon that you identified is not new and it's been happening consistently over a long period of time. And so the growth is really a combination of renewal rates in the 70% to 80% range depending on the portfolio and then reasonably strong new originations as well. And it'd be consistent with what we've been achieving over the last three years at least since I've been in this seat.

Okay. And just on the renewals, again, can you remind me how – basically if somebody comes that was non-prime, you come back with a rate that sort of matches a rate that they could get from a prime lenders, is that still the theory or the practice?

I can answer that. If they qualify, we're happy to upsell them to either an insured loan or a rate that would be compete – be competitive. There will be individuals who become a prime bank candidate after a year and there is a certain percentage and maybe 20%, move on, and can get a bank mortgage. And usually, those are a bit cheaper than what we're offering, and they have less spreads, and that's okay. We call that the graduation program. And we're happy for them.

Sometimes, it takes an average of three years or four years for the average person to be able to move on if they come with us. Some move sooner, some move later, but we'll try to solve their problems. And we also are quite comfortable about the origination. We did about $6.9 billion or $7 billion came in the front door. We don't have a problem seeing that something like $8 billion coming in the front door or over the course of the year. And that with renewals we think we can get to the growth numbers we're talking about.

That's helpful. And the second question, Gerry, if you could just talk about the strips in the market for people that are purchasing? In the past, I think you've indicated there's been a pretty limited pool of investors. Is that market opening up at all or have you seen any progression with that?

Yes. And I'm going to turn it over to Martin for that, because he's closer to that.

I'll take it. Yeah. Initially when we started this process, we had a couple of hedge funds interested. We had seen a lot of interest over the last little while from pension plans, other fund managers, other financial institutions, insurance companies. So, there is growing interest. Now the people know it is a market and then we will be coming to market on a regular basis. I think people were maybe a little uncertain at the beginning whether it's just a one-off transaction or whether it was going to be something on a regular basis.

Okay.

And then lot of the regular mortgage-backed securities buyers have interests because they are modeling out the prepay risk anyway.

Great.

And we have chatted with everybody, there has been not a lot of other issuers who have come forward with taking advantage of this program. A lot are talking and getting the regulatory approvals. So, I think, if we talked a year from now, we'd find there'd be a reasonably healthy market of buyers and sellers out there. And the buyers of the early strips have done very well because the mortgages – well, first of all, performance is guaranteed by CMHC. And secondly, the prepayment when putting on mortgages at these levels the prepayment is not a big problem. It's easy to model out, it's not any – it's not even as much as who has modeled out.

I think it would be if we went through a period where we had double-digit interest rates, and then rates went down, people get very creative how to break the mortgage.

So at this point, there is no incentive and they're not going to get a better rate. So the people will say okay, if I can't get a better rate, I'll just leave it alone. And in the United States, this is a very good point, when people took out a 30-year mortgage and the rate was fixed and the house went up 10%, they could break the mortgage, no penalty, apply for a new mortgage, put on 10% on their mortgage and all the original interest and the extra interest on the piece they added on were tax free.

Now, I'd scratch my head, I do not understand what the political reasons are to make every house in the United States an ATM cash machine. And there is no penalty for getting out of the old mortgage, and that is nothing else led to a huge part of their problem and behavior difference than from Canada.

In Canada, the rate is fixed for five years. The interest is not tax deductable. So there is an incentive to pay down when they can, and if you do change it and probably got more money, then there is a price to pay for that. So there is not rapid refinancing during the term just because houses in the area have gone up a bit.

So, it's a pretty – I know that was not your question, but it gave me a chance to editorialize on why I think the housing market here in Canada is more stable than it ever was in the States.

Okay. That's great.

Thanks, Steve. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding, TD Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, gentlemen.

Hi, Graham.

Maybe I can start with the Accelerator. Part of the rationale behind moving back into that area was you hope that the indirect benefit would be an increased penetration of the broker channel, those relationships, and also have a good position to [ph] you all (57:47) sort of, I guess, compete for that graduating client. Are you seeing any of this play out already or is it a too early?

No. No, we see it immediately because you win the brokers one by one. There is no fell swoop. What I'm going to do is – Pino Decina will comment on that because he does deal with the brokers. And Graham, if you could, try to get a little closer to your phone, your voice is a bit, it's not coming through very strong. So, just get a little closer and I think it will be fine.

I will, okay.

Okay. But here Pino will answer.

Okay. Hi, Graham. I'm just going to just make sure I got the question right. Is it the effect of Accelerator on broker relationships, is that...?

Yeah, the indirect benefit on your Alt-A business was part of the rationale. If you're offering multiple products to brokers then that relationship gets entrenched, and you start to see an indirect benefit on the Alt-A side of your business as well. Are you seeing any of that play out yet or is it too early to tell?

It's definitely played out. And it's all are obviously about relationships and it plays out at the end of every year. And the reason I say that, that's when we go to our national brokerage partners and solidify relationships for the upcoming year. To do that, if you think of every national broker having five to maximum six sort of preferred lenders that they use nationally, everyone's mission is to become one of those five or six. And you can always be one of the tertiary lenders and pick up your fair share, but if you want to be one of the main five or six of that these national brokers are using then you want to have a full product suite, and so Accelerator complemented that.

Last year, beginning of the year it was a little more difficult for us going in with obviously our traditional product, which was obviously well known in the marketplace, but sort of a Tier 2 prime lender. This year we go in obviously with a very strong traditional mortgage product and a very strong Tier 1 Accelerator, our prime product that is competitive rate-wise in the marketplace, it's competitive as far as broker compensation. So, really solidifies ourselves as a national lender for these broker partners.

Great. The other question I just wanted to just quickly – the federal budget. Not sure, if you had a chance to sort of dive into it, but are there any elements in there? They touched on securitization market and also the amalgamation of credit unions, any [ph] re-throughs (60:43) for your business or for smaller lenders in general?

The one thing – no, let's talk about the credit unions. It was several years ago, this is not completely new, they have given an avenue several years ago for the credit unions to convert to being federally regulated. At the present time, the credit union are a creation of the provinces, and it goes back to 1867 and the BNA Act for what the powers of the province. And the powers of the province were over credit unions, and the banks had trust companies and banks. And so far, to my knowledge, the credit unions have not wanted and you can get a better analysis from them, but they have not moved to be federally regulated.

I think the federal regulator is known to be regulating a little differently than some of the provincial ones and I've not heard of any credit union making that move. I think this budget was to try to encourage them to go federal, because I think they are probably from a national oversight. Some of them are very substantial. And I think the government would like to have them in a common regulator, but I don't think they have the power to compel them. They have to persuade them and so far they have not been very persuasive. Maybe these new changes will help to persuade them.

So, I don't think there's anything in the budget. The credit unions aren't coming national in the foreseeable future. The changes in the budget were pretty modest. I'm not a smoker, so it didn't affect me and not many people smoke these days that work in offices, because you can't smoke in the offices and you got to go far away from the front door in the cold weather to get a smoke. So, smoking was the biggest taxing, the rest was fairly modest. And so, I don't think there is anything in the budget that really is material to us.

Okay. Great. So, it sounds like the one area I noticed was around the securitization, where I guess new issuance volumes are going to be down slightly next year, with both to CMB and the market NHA MBS. Offsetting that, it seems that the federal government still wants to encourage smaller lenders to participate more whether that's through allocation methodologies or whatnot is that...?

If that so, we got no official notification, but we clearly are not one of the big six. So, we'll have our hand up to be able to participate in that. And if that's encouraged then that would be a positive for us, not a negative. And the other thing that, I gathered they were doing is the block insurance of mortgages that were under 80%. There is a continuous backup on CMHC, not insuring block – big blocks of mortgages, only for the balance sheet treatment that would be received from an insured block as opposed to an uninsured block.

And I'm quite sympathetic with the government on that. CMHC was set up to – for housing for Canadians, not for banks or even institutions like us to move off-balance sheet regular conventional mortgages. So, the policy treatment on that is a good win and I think leads to strengthen CMHC over the long-term.

And I think that's very positive, because nobody ever wants to think – the government still has to guarantee CMHC, but no one ever want that CMHC would be in a position that they'd have to call on the federal government to fulfill any of the guarantees. So they're just tightening up a little bit in areas where they think will not affect the market very much.

Perfect. Thanks, Gerry.

Okay. Thanks, Graham.

Your next question, a follow-up question from Michael Goldberg, Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks.

Welcome back, Michael.

In the MD&A you talked about the single commercial loan that was classified in the fourth quarter, and then Gerry, you talked about three loans that had been classified, so what [indiscernible] (65:52) you're going to suggest, so were the other two in previous quarters? And what was the amount of whatever it was one or three, the total amount of these loans that got classified during the latest quarter?

Bob, will be here.

Yes. So maybe I can clarify that Michael. The third loan that Gerry referred to is actually has not yet gone into imperatives. It will – if it's not repaid in the next quarter, it will. And it's a – you'll see that in our delinquency schedule rather than in the non-performing. So the two that are in the non-performing, they – in our financial statement, which is on page 84 of our quarterly report, or on the annual and quarterly report, you'll see that there is a residential commercial mortgage $1.8 million, and a non-residential commercial mortgage roughly $7.2 million. Those are the first two that Gerry referred to. But, just want to ...

Okay. And [inaudible] (67:02) fourth quarter?

Sorry?

Were they classified in the fourth quarter?

I guess, yes.

Okay. And just one other thing, what proportion of Accelerator loans were five-year last year and how do you think that might change this year?

Yeah, a substantial portion. I would guess it's probably over 90%. There is a small amount of other terms but the biggest one we market is probably the five-year product.

Thank you very much.

No further questions at this time. Turn the call back to Gerald Soloway for closing remarks.

Well, thank you everybody, and thanks for all the questions. I think they were very good in helping clarify. We've been rolling along now with a return on equity over 20% for some 16 years. It's added to the ability to have profits, to generate our own capital, to not have to do additional equity issues, and live within the amount of capital that we can generate internally. And I'm saying, I think the outlook looks pretty good. I'm pretty optimistic about the year ahead.

I'm not too worried about the housing market. I think it'll continue to be quite good. The winter will soon be over. I think the housing market will even be a little more stimulated when Central Ontario comes out of this cold snap. And I look forward to chatting with you again next quarter and I'm cautiously optimistic, we'll again deliver very good news at that time. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. Thank you.