corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 12, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group, Inc. Fourth Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time to signal for questions. [Operator


Instructions]. I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on


Tuesday, February 12, 2008 at 10:30 AM Eastern Time.


I will now turn the conference over to Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Welcome, everyone, to the Home Capital Fourth Quarter 2007 results, together with the


Full-Year 2007 results. Now Valentine’s Day being two days away, we’re two days’ short in


reporting. I have a little poem for the shareholders of Home -- Roses are red, Violets are blue,


Home’s results are great, just for you. So that’s our Valentine’s little inaugural for our shareholders,


and now I’ll go on and tell you what happened this quarter.


We had, notwithstanding pretty stormy North American financial markets and especially in the


United States, we had a year where our earnings were up 33% over the year before. The basic


earnings were up 31.7, the fully-diluted were 32.8. Our return on equity for the year was another –


the 10th consecutive year that return on equity was over 20%. Tenth consecutive year, and we


ended up with a 28.9% return on equity. Our origination in the fourth quarter had a very nice bump.


We’re – overall, we’re up 73%, but the actual residential was less than that; it got added by 177


million in commercial mortgages, which we had a base of zero last year.


I don’t want to suggest that that number is going to be a permanent number. I think it’s because we


came off a zero base the year before; it looks a bit bigger than it will be on a going-forward basis.


But, however, indicative of the quality of what we’re lending on and the fact that it has ramped up,


which I’ll talk about a little more later on, our securitizations were up quite sharply during the


quarter, we sold almost 200 million, compared to 130 million last year. And you saw there was a


nice lift for the year, we sold 692 million over 546 last year. I think that’s a trend that will continue,


we continue to do more higher-quality mortgages, and, as a result, they do qualify for CMHC


mortgage.


At this particular point we have found the Canada mortgage bond program has not been materially


affected in anyway by all the credit disruptions. Yes, the spreads have widened out; yes, there was


a little better spread; there was a narrower spread over the Canada bond yield curve, but what has


happened is the Canada bonds have gone down quite dramatically, so the overall yield on selling


into the Canada bond program, the yield to Home has increased. We did very well in the fourth


quarter; we had margins that were higher than the norm. I have no idea whether they can continue,


but we were getting in the close 5%, where historically our spread on the NBS sales was more in


the 3.5% yield. So we did have a good lift there, but I want to caution everybody, you really can’t


assume that that will be going on on those indefinitely.


We also had some straight-up CMHC insured mortgage-backed security sales, and again, although


the spread widened on those over the Canada bond, the net return to Home was better than


average, so having the wisdom of participating in CMHC product proved -- put us in good stead,


because the market for that product stayed steady. It was there, it was available, we could sell into


it, whereby the conduit-type purchases of mortgages, for all intents and purposes, dried up, and


that there was, basically, to the best of my knowledge, no sales into any conduits over the last


quarter, other than those that were fully insured. There was markets for fully-insured products, but


for uninsured products, basically, the market dried up.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 12, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We see that as a real vindication of our business model over some of the securitization models that


were not deposit taking, who operate on a lend-and-sell basis with no ownership in the product –


that market has really dried up.


Anyway, moving on, the VISA has done very well. We had a nice bump of some 40% receivables,


nice increase in profit, 48% on our increase in profit year-over-year. Our efficiency ratio was great,


and that’s notwithstanding the fact that we spent a lot of money last year on getting certain


processes in place, such as, there was a heavy build for Basel II, but I think we’ve got it to the point


that we’re really up to speed on it, and we’ve got both our staff trained and our processes, and


we’re in good shape on the Basel II process for our regulator. We also worked hard on Fair Isaac


scoring system on a Cognos system, which would help manage the business, and there was a real


ramp-up in some of the technology over the last year, which – we spent a lot of money that will not


be re-occurring in that area.


Non-performing was fairly steady, and not withstanding all this momentum in growth and activity


and what has happened over the past year, and we keep -- we also are not immune from reading


what’s going on in the United States with their subprime problems. Notwithstanding that, we have


not seen any sign of any weakening in the Canadian real estate market. Now, that has not made


us complacent. We have operated on a corporate call to battle stations. Really for the whole year,


we’ve been in, if one uses the analogy, we’ve been in a battle stations mode waiting for the attack


on the Canadian real estate market. We haven’t seen it, we don’t see it now, we don’t see it on the


horizon, but we are maintaining a very, very – a very increased vigilance for any deterioration.


Now, what have we done? Well, clearly when we looked over the beginning of last year, what


provinces were we lending in, did we have non-performing, not necessarily losses, non-performing


higher than the rest of the country? And we found that there were a number of parts of the East


Coast market; it was a very small market for us, but they weren’t quite performing the way we didn’t


– and we had wanted and we cut back, and I think we’ve got it all sorted out, and we still have to


run off a few loans; not all of them are bad loans but the behavior patterns in the East Coast are a


little different than some of the other markets, and we have to lend differently there.


We’re now basically just lending in the greater Nova Halifax, Nova Scotia market, and we’re very


pleased with the results from the performance of those, and the credit quality is working well. We


also found we did the same in Quebec. We changed in mid-year last year; between having a new


regional manager and a tightening of our credit criteria, we found that the non-performing in


Quebec has improved very dramatically on everything we’ve been lending since about July of last


year.


There’s not an issue with what we have, it’ll run off; in Quebec, we haven’t had losses, but again,


there’s a matter of how long does it take people to clear it up, and we don’t want a big non-


performing number so, we’re quite happy with the way the new criteria has evolved, and business


is good, and there’s good volumes in Quebec with good spreads. But it just takes a little more


vigilance and a little tightening criteria over, say, some other markets.


We also in Ontario, BC and Alberta made some changes part way through last year, and we’re very


pleased with the results we’re seeing as a result. Now with the tightening might only be on 5% of


the product, it’s not a dramatic change, but there’s a little bit on the edge of what we might have


lent last year we may not do now, and it’s just a bit of tightening up. So in all the lending, including


these across the country, we have, over the course of the year, have tightened up, and we really do


not see any loosening of that in current market conditions.


I might add another thing -- that when I said it’s a corporate call to battle stations, we’ve increased


the staff in our collection group. We’re staffed to a level to deal with increased arrears. Even though


we don’t see them, even though we are not seeing any sign of it, we’ve staffed up to be ready to


deal with whatever the market may throw at us.