corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Welcome to the Home Capital Group Inc. Second Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference


Call. At this time, all the participants are in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. I would like to


remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Tuesday August 5th 2008 at 10:30


a.m. Eastern Time.


I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. Please go


ahead, sir.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just want to report to you that Home is delighted to


report its Q2 results for 2008. It’s been a year that despite the year of turmoil in the financial


markets, Home continues to meet its targets and deliver strong results to all segments of our


business.


Firstly, the net income for the quarter was up 20.6% and for the first six months of the year it was


up some 19.8% just slightly under our target of 20%. The earnings per share were up to $0.77 per


share, 20.3% increase over last year, $1.50 for the first six months of this year and 19.1% higher


than last year. The fully diluted earnings are slightly better than that. They were up 20.6% for the


quarter and 19.4% for the full year.


As usual, we have continued to deliver strong return on equity, which was 27.7% for the second


quarter, 27.8% for the first six months of the year, which is well ahead of our target of 25% for the


whole year. The total assets at June 30 were some 24.5% higher than a year ago and assets


together with Mortgaged-Backed Security, which are originated and administered by the company,


serviced by the company, they grew by some 27% to a total of $7 billion. So, it was a bit of a


breakthrough for us for the total assets, including Mortgage-Backed Securities, we’re now over the


$7 billion mark.


The – we had a very strong quarter in originations, which were up some 42% over the year before


and year-to-date, total originations were $1.75 billion, an increase of 50% over the same period last


year. Now, part of the reason why the originations have increased is we’ve added a new business


over the last couple of quarters, which is a program to do fully insured A-quality first mortgages.


These mortgages are A mortgages and are fully insured by CMHC or one of the other mortgage


insurance companies, all of whom are regulated and licensed by the Superintendent of Financial


Institutions in Canada or OSFI, as they are called. So, these are not anything but top quality


insurance companies who also are in the field besides CMHC. CMHC carries the full guaranty of


the government of Canada.


I just should say on the mortgages in our new program, about 65% are CMHC and about a third are


from the other companies. Now, what is very nice about this business is it’s a very low risk


business. We originate the mortgage, we warehouse it, we sell the mortgage to the Canada Bond


program or in a securitization program. All of the mortgages when they’re sold are without recourse


back to Home because they’re insured by a third-party insurer. That’s a quality business with good


spreads.


But more than that is the spin-over that it has on the rest of our business. It allows Home to be a


one-stop shop, and I’ll just explain exactly for a moment what that means. We have all our other


products to help people who do not qualify for an insured mortgage, so that if an applicant is turned


down for an insured mortgage; someone applies for a mortgage and wants the rates that go with an


A mortgage that is insured and they don’t qualify. There is something about their earnings or credit


that does not allow them to get an insured mortgage. The broker does not have to then send that
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


mortgage to a third – to another company that’s already in Home, at Home with all the data in


place, with all the credit bureaus et cetera, that are there. And it allows us to give a solution to the


applicant to solve his borrowing need. And the – we are finding that having an A program and


allowing us to be a one-stop shop has proved to be extremely beneficial in the short time we have


been running the program.


I might add, to the best of my knowledge, we are the only company in Canada that offers a full


range of mortgage products in-house from a pure A, that the type of the – types of the banks would


do, to an alternative A to a B or C. So wherever the mortgage, wherever it falls into the grading


criteria we are able to provide a solution for the individual.


At the present time, the gains on the securitization sales have been better than they have ever


been for some time. We don’t know if they will continue with that scale but at the present time they


are quite generous. We’ve taken advantage of the market and the live spread that exists between


raising term deposits and the benefit of increasing sales into the Canada bond program or by


mortgage securitizations during the second quarter. We took advantage of that and you saw that in


the numbers and however I suggest, make everyone aware, that if the pendulum changes and that


deposits are cheaper to access, they are easy to access except the only thing is they are


expensive, so if they change back the deposits were more beneficial to raise than the securitization,


being a deposit-taking institution and having lots of excess capital on our books, we could just take


in more deposits and finance then in-house. So we have the flexibility to finance these mortgages


either buy deposits or buy securitizing itself. At the present time, as I said, we believe that the


securitization is the better course.


We at Home and we at the company see a lot of low-risk profitability in the insured program going


forward and again I emphasize the parts that I think in these trouble times we like is that it is


essentially a very low-risk program. Not withstanding that VISA has continued to grow steadily at


about 25% year-over-year and we are delighted with the progress there. We anticipate rolling out


our acquiring program sometime towards the end of the third quarter, early fourth quarter and that’s


moving ahead on plan. And the – notwithstanding the turmoil that we read about in the market the


impaired have stayed the same more or less over the last year. There maybe, over the coming


year, a little increase in the impaired. We see – we could see that happening because of the


leveling off of the market place but we don’t see any problems vis-à-vis losses.


The mortgages, we do have, we’ve done them at a very reasonable low loan to value and we


continue to see a pretty stable housing market in Canada. Notwithstanding all the items that one


sees ahead and you read the daily press and you read about the United States, I m delighted to


report that our Board of Directors has seen fit to approve a dividend increase that – what we’ve


done is we’ve increased the quarterly dividend from $0.13 – from 12 to 13. So, on a yearly basis,


it’s 52 instead of 48 and it’s an increase that we believe shows the confidence that the company


has in the market place in the book of business we have and that this is the second – and our


strong capital ratios that the company has and this is the second increase we’ve done this year.


So we – everyone here feels quite confident about the future. We also read the paper and caution


investors to point out that there really is a different housing market in Canada than there is in the


United States. We are quite fortunate in Canada that we don’t have anywhere near the same


amount of turmoil. We do see in the coming year a flattening out of house prices year-over-year.


We may see a situation where in certain pockets there may be a modest decrease in housing


prices. But we don’t see anything, as we lend across the country, we don’t see anything that is


really very risky to our business. Now, notwithstanding that there’s pockets of the country we do


have extreme caution like we look at the winter market, although we still lend there one has to be


extremely cautious because of all the layoffs that have occurred.


Notwithstanding that we do see a year of – the rest of the year a lot of low-risk growth opportunities


and that is due not only to the expansion of our own programs but to the withdrawal of other