Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — CEO, Director & Head-Media Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive Vice President, Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Jeff M. Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Stephen Patrick Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Rob, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Home Capital's Q4 and Annual 2012 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After your presenters' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Chief Executive Officer, Gerald Soloway. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you very much. As stated, my name is Gerald Soloway. I'm the CEO of Home Capital. I'm delighted to report to you on the results for Home Capital's fourth quarter and for the year 2012.

However, first this being Valentine's Day, I have a little poem prepared by one of our staff. Roses are red, violets are blue, highlights of the quarter and year we'll review during our conference call today with you. Net interest income and earnings per share were up over last quarter and for the year, and our ROE is a winner, that's clear. Home's great results are our focus today, let's review the report, then onto the Q&A, and we wish you all a very happy Saint Valentine's Day.

So, on a more serious note, the basic fully diluted – and fully diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were CAD1.70, up 17.2% year-over-year. And for the entire 2012 earnings, they were CAD6.40 a share, up 16.8% year-over-year. Net income for the year, CAD220 million – CAD220 million after-tax, an increase of 16.8% over 2011.

And for the past consecutive 15 years, return on equity has exceeded 20% per year. Of that, the past 10 consecutive years, the return on equity exceeded 25%. And despite the fact, with a number of housing sales in Canada has slowed during the fourth quarter and despite the tightening in mortgage lending rules, Home has continued to deliver consistent robust earnings for the past 15 years.

And in keeping with the Valentine Day theme, we acknowledge that our main products, residential and commercial mortgages, these are end consumer lending products, are not very sexy. But Home does make a lot of money and its robust consistent growth and profitability does make the company a very sexy financial services centerfold.

Home was successful during the year in meeting or exceeding all of its performance targets for 2012, except for growth in total loans which were up 5.1%. And that did not hit our goal of 13% to 18%. However, I want to point out that when Home's goals for 2012 were set, we did not know that two groups of loans would qualify for off-balance sheet treatment and would not be included in the total loan category.

Now the first one, Home originated, securitized, and sold CAD234 million in insured multi-unit residential mortgages, which resulted in a gain of CAD3.3 million, plus an ongoing servicing fee until the maturity date of the mortgages.

Now, under IFRS, the International Financial Reporting System, these mortgages achieved derecognition and are off-balance sheet. Now, off-balance sheet for both IFRS and for regulatory purposes, so there is no confusion there. They're off our balance sheet and the sale is done and the gain is on the books.

The second group of loans that qualified for off-balance sheet treatment was a sale during the fourth quarter that the company completed, a sale of residual interest, sometimes called strips, of NHA, National Housing, CMHC housing mortgages that backed securities and that related to CAD662.2 million in existing on-balance sheet securitized mortgages, previously securitized.

So, this sale of the strips led to an off-balance sheet accounting gained for the sale of CAD4.8 million. Now, for IFRS, both pools of mortgages, the multi-res and the strips, totaled CAD896 million and clearly are off-balance sheet.

I'll talk about the regulatory treatment of the strips in a minute. But if we included in total loans, the CAD896 million of loans that qualified for off-balance sheet treatment under IFRS, then the growth in total loans for 2012 would be 10.5%, just a little under our goal of 13% to 18%.

There will not be any confusion for 2013 as our goal for 2013 is expressed as growth in total loans under administration, which will include both on- and off-balance sheet assets. So, we have set out a goal for next year that I think we will be able to achieve and will clearly cover both on- and off-balance sheet assets.

Now, I'd like to go back to the CAD662 million in strips that were sold in the first quarter. We have not yet had an answer from our regulator about our request for off-balance sheet treatment for those mortgages. As the regulatory treatment for these transaction has not been confirmed, we have included these off-balance sheet mortgages in our calculation of the asset to capital multiple. We communicate regularly with our regulator and have had a healthy exchange. And we cautiously, and I got to say cautiously, hope for a positive answer soon, but we have no assurance. I don't want to tell anybody more than what it actually stated. We remain cautiously optimistic by the nature of the questions and the inquiry that they're doing, but it's only a hope.

Now, on a completely different subject, at the time of the IFRS implementation in January 1, 2011, there was accumulative positive fair value in the hedge swaps. These swaps were restructured and designated as hedges against interest rate risk associated with the CMB liabilities. Over the maturity of the related CMB liabilities, the accumulated gain has to be charged to income as part of hedge ineffectiveness.

In the fourth quarter, we recorded charges of CAD3.6 million in this connection. And I'd like to point out, we have similar charges in the first and second quarter of 2012 being – 2013, sorry, being CAD2.6 million and – for the first quarter, and CAD3.2 million for the second quarter.

After the second quarter 2013, the amounts involved in these kind of hedge write-offs are not significant and not very material. I also like to point out that the hedges will not be a factor in future MBS sales as these charges are probably the final leftover of adjustments of our conversion to IFRS.

Now, in also reviewing 2012, I'd like to point out that our total net interest margin increased on the whole portfolio. It went from 2.06% to 2.09%. Now, for the large part, that was driven by our unsecuritized mortgages and all the other assets we had that were not securitized, the yield on those went from 3.04% to 3.10%. The securitized assets fell from about 1.24% to 93 – 0.93% during the year.

However, for 2013, we do think we see a stabilization in the rate of return on the securitized assets in the 75 basis point to 90 basis point range. And for the unsecuritized assets, anytime we can see over a 3% spread, we feel very happy and especially when the quality of the lending is very high. And so, we see 2013 continuing in the same range that it did in 2012.

However, what you will probably see on the balance sheet is a continuous reduction in the amount of low yielding securitized assets on the balance sheet that had a substantial shrink during the calendar year 2012 and should continue to decrease as mortgages run-off in the New Year.

In the future, we believe that we can attempt to do all securitized lending on and off-balance sheet basis. And that will be something we'll be able to elaborate more as the year goes on. And during 2012, even though securitized lending was down – insured lending was down, total originations were CAD6 billion compared to CAD5.1 billion in 2011, a very nice healthy increase. Our credit performance remained strong. Tier 1 and total capital ratios remained strong and we're well ahead of all regulatory requirements.

Now, when we look ahead for 2013, we are cautiously very positive. We've set our goals for 2013 very similar to 2012 where we have a goal set of a growth in net income, 13% to 18%; growth in diluted earnings per share, also 13% to 18%; the growth in total loans under administration, a 10% to 15% growth; efficiency ratio continuing in the 28% to 34%; and our provision somewhere between 10 basis points and 18 basis points for the year.

So, we are – we believe on the information we have from lending across the country that the Canadian economy and the Canadian housing market will do better than many of the published forecasts. We have reviewed the first six months of operation – the first six weeks of operations in 2013, and we see a very good first quarter for Home and are confident that we can meet or exceed all of our goals for 2013.

I thank you very much for your attention, and I am delighted to answer any of your questions.

[Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick from Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Hello, good morning.

Good morning, Jeff.

So, a good quarter. Thanks for the color on the sale of the MBS. I guess just the question that's there then is if you – if there's some question as to whether you're going to get the capital relief from selling those from OSFI? Why sell them? What's the economic difference to you to sell them versus holding them if the capital could turn out to be a wash?

We have negotiated in good face with the group and they had a very good price we thought for those strips that were there and we want them available if we can continue. And there were some – we gave up over time some economic gain, but I think we have a very strong buyer in place for all future strips. So, the decision was made to go ahead with it, like, there was a lot of business reasons.

Yes, we might have given up something. But if we would have held it, we would not have received that much more. But we really value the relationship with the person who have been negotiating with us and holding on and holding the money for what amounted to over six bucks. So, you sometimes make a business decision to say, okay, let's go ahead, they've done their part and let's do it. But we're not likely to do much more until we know yes or no.

Okay. And when you sell those loans, do you retain any of the servicing fees on those as well?

Yeah. We still get the servicing fees till maturity.

Okay. And that comes through in your other income line?

Yes.

And then I think in previous quarters, you discussed that there might be up to CAD1.5 billion in that balance you were carrying on your balance sheet that you could sell under this model. Is that still accurate?

Yes. I believe that. In fact, some is run-off, some we've done some pools and replaced them. I'm quite comfortable that there is at least that much floating around.

Okay, and then maybe just one question on NIM. You guided on a blended basis you think it's going to fairly stable. But I guess when I look at the rate of the – even without the sales, just as some of those securitized loans roll off, it seems like your blended NIM should start to creep higher over the course of the year just like it did in 2012. Is that an accurate way to look at it?

Yes. Sometimes, I don't want to promise too much, but I think it's inevitable that if a larger portion at the higher interest rate, so a smaller portion is at the lower. The overall figure has got to go up. I think it's just – and if you see by the amount of shrinkage there was in the lower interest rate mortgages over the year, I am sure that that's a number that's going to be creeping up quarter-by-quarter.

Okay, great. I just wanted to make sure I hadn't missed something there. Thank you very much. I'll re-queue.

Okay. Thanks, Jeff.

Your next question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. I was just wanted to get your view on the changes that the government has done with respect to the immigrant program. Just what impact you thought it might have had on your business in 2012, and then on the other side looking at 2013, what do you think that might be for your business?

Well, we have not seen to date any difference in the immigration. Previously, I think the total number of immigrants coming in and you have to help me on this, I don't think that's come down to date very much. Has it? You're like – you're probably more in touch with those numbers. Has the number coming in decreased rapidly?

I think the number – well, I think it was based on the classes or specifically I think around the immigrant program. But I don't think, overall, it's had a huge change. But I just didn't know with the mix of the categories that people come in through the immigration program and where you guys are doing business, if that was having maybe a bit of different impact.

No, no. We sort of – in all categories, we've seen new immigrants come in and as soon as they are landed by houses whether they are – they come from very modest means and the whole family goes to work and you get four salary earners in the one family. And sometimes more than that all go to work and produce income and then they are able to carry a mortgage on a house. Or, you get people who are fairly affluent and will come in and maybe only look for a very relatively small mortgage like under 50% of value because they were able to come to the country with a substantial amount of cash.

So, we see the whole range and we haven't noticed any change in the amount of mortgages that would be in that category like we haven't analyzed mix by mix, what group they're in. But we have no concerns that that will affect our volume for the coming year.

Okay. And then the other question I had was, I know that you guys have talked about when you guys are looking at how – I guess, what your appetite on originating new business is and taking a look at the loss side of the businesses. And one of the things I think you've talked about in the past is that you will look at stuff as number of days to sell homes that you foreclosed on. Are there anything that you're looking at from the loss side or delinquency side that has changed over the past quarter or two?

No, we're finding the whole country is fairly active. And that although the number of sales has gone down, we ended the year – it's not a number we publish because it can fluctuate, but we look at the number of houses under the 60 odd thousand mortgages we have, how many do we have in possession, like coast-to-coast from Vancouver. And out of 60,000. I think at the end of January, we only had about 30 odd houses that were unsold which was historically for five years the lowest number we've had.

And we find that in every market, we can move houses as long as we go through the normal drill which we always do where we clean them up after they're vacated. We clean them up. If they need a paint job, we give them a paint job. We clean out all the junk and we list them on multiple listing with the local broker.

And fortunately, everything, no matter what part of the country it is, like I know you are in Vancouver and the number of sales has gone down overall from the Real Estate Board in Vancouver. But we price the stuff we've got according to current appraisals and we've been able to sell everything in Vancouver once we get it to sale.

Clearly, certain provinces, it's slower 'til we get there. But that's kind of embedded in our lending and our loan to value because we know we can get possession a little faster. But priced at realistic prices, B.C. sells quite well even though the number of units of sale has gone down. I don't – does that help you at all, Geoff?

It does, great. Thanks, Gerry.

Your next question comes from the line Bryan Brown from Macquarie Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

As you guys continue to shift the mix of the loan book towards the non-securitized mortgages, are you targeting a certain ratio on originations or a balance on the balance sheet or is it more dependent on the level of ROE?

Well, we recently just sort of reviewed this and I think you'll see a pick up in the insured lending for us as this year goes on. We've gotten more – we had been sort of treading water for a while and the pools of mortgages we originate, we can use them for replacement assets. We can build the book modestly. So I think you'll see, this year, an increase in the amount of securitized lending.

Now, clearly, if we get the right regulatory ruling, it will go up quite dramatically. But even if we don't get a change in the ruling, we see an increase. We've recently adjusted some of our incentive plans for the brokers. We've got them more competitive where we've got – we haven't jumped in the water and we are more than a toe in the water. But we put a whole foot in the water to try to get the thing going again, if you can use that kind of analogy. So, we definitely see an increase in insured product lending for the coming year over what we did last year.

And I guess if you do get that OSFI approval, could you see the originations getting back to where they were in end of 2008, early 2010?

Oh, sure. We fortunately have been able to have a very good relationship with the mortgage broker network and the large mortgage houses out there that if we offer competitive rates, the brokers all acknowledge that our service levels are very high. They like dealing with us on the uninsured basis and they all have other relationships. But if they're using bank A for 80% and maybe they have a second company for a smaller portion, they're always happy for their own reasons to not have their – all of their eggs in one basket and they'll give us a portion of their business, provided it's competitive for their clients so that their clients are not disadvantaged any way.

And the compensation is the same. We don't – we've never had to go more than the market. But the market has a certain level of brokerage fees and incentive bonuses. And as long as we match the programs that are out there by the other major lenders, we've found that we can always get a good healthy portion and as much as we would want to handle.

So, what we're going to try to do this year, we're not jumping in head first into the pool because there is a limit on how much capacity we can accommodate on balance sheet. But we will look for a step up and we could easily be on insured loans something like up 50% over the last year if our projections workout the way we think.

Okay, great. And just...

For the insured, not for the whole book.

Okay, I understand.

Not for the whole amount of originations. I just want to be clear. The insured portion could be up, like, from CAD800 million, it could go to CAD1.2 billion something like that.

Okay and just one last one on the compensation cost. They came down a bit quarter-over-quarter and I wondered if there was a specific driver for that?

That's usually at the year end. There's two things that happened. All of the accounts – and I'll let Bob Blowes who's – I shouldn't play Chief – CFO and I have Bob. He will answer the reason why it's down for the last quarter.

All right. As Gerry was saying, Bryan, two reasons. One is we do some truing up of accruals for variable compensation. So depending on results and performance ratings and so on, there's some truing up that goes on there. And the mix of stock can change in the quarter – quarter-by-quarter based on the departures and then replacements and depending on the seniority of the replacements against the departures. That would account for some of the change. And as I mentioned on – the variable pay is really associated to our bonus pool and we typically have some adjustments to that in the last quarter.

Okay, great. Thanks. That's it from me.

[Operator Instructions] . Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Aaron Hoffman -National Bank Financial (0:28:33). Your line is open.

Hello. Good morning, Gerald. I have several questions.

Okay, [ph] Aaron (0:28:40). We're ready to take them.

Okay. The first one relates – I'm just wondering why you are so much more bullish on the real estate market than the general consensus in Canada?

Well, we have a lot of feet on the ground and we've got our offices from coast-to-coast. We've got volume. We track volume year-over-year. January for Canadians is not the ideal month to go buy a house. And I know for most of the month, the weather was a little better than average, except that sort of hit everybody the last part. But it's not just that the weather was a little better when we saw an increase in originations. The quality of the originations, people are still very anxious to be out there buying houses. And there's almost been a bit of a spring market which we normally see a few months from now get going.

Now, people still want to buy houses and these are not people who are 5% down. We see a very strong down payment. We see very strong Beacons. There's a little more money sitting in bank accounts, RRSPs, etcetera, that is coming to the fore than was thought. And even with all the new rules, the new tightening, we were quite – we've been quite overwhelmed with how good the quality is, how much cash is going into the market and the increase in the volume.

And then I thought, okay, may be the snows came and Central Ontario had sort of a fair amount of snow in the last few weeks, maybe that would just kind of slow things down. But according to the key agents in there – which we talked to the agents as to inquiries and what's happening.

And brokerage house – real-estate brokerage, not the mortgage brokerage, they are telling us their boards are very busy. They're showing a lot of sales with the month. The early part of this year started out very well for them and we see it on the business coming through to us. So, sometimes, you don't know why, but you look at the facts and the facts are barking at you.

Well, your experience doesn't jibe with the numbers out there. If you look at the January figures across Canada, sales are dramatically lower than last year.

Well, they're coming from mortgages is what I can say and I think there's good build-up in the people looking and anticipating. And I can tell you if the mix of that whether there's a slowdown, I know there's a slowdown in first-time home buyers. And what I would call the 5% down mark up, that clearly has slowed down. But the rest of the market is quite vigorous.

And I would say that maybe the total number of units won't be up as much and maybe that the first-time home buyer with the first rule, there would be a lower number of those and that accounts for the lower number of the units. But with people going on conventional mortgage lending, numbers look very good. So, we'll see who is right when we talk again in a few months.

Okay. And then I know you've touched on this already, Gerald. But I noticed a slowdown in loan growth in the most recent quarter. Would that be partially due to the slowing housing market or is that an attempt by Home Capital to mitigate risk due to your downwardly revised forecast that I noticed for the real estate market?

Well, it's a little bit of everything. The new rules were coming in. We tried very hard to get them right. There may have been situations where we were overly cautious and turned stuff away that once we've got all our program finalized and the criteria set out and all the B-20 requirements, we probably felt a little more comfortable as to exactly what the criteria is.

But the – we were quite pleased with the fourth quarter. It came in. The quality was good. The nature of the buyer was very strong and Beacon scores were up for us in the quarter over previous quarters and even previous quarters and the year. So we felt that was quite a success for us. It's not always an absolute number. It's also quality of lending and yield and like all those came together quite nicely.

Okay. And then the last question I just wanted you to touch on, as for 2012 as a whole on the issuance of your credit card product, I think that's a secured product I believe, may be you could comment on why that's down dramatically from 2011?

Well, it was a matter of how do we integrate that with the new B-20 and there, again, we tread water a little bit. The cash secured card went up in volume. Clearly, the Equityline Visa came down because there was some uncertainty. We have seen over the last few months that, that side to pick up again. We had a nice pick up in our retail sales group that had the ones who do domestic water heaters and HVAC. That had very good growth. Maybe, I just turn it over to Pino and he'll talk about the Equityline Visa which is the largest Visa product which accounted for most of the decrease and what he sees looking ahead.

Yeah, [ph] Aaron (0:34:48), with respect to the Equityline Visa, Gerry mentioned sort of the changes that we made last year, the regulatory changes. It is considered a HELOC product, so it was affected by the changes. But what we're seeing right now and predominately had started at the beginning of this year is that you're getting existing home owners that have a bank mortgage that maybe they're looking for some extra money. One of the things that's going on right now, maybe people aren't moving into new homes but they're taking the existing equity in the home to do some renovations. So, they'll look at finishing the basement now, doing some renovations that maybe they've put off for a few years. And in doing so, they are going back to their bank looking to re-finance the existing mortgage. And what we're finding is some of these people under the new rules are not qualified.

And when they don't qualify, they've got a decision to make. They can move their entire mortgage to another lender. However, it's a pretty favorable mortgage, if you think of what rates were two, three, four, five years ago, the best position for them would be to keep that mortgage where it is and get a home equity line of credit behind it.

So, we're getting a lot more applications now and a lot more approvals for that Equityline Visa. And that whole theory is supported by the credit metrics that we've been seeing. So if we – when we look at approving clients, there's three main things that we look at, their ability to pay and that comes down to their serviceability. And as Gerry mentioned, what we're finding is that there is a lot more net worth in these clients then there was before. Their intent to pay which is basically driven by their Beacon scores. And, again, we're seeing there that the quality of the customer credit-wise is improving.

And then finally, our security position is improving. And as Gerry mentioned, there's a lot more equity in these properties, so our loan to values are being reduced. So, again, this is a client that probably in the past could have got the money they want by going back to their bank and re-financing. What's happening today is that the Equityline Visa presents a good solution for them and, again, allows them to keep their existing very affordable and good rate first mortgage in place.

Aren't you concerned that some of them are using this Equityline Visa to prevent delinquencies? If they are struggling to make a payment, they may take some money out of this Visa just to...

That's all part of our underwriting process. And as again we look at the indicators and there's three main things you look at, one is Beacon score, one is debt service ratios which again takes into account their current debt load, and then finally the equity in the property. And all three of those indicators have steadily improved throughout 2012 and will continue to do so from what we see in 2013. So, the purpose of the funds all makes sense. There's no indication that these are borrowers who have taken money because they can't afford their current payments.

So, even though prices are dropping in some areas, their equity position is increasing? That seems a bit conflicting to me.

Well, keep in mind that these mortgages, their amortizations are 25 years. They haven't borrowed. Last time, they took that mortgage, so reducing balance. Yeah, they're building equity in their homes. And also keep in mind where we do this product is in major urban-suburban centers across Canada. And those are the areas that for the most part what we've seen is sort of a leveling off of real estate values. We haven't really seen a reduction like some of the rural areas that we're mostly talking about.

Thank you for your answers.

No problem.

Okay. Thanks, [ph] Aaron (0:38:41).

And your next question comes from line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Stephen.

I guess, first of all, just want to thank you for all the disclosure you give. It's very, very helpful while we're going through things. I guess my question is just with the regulatory approval still – which you're waiting for the selling of the strips and whether you get it or not, do you envision, in either scenario, requiring additional capital?

Do we require it or do we anticipate?

Do you anticipate whether you get the approval or not like dose that...

Not for this year.

Okay.

When you earn 25% return on equity and you only pay-out 15% on a dividend, you've got enough capital to grow 20% a year without any outside source. And unless we saw an unusual acquisition or we had some unusual opportunity, I don't see it happening in the short-term. So I think if you're trying to calculate the number of shares outstanding, I think you'd be pretty safe calculating the same number for the current year.

No, I'm – I always tend to focus on your asset-to-capital multiple which is always – it's been hovering around that 14 number. So you're confident that either way you can keep it around that number?

Yeah – no, and it's – it's always hard to look ahead, and to be absolutely accurate. But I feel that we're in pretty good shape and we have it reviewed continuously. And if there's something that came about, we'd look at it. We'd look whether we want a little more debt, whether we'd want a preferred share, whether – the last choice I think, unless we really needed it or we had an acquisition, we like growing as a basic principle of creating wealth is to try to not increase the equity number of shares outstanding.

Now, if we got some great opportunity, we have no compunction about selling equity. But, part of the reason why the company stock price has done so well for the last 20 years is we've not diluted it by additional shares. And bit by bit from – for a 10-year, 15-year run, earnings per share continuously grind up year after year. And whatever multiple Mr. Market wants to put on it, we can't control that, but we can control giving a continuous stream of increased earnings. And we think we can – we did it this year. We think we can do it next year. And it's up to the analysts and your end of the game is to what's the true value.

We think we're worth more than what the market says, but that doesn't concern us. We just go back to work every day and try to produce an increase in earnings and the rest will take care of itself, we think.

Thanks a lot, Gerry.

You're welcome, Steve.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg from Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Michael.

I joined the call late, so I hope I'm not covering territory that's been covered already. Your secured size mortgages were down by 22% in the year, other loans were up 33%, so total loans were up only 5% year-over-year. Your 2013 loan growth objective is 13% to 18% similar to your objective last year. Can you give us some idea of what you think might happen with the securitized mortgages? Is that going to continue to run off? And what would you say your loan growth objective for your other loans is?

Okay. We did actually cover that. What I pointed out is that we – the way we awarded last year's objective was growth in total loans. In fact, this year, we awarded it growth in total loans under administration. Last year, in addition to the growth in total loans, we had another CAD896 million in loans that qualified for off-balance sheet treatment. If we would've added that back to the loan total, we would have had growth of about 10.5%, a little under the objective of 13% and 18%, but a much closer target.

This year, we worded the objective as growth in total loans under administration which would include on- and off-balance sheet loans. And even going at last year's pace, we would have – we would meet the low-end of that objective which is 10%. So, we're pretty comfortable we can achieve the 10% to 15% growth in total assets in total loans under administration.

And so, I think in terms of – as I also mentioned, I think the – what we call the classic, the uninsured mortgages, we see a nice steady growth on that. We put a lot of energy into the Visa product which we've got it revised, so it will qualify now fully with the B-20 objectives and all the regulatory. And we see the Equityline Visa portion of the Visa sort of getting back on our growth line.

The other part of that product which is the home loan sales, it had very good growth over the year. The Home Services product such as the hot water tanks, the HVAC, the other things that are fixtures, things that are permanently attached to the property, and so which includes windows and doors and products like that that are permanently attached. We're not doing things like a refrigerator that you just plug in. It only stuff that's built-in and that business is continuing to grow very nicely and it's having good returns and results.

So we see good growth there. We see growth in the residential and I think that you will see the insured mortgage go up a bit this year because we revised some of our own programs. So, the 10% to 15% growth, we're confident that we can achieve that.

Gerry, would you care to put a number though on the loan growth just including loans as they would have been defined on your balance sheet pre-IFRS?

I think the non-securitized.

Non-insured?

Well, the non-securitized, both – what's included on your balance sheet now and what you're not including on your balance sheet now?

I don't know if we broken that down but I'll – Bob Blowes will look into it and he can give you some answer on that. But I don't have the details of the budget in front of me.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Michael.

And there are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to your presenters.

Well, thank you everybody. As I say, we're very pleased with the year that we just produced, CAD6.40 for the year, chugs along. We see another year of growth in the same range. Some of the product lines may be a bit more, some a bit less. But as I said, we'll see as the year develops, but we have a cautiously optimistic view of the year. And we do see things turning out better. We'll see whether [ph] Aaron (0:47:56) is right with a sort of somewhat less optimistic view or whether we're right as to our view of the coming market. But we – no matter how we slice it, we think 2013 is going to be a good year for Home. Thanks very much. Happy Valentine's Day. See you all next quarter, bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This concludes today's conference call. And you may now disconnect.