Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, CEO & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jessa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Ms. Laura Lepore, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our second quarter financial results. I'm Laura Lepore, Home Capital's new Head of Investor Relations. I'm excited to work with you all and Martin and the team to ensure we continue to communicate transparently with our investors as I did in my previous roles at TD Bank, [ph] CFI (00:42) and Newmarket Gold. I look forward to meeting as many of you as possible in the coming weeks. I'll also mention that Robert Morton could not be on the call with us today due to a prior commitment.

Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that this presentation provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and condition of Home Capital Group, and as such may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to predict and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Martin Reid, President and CEO of Home Capital.

Thank you very much, Laura, and good morning everyone, and welcome to the Home Capital 2016 second quarter conference call. With me in the room today, I've got Steve Jenkins and Yan Xu from Finance department; Pino Decina, our Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages and Chris Whyte, our Chief Operating Officer.

As Home approaches its 30th anniversary in 2017, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Jerry Soloway for 30 very successful years leading a true Canadian success story, Home Capital. I would also like to thank Jerry for the mentorship he has provided me and many others at Home and I look forward to his continued involvement on the board.

The Charles Dickens novel, A Tale of Two Cities appropriately describes the state of the housing market in Canada, with Toronto and Vancouver leading the way, while the rest of the country sees much more moderate activity. The opening line in the Dickens' novel is, it was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness. This speaks to concerns that many of us have in the housing market today.

Given what Home has gone through this last year and a half, I can confidently say that the worst of times for Home Capital are behind us and that the best of times are in front of us. I would also say that regulators, Home and others in the mortgage industry are using wisdom in order to address much of the foolishness that may be happening in some of the more frothy markets in Canada with more on this later.

As you know, I took over as CEO in May after nine years with the company. Over the last few months, I've taken time to review our company and our potential for future growth. I'd like to spend a few minutes on some themes from the quarter and address what is important to us moving forward. I will then go through the financial results in more detail and finish with some high level thoughts.

In terms of Home, I will start by saying that our strategy broadly will stay the same. We will ensure we remain Canada's leading alternative lender, serving an underserved market niche. We are better at this than anyone and we are going to stick with what has made us successful. In our 30-year history, this strategy has enabled Home Capital to become one of the Canada's largest and best mortgage lenders, and we've created significant shareholder value during that time.

As the organization has evolved, we have revisited the way we do business. In addition, the landscape of our industry has evolved over the last few years, with increased regulation and governance requirements. In response, we've been strengthening Home Capital structure with the right people and processes to manage a larger business efficiently, and support the long-term growth of the company with a stronger risk and control framework. This is all part of a process to position Home Capital to take full advantage of the opportunities in the business in a prudent manner. And we are not done. We are honing our strategic plan to further mitigate risk, identify further growth opportunities and create lasting shareholder value.

Specifically, we will continue to improve performance by focusing on the following top priorities: rebuilding our residential mortgage business, operational excellence, risk management and allocation and an efficient use of capital. I will touch on each area today. The first area, rebuilding our residential mortgage business, this has been a real focus for all of us at Home, and we are seeing some good momentum. We reported combined traditional and ACE Plus uninsured single-family residential mortgage originations of C$1.37 billion for the quarter and C$2.43 billion for the first six months of 2016. This compares to C$1.29 billion and C$2.26 billion for the same periods of 2015. Those represent increases of 5.7% and 7.8%, respectively.

Accelerator or insured originations increased 66% to C$464.8 million for the quarter and 80% to C$828.6 million for the first six months of 2016. When you add in the significant originations growth and other lines of business, we reported total mortgage advances of C$2.47 billion for the quarter and C$4.26 billion for the first six months. That's up from C$2.02 billion and C$3.41 billion in the same period last year. That's a 22% increase in Q2 2016 versus Q2 2015.

As we have been saying, however, our real benchmark and originations was 2014. That was the high-water mark and a record year for us. That year we reported total second quarter mortgage advances of C$2.33 billion and C$4.01 billion for the first half of the year. On a total origination basis, we are ahead of 2014, showing we are on the right track and within our different product lines, there is room for improvement and we are working hard toward those improvements, particularly as it relates to our traditional mortgage product.

Service levels are not where we think they should be for the mortgage broker with slower turnaround times on commitments and verification of income. However, we are improving the process and momentum is picking up. We believe this is our biggest impediment to greater success on the residential side and the number one priority for management. Our investments in our broker portal and digitization of internal processes will help to address those issues and we hope to see the positive impact of that in the coming quarters.

I am pleased by the traction of our new uninsured product, ACE Plus. This is a product we introduced to serve the classic borrowers who just barely miss out on a prime mortgage. Traditionally, we have not targeted these customers. We moved quickly to serve these borrowers by rolling out ACE Plus late last year, and we are seeing the positive results.

We talk a lot about the Home being nimble and innovative and ACE Plus is real proof of that. We originated $115 million of ACE Plus last quarter, significantly higher than what we did in the first quarter. As this is a new product, there is no year-earlier comparison. And in addition, we are looking at addressing the lower level of originations in our small commercial group and look forward to improved results in this area.

Now turning to operational excellence, operational excellence is key to attaining positive operating leverage throughout the company and this means getting even better at what we do. To do so, we have added to our bench strength and deepened the organization with new expertise. Chris Whyte, our new Chief Operating Officer, replacing Brian Mosko, who retired earlier this year, he's here with us today. Chris brings significant experience from his time at [ph] D+H Corp (08:19), where he was most recently a Senior Vice President leading three business lines and before from that from CIBC, where he was Vice President, Alternative Channels. Chris will be a big resource for me and brings a tremendous skill set to our management team.

We have launched our new broker portal and loyalty program to improve service and turnaround times in the mortgage origination process. These are investments that will help build our pipeline of mortgage business for the future. We're also significantly investing in technology. We have approximately 20 major IT initiatives across the organization.

We are moving from an organization with a lot of paper and manual processes to one with more digital processes. This is a major effort that will improve how we do business. We will be able to process more business more quickly with more control and a better customer and broker experience. The benefits will really start to flow towards the end of the year and into 2017. But I'd like to remind everyone that the investment is happening now.

As we mentioned last quarter, we are investing in added resources in our customer retention group. We want to address early discharges as well as renewals and do more to keep those customers that we already have. We've also reduced some fees to be more in step with the industry. We expect lower fees will support our retention initiatives and enable us to be more competitive on new originations. We believe these efforts should drive positive operating leverage and help bring portfolio growth more in line with loan origination growth in future quarters, while managing the growth and expenses.

Now turning to risk management. We have supported our deposit diversification efforts with the acquisitions of CFF Bank, which is going to be renamed Home Bank later in August. The development of the Oaken brand, and the creation of the Home Trust high-interest savings account, a more diverse base of funding, makes our growth more sustainable as we look into the future.

We have implemented process changes to enhance safety and soundness of the portfolio and respond to increased broad risks in the environment, as recently highlighted by our own experience and new guidance by OSFI. On the recent OSFI commentary, I will say that Home Capital is supportive of all prudent efforts to protect the sustainability and safety of the housing market and the financial system. And I believe that the steps that we have taken over the last 18 months to strengthen our business have put us on the right track.

Now, these things do require investments, and I want to assure you that we are focused on expenses and we'll do everything we can to offset necessary spending with cost savings. These investments are necessary to ensure that Home is ready for the future, with the right risk and controlled framework in place for sustainable, efficient business model. The biggest part of the increase in spending is behind us, but the growth and the cost saving benefits from these investments are in front of us.

Looking at our allocation and efficient use of capital, over the last 12 months, you've already seen us to be more active in the capital allocation side than in years past. That includes buying back shares through our significant issuer bid or SIB, increased activity on our normal course issuer bid, retiring debt, as well as raising our dividend.

In fact, in the first half of 2016, we bought back and canceled roughly 2,82,000 shares under our NCIB program, as well as almost 4 million shares under our SIB program. We will continue to use the NCIB more aggressively than we have in the past on an opportunistic basis.

In Q2, our capital levels remain very high, with a total capital ratio of 16.82%. That's down from the 20% levels where we had been running because of the significant return of capital and debt repayment that took place during the first half of the year. Return on equity is above 16% target, at 16.5% and we see this continuing to improve as we build in more positive operating leverage through the end of 2016 and into 2017.

As part of our strategic planning process, we are looking at our non-core businesses and asking important strategic questions about the businesses we are in. Our core residential business is our number one priority, but for other businesses, we are asking ourselves, can we do more? If so, how do we get there? Is it organic investment or through M&A, or do we look to divest? We are early in this process and I'll have more to say about this in the coming quarters, but I wanted to give you a sense of how we are looking at the business going forward.

Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on all of the areas I discussed, as well as where and how we will allocate our capital. Our focus on these areas will help reposition the company for its next phase of growth.

Now, turning to our second quarter results and some key highlights. As you saw in the quarter, we reported net income of C$0.99 per share or C$66.3 million versus the C$1.03 or C$72.3 million for Q2 2015. There are a few moving parts that affected that number.

We had approximately C$0.01 or C$600,000 of impact related to our senior debt and the derivatives associated with them. That debt was retired on May 4, so you won't see that going forward. Along with this is the coupon on net debt, which is at a rate of 5.2%, which is close to C$8 million on an annual interest expense. We had a further C$0.02 a share or C$1.1 million of drag from CFF. This will diminish over time as it becomes more integrated and the value of the acquisition is realized. And we had an impact of about C$0.02 a share or C$1.5 million from a decline in fee income. These fees relate to customers and not to brokers.

As we mentioned earlier, we adjusted some fees to reflect the marketplace and we will continue to monitor our fees and adjust them where needed to ensure that we are competitive in originating new business, as well as retaining our current portfolio.

On the revenue side, we'd some gains related to securitization. And as we have mentioned in previous quarters, while we often have gains on sale, they are unpredictable as it is by nature, an opportunistic part of the business.

Turning to credit quality, we were pleased with how the portfolio is performing. Net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans were 33 basis points. They were 34 basis points in the first quarter and 33 basis points for the second quarter of last year. Provisions for credit losses as a percentage of gross uninsured loans rose to 8 basis points on an annualized basis from 4 basis points in the first quarter and 7 basis points for the same period in 2015.

On an absolute dollar value basis, provisions for credit losses were C$2.8 million, up from C$1.4 million in the first quarter. As we look at what drove that number, we are not seeing any particular trends. There is no unusual items in Alberta or any other parts of the country. And as you know, given the small size of that number, a couple of loans can really push it one way or the other.

And while we enjoyed having provision for credit losses at the 4 basis point level, it was pretty low relative to our historic experience of running in a range of 5 basis points to 15 basis points. We have mentioned in prior quarters, that we expected this number to creep higher and this quarter's experience is more in line with what we have seen historically.

I'll also highlight quickly that we are not seeing any unusual credit issues with the mortgages related to the 45 suspended brokers. We are now over 90% through our review with the portfolio originated by these brokers. So we are well on our way to finishing that up before the year end, as we have previously stated. And that portfolio continues to runoff and now stands at C$1.3 billion and continues to perform in line with the rest of the portfolio.

Finally, I'd like to give you a little more color to help with how to think about expenses looking ahead. With all the investments we are making to strengthen the company, we expect expenses to remain elevated as we enter the second half of the year and to 2017 at approximately current levels. Longer term, we see growing into these expenses as the company continues to build positive operating leverage.

I'll conclude with some brief thoughts on Home Capital's view of the housing market, which, of course, is a key driver of our business. In terms of house prices, I think the best of times are probably behind us. Demand is good with limited supply in Toronto and Vancouver and we would characterize the recent frothiness of these markets as being unsustainable [ph] and these markets as outliers (17:13) the rest of the country. But that doesn't mean that the worst of times are before us. We see a much more moderate market ahead of us rather than the double-digit price increases that have characterized Toronto and Vancouver recently, with a better balance between supply and demand.

We don't see any significant move lower in prices. Conversely, it'd appear that the worst of times might be behind the residential market in Alberta, as the decline in their residential market show signs of moderating, particularly in detached homes in the Calgary market. The balance of the country demonstrates a much more moderate housing market with balanced supply and demand.

Now, we can't control the housing market, but what we can control is our strategy and our execution, and our business model is designed to address these changes in the housing market throughout the entire business cycle. And I will reiterate what I said in my opening remarks. I believe that the worst of times are behind Home Capital and that the best of times are in front of us. The mortgage business has undergone a lot of change in the last few years and Home is well prepared to move forward to driving solid service to our broker, partners, and customers and delivering exceptional value to our shareholders.

Before I open it up to questions, should you have any enquiries offline, you can contact our new Head of Investor Relations, Laura Lepore, who just recently joined us.

And with that, I'll pass it over to Jessa, the operator, and open the lines to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart of Industrial Alliance. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Hi, Dylan.

Just a quick question on the traditional mortgage balances. I appreciate the color you gave on the call. But just wondering do you feel the market is getting a little bit saturated. It's been a while since we've seen growth. We've seen originations per cap here, but the runoff seems to be accelerating a little bit.

Yeah. So the runoff is – so, I would say, some of the changes we've gone through in the last year and a half, we were probably under-resourced in addressing some of that runoff. So we've addressed that, we've added resources. We talked a little bit about this last quarter and we've continued to add resources to address that. Brokers like to sort of turnover their clients and they are very quick to try and sort of move clients from one institution to another. And what we'll do there is we look for the early warning sign and then address it and try and keep that customer. So we have addressed that. We think we're going to get a little bit better traction. So I'm not sure I would look at that runoff in the last couple of quarters as being indicative of future quarters.

Okay. Great. And just a quick question on the headlines this week, just with the stress tests that they're trying to run in November. Just wondering what they've disclosed with 40% price declines in Toronto, 50% in Vancouver, how that compares with your own internal stress test.

Yeah, it's not out of line with what we do internally. We do a variety of stress tests. So it's not out of line. We've been asked periodically to do pretty severe stress tests as it relates to the housing market, and I think that's common amongst all financial institutions in Canada, and we also do our own, outside of what OSFI requests.

Okay. Perfect. I'll re-queue. But thanks very much.

Thanks, Dylan.

And your next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding of TD Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Hi, Graham.

On the expense side, the efficiency ratio, so these investments you're making this year, technology and your broker focused offerings, risk management, et cetera, what is the expectation around these initiatives for 2017, like, are some of these expenses more project related and expected to drop-off or should we more just be thinking about the growth in this expense base slows down in 2017?

Yeah, so the growth in the expense base will definitely slowdown. So as it relates to projects, so some of that is capitalized, but there has been a number of increased expenses as we've gone through this transition in the business. So that will sort of level off and what we will look to see is improve the efficiency. So as the business grows, the growth and expenses won't need to grow with it. So again, as mentioned in my commentary, sort of returning to a much more positive operating leverage.

So do you have a target for the efficiency ratio or range that you see the business moving to in 2017?

So we don't, but we'd like to see it getting down into the [ph] low-30%s (22:20) from where we are today.

Okay. And then your EPS growth, it's obviously running year-to-date well below your medium-term target of 8% to 13%. So given this higher expense base, is it fair to say that this year, you're likely going to come below that target that you're looking at 2017, 2018 to get back towards those levels?

Yeah. So those are mid-term targets. So they are still valid and we will revisit them at the end of the year, but we do see the opportunity [ph] starting to (22:55) get back to those levels, but I would say it's fair to say for this year, we're not going to make that.

Okay. And then the CFF Bank, where are you at in terms of integrating that platform and what is the timeline around getting those assets basically to be running on your platform in a profitable level?

Yeah, so there's sort of two components to that. One is on the deposit side, one is on the mortgage side. The deposit side will migrate later this summer. And then on the mortgage side, plans are still being worked on that in terms of the timing of that. So that expense will continue to sort of diminish towards the end of the year. And then by the end of the year, we'll really be able to sort of leverage that business. And the whole purpose of buying that bank was on the deposit side, and that's really what we're hoping to do as we start getting into the [ph] hall (23:54), really leverage that on the deposit side.

Okay. And so, you talked on the call about trying to get your portfolio growth more in line with your origination. So you're sort of – I think, you did in your traditional book 7% this quarter and 11% last quarter, like, is that a reasonable target for growing your non-securitized book?

Yeah, I'd say, getting up to those levels, I mean, we're not happy with the lack of growth in that portfolio. And as I mentioned on the previous question, it was really both, sort of the leakage at the backend on renewals and early redemptions. So we've been brining in the business fast enough. It's like to trying to fill a bathtub we've been filling with water, but we don't have to plug in it. So we're addressing the backend to reduce the leakage on the backend. And then with the originations growth, we should start to see that portfolio growing again.

Okay.

And particularly as it relates to the traditional mortgage product.

Yeah, perfect. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Graham.

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi, Jaeme.

Hi. Hi, good morning. So first question is on the margins in this quarter. It appears the average cash balances were a little bit higher than normal. Could you give us a breakdown of what was driving lower margins year-over-year versus – is it mix or is it average cash, would it sort of be the split?

It was a little bit of both. I would say the bigger driver would have been – I'm not sure at this point we can really quantify which one is the bigger driver.

Okay.

But it's a bit of both. It is a bit of the mix of the portfolio and that will be a function of – as we securitize and take some of that stuff off balance sheet and then getting the growth back on our traditional, I would say longer term, if you want to look at that, and that's why we tried to give a little bit more clarity around the margins on the different product lines. As you start to see the growth of our traditional product as well as the ACE Plus product, that will be the big driver of margins.

Yeah. So is it your intention to maintain similar cash balances? It seems it's been running a little higher in 2016 versus 2015, or do you expect those to sort of run down to a more normal level?

Yeah, so the cash balances – there are things that happened, for example, in Q1, we had – at the end of Q1, [ph] you were (26:49) maintaining higher cash balances for coming into our SIB, our debt repayment, things like that. So there is some volatility in that cash balance number. So that I don't think is going to be the biggest driver. I think what's going to really drive is going to be the mortgage originations and the mix of that.

Okay. Next question is related to non-interest income and specifically the gains on sales of NHA MBS securitizations. It's running a little bit higher in this quarter versus previous quarters or at least the Q1. What's your strategy with respect to realizing gains on the sales of those products, and specifically the single-family?

Yeah, so a lot of that is driven off the originations with the single-family. So as that improves and increases, we'll see that continuing. The margins on that are relatively low. They're lower on the multi-res than they are in the single-family part of that business. But I would say, longer term as – there are capacity constraints in securitizing insured mortgages. We're not up to those and don't see hitting that ceiling for a while. But as we do continue to grow the residential insured business, it will start to squeeze out the multi-res insured business that gets securitized, which is at a much lower margin than the residential.

So longer term, I see that happening over a period of time. We look opportunistically in terms of the securitization and sometimes there are shorter pools or [ph] outdated (28:38) pools of four-year or two-year, whatever that maybe, where the margins are a little bit healthier that may impact a particular quarter. We have no real control over the spreads on that business. It really is driven by [ph] where are price taker (28:54) on that type of business.

Right. So I guess maybe to ask the question differently, is the intention to continue to sell the same level of securitized single-family residential mortgages?

It will probably grow a little bit with the growth of our insured residential mortgages.

Okay. So we should...

That's real driver.

... [indiscernible] (29:21) a little bit.

Yeah.

Yeah, okay. And then, just one around the strategic planning process. In terms of, I guess, the last bullet on slide four, reviewing non-core business lines. Can you just elaborate a little bit on what do you see in the non-core business lines right now? Where can be things be improved? Is there opportunities to divest certain businesses? What is your thought process on that?

Yes. So we are very early in the process, but we are reviewing that in terms of capital expenditure. So are there opportunities from an M&A perspective in some of the business lines that we're in? Are there opportunities to invest organically, whether it'd be in technology or otherwise? And as you're going to any capital process, you're also going to ask, does it make sense to have that business line.

So we're very early in that process, just wanted to sort of just highlight that we're already visiting that. As we talked about in Q1, our intent is to be much more effective in terms of the management of capital, both in terms of what we're doing externally, whether that's buybacks, dividends, M&A opportunities, but also internally how we're managing capital. It's one thing to have a lot of capital, but in some ways you really [ph] want us or (30:46) manage it very carefully as a scarce resource.

And so, that's where we really want to ask the hard questions about what are we doing with our capital? Are there opportunities? Are there opportunities that we're not even looking at today? And where are we spending our capital? Does it make sense? Is there room for improvement? But it's very early in the process. I mean, this is an annual process. It sort of starts around now and culminates towards the end of the year. So as we get into the year-end, we'll probably have more color on that.

Okay. I'll leave it to others.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hey, Geoff.

Hi, there. Hi. I just wanted to get some clarification. When you were talking about some of the retention issues, it sounds like it was a staffing issue. Just wanted to get a sense as to, I guess, what you were doing before and then now going forward? What might you be doing differently? Is it just a head count increase or are there different things that you're doing to improve the retention of your clients?

Yeah, I would say it's largely a head count and a focus. So as we've gone through a lot of the transformation, we've gone through in the last year and a half, that's probably one area where we didn't given as much focus as we should have. So as we noticed that we were losing a lot more business than we thought we should be, that's where it's sort of addressing that and we've looked to beef up. So we have added resources. So that's the primary response to that, is adding resources.

So there's two parts. One is on the renewal side, making sure that we are getting them as they come up for renewal, but there's also early redemptions where sometimes you will get a borrower who will call the call center and they'll ask for a mortgage statement [ph] they've got (32:40) nine months left or longer. Again, they'll call for a mortgage statement and no reason why, but they'll call for a mortgage statement. And it could harmless. Maybe they just need it for financials, for their accountants or whatever, but often it's an indicator of them shopping the mortgage around or broker trying to sort of lose the client to a different lender.

So historically, we've had a fair bit of focus on that, identify when people are requesting an early mortgage statement ahead of maturity and then sort of calling them up, finding out why, what do they need it for. If they are shopping it around, then looking at retaining that customer. So as I said, in the shuffle and in the restructuring of our business, we've probably not put as much as emphasis on that as we should have. So we have addressed that. We added some headcounts in Q1 and we've subsequently added more headcounts in Q2. [indiscernible]

(33:40) ballpark, and I apologize if I was misinterpreting it. It sounds like it was more of an issue on the classic side than on the accelerator side. But like on your renewal rates, like where they were and what was the level that triggered it and ultimately where do you think you can get it going to?

Yeah, it's less on the renewal side. The renewal rates haven't changed that much. It's more on the early redemption and that's where it's less visible. So somebody calls in for a mortgage statement. The call center sort of takes that. And you may not react. If the mortgage doesn't mature for nine months, you may not think to react. And then all of a sudden a few months later, you get a call that they've already got a deal with somebody else and they're transferring it. And so, it's getting it before it gets to that point.

Oh, got it.

Because once you go to that point it's too late. So that's really what the big leakage is around.

And what was driving that? Was it just because with a lot of these customers, they think that they can get a better – they're improving credit profile and they can get a better rate by refinancing it elsewhere?

Yeah, it's often [ph] at either (34:56) better rates. Maybe they're looking at refinancing a larger amount. Sometimes a mortgage broker is initiating it.

Okay.

But for us it's really just identifying that and just identifying it early enough before they've committed somewhere else that we've got the opportunity to sort of retain that customer.

Okay. And just the other question I had was just on the ACE Plus. The way that you described it is it's targeting, I think, you were saying though that didn't quite get the prime mortgage loan and you guys hadn't target them before. And just, can you refresh my memory, because my impression always with Home was, you guys were looking – at least in the original days was getting the types of borrowers that the banks were turning down. So kind of wanted to understand with the classic business, where you kind of draw the line of where, say, banks we don't do it, but where you guys were then deciding where you would pick up some of those borrowers, but it sounded like you weren't picking up all of them?

Yeah. So this would be in our traditional product, roughly 275 basis point to 325 basis point margin declines, and they won't qualify at the bank today, and they're not going to qualify six months from now or probably a year from now. Some of them maybe a couple of years down the road.

The ACE Plus customer is somebody who often has verifiable income, but just misses maybe on the credit score. So if they do everything right, they're going to be able to qualify at the big banks pretty quickly. And I don't know, Pino, did you want to add some color?

Yeah. Hey, Jeff. Really the ACE Plus evolved because of our continued commitment to that customer that misses the bank. And really as the rules changed over the past two years, it really just brought on a new segment for us. So when we look at this ACE Plus customer, Martin pointed two years ago, they were not our customer, plain and simple. It's almost a new space that's been created because of the changes in the marketplace.

So really it's just our commitment to constantly looking at the underserved and catering our products accordingly. And the name itself just really speaks to it. The ACE Plus evolved from what was traditionally our ACE product, which serviced the near miss. And as the near miss client changed, we tweaked it a bit and we went after that market as well and we'll keep doing that.

Yeah. And it is a lower margin customer. So that's also a part of it in terms of efficiently utilizing the balance sheet. We've got balance sheet capacity, so we can look at that customer a little bit easier. It's also that type of product that we have securitized in the last quarter. So that helps to sort of retain as much of the margin as we can on that business.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Geoff. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Aaron Michael (38:06) from National Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi. Just had a question here regarding your buy back you did in April at C$37.60 per share.

Yeah.

Do you think that was a good use of capital to buy back C$150 million of shares at C$37.60, given the prevailing stock price right now?

Well, I think we'd all love to buy it at today's price, but at the time, yes, we do feel that that was the right move. As mentioned, [ph] so there's (38:44) the SIB, we're also more active in the NCIB and we'll continue to more active in the NCIB to be opportunistic in terms of taking advantage of moves in the market.

So it's okay to buy back the shares above book value?

Yeah. I would say yes. Depending on the alternatives for the use of – better to utilize that capital, if we can create shareholder value by doing that, then yes.

Okay. So one final question. Where do you ROE going forward? Do you see that as before or do you see it continuing its decline?

We've got our mid-term targets above 16% and we do see that continuing.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, [ph] Aaron (39:35).

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, Steven.

Hey, Martin. How are you?

Good.

Can you just explain the comment you made about the lower fee income that it's a lower fee to the customer and not the broker? Specifically, what fee is that?

Yeah. So there's a variety of fees that we have as it relates to customer activity, everything from statement fees, early discharge fees, late fees, NSF, et cetera, et cetera. So it's related to those fees. I just want to make it clear that it wasn't related to fees paid to a broker or anything like that. That was related to customer activity. And we've reviewed those fees on a regular basis.

I think two years ago, we'd increased some fees and there's a little bit of a pick-up in fee income as a response to that. So we do review those fees from a competitive standpoint. We will make sure that we're in line with what's happening in the marketplace.

Okay. So what is the biggest – I mean, you mentioned three or four of them. What's the biggest component of that, because it is down sequentially couple of million [ph] parts (40:50). And so, was it you shaved the early discharge...

No, no. [indiscernible]

(40:56).

The primary area would be in the late fee.

Okay. And can you just go through, I guess, I just want to make sure I'm clear on this, the ACE Plus? That securitization, is that the bank sponsored conduit that you're mentioning?

That's correct. Yes.

Okay. And what's the benefit of using that conduit versus CMHC, because I presume in the near prime, you would just insure it and put it through CMHC, right?

Yeah. So this wouldn't qualify for insurance. So it would just barely miss qualifying for insurance. So as I mentioned, it could be that it's verifiable income and everything, but maybe the credit score is just slightly below the cutoff mark. So it wouldn't qualify for insurance. So that's why it wouldn't make it into the CMHC sponsored programs.

Okay. And what's the pricing like in terms of gain, like is the pricing not much different? Is it 1% or 2%? Maybe it's in the details. I apologize if it is.

Yes. So it doesn't get de-recognition. So it doesn't generate a gain on sales, the way the CMHC does. So on the CMHC side, we only get the only gain on sale once we sell the interest-only strip and we get the de-recognition. So on this product, we can't get the de-recognition. So it will show up in interest income. But what it does do for us is it allows us to get a cheaper source of funding for that product. So if we were to fund that product through our deposits, the margin would probably be somewhere, I would say, 30 basis points to 50 basis points less.

Okay.

So that's the big advantage with the securitization. But it wouldn't fit into the CMHC sponsored programs today, because it wouldn't qualify for insurance. But as that customer is very close, it's quite possible that a year down the road, they'd very quickly become a prime customer and then they would migrate to our accelerator insured product, and then we could securitize that through CMHC. But the way it sits today, they wouldn't fit the insured space.

Okay. Just another quick question. Just on the cash, and I know somebody asked earlier about the cash balance, but your portfolio really – the deposits haven't moved up. The deposits have moved up fairly significant when your portfolio hasn't really changed. So is this an active that you're taking on more deposits for some reason and building that cash balance for liquidity for, I don't know [indiscernible] (43:40).

No, it's more around timing of cash flows. So there are a variety of events where we've build up the cash flow over time where that cash flow may be required. So it's more as it relates to that then. It's not a structural shift in our liquidity model or how we're approaching liquidity. There is a little bit of an increase as it relates to the growth in our HISA. So as HISA grows, you have to allocate more to liquid assets than you would have if it was a term deposit. So there would be a little bit because of that.

Okay. That makes sense. And just getting back, I mean, you've answered a lot of questions about growth, like you said the worst is behind. You've had two quarters here I would say of year-over-year declines in net income on a quarterly basis. I mean, we think you can start getting back to that even a modest increase of year-over-year income, like is that part of your – the worst is behind us, is actually showing like Q3 and Q4, that maybe you can start generating over [ph] $1 of EPS (44:53). Is that a possibility?

Yeah. So for us it's enough, and so look at it over time. So we have started doing some changes internally as it relates to our residential business. And then we [ph] had the fraud (45:09) situation, which accelerated a lot of those changes. So we spent a lot of time, a lot of money and a lot of energy from our employees in terms of implementing those changes. In the process of that, I would say, the biggest downfall has been our service level to the mortgage broker. So that's really what's impacted originations the most, I think, is that that service level to the mortgage broker and these are mortgage brokers that we've always dealt with and still deal with today.

We continue to invest in technology, redefine processes and doing it in a way that we're putting the right risk and controlled framework in place, but trying to get that customer service to the mortgage broker back to where it needs to be. And that's where we are seeing progress on originations. If you look at the residential consecutively, we're up about 25% from Q1 to Q2 and we do see that continuing to improve as we improve our service level to the mortgage broker. And that really is number one priority for us, is getting that back on track. We're doing it in a prudent way with all the right controls and risk mitigants in place.

So as we do that, and the expenses that we're incurring to do that are being felt today, but as the benefit to that starts to hit and originations continue to grow and the portfolio gets back growing, the revenue side of the equation should start to improve. And I would think, longer term, you'll get more efficiency. So there's a little bit of overlap where you're spending that money, but you're not necessarily getting the efficiencies. Longer term, you'll start to get those efficiencies from the technology that you're putting in place.

Okay. I appreciate that. Thanks, Martin.

Okay. Thank you very much, Stephen.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to Mr. Reid.

Okay. Thank you everyone for listening and participating in our Q2 2016 conference call. And I look forward to updating you on Q3 results and progress on rebuilding our residential business in November. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.