corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group Inc. Fourth Quarter Earnings announcing Conference Call. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only-mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. [Operator Instructions]


I’d like to remind everyone, that this conference call is being recorded on Tuesday February 17,


2009 1.30 am eastern time.


I’ll now turn the conference over to Gerald Soloway, the Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead


sir.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentleman. I’m delighted to report to you on Home Capital’s


fourth quarter and full year results for the year 2008. During the past year, I used the analogy of


comparing Home to the classic children’s book, The Little Engine That Could, you probably I’ll had


that read to you as the trial and it had the reframe that I used during the past year, when I was


asked about how Home was doing? And whether it would meet its objectives? I kept saying I think I


can, I think I can, I think I can. Well let me tell you about 2008, and what happened in the results we


had during the past year.


Now as you are all aware it was a year when a lot of the world’s larger financial institutions had


severe financial problems. Fortunately in Canada to the best of my knowledge, no Canadian


regulated financial institutions went out of business and in general Canadian institutions did much


better than our American and world counterparts.


And at Home, there was two main accomplishments, first of all the financial results, which I’ll go


through and explain to you. And secondly, we lowered our risk profile and increased our capital


without, and this is important, we achieved it without incurring any equity dilution, without any


external debt and without having to do any preferred share issuance.


So, what I will start with and chat with you is about how the actual results, the actual financial


results and what we did. As you are probably now aware, the income for both the quarter and the


year were in the range of 20%, increase year-over-year in a very difficult year. The actual earnings


for the year were up some 20.4% year-over-year. The basic earnings per share was up 20% for the


quarter and a little over that for the year. The return on equity, continued to be outstanding and we


had a return on equity of 27.4% for the fourth quarter and 27.8% for the whole year.


Our total assets were up. The actual assets were up about 16.8%, but if you add in both the


Mortgage-Backed Securities, which we originate and administer and service, our total asset of


assets plus Mortgage-Backed Securities, those rose by about 30.9% and at the end of the year was


8.4 billion.


Our originations were strong, both for the year and the quarter, and we’ve been very pleased with


all the originations and how we’ve been able to do in clearly a slowing residential market. It


attributes to our success of which I will talk about later of our insured programs.


And as an example in the fourth quarter, we securitized some 557 million of CMHC-insured


mortgages in the fourth quarter compared to 198 a year ago. And I just have to keep emphasizing


that in order to get the insured – mortgages insured, they not only have to be of a quality that


satisfies CMHC, but also there have to be mortgages that we feel comfortable administering that


they’re in locations and areas that we can, in an efficient way, administer if there are any problems
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


at a later date. But all of those insured mortgages have a zero risk to Home, but they do provide a


stream of income on a going forward basis.


Our Visa grew nicely, and it was up to some 13.3% year-over-year, and we are looking to another


good year for Visa even though we have adjusted our risk profile, there seems to be quite a good


demand for the Visa products.


And although Canada has done well, the residential market in Canada has suffered. There is no


doubt about that at all. The net impaired loans have increased for us from 0.86 from 0.72. And I


guess, I also would say that we do foresee there will be a modest increase in arrears over the next


couple of quarters.


There clearly are a lot of situations where people have lost their jobs, encountered financial


hardship, and are having trouble with making the payments. But we’ve been able to, at this


moment, feel that we’ve got it very much in control, we’ve always been very proactive in our


collection procedures. If it’s possible to resolve some of the difficulties, if it’s a matter of changing


the payment amount or changing the date at on which they get paid or if there is something we can


do to help, we’re very proactive in trying to help them get back on track.


We do not want to encourage arrears, but if there is not a solution, we have no hesitancy to its


continuing with our foreclosure and power of sale proceedings and continuing to get the property


sold and the issue resolved. But we do both do it on a proactive to correct any problem, and if there


is no helping some people who have, not because of our mortgage but because of subsequent


encumbrances, there is really no solution that can be worked out for them.


So that the arrears will be – continue to be something that we continue to work on very hard, and


we will watch it very carefully. But so far, I don’t think the results will be that over the next year, will


have any increase materially in what we’re having to write-off.


The second part of what we did during this past year in lowering our risk profile, we did it in several


ways. First of all, which is always the asset test is to look at a company’s total capital ratios, and we


increased our total capital ratios over the end of 2007 to the end of 2008.


It went up from 11.1% and for Tier 1 and total capital of 12.5 at the end of ‘07 to 12.9 and 14.2 at


the end of ‘08. And this is the significant thing. It’s easy enough to increase the capital by a number


of ways, but we did that the old fashion way. We did it with retained earnings. We did not do it


without having – we didn’t have any equity dilution, we didn’t have to take on any external debt, and


the company has no external debt, I might add. And we didn’t have to do a preferred share


issuance, though we have a capital base comprised almost entirely of common equity and the


capital ratios continue to increase as the year progress.


Now, coming with that prudent capital ratios, came to third party rating services that increased their


ratings. First of all, Standard & Poor, which has a BBB rating on Home Trust and BBB- on Home


Capital, they continued their rating with a positive outlook, and they were quite positive in their


remarks in a year that downgrades are predominant around the world.


The second thing, the second rating came about where Fitch reaffirmed their ratings for both Home


Capital and Home Trust which were BBB-, but they added a very interesting sentence in their press


release, which said that if we continue doing as well, and I am paraphrasing a little bit, that if we


continue doing as well as we have, they look forward to increasing our rating, upgrading our rating


in the future.


So, very positive remarks from two third-party rating institutions who whatever one criticism might


have – one might have about the criticism about what they did in the past, I can assure you, they