Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President-Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
David Cluff — Chief Risk Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc.
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Marko Kais — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jeffrey Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jessa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Ms. Laura Lepore, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference later.

Thank you, operator and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the third quarter of 2017. I'm pleased to introduce with me on the call today; Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. We also have several members of our management team on the call this morning; David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer; Ed Karthaus, Executive Vice President of Sales; and Benjy Katchen, Executive Vice President of Deposits & Consumer Lending.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and conditions of Home Capital, and as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategy and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Yousry.

Thank you, and good morning. I appreciate you joining us today for a discussion of our third quarter results. When I started just over three months ago, the team and I focused on three key priorities. The first was to assess the business and take actions needed to ensure the company was well-positioned with strong liquidity and stable funding.

The second was to ensure we had the right team in place to move forward and return our growing market assets. And third, we completed the previously announced Project EXPO to reduce expenses. We have substantially completed all of these priorities. Today, we have ample liquidity and wide access to deposit funding that we can flex up or dial in line with demands. We added new senior leadership talents to complement the existing executive team, whose efforts were critical to steadying the shift earlier this year and will continue to demonstrate impressive leadership.

Brad Kotush joined us as our new Chief Financial Officer, bringing extensive financial industry experience as a public company CFO. We also added Ed Karthaus, EVP of Sales; and Amy Bruyea, SVP of HR. Integrating these new members with the existing leadership has created a unified team deeply experienced across key functions, including risk management and compliance, underwriting, finance, treasury, sales and operations. We have the leadership capabilities to be responsive and adapt to change in our business and the evolving external and regulatory environment in which we operate. We are searching for a Chief Information Officer, a key role for us to fill as we look towards establishing a longer-term fintech, digital, data and AI strategy.

This team is committed to building this company for the long term by focusing on quality service, innovation and creating a culture that is the pillar of our company. This will set us up to help deserving customers reach their dream of home ownership and reach their financial goals.

Project EXPO was completed in October. Although there were difficult decisions we made with respect to our people, we worked through this process and treated all exiting employees respectfully and fairly.

In addition to reducing costs, we have made important changes to our workforce and process flows, focusing on the critical talent and structure needed to enhance our product and service offering to our customers. These are key milestones that have set the organization on the right course for future growth. We have the capital, liquidity, expertise, and team to accelerate the business. Home has emerged from the events of the second quarter of 2017, a significantly stronger company on solid footing. We are profitable with a strongly performing book of loans that we plan to grow by putting liquidity to work in residential, commercial, and retail lending.

Our current liquidity position will be a big asset as we look to be competitive for opportunities we see in the coming quarters. We have the relationships and tremendous support from the mortgage brokers. We have spent time with leaders from some of the largest brokerages in Canada who have said they see Home as being on the right track, and they're ready to work with us.

Looking at the third quarter in more detail now, there are many priorities. As I mentioned, we restored our deposit funding and significantly strengthened our liquidity. We increased customer deposits and ended the quarter with more than CAD 2.6 billion in liquid assets. This is up from CAD 1.7 billion at the end of 2017. As liquidity stabilized, we dropped broker and Oaken deposit rates to better match deposit inflows to our lending requirements. We also completed the sale of certain commercial and residential assets and used the proceeds to repay all amounts outstanding under the Berkshire CAD 2 billion standby credit facility. And while this remains available to us, we do not expect to drawn on it.

We expect to see a $15 million reduction on an annualized basis in ongoing operating costs going forward, following the completion of Project EXPO. Non-performing loans remained low, and we maintained credit quality as highlighted by the average Beacon score of 695 for our single-family residential portfolio at the end of Q3.

Additionally, we continue to expect low provisions for credit losses. Our capital position increased further with a CET 1 capital ratio of 21.25%, well above regulatory minimums and one of the strongest in the business. This is an opportunity for us going forward as we look at our priorities for deploying capital efficiently to generate increasing returns. I will note that our performance in the third quarter continued to reflect a number of factors stemming from the liquidity event, including lower residential and commercial loan balances and originations, higher deposit expense and elevated non-interest expense.

After considerably slowing down commitments and funding new loan originations to manage liquidity, we returned to the market in mid-July and then again in mid-September with a more competitive offering to begin to rebuild our pipeline and start growing origination. This resulted in full originations of CAD 385 million comprised of mainly residential and were not adequate to replace loan balances, reduced through the asset sale, and regular discharge and principal payments. This was well below CAD 2.5 billion of originations in the third quarter of 2016.

We are working on improving our underwriting service levels and calibrating operations to ensure we deliver best-in-class service, to win back our market share, and grow origination volumes meaningfully. Service has been impacted following the addition of new employees to streamline operations and transition to new processes to ensure enhanced governance and controls that we believe sets the bar in the industry. In addition, we're increasing the competitiveness of our product offerings and we're reviewing broker incentives to increase volumes.

In terms of renewals, we are presently renewing our mortgage book at historical levels between 75% and 80%. With the comparatively lower originations, our uninsured single-family residential mortgage balance declined to CAD 10.4 billion at the end of Q3, and total loans on the balance sheet declined to CAD 15.4 billion from CAD 17.6 billion at the end of the second quarter. Based on the current rate of funding new mortgages, we now expect the balance of non-secured single-family residential mortgages will be approximately CAD 10 billion at the end of 2017.

Moving forward, our priority is to restore growth in our residential and commercial business lines. We have the financial resources to be very competitive in our markets and provide excellent products. Our commercial pipeline has been reestablished with quality prospects. We expect to be able to start growing this business immediately, and we're stopping to ensure we can take on more volume. Given the nature of commercial business, deal flow will vary. However, we expect to see an increase in transactions over the next couple of quarters. We are also increasing our outreach to the broker community and resetting broker relationships in the market. Our relentless focus on improving in all of these areas is producing results, and we are seeing better performance weekly.

I'd like to take a moment to comment on the recent regulatory changes announced, that will undoubtedly have an impact to lenders and the market as a whole. In October, OSFI announced revisions to Guideline B-20 effective January 1, 2018. The key changes include a qualifying stress test requirements for uninsured borrowers and guidance regarding the use of co-lending arrangements. While we will seek clarification on some of the changes as part of our implementation plan, we expect that the stress testing requirement will have the most material impact to our addressable market, and some borrowers will qualify for smaller loan sizes than they would have without the stress test. It is difficult to quantify what the impact will be on our addressable market and origination volumes moving forward in 2018, as there are a number of forces affecting the market.

First, borrower behavior may change which requests for smaller loan sizes or increasing down payments. Second, a segment of borrowers may migrate from the prime market to the alternative space market largely due to stress test requirements. Third, continued expectations for robust growth in the self-employed and new immigrant segments of the alternative market will contribute to growth in potential customers.

In addition, we believe there is a robust commercial market which we are targeting to grow our book. We have provided some sensitivity analysis in our MD&A on our portfolio to reflect the impact of B-20. While the net impact to new originations attributable to B-20 would be negative, we expect that renewal levels will increase in our existing portfolio, as borrowers will not have to be qualified. We will also ensure that our product offerings are competitive and meet the demands of our clients. And when combined with improved service delivery, will help us capture a larger share of the addressable market post B-20.

I'll now turn it over to Brad to review our financial results and then I'll come back with some thoughts about our objectives going forward.

Thank you, Yousry and good morning everyone. I will focus my comments on some of the key events and variances during the quarter and provide some comments on expectations in the short-term. As Yousry noted, Home had a profitable third quarter. We generated net income of approximately CAD 30 million, which translates to earnings per share of CAD 0.37 compared to a net loss of CAD 111 million in Q2 2017.

Net income was significantly lower year-over-year due to reduced revenue from lower loan balances and actions taken to stabilize and manage our liquidity position. This included the sale of approximately CAD 1 billion in commercial and residential mortgage assets, early payouts of consumer loans, and reduced originations.

On balance sheet loan balances were CAD 15.4 billion at the end of the quarter compared to CAD 17.6 billion at the end of Q3 2016. There were a number of additional factors that contributed to lower net income year-over-year. These include higher interest expense, resulting from higher deposit funding cost, and interest expense for approximately one month on the Berkshire Hathaway credit facility, as well as an ongoing standby fee. The sale of the loan assets resulted in a CAD 13.1 million loss.

Turning to expenses. We saw our non-interest expense decrease substantially from CAD 85 million in the second quarter to CAD 59.9 million in the third quarter. However, we continue to experience some elevated costs compared to previous quarters. We also announced the sale of PSiGate, which once closed should result in approximately CAD 20 million in annual salary and other operating cost savings. However, those savings will be offset by approximately CAD 18 million in lower fee and other income.

Looking forward to Q4 2017 and the first half of 2018, non-interest expense may remain elevated. However, there will be a partial offset from Project Expo savings. Net interest margin in Q3 was positive 1.85% compared to negative point 0.07% in Q2 2017, but down from 2.34% a year ago. The negative NIM in Q2 was a result of the commitment fee and interest expense directly related to the liquidity event. We were successful in replenishing our deposits on liquidity with the premium rates we initially offered to attract fixed term deposits. This resulted in deposit growth outpacing loan growth, which resulted in a substantial increase in lower-yielding liquid assets, depressing NIM.

While we have returned to positive levels in the third quarter, the combined impact of higher rates on new deposits, change in mix of deposits towards higher-cost term deposits, and the interest expense of standby fees of the line in credit facility has maintained downward pressure on net interest margins. Net interest income was also impacted by the sale of commercial and residential mortgage assets and early payouts of consumer lending assets.

To mitigate this, we are focused on growing the mortgage balances to replace lower-yielding assets and have reduced interest rates on new deposits back to market levels, intentionally lowering deposit flows until increased balances are required to match loan origination volumes. Because of the overhang of the liquidity event, internal management and process changes, new loan originations have been well below historical levels. Going forward, we expect to increase loan originations and positively impact both net interest income and NIM, as we focus on deploying excess liquidity and growing the loan book.

Overall, our credit performance of our mortgage portfolio continues to perform in line with expectations with 98.5% of the mortgage portfolio current and 0.31% over 90 days past due. Net nonperforming loans as a percentage of gross loans remain low at 0.28% compared to 0.3% at the end of Q3 2016, and increased compared to 0.23% at the end of the second quarter, mainly due to lower loan portfolio balances. We continue to see provisions for credit losses that are low and stable.

I'll note, we did see a decrease in our collective allowance in the third quarter of CAD 6.5 million, reflecting the sale of CAD 1 billion of commercial assets in Q3. This has the effect of decreasing our provisions for credit losses. Provisions for credit losses as a percentage of gross uninsured loans was a credit of 0.14%. However, that would be 7 basis points if the impact of the reduction in the collective allowance was excluded for ease of comparison. This is compared to 4 basis points a year ago. The increase year-over-year in the ratio also reflects lower loan balances.

Finally, turning to capital levels, as Yousry mentioned, our CET 1 capital ratio increased to 21.25% at the end of the quarter, mainly as a result of the sale of commercial mortgages that reduced our risk-weighted assets. In summary, with the strong capital base and ample liquidity, we are well-positioned to focus on growing a sustainable business going forward.

With that, I'll turn it back to Yousry.

Thanks, Brad. To recap, after my first 90-plus days, I'm optimistic about the future. We have the funding, a strong capital base, and a strong franchise, supported by a base of employees who understand the Alt-A market very well. We know how to serve the needs of our brokers and customers, as well as the financial strength to win new business and return to growth. We have a strengthened management team and a renewed board of directors, all focused on the right things to increase revenues, while carefully managing our risks and expenses.

Moving ahead, we're building a new strategy to implement for the long-term success. I'm working with the board and our management team to review opportunities to drive growth. This will include improving the use of our technology and digital strategy, bringing new and innovative products to the market, and potentially expanding our geographic footprint. We expect to return to everyone with a further update on our strategy early in the second quarter of next year.

Finally, I'd like to thank our shareholders, our very loyal broker and mortgage customers, and our employees for their support over the past six months and in the months and the years to come as we work to seize the opportunities.

With that, we'll open it up to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, all. Just a question, I guess, on the origination levels that came down. Is it a case that you looked at your deposit rates, that basically were elevated and you couldn't underwrite a profitable mortgage or was it more on the other side that the broker community or you're just being cautious on taking new business on? I'm trying to figure out if it's an asset or a liability issue that contributed there.

Hi, Stephen. It's Yousry. I am answering. It's nothing to do with deposit rates. In July and September, as I had in my comments, we went out and offered mortgage rates. Of course, the world doesn't come to you instantly when you do that. But we did get a rush of volume. And as I said, we've got new process, new people in place underwriting it.

So, it takes a little while. We got our service brokers very well. They expect it, and they deserve it, as they have clients that are keen on getting an approval quickly and not. And we're going to get there. All these process and things in place are going to improve, and in fact, we're seeing a lot of business that we're turning down. Over 70% of what we see we're turning down. Some of it, because it doesn't meet our risk quality and some of it because we couldn't respond quickly enough. So, it is unrelated to deposits, to answer your question, Stephen.

Okay. And just the second question on the reserve release out of the collective. I understand that certainly that you sold the commercial part of it. Could you not have – certainly with B-20 and maybe sensitivity around credit, that you couldn't have redeployed that or kept it in the collective industry, deployed it against the book of business?

Well, Steve, it's Brad. We're required under certain circumstances or under IFRS to do a backward look on our provisioning. And to be clear, that provision was transferred and increased the loss on sale of the portfolio. So, we still have that provision against those loan assets. So the CAD 13.1 million includes a CAD 6.5 million of credit provisioning because we're still responsible for some of the credit losses over the life of that portfolio. So, in fact, the provision is unchanged. It's just that we transfer that against the receivable on the loan sale.

Okay. Thanks. I'll re--queue.

Your next question comes from the line of Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Dylan.

Hi, Dylan.

Just want to get a bit more clarity just on the originations. It sounds like you're ramping up the underwriting teams. But I guess just how long of a process do you think until things are somewhat normalized with your service levels to the broker channel on the residential side?

It's Yousry answering. We are making changes every single week, changes like training, changes like ensuring [indiscernible] (21:33) processes, and we're seeing improvements every single week. And it's a matter of weeks and short months. Not a very long time to get it to where we want it to be.

Okay. And it sounds like maybe on the commercial side, that a return to growth there seems to be near term I guess, in your view?

Yes. As you likely know we more syndicate commercial with other entities and we put up the sign that we're back open for business and in good discussions with them. And it doesn't come in instantly, but it will vary over the next little while and get back to normal over the next few quarters.

Okay. Great. And just one more, just on page 35 of your report, you have your weighted average loan-to-values went down quarter-over-quarter pretty significantly, which is a little surprising just given the pricing levels of the overall market. Just wondering a bit more clarity on that would be great.

One of the main driver, that wasn't the increase in market values. So, the discharge loans had a higher LTV. So, the proportion just went down by the math as opposed to an increase in market value.

Okay. Well, that makes sense. Okay I'll re-queue. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Dylan.

Your next question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, Marco.

Hi, Marco.

So, my first question is on the recent market share losses. What do you see as the key driver for these losses and what is it going to take to turn that trend around? Is it more about repairing the broker relationships or about improving processes and reducing underwriting times?

Definitely it is the latter. Our broker relationships are very strong, both [indiscernible] (23:35) in the room and myself have talked to anybody and everybody out there. They're all very keen to deal with us again.

It is about the process. It's about getting back in their paths when they're deciding to do mortgages. It's about getting the right incentives in place. It's the training, as I've discussed on the on the last call as well, and, as you put it, just getting the response times to be a lot faster than we are today. But I can also tell you this, we have a very committed group of people who are committed to making sure that the risk profiles meet our new world, and that the broker community is served in the best way possible. So, I'm very pleased with the progress we're making on a weekly basis.

All right. Thanks for that. And just a couple of follow ups on that point. So what type of incentives will you be offering the brokers? And then just a point of clarification, I think you mentioned you turned down 70% of borrowers this quarter. Can you elaborate on what was driving that?

Okay. So, I think there was two questions in there. The incentives are – every lender has a variety of commission structures and volume bonuses with the brokers, and some have loyalty program. So, the commission structures and the volume bonuses are in place. Ed Karthaus is looking at bringing back our loyalty programs in a new and improved method. Again, that for sure will make a difference, but first we've got to be able to do the turnaround, so that brokers are happy to send deals here. So that's the first part.

The second part was, when we kind of reopened our gates, a lot of mortgages came in, and we are under a much more rigorous risk process. We have new processes and we did decline a very large portion, over 70% of mortgages. And part of that is that we've just got to go out and re-communicate with brokers what kind of deals fit our portfolio, which is one of Ed Karthaus' priorities, to get out and communicate that so that deals that are being sent here have a higher chance of being approved.

So, you have more stringent underwriting criteria now than you did before is what you're saying there. At least that's what I'm getting from that.

A little bit more stringent, but it's just that we've changed how we do things. We've used systems to automate a lot of things. This just got to run through our process to get – to become part of our daily routine. No doubt, no doubt, what happened in the second quarter of this company made us look at all our risk modeling and all our regulatory rules, and we are in a better place than we used to be. No doubt about that. So that's just going through the system, as well.

All right. Great. And you mentioned that the firm's considering geographic expansion. Could you elaborate on what regions?

So, we're looking at west. We're looking at Québec. We are in those markets today, but we believe we can be more aggressive, and we believe we've got things to offer in the western markets as well as Quebec, and we intend to get more aggressive in those areas.

All right. Great. And last one for me, just on your NIM, there were a lot of moving parts this quarter with the sale of the commercial book in multiple tranches and the repayment of the credit facility. So, I was just wondering if you could provide us with some guidance for next quarter.

Marco. It's Brad. We're still working through a lot of the origination volumes and what percentages they're going to renew. So, we're not really in a position to guide you on that. But I can say that the renewals that we've had, have been renewing at higher rates. So, we expect that we should see a recovery on that, but we're not in a position to provide you with any number substantive than that.

All right. That's it from, me. Thanks very much. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. First question I had was on – in a perfect world, I mean obviously, there's different puts and takes for each line of your business, but you've got a lot of capital with the Berkshire investments. So, capital is not an issue for you. I'm just trying to understand with your various verticals between the accelerator, versus the classic, versus commercial, and to a certain extent, on the consumer side, given where the yields are and just trying to understand what your appetite, because for example, commercial is going to eat up more of your capital, but I think the yields and the profitability tend to be better there? I'm just trying to understand where the focus is.

Hi, Geoff. It's Yousry. We've got a fairly sophisticated treasury and capital markets that are constantly looking at optimizing capital, our cost of funds, NIM. And the pricing of any of those products is based on a daily look in those areas. Our classic is our bread and butter. That's the alternative A business. We are competitively priced. We can even get more competitively priced if we felt that that was appropriate.

And then on the accelerator, it's a matter of where we fund it. If we fund it on balance sheet, what can we offer. If fund it using MBS securitization or other forms of securitization, [indiscernible] (29:37) and same with commercial and all that's also offsetting [indiscernible] (29:40) so that we know where we're investing our money.

As you said, we've got a lot of extra capital to deploy in, so there's lots of room for us to be aggressive in any of those areas.

Okay. And just my second question is when I take a look at your rates on the broker GIC side, I mean, historically Homes typically paid the highest rates, particularly in the one- and two-year term. And when I take a look at kind of the one across the five-year term today, Home is probably around on average maybe 25 basis points below the highest.

I'm just trying to reconcile how to think about how you're measuring recovery. Is that the current rates that you're offering, you're able to get the growth in the trajectory you want in the originations or is it more – you talk about some of these processes that you want to iron those out, and so as you increase your originations, we might see a tick-up on your GSE rates?

Yes, Geoff. All of your statements are correct. We have delivered – what we offered premium rates – as we said in our comments, we offered premium rates to increase our levels of funding. As we've also said, we have ample liquidity, and what we're really focused on is growing originations to utilize and utilize that liquidity.

And we don't think that we have to do much if anything on our deposits right now to fund a substantial increase in our originations. To the extent that we do need more deposits, we have the ability to increase probably around 15 basis points, and we think that's enough to attract additional deposit inflows.

I think Benjy is going to have – provide some further commentary on deposits.

At the moment, we have excess liquidity. We calibrate the deposit rates to attract sufficient inflows to match the origination volumes. So, you are correct that our rates are currently sitting at 10 to 15 basis points off the top where we would traditionally be. However, in the broker GIC market, as you know, is extremely sensitive, such that 10 basis points, 5 basis points can significantly move the needle.

As we brought rates down earlier this year, we lowered our rates at 10 different rate drops in order to calibrate what volumes we could get. And we're very confident that should we move the needle, there's sufficient flows to attract the deposits that we need to continue to grow the balance sheet as originations come in.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yes, thank you. Good morning.

Hi, Jaeme.

My first question related to the B-20 impacts. I understand you can't provide too much color around the effects, but maybe you can just sort of talk through some of the strategies and initiatives you're looking at to offset some of those impacts. Maybe like longer amortization, higher fee rates, things like that. Can you sort of discuss that?

Yeah. It's Yousry answering. I think we're going to – we're going to respond in several ways. First of all, as mentioned, we think our book is going to get more sticky and we're going to be able to remove at a higher rate. So, that is one area. The other is, we are going to – we have a lot of capital that we can deploy in commercial mortgages for mortgages that meet our risk criteria.

As you probably know, Home is very large in the GTA. We have geographic opportunity expansions that for sure allow us to do that. And in my comments, I said – if I can maybe just elaborate a little bit more, even though B-20 may be shrinking the market somewhat because of qualification, that particular market grows all the time, because of additional immigration. Canada has announced again that it's increasing immigration. Immigrants on average, two years after they arrive in Canada are looking for a home. It's one of the main reasons they come here, as well as self-employed is growing phenomenally.

Self-employed used to be a certain category of construction or doctors or sort of – everybody has pigeonholed what's self-employed. But now a lot of university graduates are coming out of school and becoming self-employed immediately. So, that whole segment is growing very much. So, there's plenty to be had within those is the way we see it.

Okay. And on the credit losses this quarter, can you just sort of outline a little bit of maybe the geographic or type of mortgages or loans that generated the core 7 basis points of credit losses?

Hi. It's David Cluff here. So, we didn't see any material, anything focused on the geographic areas or trends we developed from the credit losses. Nothing significant to point out on that.

Okay. And last one from me, just in terms of the capital position, obviously, and it looks like it's in an excess position right now at 21-plus CET 1 ratio. And I apologize if I missed this on the prepared remarks, but can you just sort of walk us through what you're thinking about in terms of dividend strategy for 2018? Is that something that's on the table and potentially the timing?

Yeah. Jaeme, it's Brad. Our priority right now for capital deployment is for organic growth. Once you're trying to decide production levels and we determine that surplus capital exist, that we can't effectively deploy, then we'll evaluate other uses and those will be things such as returning the dividend and other strategies, perhaps a renewal of the NCIB.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Marko Kais from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. I was wondering, could you give us more details as to what has changed in terms of your underwriting processes? And then if you could connect that to your current turnaround times to brokers and compare it, where would you like it to be down the road?

What's changed is we've got a whole – new underwriters in place. We've got system solutions that today are inconsistently applied. Some of the underwriters are using it, some are not. So, we're doing a lot of training to get consistent behavior. We've got numerous policies that have been put in place in the quarter. So, it's again training our staffs and making sure that everybody understands, and we still have a very large appetite for doing business within the new framework.

So, I would say we're inconsistent today, to be fair, Marko. There are instances when we will give immediate same-day approvals, and there are other incidents where we will take a few days to give approvals and that's not acceptable. We've got to get to a much tighter turnaround 24 hours or less and be clear with brokers. If there's no way we'll do the deal, we have to be clear quickly, then there's no way we do the deal. If we're going do the deal, of course, then we've got a clear we will do the little deal subject to certain conditions. And if it's a deal that requires a little bit of work, perhaps more down-payment or cosigners, some other events that are within our risk parameter, that we're very clear as we go back to the broker about what that is, so that the broker has a chance to work with us to get the deals where we want it to be.

Okay. Thank you for that. And just my second question is, are you able to quantify what portion of your book would qualify for smaller loans once you – when you start supplying next year?

Sorry. Can you clarify that a bit little more? Apologies, Marko.

What percentage of your book would need to qualify for smaller loans under B-20?

What do you mean by smaller loans, Marko? Sorry, just to be – we just want to be clear.

You said once the B-20 kicks in, like you would really need to start increasing the down-payments or you will start – need to issue smaller loans. So I was wondering what percentage of your existing book would that apply to.

So, what I meant in the comment is that if you're – let's hypothetically say, somebody wanted a CAD 300,000 loan, and under B-20, they won't qualify for CAD 300,000 because of any of the new tests, but they might qualify for CAD 275,000 and hypothetical. That's what I meant by smaller loan. So, they may be able to come up with additional down-payment there, some other forms they get exempt to or they can afford a smaller relative to what they could afford size mortgage. Does that make sense, Marko?

Yes. And just lastly if I could, what you imply in your origination numbers in your guidance of CAD 10 billion balances in your non-securitized single-family mortgage book by the year-end?

We need approximately CAD 250 million – I'm sorry, CAD 300 million.

CAD 300 million. Thanks for your time.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Fenwick from Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi there. Good morning. I think most of my questions have been answered. So, a couple of smaller ones here. Project EXPO is done. So, are you still continuing with that $15 million annualized savings target that you've set with that program. And then when do we get those expenses beginning to step down toward that run-rate bubble, you mentioned they would likely be elevated for a period of time here.

Well, probably it crosses over between Q1 and Q2. You'll see some of the EXPO savings come through in Q4, whereas that we expect some ongoing expenses related to the liquidity event being more elevated in this year and slightly into the next fiscal year in Q1.

Okay. And then one other smaller one here. I was actually surprised to see the U.S. fees and other income line there that actually stepped up sequentially here. And I always think of that number as being correlated with the level of mortgage activity or growth in the book. So, what's in the background there that would have made that number go higher sequentially to, I think, it was CAD 18.1 million.

I don't have a good answer for you right now, so we'll get back to you.

All right that's all I had. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Brenna Phelan from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hi, there.

Hi, [ph] Brenna (41:02).

So, as you look to what your origination plan looks like looking into next year, are you finding any re-establishing relationships with brokers, is it important to offer a full suite of product? Have you done – are you doing any insured business? Is it important to offer that? Are you still sticking with your decision to remove yourself from the near prime ACE product?

It's Yousry answering. Our products historically were very well-received. We just want to get back to our full suite of products, which primarily the Alt-A and to be competitive in service and to be competitive in pricing. We don't believe we need a full suite, not beyond what we have today. Our A is driven by daily treasury and capital market events. If we can be in a game that's something that makes sense for us, we will be. Historically, we've not always had a competitive A product from time to time, we can be very competitive. And that probably would continue. It's the Alt-A that we want to get out there and get back to volumes that we think we can attract.

Okay. And what are you seeing in early Q4? Are things improving than that you have today?

Yes. I say we're improving on a weekly basis, that is very true. Things are much improved over a month ago and we expect we'll be much improved next month.

But your guidance of exiting 2018 implies lower originations in Q4 than you had in Q3, CAD 300 million?

No. There's a difference originations and funding and the timing of an origination turning to funding. We would expect higher originations.

Okay.

And then just to fund it, could fund anywhere from 5 days to 60 days after originating.

Okay. And so, origination is expected to be stronger. But funded volumes sort of $300 million to get you to your guidance?

Yeah. That's what we – yeah. Correct.

Okay. And then I just wanted to follow up, I think it was asked previously, but a little bit more specifically as it relates to the sort of levers you have to pull in sort of supporting origination volumes in the non-prime space, would you look at what is currently in your residential underwriting mortgage policy regarding amortization periods? Do you see room to extend? Is that something you you'd explore?

The amortization is market and broker-driven more than anything else. We don't expect to change the way we do that. If you're talking specifically about relating to B-20, we want it be consistent with the principles of what OSFI is trying to do. That's important to us. So, probably it will be more creative around more down-payment or some of these things we've talked about. But market forces will drive our rates, and the rest, we will be we've got to – we've actually still got a very big appetite for mortgages. So, it's just to get up and communicate what we still are able to do.

Okay. And last one from me, and what are you seeing in terms of rate on your typical non-prime product? Is that something you've tweaked to become more competitive or is that holding in?

We've tweaked a little bit to become more competitive. We have lots of room to be even more competitive if necessary. But we want to make sure that the factory can intake it as fast as we were going to go ask for it.

Okay. Thanks so much.

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hi. I just have two follow ups here. The first one, one of your competitors this quarter had detected an incident of broker fraud. I'm wondering have you noticed anything like that in your portfolio or can you talk about potentially what you're doing around broker fraud? And do you think there's just a greater incentive now, given all of the rule changes for brokers to be a little bit more aggressive in how they're submitting applications?

Hi, it's David Cluff here. So, no, we're not seeing any meaningful increase right now. We've just highlighted we do have a strong sets of control in place right now. We do use a third-party source [indiscernible] (46:15) which helps us attack the fraudulent applications as they come in. We have strong sense of controls around separation of duties amongst our employees, strong income verification procedures. So, those stuff we've had in place for a number of years now. In terms of your question given the rule changes, there is that potential, it could be a consequence of some of the rule changes, particularly around the stress tests, so it's something we need to be vigilant and we're well prepared for that moving forward.

Okay. So, nothing detected in this quarter. And my second question is related to the renewal rates. You talked about renewing existing clients at higher rates. Can you sort of describe what kind of a rate increase are these borrowers facing? And how are you balancing the impact on that borrowers, debt service ratios and overall credit quality into the decision to move rates on those existing borrowers?

Sorry. It's Yousry speaking here Jaeme. When I meant higher rates, I meant higher renewal retention percentages. So, we're back to renewing 75%, 80%; more recently closer to the 80%. I didn't mean higher mortgage rates, just that we're renewing at a higher retention rate.

Okay. So, existing mortgage borrowers are renewing at very similar rates as their current contract rates. Is that – that's a way to take it?

Yeah. It's – mostly that's correct. If there's a higher risk related with our experience with a particular mortgage over the year, we might risk adjust that rate for renewal.

But there's been no increase in the mortgage rate to offset some of the increase in deposit costs and interest expense that you're facing?

Well, yeah. Jimmy there has been. Because overall interest rates have gone up. So, we will be renewing at higher rates. And to the extent the renewal process requires a review of the customer's capacity to pay, that is part of the renewal process.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to Ms. Lepore.

Thank you very much. And we're looking forward to assist you on our next call in Q4.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.