corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Mason and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Inc. First Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-


answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Gerald Soloway. You may now begin.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And I am delighted to


report to you on Home Capital’s record first quarter results for 2010. I am going to divide my


comments into three brief sections. I am going to talk about firstly, the actual results. I am going to


then talk about the findings that we have had today on the IFRS’s new regulations and how they


would affect our earnings. And then I will try to give a future outlook on how we see the company


going forward in the next quarter and the rest of the year.


But first, about the results. The results were strong in all sections of the company. Being at Home


is often a little like the little engine that could--quarter after quarter, we keep saying, “We can! We


can!,” and we have now completed 16 consecutive quarters of earnings growth. And this is in a


time that some of the biggest companies in the world have unfortunately gone out of business or


had to have government bailouts and throughout this period, we have managed to continue to


progress very strongly. We continue to say, “I know I can! I know I can!” and we have completed


some 16 consecutive quarters of earnings growth.


Our earnings for the first quarter were up 32.8% year over year. Our earnings per share were up to


31.9%. Our assets, and together with assets under administration, those are mortgages that we’ve


originated, securitized, and sold, and they total some $5 billion at this point. Now those assets and


assets under administration, they were up some 40.4% over last year and we had a, for the first


quarter, return on equity of 27.4%.


So, you might say that we are firing on all cylinders. Our credit quality continued to improve. We


hit peak arrears in April/May, 2009 and every month since that high watermark, the arrears figures


have continued to improve. Probably reflecting the continuous improvement in the Canadian


economy and our quite vigorous collection efforts.


Today, early May, and this really refers to the end of April, our 30-day arrears are about half of what


they were at the peak in April/May, so that half as many people missed their first payment and often


there can be things like bank errors, and people putting a check in the bank a few days--a lot of


them get cleared up quite innocently within a few days. But that is one of the very significant


indicators, future indicators, of how the portfolio is performing, and as I said, that’s now down half of


what it was at the peak.


And every other bucket in the collection procedure has improved throughout this period. Now, the


end of March, our non-performing were 0.91 of loans and that is lower than the 1.17 at the end of


March ‘08, but it’s slightly ahead of what we were at the end of the year which is 0.85. So, naturally


the question you ask is -- if we are doing so much better why did the over-90 days pop up a little bit


towards in the first quarter. Well, it was a very simple explanation. We had some 33 properties


that were sold at the end of March that had not been closed. There were firm-binding agreements


of purchase and sale, the deposit had been paid to the real estate agent, and it was just a matter of


waiting for the closing date. To date, almost all of them have closed; the rest will probably be


closed during the month of May, and as we now look at the over 90 figure for the end of June, we


do believe that the June 30th ‘10 non-performing number will be lower than the 0.85 we had at the
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


end of the year. Of course, this is a prediction but based on all the going, the trends and the


improvement in the whole portfolio we see that coming down throughout the whole year.


So, the arrears are good, the money supply--we can get funded easily, our capital ratios are good.


In fact, all aspects of our business are very strong and we feel that having had such good results, a


quarter of the way through the year, we believe that we are on track to have another great year.


I would now like to chat a little bit about the IFRS. Because I know that has given many


shareholders and many analysts concerns because of the fact that the earnings under


securitization would be amortized and not taken in as a gain on sale. Now, some of the rules have


now become a little more clarified and the policy statements have gone out, comments have been


received, additional policy statements have been made by all the proper regulatory authorities, and


we felt quite comfortable after doing a lot of work on this and looking at it very carefully based on


the best of our information to date-I’ve got to emphasize that--on the best of our information that as


we said in our quarterly, the preliminary analysis suggests that if the income statement for Home


Capital’s first quarter of 2010 was presented on an IFRS basis, not on GAAP as we now do it, but if


it was on an IFRS, there would be no material change in net income and earnings per share.


Now, some of the analysts, having also come to the same conclusion, some of the analysts have


indicated that on their calculations there’d probably be some increase in earnings. I don’t want to


go that far; that’s our hope but I am not going that far because there is many a twist in the road


before the IFRS rules are finalized, but I am quite confident in saying that we don’t think there


would be any material change in the earnings if, in fact, they were reported under IFRS instead of


GAAP. Now, there was just one more thing I wanted to say about the IFRS--I am just looking for


my note. What we are going to do is, as each quarter goes on before during this year 2010, we will


give more clarifications. We have a whole team working on it; we are working on it both with an


internal team and our external auditors. We actually will be coming out reporting ahead of the


major banks because of the year-end situation, we have a December 31st year end. They have an


October 31st year end. So they are going to be exempt this year from having to publish. So, you


know, the little engine’s going to be leading the pack on this with other companies that have a


December 31st year end and we will continue to give additional data and update quarter by quarter.


And really, the big difference is instead of the securitization income, what we have is the


amortization of the income that we’ve made from prior securitization gets amortized back on to the


balance sheet, but on any gains we have during the quarter, it does not reflect as a gain on sale.


So, it’s two different balls that have to be balanced in the air, but we have reviewed it carefully and


believe that we see no material impact.


In terms of the capital issues, we also believe that because of our very strong capital issues we will


not have any capital issues when the new rules come into being. We feel quite strongly that we will


be able to continue to do the same volume of business, if not greater, and we have lots of capacity


on our balance sheet and I just want to assure our shareholders and the analysts that there is no


concern either on the income, which will be about the same as it is now, or on capital--we will still


have sufficient capital under the rules.


Let me give you now a few comments on how we see the future outlook for the company. We have


gone back and are working very hard in promoting and developing our core classic products.


These are the residential mortgages, 80% maximum loan to value. That has been the key product


of what we have sold and developed and grown with the company for the last 23 years, and that we


are now promoting and marketing that product in all provinces, coast-to-coast, and we feel quite


comfortable about the housing market.


We feel we made the right decision about two years ago now, when we started to tap on the


brakes. We felt that it allowed us to get through a fairly difficult period in the financial markets with


really minimum losses and minimum problems. But we now see is that the real estate market


across the country is quite stable, quite strong, and we are quite comfortable doing business in the