Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Lepore — Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Brenda J. Eprile — Chairman, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bonita Joan Then — Interim President & Chief Executive Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Corporate Director & Interim CFO, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Alan Roy Hibben — Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President, Deposits & Consumer Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Gregory W. Parker — Chief Risk Officer & Executive VP, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jeffrey Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Phil Hardie — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Marc Charbin — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
Mike Rizvanovic — Analyst, Veritas Investment Research Corp.
Jordan Neil Hymowitz — Managing Principal, Philadelphia Financial Management of San Francisco LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Carol and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Q1, 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Laura Lepore, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ms. Lepore.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to hear about our financial results for the first quarter of 2017. With me on the call today is Brenda Eprile, our Chair of the Board; our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, Bonita Then; Chief Financial Officer, Robert Blowes; and Alan Hibben. We also have members of our management team on the call this morning. Chris Whyte, our Chief Operating Officer; Greg Parker, our Chief Risk Officer; Pino Decina, our Executive Vice President of Residential Mortgages; and Benjy Katchen, EVP, Deposits & Consumer Lending.

Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that this conference call provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and condition of Home Capital and, as such, comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to project and control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Brenda Eprile.

Thank you, Laura, and good morning, everyone. I asked to be part of today's call for a number of reasons. As you know, I only just took on the role of Chair of the Board of Home Capital, so I wanted to introduce myself at the earliest opportunity. I was first selected to the Board at the 2016 AGM, but the role of Chair keeps on added responsibility, and I want shareholders to know a little bit more about me.

I spent a number of years as Senior Partner responsible for PwC's risk consulting practice, working for financial services clients. Prior to joining PwC, I was a senior member of the Ontario Securities Commission staff having been both the Chief Accountant and the Executive Director.

I agreed to take on the role as Chair because I believe in the fundamental business premise of Home Capital, which is with these homebuyers, many of whom are new Canadians to obtain mortgage financing and achieve their dream of homeownership. This company matters to a great number of people and in the last few weeks has not been easy for many of us. So, I wanted to be on this call to speak to the issues affecting us right now and what we are doing to right the ship.

I will keep my comments to a high level. I am joined by Bonita Then, Bob Blowes and Alan Hibben. Bonita and Bob will walk through the operational and financial details of where things stand, and Alan will offer some comments on our ongoing strategic and financing review.

Broadly speaking, we face two major issues. First is the need to restore confidence in the future of the business; second is to secure additional funding to allow us to continue the business. Clearly, these two are related, which is why we've been working on parallel tracks on both.

We have embarked on a major refresh of the leadership of our company, which helps on both front. We have added four very strong directors to the board, Claude Lamoureux, former Chief Executive Officer of the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan and a co-founder of the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance; Paul Haggis, former CEO of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System or OMERS and former CEO of Alberta Treasury Branches, a financial institution owned by the province of Alberta; Sharon Sallows, an experienced director with public and private company and a background in lending and real estate investments; Alan Hibben, former Head of Strategy of RBC, Managing Director of M&A at RBC, and President of a trust company. Their experience in financial services, banking and governance will make for strong additions to the board and helps drive governance and strategy while rebuilding confidence in the company. I can tell you, all four have been hard at work already alongside the rest of their board colleagues.

Our leadership refresh is not finished. Our search continues for a new CEO and CFO, which is the top priority for the board. We have two very capable directors in Bonita and Bob who have stepped into these roles on an interim basis, but we look forward to welcoming permanent leaders.

We have announced two major funding arrangements and continue to work very hard to develop additional sources of funding while carefully managing our liquidity, one step we took earlier in the week when the board made the prudent decision to defend our dividend.

In conclusion, I want to reiterate that there's much at stake for Home Capital, and I want to assure those listening on the call and beyond, our shareholders, depositors, employees, customers and partners, that we are working diligently to ensure that we return to being a strong company and continue to play an important role in the market.

Thank you and let me turn the call over to Bonita Then.

Okay. Thank you, Brenda, and good morning. My comments this morning will be about our operations, and then I'll ask Bob to provide the financial overview. The events that have occurred since the end of the quarter have fundamentally changed our business and our strategic plans. Strengthening the company's leadership, both at the board and management levels, will be a major factor in returning the company to normal operations. As Brenda just highlighted, we have made considerable progress on the board's refresh, and Bob and I look forward to handing off our responsibilities to permanent replacements.

The situation that we are in though will have a long-term impact on the company. The liquidity events we have faced have led to actual and potential negative effects on the business. The terms associated with our CAD 2 billion credit line are going to have significant negative effects on our financial performance in 2017. We have also taken steps that, in normal circumstances, would not be necessary. The sale or placement of up to CAD 1.5 billion of mortgage commitments and renewals will have an impact on the results of our business. However, it was necessary to give us the ability to continue to service many customers as possible in the mortgage broker channel. We have tightened our lending criteria and have been reducing some of our broker incentive program and expect that will result in a decline in our originations and renewals. In addition, the terms of the new funding arrangement using sales replacements as well as the company's CAD 2 billion credit line will lead to a greater focus in the new term on originating mortgages to sell rather than holding them on the balance sheet and funding through deposits as Home has traditionally done. We anticipate that this will result in lower overall mortgage balances, increased costs and reduced levels of profitability in the near term.

As we assess the expected impact of the many changes we've made and knowing that more will be necessary, we are also reassessing how we run our business. We do not have specifics on this yet, so I don't want to speculate. But I will say we recognize there will need to be some restructuring within the company.

Our intent will be to minimize the impact this will have on our people. We're in a relationship business and our team has been able to deliver very strong results under normal conditions. It will be important that, no matter how we emerge from the current situation, we have the people and relationships to ensure our future success.

In conclusion, I want to assure you that the Home Capital leadership team has been extremely active these past few weeks, effectively redefining our business. We do not have all the answers today and we don't have complete visibility on when this clears and we are back on sound footing. Management continues to work with its advisers to identify and explore a number of permanent solutions to solidify and strengthen Home's historical, successful underlying business model.

Thank you and let me turn the call over to Bob.

Thank you, Bonita. Home Capital issued its quarterly results yesterday. And while I'd much rather talk about the good quarter that we had in Q1, I know that that is not your top priority. I will highlight though that we reported earnings of CAD 0.90 per share on a diluted basis and a CAD 1.02 on an adjusted diluted basis. This compares with CAD 0.92 and CAD 0.96 a year ago.

Loans under administration were CAD 27.2 billion, up 7.7% or CAD 1.9 billion year-over-year. Originations were CAD 2.3 billion in the quarter, a new record for us, in first quarter originations, and up 32% from last year. When the business is healthy, we are capable of achieving some strong results in building a healthy pipeline of opportunities. Our goal right now is to restore the business to its healthy state.

An important priority for us has been getting back to that healthy state by actively managing our liquidity position. As everyone knows, we have just gone through a liquidity crisis and, hence, the growing concern and uncertainty expressed in our quarterly report. I think that has been well exposed and we are working hard to reduce that uncertainty.

We've retained RBC Capital Markets and BMO Capital Markets to advice us on financing and strategic options. That work continues. We have also entered into a number of agreements and arrangements, one was a firm commitment for a CAD 2 billion rescue line of credit provided by a facility led by HOPP, the Healthcare of Ontario Pension Plan. The facility is secured against the portfolio of mortgages and matures on April 30, 2018. Although we can pay it off earlier at our option without penalty. To-date, we have drawn CAD 1.4 billion against this facility.

We've also entered into an arrangement with an independent third-party that wishes to accept mortgage commitments and renewals up to CAD 1.5 billion. And we are optimistic that there is room for this arrangement to grow. The company has also received CAD 154 million of proceeds from the sale of our preferred share portfolio and we monetized our non-cash liquidity positions. All of this has helped us to establish liquidity.

The credit line facility, combined with Home Trust current available liquidity, provides the company with access to just under CAD 1.6 billion in total funding, which we believe is adequate to stabilize our liquidity requirements while we pursue more appropriate funding options and [ph] retire (12:23) deposit notes of CAD 325 million, which mature on May 24. While these steps address our immediate liquidity needs, there has also been a disruption of our normal business processes including the flow of fixed-term deposits. We depend on a consistent flow of these deposits to support our lending activities. Consequently, there has been some disruption in lending activities.

As Bonita mentioned, our goal is to protect our core business of providing our traditional single-family residential products and we are working to develop plans to preserve this business at levels that can be supported by expected funding capabilities while also maintaining our relationships with the mortgage broker network.

Management is also examining the viability of all non-core product offerings against expected funding capabilities. Given the cost of the CAD 2 billion credit line, repayment of amounts drawn under this facility in a timely fashion is an essential part of management's plans. This may necessitate asset dispositions, scaling back of volumes until our funding capabilities return to normal levels.

As one can expect, the actions we have taken to address liquidity in the short term will have a significant impact on the company's financial performance in 2017. And as we have said, we will be unable to achieve our original performance goals.

It's important that the market appreciate the situation we are in, but also recognize the work that has taken place to address some of our most pressing challenges. We have already overcome some significant hurdles, and we look forward to contribution of our new directors and welcoming a new CEO and CFO.

We believe we can put the company back on a much more stable ground and although want to be forthright in our view that what emerges from this situation will not necessarily be the same Home Capital that we saw only a few weeks earlier.

Let me now turn it over to Alan.

Thanks, Bob. I wanted to provide a few more details about our pursuit of available strategic and financing options. But before I do that, I want you to know that I agreed to join this board a week ago because I fundamentally believe in the business model of Home Capital and the underlying importance of the role that it plays in the market.

This company has faced crisis in confidence in liquidity. But as we have just heard from Brenda, Bonita and Bob, a number of steps have been taken to address both our governance and near-term liquidity issues, which will provide a platform that we can build on to assess our strategic alternatives.

The situation facing the company is such that the entire board is quite involved in the range of activities that have already been described. As an ex-investment banker, and I hate to admit it, an ex-bank analyst, I'm taking on a greater role alongside management as well as our legal and investment banking advisers to address a wide range of potential funding sources and strategic transactions. Because of the work that Bob and Bonita have already done, we have some breathing room, so that we can address medium and longer term issues in a thoughtful way.

I don't expect there to be any new significant transactions within the next days and weeks. However, that should not be misconstrued. We will be extremely active in bringing a range of options forward and are committed to updating the market and potential partners about our operations and our portfolios.

As you can imagine, given my background, I will be sure to push our financial advisers to accelerate their process and to give us the widest range of potential alternatives for consideration. I'm not going to address what those alternatives might be at the moment, but when we have something else to say about our strategy, we're going to tell you.

Thank you very much. And now, I'll open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question this morning comes from Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I'm not sure if you can answer this, but certainly one of the – I guess, all your comments about maintaining the company going forward and certainly change of operations. Has a runoff been considered in one of your, I guess, alternatives and would the shareholders' equity be protected in that scenario?

Hi, it's Alan. I think we've obviously done scenarios out the yin/ yang here. We've done scenario A, B, C and up to whatever letter you want. I think, as you can appreciate here, the runoff scenario is the last one that we ever hope to be executing. And I think we've spent a lot of time and Bob and Bonita spent a lot of time giving us the capacity, as I said, to be thoughtful about this.

So, a runoff scenario is only going to occur if every other option that we're exploring doesn't work. At the moment, I have quite a bit of confidence, given the number of people that have talked to us about the wide range of funding and other strategic transactions, that a runoff is very unlikely.

Okay. Second question, you mentioned some disruption and I presume your GIC – raising GICs, can you elaborate on that in terms of what you're seeing on the daily basis, how many boards you still remain on because certainly that's going to be one of your main sources of funding over the next several weeks and possibly months?

Hello. It's Benjy Katchen here. Our deposits products are available at most financial institutions across the country, including Oaken Financial, which is owned by us. The deposit continued to flow widely through all of these channels. While the volumes are lower than we've had in the past, we have been providing updates daily through various press releases as to these flows.

Stephen. It's Bob speaking. We have – in a scenario that Alan described, we have taken into account the challenge that arises in maintaining flows. We have assumptions with respect to those flows and they are conservative. So, we're not expecting that they would continue at the historic rate at this point in time, which is I think what I was suggesting earlier.

Okay. And I'll just – I'll ask my third and final question. Just in terms of sale of certain portfolios, as you mentioned in the MD&A, how much, if you could sell the commercial and the consumer finance book, those seemed to be the ones that everyone is talking about, and you pay off the associated liabilities. How much equity is backing those two portfolios if you could sell them at par?

Well, I guess the way to think about that is they are segments or they are portfolios within our total asset base. And so, they're backed by our – or full amount of our equity and financed by, primarily, by our GIC liabilities. So, if we were to dispose of them, they would provide cash, which would then have given us an opportunity to manage further cash flows. There would not be a linked repayment of debt.

It's Alan. I could maybe elaborate there. I mean, obviously, the equity behind it, which we allocate internally from the equity base of the company, would be maintained if we sell them at par. So, there would be no gain, no loss. The equity stays exactly where it is. The balance sheet would shrink. The requirement for capital would go down and all of our ratios would then, by definition, go up.

Yeah. I mean, is it CAD 100 million of equity backing those portfolios or several hundred million?

I think you don't really understand how the place works, so we can take that one offline.

Okay. All right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question this morning comes from Jeff Fenwick from Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi there. I guess just to continue on with the liquidity line of questions here. So, your goal, near-term, obviously is to look to replace that HOPP facility just given the cost of it. So, can you just at least give us a sense of what the nature of the funding solution might be or what it might look like in terms of what you are looking for? Is it possible to find a backstop kind of similar to what Equitable Group did or are we talking about some other forms of or structures of financing here that you're considering?

It's Alan again. Yes is the answer. We're looking at all of those matters. I think the top priority, if I were to be able to point one is somebody who would write a liquidity piece with MTNs, so that we could have some term financing that comes out of it, somewhat similar to the Equitable deal. But, as you can imagine, the market is thin for these sorts of things, and so we will be looking at a wider range of alternatives than just a liquidity backstop. The bigger, the longer we can get that the easier it will be for us to recover confidence in the marketplace.

Some of those alternatives are going to be contingent upon continuing changes in governance and management. And that's why I'm very happy that we have enough time to actually be able to execute on those.

Okay. And then maybe if we just talk about the other piece of news here in terms of the third-party here that's going to take some loans from you. So, is this – are the terms of this similar to what we would typically see in some sort of whole loan sales or securitization where you're getting a fee on placing it with that party Just to confirm that you're not – so they're not selling things at a discount and this is going to be a sort of a commercial relationship.

Jeff, it's Bob here. So, the objective of that arrangement is to reduce our obligations with respect to incoming commitments and renewals. So, we are – it would be negotiated in different tranches as we go forward. So, initially, there could be some discounts because the commitments and renewals, that are outstanding, were issued at a time before the liquidity crisis and before the market started to adjust rates. So, there will be some P&L on that segment. And as we go into the future, we will be – and we are adjusting our lending criteria to provide better economics for us on that. So, the first parts of that will be – we'll give up some P&L in order to achieve the liquidity.

And, I guess, the concern there is given the leverage on your balance sheet even minor discounts can pretty quickly erode shareholders' equity. So, what's your view on that and how should we be thinking about it?

Well, there will be some erosion because we're – it's part of the liquidity crisis management and it's similar to the rescue line. It's costly but it's not in that order.

I see. And, I guess, sort of thinking about this on a go-forward basis, you're talking about originating mortgages you can place. This doesn't really sound like the that the type of relationship your clearly looking forward in that context. I mean, what – who is going to be the ultimate taker of non-prime mortgages if you're originating them or are you just going to stick with prime and try to place those?

Actually, there – it's a positive relationship and a partner we've done business with before, and there is an appetite for the non-prime mortgages as they are placed by our partner. So, it's a positive business arrangement. But, as I said, as we do the first part of the arrangement, we have to deal with the fact that our commitments were issued two months ago and rates in that segment of the market were lower than they are today.

Okay. And I think people are just concerned about the order of magnitude impact on your shareholders' equity here. So, can you give us some comfort that it's not material impact on that?

It's Alan. I think you can say around – other than the fact that we paid CAD 100 million fee, that that is obviously going to impact things. The rest of the profit that we're having to give away to this third-party because of the change in rates can be absorbed in earnings.

Yes.

Okay. I think that's really a critical part. Some people are assuming you're selling these loans at a discount and that very quickly erodes equity, so that's a different – that's a very different scenario you're discussing. I want to be clear on that.

Yeah, that's correct. It's not in the nature of deep discounts to achieve this.

It's essentially a mark-to-market on interest rates.

Okay. Okay. Thanks for that color. I appreciate it. I'll re-queue. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Dylan Steuart from Industrial Alliance Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Dylan.

Just – I was hoping – I appreciate the daily updates on the liquidity side of things, but just I was hoping for subsequent to quarter end, just an update on where current asset levels are. Just going to try to get a sense of if there has been any sort of erosion of the loan book as expected.

I can talk about that, Dylan. It's Bob. There hasn't been any significant erosion of the asset book. It remains at historic levels. It's very strong in terms of credit quality as it has been over the past few quarters. No significant changes there. And that's one of the reasons we've been able to enter into arrangements to deal with our liquidity issue. And we have not sold significant asset bases or anything like that. And if we did, we would be reporting that. So, we – as Alan said, we're looking at a range of alternatives, but we're not – we have not taken on any transactions to sell mortgages currently on our balance sheet.

Okay. Perfect. And I was just hoping to get a sense, I guess, regarding the credit, CAD 2 billion credit facility. Just getting a sense of what would be the max collateral if it was taken out in full and what's the nature of the loans backing it. Is it uninsured, insured residential mortgages or some more color on that would be appreciated.

Sure. Sure. I can speak to that as well, Dylan. The collateral pool is based on the quality of the underlying mortgages. At the position that we're at today, it's been commented on already and it's in some other information that we put into the market. It's a two-to-one collateralization, and that's related to the loans that we have to margin against that level.

As our book changes, the collateral pool will change to reflect the quality of underlying mortgages. So, it could be a higher margin rate, depending on that quality, but today it's on the two-to-one basis as we've disclosed.

Sorry, just two-to-one because I believe in the disclosures you had CAD 5.4 billion against the CAD 1.4 billion. I'm just trying to get some clarity on that I guess.

It's a structured pool. So, depending on the amount we've drawn and the quality of the pools, it could go as high as that. But today where we are is on a two-to-one basis.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks very much.

Our next question comes from Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Maybe, Alan, I could – I appreciate your comments on why you took on this board mandate. Can you shed a little bit of color on how you were able to recruit the other three new board members? They've got impressive track records. Should I be thinking here that there's a higher level of compensation than maybe a normal board mandate given the uncertainty of the situation or is this perhaps – are people viewing this as the stability of the Canadian financial system is important here, it's not just the Home Capital issue and that a motivating factor?

Yeah. Well, let me talk about that and Sharon and I worked together at BMO many years ago. Paul and I worked together at BMO many years ago. Claude knows Sharon from the fact that Sharon was on the board of Teachers. So, we have a significant degree of comfort amongst ourselves with this. And I think you're going to find that we'll add one or more other members to the board that will also have... are we getting feedback?

That's from your...

Okay. Sorry. One or more members of the board. To answer your question, nobody cares about the money here. Everybody is interested and trying to do the right thing, well, systemically for Canada, and particularly we were attracted to the fact that this company services a niche within the marketplace that nobody else is going to service.

So, if this company were to not succeed, it would have a significant knock-on effects particularly to new Canadians and others who this company services. So, no, it's not money. I think all the guys that came on have money.

I appreciate the response. My second question is the cashable GICs. Bob, can you give us some context on what exactly is the balance of cashable GICs in your deposit base and what is the structure of your non-cashable GICs? Can they be redeemed in anyway?

Sure, Graham. I'll answer the first part of that – sorry, the second part of that question and Benjy can give you a little color on the first part.

So, the vast majority of our GICs are term-structured, which they do not have redeemable optionality to them. So, they can be – and as a general matter, the company's strategy has been to long fund, so that the assets typically mature before the GICs that they're matched against and those are on contractual terms. We do have a small segment of our GIC portfolio, which is cashable at certain dates, and Benjy can add a little color around that.

We have two GIC products that cover redeemability feature. One is they're both one-year GICs, one is cashable after 30 days, the other after 90 days. It's a relatively small proportion of our portfolio. Well, we did experienced some run-offs, which was disclosed as part of our total GIC balance in the daily liquidity updates. The remaining balances are holding lately.

And what are the remaining portion?

... [indiscernible] (33:02) proportion of the book though.

How much do you have in cashable GICs remaining?

Sorry, Graham, we just didn't hear that last part.

How much do you have in cashable GICs remaining?

I don't know...

We'll have to provide that number.

Yeah, I don't have the specific number on that, Graham, at my fingertips, but it's not a large number.

Okay. And maybe if I could – last one, just what is the market's ability – Alan, you talked about this is a niche market that's important. If you're not able to access sufficient funding, what is the market's ability here to either absorb your portfolio through asset sales or absorb your portfolio through the natural sort of maturity cycle?

I think the estimates that the guys have here is that we're about 10% of this marketplace, and a lot of the marketplace is informal, in other words, not funded by regulated financial institutions. It's funded by people and family offices and a range of other things.

So, we have some degree of comfort that, if we can't refinance people and if this arrangement that we have with the third-party can't refinance people, that there will be refinancing options. But there's no question there is the risk of dislocation in this marketplace because of that. And what you've already seen is rates have gone up dramatically, underwriting continues to tighten, but we do think that there are other outlets. But we're putting a reasonable amount of refi into the marketplace all at one time.

I have an answer on the capital of GICs. That's under CAD 400 million.

Thank you. I appreciate that. And Alan or Bob, do you know what the – your portfolio in the GTA market, do you know what's coming up for maturity in 2017?

We do. I don't have that at my fingertips, Graham.

And Graham, can you count to two?

Sorry, I got greedy. I apologize.

It's Bob speaking. I just want to go back to the question about the collateral pool. I described the mechanism for the collateral pool, but I want to make it clear that the group arrangement does have CAD 5.2 billion of collateral available against it, and there's margin formula that allocates the collateral against the drawn portion. At today's draw, we would be in the two range.

Next.

Our next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. I just want to follow-up on one of the answers to the last question there about the size of Home Capital in the marketplace. In speaking with other players, we've heard estimates in the range of CAD 30 billion to CAD 50 billion for alternative mortgages, and you're suggesting that your CAD 12 billion is now only 10% of the marketplace. So, what is – I guess, what's driving that delta that would suggest the market is CAD 120 million versus other player's estimates of CAD 30 billion to CAD 50 billion?

Yeah, Jaeme, it's Pino here. Obviously, the alternative market is very fragmented. You've got institutional lenders across the country. The majority of it is service through private lending. But we've tried to do, over the years, numerous analysis on really how big this market is, and I think you've heard us say this before, if the Canadian residential mortgage market stands at about CAD 1.3 trillion, CAD 1.4 trillion, there's about 25% to 30% of the consumers that, in any given time, could fall out of that space and require alternative funding. So, that would be the size of the alternative space as a whole, and then, institutionally, we would be some 5% of that number.

Wow. Okay. I'll shift gear. So, that's quite a bit of a different number than what I've been hearing, generally speaking, about the size of that market. In terms of the mortgage collateral and you're suggesting that the – it's two times right now, have any of these – have any of the pool B mortgages been allocated to the collateral pool at this point? And I don't – I didn't think it was a clear answer, but is it – is pool A insured and pool B uninsured or are there other characteristics that are driving the differentiation between the two?

So, the mortgages for each pool are identified and provided as collateral, but where we are in the current margin formula is the two or in the two range. The pool A – the pools are defined based on underlying quality of our non-insured mortgages. It's all non-insured.

Okay. Greg is just giving me the correction here. There are small amount of insured in that pool, but it's primarily non-insured product.

Okay. [ph] And I would guess (38:42) will just fall under the general LTV or...

Yeah, it would be based on location, LTV, Beacon scores, et cetera.

Okay. And maybe just to follow-up on that, what would be a pool B LTV? Is it something like that in the 75% higher? I see – I remember previous disclosures would suggest that above 15% of the portfolio has an LTV of 75% or higher. Is that something that will qualify as a pool B for example?

It's a combination of those parameters, so I can't really define it that way.

Okay. I'll re-queue.

Yeah.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi there. Just if – I had a question on the third-party agreement that you signed. Is that finalized? And then for those impacted mortgages, do you retain the servicing right? I'm just trying to get a sense as to when those mortgages come up for renewal like, is that your customer that you can take back or is that likely to be renewed with whoever is buying it?

Hi, Geoff, it's Bob. So, the mortgages would leave our balance sheet and we would not expect to see those customers again under that arrangement. And they'd be serviced by the new owner. That's the answer to that part of the question.

The arrangement itself is the finalized contract, but it provides the framework for takedowns. And so, as our partner takes down, what we would do is give [indiscernible] (40:31) see what we'd like to have them takedown and they have an opportunity to assess that and then take it down as they like, and we would expect that this would be active. But the arrangement is finalized, but the takedowns will happen as we present the renewals or commitments for their assessment.

Okay. And just the other question I had is along the same lines with this third-party agreement here. Obviously, you're selling some degree of on the GICs, but this CAD 1.5 billion, do you have – what your line of sight is as to maybe how many months that [ph] they advised you (41:13) in terms of some of these renewals that you have coming up? And then, can you talk about the degree that you have other third parties that would have interest to help kind of manage that flow for you?

I think – Geoff, it's Alan. I think you can say we have arranged through this and other facilities for quite a number of months. I'm not going to say years but quite a number of months. It does give us the time, as I had already said, to find some more permanent solutions. Nobody likes paying 10% on this thing and nobody likes the fact that we're going to have to give our customers away to a third party, but it gives us more than enough time to be able to execute on alternative transactions here.

I guess, what I was getting at was this third-party were there other people that you consider for this $1.5 billion but you ultimately decided to go with the party that you did?

We are looking at lots of options here, Geoff, and this is an attractive arrangement for us and with the partner that we've done business with before.

But are there other guys in the data room? Yep.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Phil Hardie from Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning.

Good morning, Phil.

Just one question really with respect to relationship between business partners and funding. Is there any discussion or material risk with the status as an improved seller in the CMHC securitization programs at this point?

Greg – I'll ask Greg to answer that, Phil. He's closer to it and maybe if you could just repeat that as he comes to the mic here.

Sure. Yeah. The question was really related to whether there's any discussion or material risk with Home Capital status as an approved seller into CMHC's securitization programs?

We continue to securitize mortgages as we've always done, Phil.

Okay. Maybe the second question maybe more clear, I mean, has there been any additional discussion or concerns maybe arising from some of the allegations or liquidity positioning that might put that into question going forward?

No. I mean, we have had dialogue with CMHC, but as I said, we just – we're continuing to use that facility as we always have.

It's Alan. I've spoken with the CEO of CMHC, I didn't hear any issues with us.

Okay. And you've got ample working capital to continue to securitize?

Yes.

Perfect. Okay. Thank you. And then maybe one final question, just to follow-up on [ph] Geoff's (44:04) question before. So, the general near-term view right now is still you remain profitable into Q2 and Q3 and then clearly some of the arrangements with third-party reduced profitability but the expectation is still to be in the black on that one?

I would – it's Bob speaking, Phil. It's too early for us to calculate that because there's other strategies we need to execute on, but I think the Q2 will have to absorb a number of charges.

Okay, okay. I'll re-queue. Thank you.

Okay.

Our next question comes from Marc Charbin from Laurentian Bank Securities. Please go ahead.

Going back to deposits, I understand you're seeing a net outflow. Has there been any inflow at all? For example, in the last week, how many GICs have come in the door?

It's Marc. Sorry, it's Bob speaking. Yes, you're right, it's a net outflow and the outflow, as we would expect in a liquidity situation and the confidence crisis that we've just gone through. We are continuing to take in new deposits, which is encouraging. It's lower than we have experienced in the past and we built our models taking that into account.

All right. So, no....

I just wanted to add that over 90% of our deposits are CDIC or under the CAD 100,000 dollar limit for a coverage from CDIC, and that remains quite an attractive investment from the depositors.

So, in the last week inflow plus or minus CAD 100 million?

I'm sorry. We – I don't – we don't want to be that specific, but I could say the outflows are greater than what we're taking and that is consistent with the liquidity issue that we faced and that's what we have addressed through the strategy that Alan has discussed.

All right. And back to CMHC, is it possible to that you'll have to set up allowances against any of the accelerator product that's in arrears that was not conforming product?

We don't have any credit issues arising with that product and we haven't had any discussion that there would be a requirement to set up a specific amount against that. We have no provision against that because we're not expecting losses and we have not been – no one has required us to put up specific collateral against that.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Mike Rizvanovic from Veritas Investment Research. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I just want to go back to the or your access to the fixed deposit channel. And so, correct me if my math is wrong, but you were sitting on CAD 13.9 billion of fixed deposit at the end of the quarter, which is March 31, and I believe your number is now roughly CAD 12.5 billion. Do I have that correct?

That would be directionally correct.

Okay. And then of the amount that's come out how much was cashable GICs, just ballpark?

Yeah. I'm just looking to Benjy for that. It's not a big number but...

Well, I believe about – I believe that the cash portfolio was down by about half. CAD 200 million that remains. It's about half of what it once was.

Okay. So, roughly CAD 400 million of what came off was cashable flow is out, that's what you're saying?

Correct.

Okay. So, then if I look at your maturity schedule it looks like, based on your zero to three months maturities on the fixed GICs you've got about CAD 900 million coming off on a monthly basis for the next three months. And then if I layer in the CAD 400 million like it doesn't seem to be that you have sort of any inflows at all just based on that very crude math. So, can you maybe just sort of elaborate on that like how much inflows are actually coming in today?

The inflows are small and the outflows are as you have suggested. We have inflows through mortgages maturing and not being renewed. So, we're managing that with the HOPP facility and with the arrangement we described with the commitments and maturities, which help us monetize on those maturities.

Okay. And then just maybe switching over to the asset side, this arrangement with the unnamed party now it's CAD 1 billion to CAD 1.5 billion, and it looks like they're taking on renewals predominantly. Now, how confident are you that you'll be able to get other parties to sign up under similar type arrangements and at what point are you concerned given that you've got CAD 700-plus million coming off every month up for renewal? How confident are you that you won't be faced with a situation where you maybe do have to take some different sort of actions such as a sale of a part of your uninsured mortgage portfolio?

Well, I can say that we have had discussions about other – expanding the CAD 1.5 billion. Other parties have indicated interest. We don't have anything firm that we can talk about today. And we do have in our – we have in our planning contingencies actions that we could take if we need to expand our liquidity in connection with what you just described.

Okay. Thanks very much. I'll just re-queue.

Our next question comes from Jordan Hymowitz from Philadelphia Financial. Please go ahead.

Thanks, guys. You guys have stated several times there's no asset quality issue here. And when I look at the press release, you had 1 basis points of net charge-offs versus 13 basis points for Fannie Mae here or 24 basis points of non-performing versus 112 basis points for Fannie Mae here. So, it just seems like your alternative mortgages in Canada are performing much better than our conforming mortgages here, correct?

Yeah, that would be correct.

Okay. So, if there's no asset quality problems, which you've repeatedly stated, you made CAD 65.5 million in the quarter or CAD 261 million annualized, right, which means [ph] your stocks are (51:14) under three times earnings. So, if there's no asset quality issue here, could, hypothetically, another bank, whether it's Canadian, which you're growing in many of these assets or [ph] U.S. come in, (51:25) will you place the liabilities with their lower cost and basically be buying a company at under three times earnings, which seems a lot cheaper than the 18 times CIBC bought for private bank?

I think, Alan...

True. All true and thank you for that. Clearly, we have a number of people that are interested in this. Clearly, in a steady-state situation, this company is vastly undervalued. And, yes, we do have a number of people who are interested in giving us financial support and the work, making a strategic investment or acquisition in the company.

I think – I don't want to say though that we're rushing in order to take that because I think some of the steps that we've taken are going to provide a bit of a floor. I mean, you know how it works as well as I do. Very difficult to buy something at [ph] CAD 25 when it's trading at CAD 10 (52:37). Your own stockholders aren't that keen on it. If we do the things that we think we can do here, then, first of all, I think the market is going to appreciate that and, secondly, it will widen the range of strategic alternatives we have. But, yeah, it's cheap in normal circumstances. When crisis of confidence happens, obviously, all bets are off until it's restored. Crisis confidence of evaporates very quickly and returns slowly. So, that's....

But your earnings power has not been impaired in any way as you're clearly...

The earnings power isn't impaired if anything. If you think about it now, the market price for GICs has gone up a bit. The market price for the loan product has gone up dramatically. So, in the absence of issues, if I had a bank, an RBC funding base, yeah, spreads would be pretty wide.

So, I know, you're going to kill me, but I'll ask one more. So, the average loan-to-value you disclosed is 60% in Ontario. So, why would somebody else not be interested in buying your alternative mortgages at 60% loan-to-value when they're in the market today buying alternative mortgages at [ph] 102, 103 (53:56) with an 80% loan-to-value because they're not seasoned at all? In other words, the appreciation in the Canadian market has got to make the mark-to-market of your assets more valuable than what someone could initiate in the market today.

I'm going to agree with that. If we have, and I think we do in the fullness of time to be able to do that. But asset sales here is not our first priority. You don't shrink your way to greatness. So, we've got to have enough time to be able to stabilize the right-hand side of the balance sheet here and give us the time actually not to sell because there's just no way you can shrink this company to [indiscernible] . (54:38)

Thank you.

And I'll now turn the call back to Ms. Bonita Then for closing remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you for joining us on today's call, and we look forward to updating you on our progress. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.