Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert Morton — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Dylan Steuart — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc. (Broker)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jordan Neil Hymowitz — Managing Principal, Philadelphia Financial Management of San Francisco LLC
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Brian Thomas Horey — President, Aurelian Management LLC
Edward Friedman — Analyst, McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Before the conference call begins, I would like to caution listeners that this presentation provides management with the opportunity to discuss the financial performance and condition of Home Capital Group, and as such, may contain forward-looking information about the strategies and expected financial results. Various factors, many difficult to predict and to control, could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. I would now like to turn the call over to Gerald Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning ladies and gentlemen and fellow shareholders. Welcome to Home Capital's first quarter 2016 conference Call. As most of you will know, this will be my last conference call as Chief Executive Officer, as I will be retiring after Home Capital's upcoming Annual Meeting on May 11. For that reason, I would like to thank all of you for your very kind support over the past 30 years.

I personally have enjoyed our quarterly conference calls, and having had the opportunity to talk to you about the company's progress on a quarter-by-quarter basis. That said, shareholders are in strong and capable hands with Martin Reid, our President, who will be taking over as CEO next week, after our Annual General Meeting. I have worked closely with Martin over the last nine years and we were closely on the transition since announcing my retirement in late February. Martin is ready to take over Home and I am ready to retire. So I think there is a good connection there and I'm sure it's going to move forward very smoothly. He is already pushing the company forward, building on our long-held strategic vision and making progress on some of our priorities, such as ensuring that we have the right people, always important, have the right people, and processes in place to manage our risk and drive our growth for the next decade.

I'm sure you're all looking forward to hear from Martin about his plans. So unlike past calls when I've done all the talking prior to the question period, I'll soon hand this call over to Martin so that he can discuss some key themes going forward.

This quarter shows that our efforts to deal with the issues of 2015 are bearing real fruits. Our total originations in quarter one 2016 were C$1.78 billion, an increase of almost 29% from the last year's C$1.38 billion in the first quarter of 2015.

In addition, going back another year, 2014 was the largest year ever for originations for Home. And in the first quarter of 2016, we not only exceeded the comparable period or comparable quarter in 2015 by 29%, but we also exceeded quarter one 2014 by 7%; a very good start to the year for [indiscernible] (04:12). We achieved this by redoubling our efforts on customer service, working hard with our trusted brokers and by innovating with new products and offerings. Many, many people here at Home Capital put a lot of effort into ensuring we got originations back on track and I'm very pleased to see these results. Some other highlights from the quarter.

Our adjusted return on equity was 16.4%. Our credit performance was extremely strong yet again, with net non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans at 0.34%, up 1% compared to 0.25% at the end of quarter one 2015. Included in the quarter one 2016, non-performing loans are non-residential and residential commercial loans that became non-performing during the quarter. The two loans that I've mentioned have very high collateral and we expect to be paid out in the next couple of quarters on both those loans. And in the absence of these loans, the non-performing loans would have been 0.29%, quite comparable to last year.

Since I've been asked this question which is somewhat related to arrears, I am going to state categorically, Home Trust has no exposure to Urban Corporation, a condo builder with over 20 active condo projects in the Metropolitan Toronto area and that Urbancorp has recently been in the media as having financial difficulties. But again I say, we have no exposure whatsoever to Urbancorp.

We continue to observe strong credit profiles and stable loan-to-value ratios across the portfolio, which continues to support low delinquency, low non-performing rates, and ultimately the key low net write-offs. In fact, net write-offs were C$1.6 million in the quarter, representing 0.04% of gross loans in the quarter and that number is consistent with quarter one 2015. And our balance sheet is very solid as always, with our common equity Tier 1 capital standing at 18.28% and our total capital ratio at 20.63%.

There are a few things of note, as you look at the earnings number in particular, that I'd like to point out. And although diluted earnings per share was C$0.92, there was another $0.11 in expenses, which we believe are not reflective of ongoing operations and we don't expect these expenses, which I'm going itemize now, to be inductive of the company's ongoing cost base; they are as follows. 5% after-tax related to severance and other related costs. To be clear and to answer a question that was asked, none of these expenses relate to myself or my retirement, zero. These are all other individuals and other related expenses. C$0.02 from the continuing operation of CFF Bank. The integration of CFF Bank is going according to plan, but we are still running some systems side-by-side and that's adding costs. We expect to decommission all redundant systems, which will reduce the connected costs by the end of the year. There was an additional C$0.04 for derivative losses relating to the senior debt. We didn't adjust for it, but I should note that we don't expect to see this issue again with the exception of a small amount booked at the beginning of the second quarter. And the amount that was booked was approximately C$0.01.

These amounts were offset by a C$0.01 favorable adjustment to the gain recognized on acquisition of CFF Bank. So, although we wrote off C$0.11, we picked C$0.01, and that, to normalize the earnings, it's about $0.10 over the $0.92. So, the way we look at the business, our ongoing operating earnings would have been C$1.02 excluding these items, and we look at that as the base on a going forward basis.

Finally, our strong capital position allowed us to do some things that will support earnings per share and shareholder returns as we look further out. After the quarter ended, we closed our C$150 million share buyback, which was oversubscribed allowing us to reduce the outstanding shares by 4 million – of almost 4 million or about 5.7% of our outstanding shares.

The company also intends to utilize its normal course issuer bid to purchase additional shares when appropriate going forward. In addition, we're delighted to say that yesterday, we retired a C$150 million of senior debt, which will save us C$1.8 million per quarter in interest expense, and we were able to do without raising any additional debt that came out of our large capital reserves.

This is a good place to also reiterate that Home Capital expects to meet all of its three- to five-year mid-range targets. That is a reflection of the strength and resilience of our overall business and our diverse sources of growth.

I'd now like to turn the meeting or the call over to Martin. Martin?

Thank you very much, Gerry. I'd just like to clarify Gerry's comments with regard to non-performing. There are two types of loans in that group; there is non-res and residential commercial. And in total, there are fewer than 10 loans, and the related non-performing totaled C$9.3 million. They're very well collateralized with very, very low loan to values and we don't anticipate any losses from those.

Okay. Thank you, Martin [indiscernible] (12:14) retire.

Yeah.

I certainly [indiscernible] (12:16) up on that one.

And I'd like to come back and talk a little bit about originations. As you know, we've spend a good part of 2015 and 2016 rebuilding our originations pipeline, changing processes, improving technology, and trying to rebuild existing relationships and adding new relationships. And as Jerry said, this quarter, we saw that paying off with total originations up 29%, our traditional uninsured single family residential originations up 11%, and accelerator originations more than doubling over the same period last year. But we're not stopping there, we're only partway through our rebuild process and we're very happy with the results. As Gerry mentioned, we don't look to 2015 as the year to be, but rather 2014 as the benchmark, the year when we had record originations, and the first quarter of 2016 surpassed the first quarter of 2014.

We believe we have some products and services that will continue to feed originations over the remainder of 2016 and beyond. And these would include Loft and Spire, two new technologies aimed at strengthening our relationships with our broker partners. Loft is our broker portal, which really makes us easier to deal with. For example, brokers can get timestamp documents, real-time updates on the status of deals and the attributes of those deals. And we've completed a pilot with one brokerage house and started to rollout to another, and we'll continue to rollout Loft and should have it substantially rolled out by the end of the summer to all of our broker partners. And so far, the feedback has been excellent regarding the functionality and the ability of brokers to manage their business.

The second new technology Spire is our broker royalty program, and we launched this on April 1, 2016, to all of our broker partners. And this is designed to reward brokers, who bring us business, but it's much more than that, it rewards brokers for bring us the right kind of business, deals that match our risk appetite, high-quality deals that we're very comfortable with.

We've also talked about the fact that regulation is creating a whole new class of customers for us and these customers are very close to qualifying for a prime insured mortgage, but they just barely missed on one of the criteria. And for these borrowers, we had created a new product called Ace Plus. And this fits in between our traditional mortgage product and our Accelerator product, with the risk profile and rate to match, and we anticipate that originations of this product to be strong in the coming year.

As part of the transition in 2015, an area of weakness that we identified was in retention of customers looking for early renewal. This was part of why despite growth in originations, our portfolio shrinked. We've added resources to our retention team, with the focus on retaining these customers. With increased originations in retaining more of our existing clients, we should start to see the overall portfolio growing quite nicely. This is where our one-stop strategy also comes into play. Take for example, customer who came to us for a traditional mortgage, because they didn't have credit history. So few years on, they've been a good borrower, now they have that credit history, they now have a few more options with Home Capital. They're our prime borrower, we have our Accelerator product. If they aren't quite there yet, but have improved credit standing, we have our Ace Plus product. So we want to really showcase these options to our customers and ensure they know that they can continue to deal with us regardless of their credit situation.

Of course, the other thing that really effects our growth is the housing market, and we expect that supply and demand in Home's key established real estate markets will remain relatively balanced in 2016, with stable prices and sales volumes. On a national basis, it's really the tale of two cities with Toronto and Vancouver showing what we would characterize as unsustainable strength. That doesn't mean these markets come off, but we don't see the high single-digit or double-digit price increases in the long-term.

Other parts of the country are exhibiting more normal price and sales activity, with Alberta showing some anticipated signs of weakness. I would add however that we do not see a major crisis in the Alberta market. Overall, we see a healthy market. I would stress here that we're going to be prudent as we grow our traditional business. We don't want to go beyond our risk appetite or compromise the quality of the business we're bringing in. It's disciplined around risk management that has made this company successful for close to 30 years and helped us deliver the kind of credit performance that Gerry spoke of earlier.

Outside of the mortgage business, we continue to see opportunities in credit cards, in commercial lending, as well as retail lending. However, once again, I'd stress that we're going to be prudent and mindful of the risk in these products and originations in these products was quite strong in the quarter. As many of you know, a big priority for me is ensuring that we have the skills and tools to manage the risk. We are Canada's largest alternative lender and deposit-taking institution, and we need people and infrastructure to support that. There are some expenses that come with that, which puts upward pressure on our non-interest expenses, which was elevated in this quarter. We continue to balance expenses with cost management and efficiency programs and we expect non-interest expenses to continue to be elevated through most of 2016.

We are focused on expense containment and reduction, and we'll push to ensure that long-term, the efficiencies from our technology spend are realized. 2015 and early 2016 saw increased expenses related to building a stronger organization for the future. However, we firmly believe investing in risk management and other areas to support our business is the right path forward to ensure risks are managed effectively and stay well within our risk appetite.

Net interest margins narrowed during the quarter due to a number of factors. It was increased liquidity being carried toward the latter part of the quarter for the payment of our substantial issuer bid as well as the maturity of our debenture, a C$150 million debenture on May 4. We have also seen a run off of older higher margin business and new business, and particularly, the Ace Plus type business coming on at lower margins, but a much, much higher credit quality.

On an overall basis, there has also been a slight change in the mix with an increased proportion of lower margin insured business. If there's one thing that stood Home Capital in good stead for almost 30 years, it's that we think about the long-term, and I'm going to ensure that we continue to do that.

I'd now like to ask the operator to open the line for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Dylan Steuart with Industrial Alliance Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Dylan.

Quick question on the commercial mortgages that you identified that just went non-performing thus far, C$9 million. I know you talked about low loan to value. Can you give us a rough estimate on what the average loan to value is on those properties?

We're just confirming to make sure I don't give you the wrong answer here.

Yeah, Dylan. It's Rob Morton here. And they actually range, they go from the low 30%, up wouldn't be higher than the high-60%s, but average in around – in around 60%.

And a couple of them have been sold. It's a matter of waving for closing. We've examined them all carefully. There's sort of individual circumstances related to them. There is – I would be very quick to tell you if there is anything that I was concerned about. They're not concerned of their individual situations and I think that will all work out fine.

Okay, perfect. And just on the increased expense line, we saw this for – I guess, sort of clarify that. We expect – you expect increased expenses throughout 2016, is that more increased spend due to the new broker initiatives that you guys have rolled out, and risk management, I guess?

Martin will answer.

Yeah, there is a number of things at work, some of it relate to technology, the – money being spent on the broker side of it, the higher compensation structure, but over time, as we start to pick up the efficiencies, and particularly, that relate to the technology spend, we should see that start to moderate.

Okay. And just on the Ace Plus product, is that currently rolling up into the traditional bucket as far as your disclosures right now?

Yeah, that's correct. We will be looking next quarter to split that out. The volume was not sufficient this quarter to really split it out. But we'll start to split that out in terms of originations as well as and the – and the margins.

Okay, perfect. And then just one final question. Just given the price increases that we've seen in GTA and Vancouver. Are you finding it a bit more difficult with your traditional product? Are people [indiscernible] (22:00) market a little bit in the areas that you guys have historically focused on, or still seeing solid demand [indiscernible] (22:07)?

No. Rates are still low, and you know whether they need it for their business or refinance or they're buying a house, people are still affording reluctantly, they can afford the houses, they're paying for the mortgages. And we haven't really seen any difference in credit quality. If anything we've, the credit quality, sort of uptick year-over-year, when we do all the analysis. As funny as it sounds, people are basically coming with larger downpayments and better beacon scores.

Okay. Thanks, Dylan. Now onto the next one.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Geoff. How are you out in BC?

Things are going pretty well. So...

We read a lot about your housing markets.

It's a little pricy.

Yes, okay.

My first question, just maybe tagging on to the question around the expenses, I just was wondering if you could give a sense of how you guys are looking at it? Obviously, you've got elevated this year. But kind of thinking going forward, how much of it is from a personnel standpoint? I mean do you feel you've got the people in the right places. Are there certain parts of the organization where you need to kind of increase? And also maybe [indiscernible] (23:29), just given, it seems a lot of companies in this sector are having to spend more on compliance regulatory even stuff like cyber risk, that sort of thing?

Well, first of all, the last of what you said, everyone spending more on risk and technology safeguards, absolutely so. But let me give you from – I'll answer the first part of it and then pass it on to Martin.

What we clearly have done is, as a company and a board, we have said we see quite a nice path in all the things we're doing going forward, like we are – we may be the largest non-prime lender in the country. We see a lot of opportunities. We're getting opportunities. And what we decided that we had to do is to build out the control group before we added a lot of volume. So, we have really a very first class risk compliance, internal audit, all of those have been built out with experienced people making whatever changes we needed, added staff and that's expensive. It doesn't come with nothing. But you can't take on major growth without all your control groups and credit that gets added in there without going forward.

So, I think Martin gave you a pretty good guidance and I'm going to turn it back to him when he talked about it. It's not going to disappear. It's not going to be like if it was five years ago. There is no regulated company in the country that's operating with the same levels of internal audit, risk, compliance, credit. They can operate as they did five years ago or they're not in business. And I'm just telling you, that will be just one of the facts of life that we will see cost, but it's up to us and it's up to the next generation of management here in Home, to figure out how to use technology to overcome that. And I've given you a broad question, but Martin will continue with the second answer to that.

Yeah. Hi, Geoff. Gerry said there has been a lot of money spent on the control functions. And a lot of that will level off a little bit as scale continues to sort of grow, we won't be increasing the spend on that side of things as much as we have. Where the long-term reduction and expenses will come as it – we're in a bit of a transition, and that we're spending money on technology, but not yet getting the benefit out of that technology. So you typically have a little bit more head count then you otherwise would, until you sort of transition with that technology. So I would say the headcounts that we've got today will do this for a long-term growth for a while, as we get the benefits of that technology and the efficiencies out of that. There's a major effort within the organization to really sort of digitize this business. We do a lot of paper, a lot of things that have been done manually, and it's really sort of digitizing that. But the benefits of that are really going to start toward the end of 2016, but the spend is happening now.

Okay. Thanks. And just the other question I had is, with your new, the broker portal, the loyalty program as well as the marketing materials service, other players in the broker channel have typically one or more of these things that you've got now. Just wanted to understand from your perspective, where you think – where you have something different in terms of the value propositions of brokers to be able to drag more business?

Okay. Just let Pino answer this.

Hi, Geoff. Yeah. So that's a great point. There's on all fronts, whether it be the portal, the marketing material or the partnership programs. There's versions of each in the marketplace. What we did was, we obviously created something that fits for home and fits for our broker partners. So, I'll touch on the portal first. That one really redefines broker portals in the industry from the standpoint that literally we do not cut-off the view of a broker at any point in the cycle.

So, there is different versions of it currently in the marketplace, you're correct, however, ours is literally end-to-end. So, throughout the entire originations process of a mortgage, a broker can see exactly, as Martin mentioned, what the status is of their new application, of their pending mortgage, outstanding commitments, all the way through to funding. And so that's sort of makes us different from anything else in the marketplace.

From the standpoint of our partnership program, again, this one really has three aspects to it and that is compensating brokers on new applications. That compensation is based on the partnership they have with us, through volumes, through quality, through behavior. And then, aggregating those numbers into an annual amount and that should constitute any volume bonus that is being paid to brokers. And then, it also gives us the opportunity to monitor brokers on an annual basis and report accordingly.

So, if there's things that they need to be looking at in their business and their marketplace, we can share with them that Intel and they find that very, very informative.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Graham Ryding with TD Securities. Your line is now open.

Just wondering on the net interest margin side, are you seeing any higher competition on the pricing side of your business or what are the factors that [indiscernible] (29:35) driving the lower average rate that you saw, and particularly on the non-securitized book?

Okay. I'll start off, Graham, Gerry Soloway here. As – the mortgage market remains quite competitive, especially at the high credit quality end of the business. There has been a little tightening of spreads, but we've also been able to do acquisition funds that were a little more reasonable. We found that our – the funds that we raise directly are cheaper on the whole than what we raise through the broker portal.

We're continuing to work on that, in the new CFF Bank, we will re-launch renewed direct-to-consumer programs of that over the rest of the year. But – and we now collect – about 30% of our deposits come direct from – directly not through the broker network, all of which is very good. But I don't see any – I don't foresee a big widening, but I think we can maintain this and probably increase it a bit, we have to keep a bit of extra liquidity, because there was really three things that have come together fairly quickly; the C$150 million for the buyback of our stock, the C$150 million to pay off some debt programs, that's C$300 million, and there were something like a C$175 million in term notes that we have decided not to renew. We're able to raise money cheaper on the sort of through the deposit network and other services.

We haven't given up the commercial term notes, were very good, they were wonderful when we needed them. They did come [indiscernible] (31:40) a little less than what we could raise. And there'll be one of the tools in our tool box when we – but it's not like depositors who you write a check to C$50 million and a C$100 million, this was something where you have to be ready to write a check for C$175 million. And we're still at a size you kind of stockpile the money up, it's like for us to have C$475 million besides normal funding go out in a month or so. We probably had a little higher liquidity, for the money was in very short-term, where you earn next to nothing. But I think we can balance off the balances we have. And I think the spread should creep up a little bit. And I don't see it running away with itself. Is there anything?

Yeah. You know in the prime insurance space, it's definitely very competitive. Margins are a little bit lower there. As Gerry mentioned, on the better quality part of our traditional business, it is a little bit more competitive there and margins have tightened in a little bit. But as Gerry mentioned, I think we should be able to sustain or may be improve them over time.

Okay.

That's helpful. Jumping just on the credit side, your [indiscernible] (32:54) loans, they did tick up. I appreciate it's from this commercial, largely these commercial loans. I'm just wondering – your allowance for credit losses and your PCLs in the quarter were quite low. I'm just wondering if you could sort of walk us through how you got there.

We'll turn to our Chief Financial Officer.

Sure. Thanks, Graham. So, I mean, it's really based on two things. And so we have specific allowances, and those are actually impairments identified on the loan-by-loan basis in accordance with our judgment of the credit worthiness of those borrowers. So, that's one component. And then the other is the collective allowance. And that's really established to cover estimated credit losses that are in our loan portfolio, but haven't actually been specifically identified as impaired. And to be able to do that, we actually have to take our historical experience and apply that to our loan portfolio. And because our actual experience is so low, that that's what drives that, we're not allowed to actually look and set provisions based on what we might see going forward. So, it's really based on that.

That's going to change in 2017 when IFRS 9 comes in, but right now that's how we set our provisions. So, should we see changes, say, and actually what's becoming our loss history, then our provisions would change to reflect that.

But we really don't see any problems. And I think you'll see it's not a dramatic increase and based on historic numbers, if you go back a few years. So, we made full and complete disclosure about it. I mean you've got it all there. But I don't think it's anything to worry about it.

No, and Graham, I should add, because I've got IFRS 9 on the brain. We're running parallel in 2017, it actually comes into play in 2018.

Okay, okay. And Graham, it's Martin here. Just to add, there were a couple of the loans that we talked about earlier, where because the loan-to-value was so low, there was no provision set up for it.

Yeah. And sorry, just to be clear, did you say there was 10 commercial loans that were part of that C$9.3 million or what was the number there?

Yeah. There were 10 loans that were part of the C$9.3 million. There were couple of them that were quite large, but with very low loan-to-value, where there was no provision set up for.

Great. And then just lastly if I could, on the – you talked about improving your retention and adding to your retention team, can you just give me a bit of context around what exactly you are looking to improve on the retention side and – or how you're looking to improve it?

Sure. I'll start off and have Pino jump in. So, this is not your normal renewal. We have a team that's focused on the normal renewal. These are people that – you'd get a request for a mortgage statements, and it could come in from the call center, it could come in a number of different ways. And sometimes, it's just for information purposes they're looking for, sometimes it's because they're looking at refinancing something else.

So, typically, what we would do there is we'd have a team focused on that, in calling those people back and finding out whether they are looking at moving their mortgage, and if they are, trying to either match or beat the rate that they're getting and keep them. So, we added resources to that. I'll let Pino add any color to that.

Yeah, definitely added the resources. And I think the key too is the resources that we've allocated, are going to be our more experienced underwriters or originators. So, individuals that, you know, as Martin said, as these customers do call in looking for either mortgage statements or discharge request of their mortgages. Obviously, we know they're shopping somewhere else or they're looking to refinance somewhere else, we'll be able to walk through with them, sort of what they're looking for, find other opportunities, other products and ways to keep them here at Home. So, that's the first strategy.

The second is actually built within our Spire partnership program. And really, as we onboard brokers onto the program, it's not only about what they're giving us on a monthly basis in new originations. There is a component built with Spire, which rewards brokers for keeping clients here long-term. So that renewal or retention component is actually built into that program as well.

Thank you. You're paying, going forward, you're paying some broker commissions for renewals?

Yes.

Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Graham.

Your next question comes from Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial. Your line is now open.

Hey, guys.

Good morning, Jordan.

Good morning, guys. First of all, Gerry, thanks a lot for doing a great job. I mean even they're long time, it really has been a wonderful job. We're...

Thank you.

...very proud of yourself. First of all, can you call out in the quarter, how much expenses won't be there next year that are kind of transition costs or increased regulatory cost in dollars?

Well, I think I – we clearly spelled out, we think that there is the C$0.11 that we don't expect to see there. But I'll turn it over to Martin, because he's the one that you're going to ask – whatever answer he gives, you're going to ask him next year why did it or did not happen. So I'm going – Jordan, I'm going to turn it over to Martin Reid.

Yeah, Jordan, beyond the C$0.11 that Gerry talked about, it's a little bit difficult. So there are efficiencies there that, you know, until we start to realize them, it's going to be hard to quantify. What we don't see is that the expenses should be increasing at a faster rate. So the increase in expenses that we've seen through the end of 2014, 2015 into 2016, that pace should start to slow down, as we start to scale up the business, we should start to get efficiencies out of that.

Okay, so let me just.

Yeah, go ahead. [indiscernible]

(39:18) there is no any additional. So it's C$0.02 in the quarter. With CFF lost C$2 million, I assume the players not to have that loose money, right?

Correct, yeah.

So, they could even – that's another C$0.02. You called out the debt, that's another C$0.02 a quarter. And you bought back 6% of the flow in the quarter right now. So, if you annualize just those three numbers, you're on a C$4.50 million run rate of earnings. You follow that logic for a minute?

Yeah, yeah. I'm with you.

We worked that out just like you have.

So, it's C$1.02 plus C$0.02, plus C$0.02, plus 6% last year's times four. So, you get the C$4.49. [ph]

Right. (40:01)

And then you've historically said that a double-digit growth rate is not unreasonable, unless you say it's 10. That would be a C$5 number for 2017. Is that an impossible number? I mean I know you don't give guidance, but I mean when I use that number, it doesn't seem impossible to me?

I would say that's a fair assumption.

And then if you use that assumption, you do book value, your book value will be about C$30 at the end of next year, which means you're basically trading intangible book at this point for next year for a company making upper-teens return on equity...

Yeah.

Seems like a great shot to me.

Yeah. I can't argue with your logic.

Got it. Thanks for your help [indiscernible] (40:55). In the 20 years I have known you, I mean you've done a phenomenal job and really should be quite proud.

Well, that's very kind, Jordan. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jordan.

Your next question comes from a private investor. Rick Durst, your line is now open.

Hello, Rick. Good morning.

Hello. Good morning to you. Before I ask my question, I just wanted to say, thanks very much for making me look like a smart investor all these years. And I wish you...

You're very kind that, you know, and it's investors like you who worked with us all this time and stayed in touch with the company, we very much appreciate that and we appreciate the fact that the company has done well for the staff, and it's done well for the shareholders, and it's not just any small group, everyone is really participated in the growth and the increase in the stock price. So thank you for that, Rick.

Okay. And you're very humble. And, quick question though, it appears that the Dutch auction was very, very expensive. You had printing cost, mailing cost, opinions, fairness opinions. What was the rational, as opposed to just doing a normal course bid?

Well, there's a lot of restrictions on how you can do the normal course. There's a lot of Toronto Stock Exchange. There's the – you can't buy in the last hour of the day. You can't buy more than the certain percentage. You can't go over the last price likely, that there's its – and I don't – I'm not critical, this is properly, when a company is buying back stock, it's usually incidental purchases and not as the big stroke. We felt that there was some surplus capital. We thought the price that we set was a fair price complied with all the legal and regulatory price. And we were quite pleased. We think the price was good for the company. It was good for those who wanted the tender. The fact that some of the stocks have taken a little – the financial stocks were beaten up a little bit, because of the fear of losses in Alberta and the oil companies. So, the stocks – we'll see where we are after – we'll look at this a year out.

Yeah.

Martin has a comment.

Yeah, Rick, if I can just add it. It's not a – it wasn't an either or decision. So it's not to say that we won't be involved in the normal course issuer bid in addition to the SIB. And I think as we talked about last quarter, there's a much stronger focus on utilization of capital and I wouldn't be surprised to see us a lot more active in the normal course issuer bid process, when it's opportunistic.

Okay. Well, thank you. And I understand better. So thank you for answering the question and thanks again Gerry.

Okay. Thanks, Rick. Thank you very much.

Okay.

And your next question comes from Stephen Boland with GMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Good morning, Steve.

Good morning. Can you just talk about the run off on the mortgages with the cut-off brokers? Are you still on track to get that completed by the end of 2016? Because the number really didn't come down that much from Q1 to Q4 or Q4 to Q1, if you could just update us on that please.

So Steve, when you talk about the number, are you talking about the total of the portfolio?

Yeah. The total portfolio. I mean, I think it's [ph] 1.4 (44:48). So it means you're kind of C$400 million to C$500 million of mortgages have to run off by or be verified I guess in the next three quarters.

No, no, no. So of the portfolio, we're about 75% through that validation process. So, that number could stay flat, but it's getting through that and what we're finding is that, off that portfolio, less than 10%, we would not be willing to renew. So, that portfolio, that total number that you see, should not run down to zero.

Yeah. Oh I see, okay. So...

Yeah..

There is mortgages from those kind of brokers that you're renewing and that's why the portfolio would stay where it is?

Exactly, yeah. So, as we go through and go through the validation process and that's why Gerry has talked about the more than 90% of it, we would renew.

Okay. And maybe if I can just go back to follow-up on Graham's question on credit a little bit, I mean we saw National this morning put out a sectoral provision, [indiscernible] (46:02). Certainly I know, you're not [indiscernible] (46:05) but I mean, when people look at your Alberta exposure [indiscernible] (46:10) its lot of it is certainly loan-to-value, there is stuff that's insured.

I mean how is it that you cannot put a sectoral provision out there? I mean you mentioned some of the rules, but certainly it seems like other lenders maybe doing something different.

Yeah. So, it's Rob, Steven. It's not acceptable under accounting standards to provide for possible or future losses inherent in our portfolio. So, I think some of these sectoral laws have just come out. So, I'm going to have to look at that a little closer. But again, we're not seeing it right now and our exposure in Alberta isn't that large. So, I think we'll have to revert and get back on that.

Yeah. They may be seeing something in their data that gives them the support to do that. We're not seeing anything in our portfolio at this point in time that would give us a support to do that.

Okay.

And we're a much smaller player in Alberta than lot of those players.

And our investments are different. I mean, they're investing in businesses as opposed to what we're investing in. So, but it's definitely something we're keeping an eye on.

Can you just talk on those 10 loans that went non-performing? Were they Ontario-based or were they Alberta-based sort of what's those based?

It's almost all Ontario-based, and in the GTA.

Okay. That's great.

And as I mentioned, a chunk of it is very, very low loan to value. I think roughly a little more than half of it has got a loan to value around 35%.

Okay. That's great, Martin thanks.

Yeah. Yep. Thanks.

Thanks. Thanks, Stephen.

Our last final question comes from Brian Horey with Aurelian Management. Your line is now open.

Thanks for taking the question.

Good morning, Brian.

Good morning. I was wondering if you could just give us some detail on the severance charge. How many people were involved, I mean, what part of the bank was that severance activity focused on?

I'm just looking to Rob for the...

Yeah.

There is approximately 10 people involved.

Yeah. It's a little bit less than 10 people involved in that. And there were a number of things around it. And some of this is part of transition with Gerry and I, and sort of realigning the organization to, again, not anticipated to occur in the future.

Okay. It's – and was there any one part of the organization that was more impacted by that?

No.

No, no. Let me put it this way, which I've sort of chatted with the people involved in it. As the company grows and you go year by year, there's sometimes there's need to changes, somebody who can operate very well in a 100% company. The time goes by. They're going to be retiring closely, so shortly anyway. But the ability to fit into an either 900 person company and with their skill base, it doesn't work so well. And there is some individuals, who we needed a one point, but their skills are really not that transferable to when we're a much bigger company under a different regulatory regime, different product mix. And so they were some situations that Martin is going to be running at. Martin is going to have a team that sort of shares his outlook. And it was the times to kind of say, okay, let's try to get a team that we work closely with him. And it was pretty small considering the 900-odd people that we have on the payroll. But we think that the changes we made were really set us up for the – for going forward.

Okay. And then just to follow-up. I noticed that the preferred securities marking the OCI account had increased again in the quarter. And, you know, given that it's now approaching C$1.50 a share, I wondered if you could give us a more transparency on what's your net, what's your net bucket of holdings and what's generating the marks?

Yeah, it's almost entirely made up of preferred shares, you know which is a heavily retail market, maybe, you know, one of the more efficient markets, strong yields, theirs is no credit issues. You know, particularly on an after-tax basis, you know very healthy returns.

But you can't give us any more transparency and who the issuers are for the...

Oh, yeah it largely financials.

Their predominately A to AAA, almost very little in the BBB+ category.

Yeah. And just they're not all financials, there's also some resource-based [indiscernible] (51:20).

No, they're are all good – they just went down in value. There's nothing wrong with the price.

What fraction would be resource based?

I don't know, off the top of my head.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Your next question comes from Edward Friedman with McLean & Partners. Your line is now open.

Thank you for taking my call, hello.

Hello, Edward.

Hi. I have a few questions about -, one is about derivative losses. Can you explain what is – like, what did you do there that caused these losses, because these losses have been going up for two quarters? So there's something related to senior debt, if you can give a little bit more color that would be nice.

Sure.

Rob Morton, our CFO will answer.

Hi there, Edward. So the accounting for this derivative not the senior debt, calls for the charge. And as you pointed out, this amount isn't much different than we've taken in the prior quarter. And really why we highlighted it this quarter is, because it's done being amortized and Gerry mentioned that as of yesterday, and it will be about C$1.5 million charge in the second quarter. And we really wanted to point it out so you would realize that it's not something that's going to go forward. The good news I think is that we have C$1.8 million [indiscernible] (52:47) quarter in interest expense going forward.

Okay.

Okay. Thanks. Go ahead, Edward.

And the last question is about the net interest margin, so I understand that you are doing this A+ mortgages, but the decline in the average rate that you had on the traditional single-family residential mortgage dropped from C$495 million to C$483 million. [indiscernible] (53:13) not that, not very big. Yet, the decline in the rate is fairly substantially, it's like 12 basis points. I was wondering what is the margin that's implied in these A+ compared to your traditional mortgages, and how much did you actually issue this quarter in order to yield such a decline in the average rate?

Pino.

Yeah, Edward, it's Pino. So there's a couple of things there. First, generally speaking, in our traditional mortgage portfolio, credit quality that we're seeing following the two years ago when the B20 changes occurred across Canada, the credit quality of these borrowers has become so much better. We see it month after month consistently beacon score is increasing, average beacon score is increasing, average loan volume is decreasing.

So with those two metrics, essentially you really – customers in general in our traditional book has more opportunities, have more choices out there, so you really have to be sharper with your offering. So that in itself has caused, obviously, the average rate to go down. The Ace Plus product in itself is gaining a lot of traction. Again, this is a space that's new to us, really created in the past two years, as I said, with the change in the lending rules. But again, these customers are the closest to prime mortgages that we've ever seen in 12 years I've been here and probably 25 years plus we've been in business. So it really forced us to create this new product. I think it's going to serve us very well. These customers should graduate into the prime space at a much more rapid rate than our traditional book. So, it's important that we segmented and we offer products accordingly.

If I may just follow-up on...

Okay.

... If I may just follow-up on this, like, one of reason – like [indiscernible] (55:13), which is people that – I don't know [indiscernible] (55:19) people that cannot get the banks – sorry, get the mortgage from a bank, and you were the main lender for them, and therefore you are able to charge some more, and you were able to sort of offset the risk by requiring high downpayments. Is it possible that that market is shrinking and therefore you had to go to these venues?

No, if anything the market is expanding, although, there are some parts of the market today that, five years ago, we would have been able to do that we can't do today, because of regulatory changes. But as Pino pointed out, there's also a better quality borrower coming into our space. But on that better quality borrower, there are more choices, and hence that's really why the margins are a little bit lower in that borrower.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks a lot. You're welcome.

Okay. And the last question, go ahead, Jaeme.

Jaeme Gloyn with National Bank Financial. Your line is now open.

Hi, can you guys hear me.

Yeah, sure. Hi, Jaeme.

Okay, great. So just one quick one. The originations of the traditional mortgage, very solid up 11% year-over-year, in line with the 2014 pace. I just have a question, and forgive me if you talked about this already, but the decline in the average balance of traditional and the higher amortization rate or runoff rate of non-securitized mortgages, can you give me a little bit of color on what the breakdown on that is, whether it's prepayment for lack of renewals? Is there any color to provide on that?

Well, the only color I can give you from the top is that we have to recognize that over a couple of years now, it's not just something that happened yesterday. We have been moving up the credit scale and been booking and been underwriting a better and better customer. And I think the transition is that we had to be a little more vigilant on our renewal process and be aware that these are people that qualified either for a more prime rate or a better rate or they could move on to a bank, and what we have been trying to do is, is recognize that and make sure when they are ready to graduate, even though the mortgage isn't renewed or it's on renewal, we got to be sensitive to give them a pricing and product that would suit them. And go ahead, Martin.

Yes. We – so I touched on in my opening remarks and we touched on a little bit and Pino talked about it, so part of the issue there was retention. So, as we've gone through the transformations sort of through 2015 into the early part of 2016, one of the things that we were a little bit weaker on was on the retention. And this is not on renewals, but on people who are looking for an early refinance, where they would often sort of call in for a mortgage statement and that would be sort of the first sign that they are looking at moving. And so what we have done is beefed up the resources around that [indiscernible] (58:27) to go after that customer and keep that customer, match the rate whatever it is. So, that wasn't happening through the end of 2015 and early part of 2016. But we have beefed up the resources to get that. So, as originations come on stream and we start taking it up to the back end, you should see a lot more growth out of the portfolio overall.

Okay. Thanks.

Okay. Thanks Jaeme. So that wraps up the questions. And what I'd – in concluding the remarks, what I'd like to say is that, there is always a lot of questions that people ask, it's about the shorts, the shorts are part of the marketplace. We know they're there. We don't put a lot of time and energy into dealing with what often is false comments by the shorts. They have their economic interest. We honestly believe that the best way to deal with the shorts is make profits, increase dividends, keep growing, that's the best way. But I can't end the call without a little ditty that someone passed on to me of how people in the 19th century dealt with shorts and that little ditty goes something like this, he who sells, what isn't his'n, must buy it back or go to prison.

So with that, I say, thank you. Bye-bye and see you at the Annual Meeting next week.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.