Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jill MacRae — Director-Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Benjy Katchen — Executive Vice President & Chief Digital and Strategy Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Nik Priebe — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Cihan Tuncay — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Brenna Phelan — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jaeme Gloyn — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Amy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group, Inc. Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Jill MacRae, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Amy. Good morning, everybody, and thank you for joining us today. We'll begin the call with remarks from Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer, followed by a review of our financials by Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. After the presentation, we'll have a question-and-answer session for analysts and investors. With us on the call to answer your questions are Ed Karthaus, EVP of Sales and Marketing, Mike Forshee, EVP of Underwriting, David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer. Benjy Katchen, Chief Digital and Strategy Officer, and Victor DiRisio, Chief Information Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call may provide management the opportunity to discuss financial performance and conditions of Home Capital, and such comments may contain forward-looking statements about strategies and expected financial results. Various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks.

Finally, a link to the slides accompanying this live webcast is available on our website at homecapital.com.

I'd like to turn it over to Yousry Bissada.

Thank you, Jill. Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2019 conference call. This morning I'm pleased to speak with you about our positive Q2 results. I'll discuss the growth at Oaken and give you an update on the progress of our IT transformation program called IGNITE. Then Brad will review our financial performance in more detail.

We're pleased with our results because they're beginning to reflect the impact of some initiatives that we at Home Capital have been working very hard at for the past few quarters. Our focus on lending to the high-quality market segments we have targeted, primarily the business for self-borrower and the new Canadian, is producing good results. We delivered significant improvements in revenues and margins. Most notably, Home Capital delivered a 43% year-over-year increase in earnings per share compared with Q2 of 2018.

We achieved this by focusing on our strengths, by executing on our business plan, by concentrating on the markets we know best, by operating within our sustainable risk culture, and by strategically distributing some of our excess capital. As a result, we have created substantial value for shareholders both organically and by buying back our shares at a discount-to-book value through our normal course issuer bid.

Home Capital continues to be a partner of choice in alternative mortgage lending. Recently, we have seen the term alternative used to describe mortgage investment companies or MICs and private lenders that are not required to comply with B-20 regulations. When I refer to alternative lending, I'm referring to our target market of B-20-compliant mortgages and I use the term interchangeably with near prime.

Our single-family originations grew by more than 10% over the same period in 2018 with particular strength in our alternative mortgage segment. Our single-family mortgages in this alternative segment were nearly CAD 11 billion at the end of Q2, 12% higher than at the end of Q2 last year.

During this quarter, we saw some encouraging signs from the housing market. Sales activity is picking up with particular strength in the GTA. The latest data on economic growth, employment and interest rate expectations are consistent with our outlook for a stable and balanced real estate market for the rest of 2019.

Originations in our commercial business were on par with last year's volume. Following our quarter end, we welcome [ph] James Peltier (00:04:23) to Home Capital as SVP, Commercial Lending. [ph] James (00:04:27) comes to us with over 25 years of financial service experience with a concentration in commercial lending and risk management. Most recently, he was Vice President, [ph] Toronto Construction (00:04:37) and Real Estate with a large Canadian bank. We're excited to have him as a member of our team.

We're just enthusiastic about our progress on the deposit side as well as where we continue to be a partner of choice for our customers. Our Oaken channel deposits passed the CAD 3 billion mark in April, up 28% over June 2018. 89% of these deposits are in term GICs which indicates the confidence our customers have in the Oaken brand.

Having our customer deposits in term investments rather than in demand deposits gives us low liquidity risk and better ability to match our deposits with the term of our mortgage loans. In an environment with multiple competing investment options, our customers recognize the appeal of a guaranteed savings solution with a competitive rate as part of your financial plans.

Looking ahead, our plans for Oaken include a greater implementation of digital technology and continuous enhancement of the user experience. What will not change is our knowledgeable and helpful people delivering uncomplicated solutions. The personal relationship is something that digital technology will enhance rather than replace.

We are making steady progress with our IGNITE program which is the name we have given our multi-year technology investment initiative that will benefit our operations. Key accomplishments in the quarter include the delivery of the first phase and beginning of the second phase of our SAP implementation to ensure we have a solid digital infrastructure to scale; completing the transition to paperless underwriting and funding in our residential and small commercial loans. We are now able to move from accepting applications to funding the loan completely paperless, a strong indication of the opportunity for optimization and automation. Setting up robotic process automation infrastructure and implementing the first automation in production, reducing manual input and potential for error.

The first process to be automated was property tax administration. This is time-consuming manual process that requires a high degree of checking and verification. Additional automation rollouts are planned for the third quarter.

We're continuing migration of our data centers and data strategy to the cloud in partnership with Microsoft and IBM. This migration is about 30% complete. We expect it will be 100% done by year-end and the ultimate goal of having our entire banking system in the cloud. This will allow us flexible and scalable systems.

IGNITE is a program that will change the way we do our mortgage and deposit businesses and touch everyone in the organization along the way. I will continue to assure progress with you in future conference calls.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Brad to discuss our financial results.

Thank you, Yousry, and good morning, everyone. We will continue with the investor presentation beginning on slide 6. Home Capital's second quarter earnings were CAD 0.53 per share or CAD 0.58 per share after adjusting for items of note associated with implementing our IT roadmap. On an IFRS basis, our earnings grew 43% over the same period in 2018. And on an adjusted basis, they grew by 56%.

Slide 7 shows some of the drivers behind our growth and reported earnings. The two most significant drivers were an increase in net interest income compared to the second quarter of last year and a reduced number of shares from repurchases made in our substantial issuer bid completed in December of 2018 and our normal course issuer bid in 2019, offset by moderately higher expenses.

Slides 8 and 9 of the investor presentation show highlights of our second quarter performance on an IFRS basis and after adjusting for those items of note. We will not speak to each of these data points right now. These metrics are highlighted for ease of use and are discussed in more detail in the MD&A.

Slide 10 has a summary of the adjustments treated as items of note. We expect our financial reports to include adjustments for items of note connected to our IT roadmap implementation for the duration of the project expected to be staged over three years.

Moving to slide 11 on our single-family residential originations. We originated over CAD 1 billion of our traditional near-prime mortgage loans, an increase of 12.2% from a strong Q1 and 15.6% from the second quarter last year. We de-emphasized our prime accelerator product this quarter as yields in this market were not consistent with our margin objectives. Looking ahead, we believe we will have an effective funding solution to make Home Capital more competitive in that market segment.

Slide 12 shows the growth of our on-balance sheet loans, up by more than CAD 1 billion or 9% year-over-year. The latest data from the Bank of Canada shows that year-over-year residential mortgage loan growth was 3.1% in June of 2019. Clearly our loan growth at Home Capital was well above that of the overall market. Home's net interest margin rose from 1.91% in Q2 2018 to 2.09% in our most recent quarter as shown on slide 13.

Margins were higher in the quarter due to higher overall asset yields as a result of our disciplined risk-based pricing in all our market segments. Deposit costs were slightly higher in the quarter but are trending down and there was some benefit from asset mix.

We are also not sacrificing credit quality. Slide 14 shows high credit parameters of our loan portfolio. Our average Beacon score on new originations was 703 this quarter while the average Beacon score of our residential loan portfolio as a whole was 699. The average loan to value of our single-family residential mortgage book was 59% at the end of Q2.

Our net non-performing loans, on slide 15, are down slightly from Q1 to 0.47% of total loans outstanding. The decline from 0.49% is due to a decrease in non-performing commercial loans. All our loans are well provisioned and within our internal risk tolerance.

Our annualized net write-offs increased from 0.02% last quarter to 0.09% in Q2 as seen on slide 16 as a result of the write-off of one specific loan in our commercial portfolio. Annualized net write-offs in our residential portfolio were 0.02% for the quarter and 0.01% for the year-to-date. Annualized provisions were flat with Q1 at 0.15% of gross loans. Provisions in Q2 were due primarily to loan growth in the residential portfolio and a higher allowance estimate on Stage 2 commercial loans.

Our funding mix is on slide 17. As Yousry mentioned, our Oaken channel surpassed CAD 3 billion of customer deposits in the month of April, the majority of which are in fixed term GICs. Oaken deposits have grown to 28% from year ago levels, driven by growth in customers as well as growth in deposits per customer.

Please turn to slide 18 for a review of Home Capital's liquidity at the end of the quarter with liquid assets of CAD 1.32 billion, not including the CAD 500 million standby facility. In addition, you can see by our maturity schedule that our near-term deposit maturities are more than covered by maturing mortgages.

Slide 19 shows our capital and leverage ratios. As of June 30, 2019, our CET1 was 19.49%, up from 18.99% at the end of March reflecting our addition to capital through retained earnings, offset by growth in our risk-weighted assets. Our leverage ratio is up slightly from last quarter to 7.77%.

Slide 20 shows the progress of our NCIB. As of August 2, Home had repurchased nearly 3.5 million shares out of our approved purchase limit of 4.75 million shares at an average price of CAD 18.05 per share, an average 35% discount to our quarter end book value of CAD 27.80 per share. We intend to purchase remaining 1.25 million shares authorized under our NCIB during the remainder of 2019.

As we have said in the past, Home is committed to continue deploying our excess capital in a manner that creates sustainable value consistent with our long-term strategic objectives. The board and management regularly review all options for returning capital including payment of dividends, renewing our normal course issuer bid or completing another substantial issuer bid. At this point, our priority is completing the NCIB because we believe our own shares are an attractive investment.

I will now turn the call back to Yousry for concluding remarks.

Brad and I will invite institutional investors, analysts, and members of the investment community to join us at our upcoming Investor Day, which will take place this fall in conjunction with our third quarter reporting. The Investor Day will give Home Capital an opportunity to provide an update on our operations, discuss developments in our industry, and introduce some key members of our leadership team. Details and registration information will follow closer to the date. We hope to see many of you there.

And now, I'll turn it over to the operator to poll for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Nik Priebe with BMO Capital Markets. Nik, your line is open.

Okay. Thanks. Good morning. Just wanted to start with a question on the net interest margin in the quarter. It looks like it was a pretty good tailwind for the top line in this period. I was just wondering if you could help us sort of rank some of the factors that impacted net interest margin particularly on the non-securitized portfolio versus the prior quarter, whether higher prepayment income played a factor, lower funding cost, asset mix changes or whether there are any other one-time factors in the mix. Just some insight on the quarter-over-quarter change would be appreciated.

Yeah. Thanks, Nik. When you're thinking through our NIM, we did have some prepayment income, but it was lower than the previous quarter, so we're really looking at mostly rate increases that we're able to achieve through our pricing.

Okay. And I did take note that I think Home Trust's posted mortgage rates were just lowered in July. I was just wondering if you could provide a bit of color on what motivated the change, whether that's a response to a decline in funding costs and just what sort of competitive dynamics you're seeing in the alt space at the moment.

We didn't lower mortgage rates in July, Nik. You're thinking of deposit rates maybe, but our mortgage rates have stayed steady for some time now.

Okay. It was just the posted rates on the Home Trust webpage that I follow, but okay.

Oh. Okay. I'm going to guess, maybe you're looking at our A business, which is our Accelerator business. A very small part of our business. Alternative mortgage near-prime business, the rates have not changed for some time. But our A business may have changed, a very small part of our business and it's just to keep us in the game. And I think that's what you're probably looking at.

Got it. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. The other thing I wanted to ask, the stock's obviously performed exceptionally well this year. As we look beyond the current NCIB program and we think about future capital return to shareholders, does the fact that the stock is trading at a narrower discount to book value start to sort of influence the buyback versus dividend decision a little further out? Maybe it's a bit premature to discuss this here in August, but just wondering if I could get some preliminary thoughts on capital return beyond 2019.

Yeah, Nik, I think we will continue to prefer repurchases when the stock is trading at a discount, I think, is the easiest way to answer your question and most direct way.

Okay. Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

Your next question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo with CIBC. Marco, your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Marco.

My first question pertains to your commercial growth outlook. I noticed a 1% sequential decline in the book this quarter. I know there has been some changes in the leadership for that portfolio. So could you perhaps give some color as to your expectations for the remainder of the year? And perhaps comment on whether or not the decline in the book has to do with some of that change in leadership.

So we intend to grow our commercial book. It is above 10% or a little below 10% of our overall book. In the past, it had reached around 15%. So over the coming years, I think we would grow it again to meet that ratio. We have very good relationships with third-parties that we do commercial mortgages with, and [ph] James (00:18:50) is charged with going out and rebuilding and building those relationships to increase our volumes, and it'll be a good – an important part of our growth going forward.

Okay. Great. So just in terms of, I guess, the current pipeline for opportunities, do you see that as being robust?

Yes, it is and going to get more robust. I realize I didn't answer the first part of your question, 1% growth that we look at without leadership. We had very good people in the jobs running the business and they kept the machine running and now it's just time to go out and grow it.

All right. Great. And my next question is with respect to expenses. After adjusting for the items of note highlighted in the deck, your adjusted expense base came in at CAD 57.9 million. I believe you were targeting something closer to CAD 60 million a quarter through the rest of the year. Is that still a good target or are there incremental cost savings that you've been able to carve out?

Marco, when we discussed the CAD 60 million before, we had assumed that that would be the average over the course of the year. So we expect that those costs will increase in the next two quarters. Some of the spending that we had incurred was delayed on some of our other projects. So as we ramp those up – and these are separate projects from the IT roadmap, so they're not adjusted as an item of note. So we would expect to have the next two quarters at higher than CAD 60 million so that we would average CAD 60 million over the course of the remaining fiscal year.

All right, great. And if I could just sneak one last question in on the margin. Just based on the trajectory of GIC rates through the year, do you anticipate some further tailwinds for the margins – for the overall margin in the second half?

Yes.

All right. Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC. Geoff, your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Just wanted to get back on the return of capital, just how you're thinking about the ROE expansion over time because I think you talked about ideally getting to a mid-teen ROE? Can you just kind of refresh us on the timeframe that you think that that might be achievable? But also too is, roughly ballpark how much of that versus the current ROE comes from optimizing the capital base versus growing the earnings?

Thanks, Geoff. We estimate that we'll get to the mid-teens sometime in the next two to three years, and that's going to be a mix of capital return and profit expansion.

And are you able to kind of say ballpark like the mix between how much is the capital return versus earnings?

Well, if we're going to increase from [ph] 8 to 13 (00:22:12), it would be we're 2.5% and 2.5%.

Okay. So kind of about 50/50 then from optimized capital?

Yes. Sorry. Yes. 50/50 is a much better way of describing it. Thank you.

Okay. And just the other part and when thinking about that improvement in the earnings, it sounds like that the way you grew you talked about the business and the investments you're making is it's really more driven by the expense base growing at a slower rate than the revenues as opposed to some of the investments you're making. You might actually see at some point maybe a bit of a step down on an absolute basis of the expenses. Is that an accurate way to think about it?

What we're anticipating is as we implement phases of our IT roadmap and other technology innovations, our productivity would increase. So we would definitely see our revenue growing at a faster rate than expenses. There might be some incremental increases, but certainly we're focused on growing that top line through margin expansion and loan growth, and then being able to hold our expenses steady with only some smaller incremental increases.

Okay. And if I can sneak in one last question, is moving on to AIRB, is that – obviously you've got a lot of different products on the go right now, but is that something on the radar? And if so, like what might be the timeframe that you might try to go down that road?

Well, as you know, Geoff, our issue right now is not capital. It's capital deployment and how to more effectively do that. We would certainly look at AIRB as the appropriate point. There are some capital changes coming through from [indiscernible] (00:24:00) that would be effective I think in 2020, if not – 2022, sorry. So there are – we'll keep our eye on some of those changes to see whether the investment in moving to AIRB is if as and when it's appropriate.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Cihan Tuncay with GMP Securities. Cihan, your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, team. Just a couple of quick questions. First, could you talk to the split between – of the originations in the quarter? Could you talk to the split between new borrowers and renewals? I mean what was the share or order of magnitude?

We might have to get back to you on that one, Cihan.

Okay.

We're just looking and we're just trying to give you the answer, but we may have to get back to you.

Sure. Well, I can continue with a couple of more questions. Just quickly back to the NIM – the previous questions on the NIM. So, obviously, 2.09% is ahead of what you had discussed before in terms of your outlook more in the range of 2.0%. Do you think the 2.09% is a sustainable level for order of magnitude for the balance of the year?

Yes, we should. If present trends continue, that is a reasonable expectation.

Okay. And just on – going back to the capital levels, Brad, maybe if you can help me out here. So of the – at beginning of the year, there was the excess CAD 150 million at the parent company level that was not included at the Home Trust level CET1 ratio calculation. I know you've been paying up the NCIB with that excessive capital level. Just wondering how much of that is still left.

We had roughly greater than – roughly CAD 100 million, and we anticipate that depending on where the current share price is probably taking another CAD 30 million to buy the remaining shares under the NCIB.

Okay. Thank you. And then just one last quick question. You're talking about different ways to deploy your excess capital levels we saw in the quarter. You made a small investment in Lendified. Wondering what the relationship is with Lendified and if you could talk to your broader acquisition pipeline going forward when you think about how you deploy capital.

Yeah. So we took a convertible debenture. It was CAD 3 million, so it's not a material investment to us, but in terms of financial where we hope to do it as – work with them as we implement pieces of financial technology and incorporate into our business. So, that's where we see the biggest thing there. Right now, we're not focused on M&A. I think we have a lot of things to do in our current business to implement our strategy. However, that doesn't mean that we may not consider any opportunistic acquisitions or opportunities as they develop, but there's nothing on the near-term horizon that we can see.

Okay. That's it for me. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Brenna Phelan with Raymond James. Brenna, your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Morning, Brenna.

So starting on credit, could you just give us a little more detail on the re-measurement due to transfer to Stage 2 in the commercial book?

Yes. Just one second, Brenna, and we'll get you an answer to that.

It's a change in model inputs...

Okay.

...related to volatility.

Volatility. Is that – do we think of that as being macro driven or is that specific to some of the specific credits that you're underwriting?

Macro.

Okay. Anything, because generally it's like, as you've said in your commentary on employment, inflation, interest rates are trending in the right direction, what is that specific input related to?

Vacancy rates.

Okay. Thanks. Very helpful. And then switching up to the single-family residential, same thing, Stage 3 change in risk parameters and models. Is that also macro input or something specific?

We're considering there are fluctuations in the normal course.

Okay. And then switching to the other consumer retail book. Any update you can give us on the strategic review that's going on there and some goalposts on the outlooks for – the outlook for how you expect provisions to trend in that portfolio through the remainder of the year?

In answer to your first question, we're evaluating the different segments and whether we can, as we said on the last call, grow them, what their value to us is part of the overall corporate strategy including the ability to cross-sell or use or to better serve our clients by offering alternative products. So, that continues and we expect to have a conclusion to that by the time of our next conference call. In terms of the provisioning, we've seen some of those stabilize over the course. We did make some additional provisions, but we don't currently see any of the large risk parameter changes or things that we're doing in relation to providing for those credits similar to Q1 of this year.

You don't expect them to be similar to Q1 or you think Q1...

We do not expect to have a significant single movement that we had in Q1.

Okay. Great. And then last one for me. Just on the move in deposit funding cost in the quarter, could you walk us through some of the moving parts in that small sequential increase in the context of rates generally moving down, is that funding mixed. And then following on, you spoke to an effective funding solution for the Accelerator program. Maybe a little bit of color on that.

In relation to deposits, it's mix. In terms of the overall funding facilities, we're in discussions with a number of parties in terms of being able to implement different funding strategies [indiscernible] (00:32:28) our implementation of the prime warehouse facility last year and the repo facility. So we're looking at those sorts of alternative funding channels to be able to more effectively compete for that in prime insured business.

Okay. So when you say deposit mix, is that Oaken versus broker or are you terming out the duration a little bit?

Operator, we'll take the next question.

Your next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding with TD Securities. Graham, your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Just want to follow back on the margin lift. It was quite material quarter-over-quarter. I believe your messaging last quarter was you expect sort of around the 2% mark is a reasonable expectation. There could be some lift towards the end of the year as funding costs or expense on funding costs from last year drop off. So I guess my question is generally, did anything change materially quarter-over-quarter to sort of drive that material lift in your average mortgage yield?

It's Yousry here. Because Government of Canada's went down, GIC rates also followed down over time, but we did not move our mortgage rates. So it's difficult to predict those things in advance. But that wound up and we were able to hold them and we think we can hold them and continue to keep the margins going.

Yeah. Graham, the most significant factor was our ability to maintain rates on our mortgages.

Okay. But I guess your weighted average yield on your mortgages overall went up quarter-over-quarter. So is that a reflection of just the mix of your overall portfolio? Why would that actually increase quarter-over-quarter if you're...

Yes, it's mix and generally one would think of mix as term, but for us, it's also the different Beacon and different locations that mortgages come in. We price differently, so the combination of those things gave us a higher weighted average.

Yeah. Okay. And I guess there's also just the – what's dropping off versus what you're putting on dynamic as well.

Right.

Okay. And then just generally your loans under administration, it sounds like in terms of your outlook or your expectation, it sounds like you're pretty comfortable with your ability to compete on the Alt-A side right now. In commercial you're looking to ramp up, but the Accelerator businesses is competitive, so when we pull all those pieces together, what's a reasonable expectation on your part in terms of growing the overall portfolio?

I didn't hear what you said about the Accelerator. But the alternative business, the near prime business continues to be healthy. We do expect to continue to flow good business there and grow. The commercial, as we've said, [ph] James (00:35:54) is here and his task is to grow it. On the Accelerator, I didn't hear what you said, but even on the Accelerator, we've been working on some funding mechanisms that should produce volumes going forward. You won't see anything immediately, but over the coming months to produce on a more regular basis, higher volumes in the A-Accelerator product.

Okay. That's [audio gap] (00:36:19). [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Jaeme Gloyn with National Bank. Jaeme, your line is open.

Yeah, thanks, good morning.

Good morning, Jaeme.

Hey.

Yeah. First question is on the net impaired loans growth in the quarter sequentially and year-over-year. In the single-family portfolio, I'm wondering if you can sort of break that out in terms of either geography or some other factor that's driving that increase.

It's just broadly based. There's no specific factor to – that we can attribute to that growth.

Is there a change in any sort of credit metrics in terms of the underwriting that we're seeing in the book these days that could be driving that increase sequentially or year-over-year and as a percentage of the gross loans as well?

No, Jaeme, we haven't changed any of our underwriting criteria. It's still strong and within our risk appetites.

Okay. Switching to the growth in the portfolio, still seeing very strong growth out of the BC market in relative to other regions as well. Can you just speak to what you're seeing in that region versus others as being attractive?

The BC market is – there are many segments to it. There are pockets that we will not lend in. There're pockets that we still believe are very steady and in fact growing. So we have continuously upgrading our risk models as to what we can and can't and it's been a healthy market for us. We're very confident in the business that we have been doing and – sorry, my apologies, Jaeme. So it's been a healthy quarter and we think it will continue.

Okay. And then, yeah, I guess Brenna's question got cut off there and I was curious to hear the answer as well related to the deposit mix. What is driving that change in rate? Is it terminated out or is it the mix between Oaken and brokered?

It's both of those factors. There are changes in term. And in addition, we are adding more Oaken.

Okay. And would you be able to quantify what's driving the change? Is it one more than the other?

It's a mix – it's even.

Roughly even. Okay.

Yeah. There's no magic here, Jaeme. It's just steady as you go, and we continue to want to grow Oaken and just have levers on both sides to stay competitive on the deposit sides for where Oaken competes and stay competitive on the bank side deposits were to compete. No magic. And it's just been lower rates because the Government of Canada's have been coming down and we've been able to attract deposits at the way we want.

Yeah. I guess maybe the confusion comes from seeing Oaken GICs increase significantly and broker GICs come down significantly, let's say, quarter-over-quarter. And the general view is that Oaken GICs would be cheaper than broker GICs. Is that – do I have that correctly and so there must be something else going on there, right?

Broker GICs – sorry, Oaken GICs for us are a very healthy way to grow. But Oaken GICs, we don't have commission costs. But we do have advertising cost and we do have to have a more attractive rate to attract business. And as I say, we just move the levers where we can. And we look at an overall net cost of raising business. And as long as we can keep the mix between Oaken and the bank deposits to do that overall, we'll grow Oaken as much as we can.

Okay. So if I understand correctly then, Oaken GICs net-net would be roughly equal to broker GICs in terms of total cost to fund?

No. Oaken GICs would be...

Just say who you're speaking as [indiscernible] (00:40:50)

Oh, sorry. It's Benjy Katchen here. Oaken GICs on interest expense across the curve are roughly 25 to 35 basis points higher than broker GICs. So as we're moving the mix to more Oaken, that's one of the levers that will increase the interest expense.

Okay. I see. And would you be able to give us a similar comparison with Oaken savings accounts relative to GICs and then I guess also the HISAs?

So we don't compare – we would compare the Oaken savings account to our broker HISA. However, we have not grown our broker HISA. The Oaken savings rate is [ph] 2.30 (00:41:38) right now compared to broker HISA all-in cost of funding is [ph] 1.60 (00:41:42) including the 25 bps broker commission.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's very helpful. I'll re-queue. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to CEO, Yousry Bissada, for closing remarks.

We appreciate your questions and your interest in Home Capital. If you have any further questions, please contact Investor Relations. Thank you for attending this call and have a good day.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.