raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Gerald Soloway, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and we’ll try again, the last time I got


a musical accolade, so I will start with the conference call. Basically the year 2005, was a fantastic


year, the comment was, Wow! What a year. Despite, just let me refresh your memories, despite


Bank of Canada increased their interest rates 3 times, despite the Federal Reserve went up 8


times. So there was all the discussion about rising interest rates, and they were sure to be going to


at least 20% to scale away every buyer in the country. Well it hasn’t occurred and we see interest


rates leveling out in the year ahead.


Despite we had in the company, we had a major conversions from our, for our VISA server from


Certegy to Certegy from our First Data which took a lot executive time and energy, and lot of


energy from all the VISA people. It was pulled off, it’s successful, and we are seeing substantial


improvements in cost and efficiency, and we’re delighted with conversion and that’s all behind us.


And despite a shortage of space to hire new people, we had out grown our space in the building


arena little faster than we thought. And what had occurred is the first 9 months of the year of last


year, we hired about 26 people and we were absolutely filled and had no other spots to put people


and we thought from a human right points of view, we shouldn’t force 2 people to sit on one chair


and when I’ll call, that could lead to certain problems. So we just held off hiring until we got the new


space. And although in the first 9 months of the year, we added 26 people. I should tell you in the


last 60 days, we’ve added another 35. So, we now have the space, and we have moved 200


people to new premises, flawlessly no administration hiccups, no loss of upbeat. And despite all


the advice you’ve heard by phantom [ph] that we are on the verge of the housing bubble and its


going to explode like a balloon. We’ve not seen any of that. And despite the phantom [ph] saying


the competition by the banks would wipe us off the map, and destroy our business. Nevertheless,


let me just tell you what we did.


For the 10th, 10th consecutive year, consecutive year, we have increased our earnings over 20%


year-over-year, we, the income rose by 36.6% over the year before. The net income per share


rose from a $1.33 to a $1.80 or 35.3%. And fully diluted shares rose from $1.27 to $1.72, 35.4%


the 10th consecutive year that earnings have risen over 20%. Our return on equity was 31.9%


again that was the 8th consecutive year over 20%. And one of the lines which I suggest that that


all of you look at as an indication of our real growth is total assets and securitized mortgages. That


figure was up 33% year-over-year, and went to 4.09 billion from 3.07 billion. And that is a more


accurate snapshot of how the company is doing than merely growth in mortgage originations.


Because that covers not only what we are doing putting on the books in terms of assets, and how


we are holding our mortgages, but also how we are doing with other assets, how we are holding


our MBS, and how we are doing with our Visa. And despite all of that, despite those record


increasing numbers, our efficiency ratio will improve to 35.7 from 37.7. I’d say to you that might


have improved a little bit, because we are constrained in people we could hire. We really did need


more people. We really were having a super year, but if you don’t have a place to put them, it


doesn’t make much sense to hire them. So, we have an extremely, which I have already said, we


have an extremely efficient group and if we ever had a slowdown in the market and stopped hiring,


one of the ironies I think you find is that the efficiency ratio would go up. It’s not our plan going


forward, we do see tremendous growth and we will continue in to hire good people as we need


them. So, again I come back to the opening comment, “Wow! what a year”. And let me tell you


about next year.


First of all, if you were concerned about the year-over-year increase in mortgages in the last


quarter, I am suggesting to you it wasn’t because of our lack of business, it wasn’t because we


went, doing what we’re supposed to do. We needed more people; we just didn’t have a place for
raw transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


them till now. We got a 10-year lease; we got almost double the number of workstations. So, it will


be a while before we run into that problem again. And we also point out for the year ahead, we are


now 6 weeks into the year and we are running a solid 18%, 20% year-over-year in mortgage


originations for the first 6 weeks of the New Year. And that is even before the new hires have had


a chance to become efficient. It usually takes a minimum of about 6 months before people become


very efficient in what they do, till they get trained, till they get on to the system. And, there is a bit of


a time lag, but notwithstanding that, the minute we had more spaces, a immediate pop-up in


mortgage originations.


I should also tell you that we have had a tremendous start in the first 6 weeks over our Visa Gold


product. We now give our, we call it equity line Visa and we give a gold card instead of a standard


card or the classic card. And we do it with no annual fee and I should tell you that the response


has been quite phenomenal. We have had to add a whole new lending team to the Visa group to,


allow them to be able to process and that has all occurred since the beginning of the year. The


Visa Lending group here in Toronto is now after 3 teams. It started last year as 1 team, its now up


to 3. And, so you ask me, “where is that going?”, I should tell you that it’s right off the top of my


head. Last year you, the question was where was that going to go last year and we have been


basically I said, I said I could see a double, and we went from 50 million, and so the Equityline VISA


didn’t have a 100. It hit something like about $94 million. So, I guess you can shoot me I was a


little short on that number. But notwithstanding if you look in our statement on the segregation of


earnings, you will see that the VISA and the retail line of business did produce some – over $6


million aftertax in profits. So the VISA retail is a very profitable business. And we are putting


substantial results as we’ve got the platform in place. We are moving to develop our own call


center within a couple of months. We’ve ordered all the equipment. We’ve got the space. We’ve


got the software. We have decided to hiring the people and training them and we think there is


some substantial efficiencies being able to run our own VISA call center locally instead of having it


run out of synergy.


Synergy is doing a good job but our people will be very, very well trained how to cross-sell and how


to deal with all the problems, and we think that’s the next progression in the VISA. We, – if you say


where is it going ahead, I will make another request guess – I think its going to double again. I


think there is tremendous momentum. The – what has occurred in the first month in January if we


annualize it we are there at a double for next year. So we maintain the momentum that we got to


start the year – I think will be in the range of $200 million in receivables for the Equityline VISA. I


should say the performance is terrific, knock on wood up to this point it will be forever, but up on


this point we run the program 3 years. We have not a lot a set on it. So, anytime you run a VISA


program, and you don’t loose anything for 3 years, you know things are going quite well.


The rest of the business we are quite optimistic. We have started doing mortgages in the Province


of Manitoba and the Province of Quebec. I think before year end we actually had done all the


regulatory work at all the processes in place, praisers, lending people, lawyers et cetera. And we


actually in December did our first couple of mortgages in the Manitoba and we did our first couple in


Quebec and both of those we will start to show up in the later half of the year. I don’t see the 2


provinces moving when need or immediately, but the initial response from both provinces was quite


overwhelming, and we were really, we are really pleased. For many of those from our west [ph] is


like you have putdown the well, and you have the beginning from flash production, we’re really, the


voyage has closed up, while the mortgages has just started flowing in. So, we are very pleased,


and we will get organized with our marketing, and the people, and we are hiring the people and


putting them in place. I think by the third quarter, we will start to be able to give you some idea of


volumes, and what it’s meant, what it means to us on going ahead.


All aspects of our core lending business are good. We’ve not had any particular problem from


competition. We’ve not had any problem from rising interest rates, or where is the, are still very


much in line with what they’ve been over the past 6 months. Our efficiency ratio is good. All in all,


business is good. Walk around as one of the analyst said I walk around with a smile on my face.