Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Pino G. Decina — Executive VP-Residential Mortgage Lending, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Stephen Patrick Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Mike, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I will now turn the call over to Gerald Soloway, CEO. You may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and fellow shareholders. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's third quarter results and on the results from the first nine months of 2013. Net income increased to $66.4 million in the third quarter and to $187.7 million in the first three quarters of 2013. That is up 16% for the third quarter over last year's third quarter, and up 15.1% for the first nine months of the year.

Secondly, the diluted earnings per share were $1.90 for the quarter and $5.37 year-to-date over comparable periods last year, big jump. Also third quarter 2013 earnings per share increased 7.3% over the earnings in second quarter this year. So at an annualized rate, the third quarter jump in earnings over second quarter was over 29%. We don't promise to do that every quarter, but it's nice when it does happen and it does show the trend in which the earnings are going.

In some respects, the third quarter was a Goldilocks quarter. I'm sure all of you remember the children's story of Goldilocks and the three bears, Goldilocks who walked into the home of the three bears and saw three bowls of porridge, one was too hot, one was too cold, and one was just right. And for every regulated financial institution, it's very important that growth is just right. And it's important not to grow too fast, too slow, but a 15%, 16% increase in profits per share and a 24.3% return on equity for the quarter were in our opinion just right.

It's very important for a growing lending institution to keep pace with growth and to steadily increase and train new staff and improve all the control functions of the company. And Home has made substantial additions to our credit department, risk group, internal audit, and compliance groups. Together with substantial expenditures and upgrades in the information technology during the quarter and during the whole first nine months of this year. So that, I can confidently state to you that Home has and will continue to be ready to accommodate increased safe and sound growth, have the controls in place, and we can deliver that to you hopefully on a quarter-after-quarter basis going forward. We are ready now before what we see the growth of future years before it occurs, all of which adds to a very safe and sound institution and one example of that is the credit quality of the loan portfolio, which remains strong with continued low levels of non-performing loans and write-offs.

Non-performing loans for the third quarter were 0.32% compared with 0.31% in the second quarter and 0.33% at December 31, 2012. The annualized credit provisions as a percent of gross loans was 0.06% or 6 basis points for the quarter, less than 0.10 or 10 basis points in both last quarter and one year ago. So credit quality is strong, non-performances remain steady, but the good news is the provisions and write-offs are trending downward this past quarter, and the present outlook for the fourth quarter is consistent with the third quarter and a modestly improving number in the write-off department.

As we look out over future periods, Home sees a continued sound housing market in Canada with no housing bubble. For several years, a number of so-called experts have called for a dramatic drop in the Canadian housing prices and have actively suggested that the Canadian banks and Canadian companies that are involved in the housing market including Home Capital are good targets for shorts.

I'm delighted to report that the shorts have all paid a very high price for the bad advice that they received, and they've incurred very substantial losses. It is our belief that the Canadian housing market is relatively balanced between buyers and sellers. There will always be ups and downs and fluctuations, that's a normal market. And we foresee a stable housing market for the rest of the fourth – rest of this year through the fourth quarter, and throughout 2014.

During the quarter, Home received some very good news when we received a favorable regulatory ruling. The ruling confirmed a process whereby Home can originate and sell insured first mortgages, and after selling the mortgage can sell the remaining strip of income, the income that's generated from the sold mortgages. Home will receive off balance sheet treatment, and still continue to earn fees for servicing the loans. Home will have the right to renew the loans on maturity. As you can see, it's a very safe and sound business. In September, the company sold an interest only strips of income, underlying mortgages with a principal value of $191.8 million, and this resulted in a gain of $1.9 million in the quarter, an off balance sheet treatment for the mortgages. Very, very favorable for the company.

We believe that the origination of insured mortgages and dealing with them, as I have outlined, and are more specifically detailed in the quarterly will be a long-term safe, sound, and profitable business for Home. In the fourth quarter, we are hopeful of completing another sale of the strips, and it should be approximately in the same size and profitability as the third quarter. It's too early to give an estimate of the size and profitability of how this will shape up for 2014. But we think that the profitability from the insured mortgages will steadily increase quarter-over-quarter throughout 2014.

Before I conclude, let me just say that one of the things we hope to be marketing this quarter are a new program that we're in the process of rolling out. It's a senior deposit notes program, which will help to diversify our funding and give us another source of assets. Another [ph] four source (9:50) of deposits. We will give more details on this as it becomes clearer over the quarter and as we firm-up all the relationships and the details of the program.

In conclusion, Home has experienced a very solid third quarter in all respects of their business. We expect that the positive performance of over the first nine months will continue for the remainder of the year and the earnings outlook for 2014 looks very positive, which we believe will be consistent with continuing solid growth quarter-after-quarter.

Thank you for listening. And we're quite happy to take any of your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question is from Geoff Kwan with RBC. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

I know you mentioned, it's maybe a little bit hard to say what you might be able to do, call it, next year for transaction where you can sell the retain interest strip. But can you maybe then talk to – is it an issue potentially of just the demand of the buyers and the amount that they want to buy of this product? And then the separate question on the same topic would be, how aware are the mortgage brokerage community of your, call it, newfound willingness to do more prime insured product than you would've done in the past couple of years?

Well, the easy part is the last. We have very actively marketed what were our plans are for 2014, many of the large brokerage houses work on allotments for a year-to-year and in the business they get some kind of bonus based on volume and we've been successful in getting commitments and signed agreements with many of the largest brokerage houses in the country with commitments for volume for next year. At this point, I really would prefer not to give any numbers for the simple reason we haven't had a strategic planning date. And I don't think it's really the role of the CEO to lay that all out to blessed by the board and you know what today, this is not if you would have asked me this 10 years ago, I would've been writing with the numbers but I think good practice in corporate governances, it should go through the board. They have got past the whole thing. I'm just telling you I think it'll go up quarter-over-quarter. We're going to have a very good year from this, but let it all get blessed by the board and then we'll give out – when we have it all, we will give you at some point the outlook as we always have on earnings, return on equity, growth, et cetera for the following year. But I really – Geoff, I think you'd appreciate at this point, it's not really the time for me to drop a bunch of numbers without board approval.

Okay. And that's understood. Maybe on the other part of my question around the investors that are buying these types of securities, can you kind of talk about what the debt is right now?

It's like huge now. Demand is this, I just tell you the way the sort of several – there were restrictions around what we can sell into the CMHC sponsored Canada mortgage bond program. There's allotments and controls. And of course, the first allotment which is always the most profitable will be stuff that we've first of all sold into the Canada mortgage bond program. But then after that there, which the banks have been very successful and maybe I'll let Martin chat about that how they fell into the MBS pools.

Yeah. So with the NHA MBS, CMHC has put in place limits on securitization of that. The combination of all these limits, we don't see is affecting us over the next year. So it's really going to be ramping up our origination of insured mortgages, securitizing, and selling the interest only strip there. And as Gerry mentioned, lots of buyers both domestically and outside of Canada for that interest on these strips.

Okay, okay.

Okay. Let me give you one more comment that's about positive nature, Geoff. I think you've seen through the years, as you followed us for a number of years. We tend not to brag about a lot of stuff before we do it. But if we tried it out and say we're going to do well, you've had a high degree of consistency over the years. That if we say this is a good program and we're going to do well, we're not doing it just because it's going to be a little program. We see it as being a substantial portion of the business. The response we've had from the broker network has been very, very encouraging. They like the idea of a one-stop shop. We're delighted to be back in the game again. We were a player, a major player in this before, but the rules changed and we couldn't do it economically. But we'll build it back up. We'll be back in the game. It will be a contributor next year.

Okay, okay. The next question I had was just on the compensation side, I mean you've beefed up within senior management, you've beefed up compliance in risk management, do you feel that you're comfortable right now? Obviously you can add bodies over time, but that you've feel this is kind of the major areas you're looking or do you need to maybe address a few areas where you'd like to add or deepen the bench strengthen and then similar to that is on your office space, I mean, you continued grow. Is there a need at some point in the near term to have to expand real estate?

Well, the real estate here in our building as we have a modest surplus, we've gone ahead. There is I believe 21, I'm sorry, 32 floors, we have five. If we ever need a half floor somewhere in the building, somebody is leaving and our practice has been if we get to the point that we're bursting at the themes. We know in advance in the landlord, in the building of this size with multi-tenants, it's not just one or two tenants. They'll always find a space. So we've not had a space problem. Of all the problems that we might sit up and think about at night, I can assure you space is not one of them.

There's lots of space, and we're in good shape now. We probably are okay for the next few years, even in adding bodies. And in adding bodies, we're always looking to beef up our various areas. It's not a static process. Just like the profitability is not static. We are always looking for good people in maybe more targeted in some areas. So it's an ongoing process. And people, as you get bigger and you have a good track record, we get some unsolicited applications of terrific people. And you know, it just got, we get a steady stream of people liking to join us and wanting to be part of our company and part of our team, we're profitable, we're innovative, we're pretty relaxed group, it's not a lot of corporate hierarchy. So we've been fortunate in being able to attract terrific people and that process will not end.

Okay. And the last question I had is B20 has been in place for little over a year now. Have the impacts of what it's done particular on the bank underwriting. Do you think that's kind of fully plated or are you actually seeing still some changes in underwriting that the Canadian bank that's opening up new growth opportunities for you guys?

I think it will be a work in progress. I think that most of B20 has been hardly endorsed by the whole lending profession or lending group and I think the rules are pretty clear around appraisals and some of the other items in there and I think all of which is gone is – they've uniformly tightened up lending across the country, which I think is a good thing. There are still some discussions of how a couple of the things are being discussed. We've had those discussions – there are some on industry-wide discussions exactly as what falls in and out but that will all get sorted out and at this point and I've said this before it can affect our yield by which I think has occurred already by a couple of basis points, because there were clearly some deals with people who didn't fully qualify that we would have done the deal at 70% or 75%, but because of the lack of conformity, there's a certain percentage of people that we can only go to 65%, because they are lacking some of the proof of income requirements in B20.

So we do 65%, but when you go to a lower loan-to-value, you usually have to have a slightly lower rate, because the people are going to need to pay a premium when they get a set of mortgage to satisfy their needs. So I think we've accommodated that very well, the regulator has watched this whole area very carefully. I think they've – they're doing a very good job of trying to have all the companies ease into the new rules without any disruption in the marketplace. And I don't think we'll see any disruption.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question is from Graham Ryding with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, gentleman.

Hi, Graham.

Maybe I could just touch quickly, you mentioned the senior deposit notes program. I assume that's different than your direct deposit program that you're launching?

Yes, I'm going to have our President chat with you about that.

Hi, Graham, it's Martin. Yes, it is different so in an effort to continue diversifying our funding and make sure we've got adequate funding for long-term growth, we're looking at a senior deposit note program that we would develop over the next number of years, be a regular issue of those, generate the investor appetite for that and that is very separate from our direct-to-consumer deposit initiative, which we'll be launching later this year.

And you're able to match funding on those with the margins behind them?

Correct. Yeah.

Yeah. I mean, we would use derivatives to change the interest rate profile of those. But generally we sort of believe is long funded, as it put us in a very favorable liquidity position, but we would use those derivatives to sort of bring it back to match the interest rate exposure on the underlying mortgages.

And it's institutional buyers on the side?

Correct. Yeah.

Okay. And then, any update that you can provide on your – the launch or wrap up of your direct deposit program?

We'll be launching before the end of the year, it will be a bit of a soft launch and you'll see some advertising and stuff on that. We'll talk a little bit more about that as that happens. And then there'll be a big push into the New Year.

Okay. And the – your also your initiative in Quebec, where you put some of your own staff actually inside a couple of the mortgage brokerage houses. Can you provide an update there and then maybe is that something that you would consider doing in other provinces if you like what you're seeing?

I'll have Pino Decina, our Executive VP in charge of Mortgage Lending. He'll reply to that question.

Hi Graham. Yeah. It's worked out very well for us in Quebec. And it is something that we will look at doing in some of our other satellite branches, but it really is a relationship business. So what works in Quebec may not work in our B.C. office or in our Halifax branch. For us it's really getting to know what's going to make it easier for the brokers to sell our product and that's the reason we brought it into Quebec, that the brokerage community out there, the classic or the alternative aid program was relatively new. So they really needed some assistance in selling a different mortgage program to their client. And that's why having Home Trust staff right there in their office really assisted in that process. Not sure that that may be required in some of our other branches, but definitely it's something we have in the back of our mind if we do need to use it.

Yeah. Okay. And then, that's good color. Just lastly, the – there was talk earlier in the year about regulators possibly reducing the amortization rates across the board for conventional lending. Has there been any update on that front?

No. That's the short answer. The long answer is they did a very extensive consultation with a lot of the financial institutions. They have probably [ph stipin (24:42) that if it's under 80% loan-to-value. The max that they feel comfortable, the maximum amortization is 30. And I think they use some moral persuasion to suggest to a few other companies that they should hold the maximum down to 30-year amortization. We have long ago adopted a 30-year amortization maximum. So, wasn't an issue with us. But there hasn't been a discussion whether there should be a 30-year amortization cap or a 25-year amortization. I think that's a subject that's still under consideration, but we've had no feedback or comments over the last few months. So I think some companies are doing 30, some are doing 25. I think everybody at this point are quite comfortable with the 30-year amortization, I know we are – and we'll see what additional direction we get.

Okay. Thanks.

Your next question is from Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you. Hi, Gerald.

Good morning, Michael. Good morning.

Hi. Few questions. First of all what gives you comfort that you're well positioned to deliver continued sequential earnings growth given the number of potentially volatile components that go into your earnings each quarter?

Well, the biggest part is the stable income that comes out of the book of mortgages, which during the course of the year the non-insured mortgages has continued to increase. The spread may be down a little bit, but that continues to be a very profitable business that we see has a lot of sustainability. The second is the fact that we see a very continuing and increasing stream of income out of the insured program that we've now started and we now have an ability to sell. But there will still be some lumps to work out of the system how much we can sell, how much we can do. We don't have all the answers, but we do see it as a good stream of income that also will be pretty stable. We think also that after 26 years in the business, we seem to have a pretty comfortable spot. There's no major competition that we see. There's competition out there, but no competition that would suddenly not allow us to execute our plans. And we just generally have a – we run a low cost operation. We try not to spend a lot of money unnecessarily. And we just feel very comfortable that we can deliver. We have delivered – how many years over 20%?

This will be our 16.

16 consecutive years of return on equity over 20%. So sweet 16 this year. And we think that gives us a little bragging right. It's not many companies can stand up and say that year-after-year for 16 years they deliver a return on equity over 20%. So we're pretty comfortable. We're not prone to saying a lot of things we don't really believe we can deliver.

What I was really getting at though was a quarter-over-quarter basis, where there can be some items that could be plus or minus $5 million to $10 million swings sometimes, just trying to get a feel for that growth within that type of volatility. But let me move onto another question. Are you prepared to grow the brokerage outside your classic mortgage footprint to grow the accelerated mortgage product?

Yes. We have. We already have got commitments from them for next year's volume. No, no. They're quite happy to deal with us, because I don't think there's a large brokerage house in the country that doesn't already use us on a non-insured businesses. There's nobody who says, I don't like Home or I don't like the color of Soloway's ties, I won't deal with them. We've not ever experienced that. So they're happy to deal with us, if we can solve a problem for their clients. So we have relationships, clearly some are stronger than others, but we know though that some brokerage houses are more active on the insured side and they do a larger portion, but everybody does some business in the uninsured space and I think without bail almost every major company, brokerage house in the country, deals with us to some extent. So we had some relationship, but now we've gone back and tried to strengthen it on the insured side and as I said earlier we had quite a good response.

Okay. And just one more, I see you've hired a new head of HR?

Yes.

Can you clarify, if you use the Hay Systems or if not, if you can continue to avoid using this compensation regime, that in my view attracts mediocrity and repels exceptional people?

That we never do. No matter what the system is, we will reward exceptional people as long as Martin and I are around. We know how important that is. So I don't think that's, I don't know what's the Hay's doing?

Yeah. We don't use that Michael. We use our own system. We follow the financial stability for principles and make sure that we're abiding by those. But we reward for performance, but people aren't formula driven. So we're not trying to drive the wrong type of behavior.

So what is the mandate of the new HR person that you've hired?

Well, it's a number of things really to serve at that value added from an HR standpoint to the organization. A lot of it will be in people development, succession planning, et cetera. We're really sort of developing in our people. As we get bigger and bigger, it becomes really critical to develop your middle and lower managers, make sure that people have a career path and that we're providing the training for them.

Okay, that's...

So far so good.

Thank you very much.

Okay. And if you want come meet her, let me know, you're in the building, so at anytime we can arrange a meeting.

No, we've moved. Don't you remember.

Of course, I'm sorry. I kind of automatically think you're in the same building. That's created more space.

But I can come in some time.

Yes. Okay. Thanks. Okay, Michael.

The next question is from [ph] Aaron Hoffman (32:32) with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Good morning, Gerald.

Good morning, [ph] Aaron (32:37).

Taking into account the massive supply of condo units in Toronto completing over the next 12 months, how do you see that affecting HCG's loan book given your huge focus on the Ontario market, the fact that you're done more aggressively in Ontario in terms of loan-to-value than in the rest of Canada and that the majority of you mortgages in Ontario are uninsured?

Well, I'll start if off by saying as of the end of the last quarter, only about 7% of our mortgages were in condos and that's condos over the whole country, but I assume most of those condo loans were in Toronto, but only 7%. Of the 7%, slightly more than half were insured. So we only have about 3.5% of our book that is uninsured condos. Now mixed into that, sure there's some high-rise downtown, but we have not been a big lender to the high-rise condos. When we do them, we look at them very carefully. We're very careful about the loan-to-value. And we really don't have a lot of exposure to that market. And Martin will sort of continue with that – the question.

Yeah, as Gerry mentioned, we manage that very differently. We're much more conservative with underwriting for mortgages on condos than we are for single family dwellings. We do watch what's going on in that market, but it's not a big focus for us.

I find that interesting, because it seems like all the major lenders say they shy away from Toronto condos. I'm just wondering who is doing the lending in Toronto condos if all the major institutions are saying we don't have much exposure?

A lot of them are insured loans. They're doing them as insured loans and the other part is the investor loans, a lot of people will come from offshore and not bothering with mortgages. They're just putting up cash and buying them, that's been our experience.

Okay. I just have one more question here. Will Home Capital continue its recent focus on uninsured conventional subprime mortgages at low rates or do you expect to be more cautious moving forward given the very bubbly housing market in certain sectors at parts of Toronto?

Well, we're always very cautious. We've done this for a lot of years and we're not going to change now. So what we've been doing for the past year, we'll continue doing. We always have a very high degree of vigilance. If it's as you say a bubbly area, which I assume you're talking about up the center of the city in Toronto, because once you get more than a mile or two miles from Young Street, South of the 401, that's probably where the biggest demand is, but if you get more than two miles away from Young Street on either side, we find that the prices in the movement are of a more stable nature. So we look at all of the stuff up the center of the city very carefully. A lot of it's often big ticket. We're very comfortable holding down loan-to-value.

And that may be a big ticket. But for example, we had somebody who had proof of income, was a very high profile individual, bought a condo in the Four Seasons for a lot of money. Could buy several houses at Rosedale for the amount that was paid and we got very comfortable. We looked at it. It was an exceptional one, but we went and looked at the proof and looked at the story and we ended up doing about 50% loan-to-value on that.

So we'll look at those, but that's not our main thrust. I think it's more individual. I think that the market may be bubbly, but there's lots of opportunities to lend carefully and soundly. Like we're not going to go into a condo over a $1 million, no matter who the purchaser is and probably do 80% uninsured. We just don't have the comfort that the condo market may not come up 10% or 15%. And we would either get it insured as an upfront factor. We keep the loan-to-value down around 65%. So there's lots of ways to mitigate the risk. We have not navigated through 16 years of over 20% by doing a lot of stupid things, you do us a few things buying inadvertence, but we do read the paper. We do – we aware of the market and we are aware where there's great opportunities to lend with good people who are deserving. And we – the plan is we will continue to do that to think that we've lost our senses and we'll go 80% with light proof of income and uninsured, we're not going to be there.

So you're basically an equity type lender when it comes to the uninsured product, it's loan-to-value [indiscernible] (37:55)?

No. Absolutely, not. They got to have a source of income, but the source of income may not be like yours, there won't be a T4. There's lots of business for [ph] sale (38:05) and people have businesses and the financial statements of the business, they often are doing somewhat better and we're quite comfortable looking at those people at 65% where maybe at a bank they would get nothing. So there's a whole range of strategies. It's not an oversimplification like you've depicted. We're not equity lenders.

Okay, but you do have some...?

No.

No, I'm saying you have some sort of focus on [indiscernible] (38:39)?

Every time you get on the phone, we have this kind of debate, what's your next question?

That's it. That's all the questions I have.

Okay. That's good. Anyway I got to have a little fun with you every time. Okay. Thanks, [ph] Aaron (38:51). We'll have this debate again next quarter.

Definitely.

Okay, terrific. [Operator Instructions]

The next question is from [ph] Patrick Rees (39:02) with Home Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just a question on your efficiency ratio and the range that you describe, it's closer to the bottom end but what would cause it to creep up to the 34%. I know you mentioned increased head count in the renewal department to the insured business. Is that one possible driver? [ph]

Patrick (39:27), it's Bob Blowes speaking. First – I just wanted to confirm that you're with M Partners rather than Home Capital.

I am, that's correct.

The reason we give a range, [ph] Patrick (39:37) is on a quarter-to-quarter basis, that efficiency ratio can go up and down a little bit when we hire ahead of need particularly in the control department. But as Gerry said earlier, we don't see major shifts there in the next little while. We're well positioned in our control department. We need to add people one or two here and there and it could move it up slightly. And we are continuing to support technology both in investment and operations. And that on a short-term basis can move it around a bit. But we wouldn't expect to see it move in major amounts over a reasonable period of time.

Okay. And on the insured single family, so given that regulatory decision, how do you – you mentioned a range that you guys did in 2008 to 2010. Can you comment as to what that – what you're expecting over the next one to two years for this business?

I think we would hope that we could get back into that range. It will take some time, because as Gerry mentioned earlier, we develop relationships with brokers. They then develop relationships in the market. We were largely out of this business for a period of 2.5 to 3 years. So it will be a ramp up. One thing to keep in mind is we have a fairly significant book of insured mortgages that are renewing over the next three years and the interest only strip methodology is really helpful in creating the capacity to do those renewals. So we'll have a mixture of renewing business and new originations but would hope to get back into those levels over the next couple of years.

Yeah, when we give you the fourth quarter numbers probably early February, we'll try to give you some guidance on that. I hate to give guidance and then change it around and I just got to see what happens, we just got approval in August, we got geared up and we did a sale for the quarter. We probably haven't really gotten fully geared up yet or anywhere close to it for this quarter, but we'll try to give you some guidance as to next quarter as to what it will mean on a going forward. It's just a little early.

Okay. That's fine, and lastly on the senior deposit notes, is this more permanent source of capital, is there any potential impact to expand as your current ACM with this product?

Hi, [ph] Patrick (42:30), it's Martin. It wouldn't be for capital purposes. This would just be deposit notes, so it'd be source of funding rather than capital issuance.

Okay.

This would not be subordinated to other debt.

Right. Okay. That's all, thanks.

You're welcome.

Next question is from Steven Boland with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Hi. Just one question.

Hi, Stephen.

Morning. Just your targets and performance, I guess your growth in total loans, you've always sort of aimed at the 10% to 15%, I guess that was your 2013 target, you're at 11% year-to-date and when I look at your maturity schedule, it definitely seems like you're getting a greater bolt of maturities coming up in the next year, so is that target getting harder to hit and I guess that goes to your underwriting as well. What are you seeing in terms of demand for length of mortgages out there right now in terms of, are people moving to three-year, five-year or you're still seeing a big demand for one-year type mortgages?

Well, I'll put it this way that I'll give you a comment and then Pino will comment and give his overview. With the insured mortgages, I'm going to ask Pino it's about 90%, 95% five-years?

Correct.

Okay. So the insured mortgages people go for the longest terms and they want stability. They want with today's rates, they'd be somewhat unwise not to take the longest period at today's rates to lock that in and give them security for the future. The uninsured mortgages, there are a lot of people who think that after a relatively short period of time, one or two years and probably it shifts the other way about 85%, 90% of the loans are all one and two years, people think that they're going to be able to refinance. They think that they might get a better rate at the end of the time. So there's a large tendency to go shorter on those mortgages and both trends are continuing, the CMHC insured loan the five-year, it's always been predominantly five-year insured, for the uninsured it's always been sort of relatively short time – short-term. And Pino anything?

Just to add one thing to that. Hi, Stephen. Obviously, we do acknowledge the amount of maturities that are coming up. We really have ramped our renewals. Our retention team is just developing the focus around client retention versus renewing the product. And the reason I say that is precisely what Gerry just mentioned, we do have a mix of customers and we do appreciate their needs. So on the uninsured side, their needs haven't changed. They're traditionally lower terms, one years to two years, and we haven't seen any change that. There's always the hope for that client to graduate onto the insured side and so the focus of our retention team would be to service that client if that opportunity arose. The flipside if that client wasn't able to graduate to go ahead and retain that customer again on our uninsured side. So it's really about customer retention versus product specific offerings and I think with that we've seen a obvious lift in our percentage renewals this year and we anticipate that that to continue to grow next year as well.

Do you have that number Pino, or did you disclose that, just to give an idea?

It really varies on those two products. The retention on the uninsured would be different than retention on the insured side. But I think to answer that question fully once we start ramping up our A product and we do have an A product that is equal to other products in the marketplace, so in other words there's a level of playing field that could be offered to that client. We can give you a better idea of how many clients we can retain on a monthly basis.

Okay. That's great. Thanks.

Okay.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Okay. Thanks, everybody. Thanks for your questions. Again, I say the outlook is good. We're working hard, we're building a company not only for today, but for the future. And I very much look forward to being able to report to you sometime early in the New Year on the fourth quarter results and our outlook for 2014. So thank you very much. Good bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.