Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Shubha Khan — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Gerald Soloway, you may begin your conference call.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's my pleasure to report to you this morning on Home Capital's third quarter 2011 results. Over the last year and especially the past quarter there has been great turmoil and wild fluctuations in worldwide financial markets. However, throughout the turmoil, Home Capital has continued to sail along on a steadily increasing profitable course and that's really the theme for today's conference call, increasing profitably on a steady basis.

Our return on equity for the third quarter was 27% and for the first nine months of 2011, it was 27.4%. If the present trend and the return on equity continues to the end of the year, which to the best of my belief and information it will end the year over the 25% range; when it does, 2011 will be the 14th consecutive year, 14 consecutive years that Home will have a return in equity over 20%.

And then, for the nine consecutive years, this being the ninth consecutive year, that it will have been over 25%. And you compare to that our competitors in the financial services market, all I can say is, wow.

The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.40 and $1.39, an increase of 23.9% and 23% year-over-year. The first nine months of 2011 despite worldwide turmoil our basic and diluted earnings were both up over 25%, 25% year-over-year.

And during 2011, as we've previously stated, the company has made a moderate shift in its lending practices. And a larger percentage of our lending is under our classic and traditional uninsured mortgage programs; the type of lending we have done for 25 years as of this coming December, so, we've been doing that a long time and we're just eased back to doing more of what we normally did in the past.

The traditional mortgage originations during the quarter went from $728 million last year to $941 million this year, a very nice increase. And on a going forward basis to give some guidance to shareholders and analysts, we would expect that the insured mortgages to be about 25% to 30% of our total mortgage originations. We would think traditional uninsured mortgages would be somewhere in the 65% to 70% range, and the nonresidential mortgages would be in the 3% to 5%. The last quarter it was at the lower end of the 3% of originations and that was by design not by accident.

In the Non-residential category, if I might say a word or two, we have continued to lend on store and apartments, which have been a very stable market for us and we've had good returns and very lower arrears, but we will continue to be cautious about the overall Non-residential market with the worldwide turmoil going on.

It's worth noting that the net interest margin on non-secured assets, a key measurement of how the company is doing, improved to 3.11% during the quarter versus 2.67% in the third quarter of 2010, which is up some 0.44 basis points – 44 basis points, it was 3.04 in the second quarter of 2011, but as a note of caution going forward, we believe that the – to maintain – we can maintain an interest rate spread for uninsured loans in the 3% to 3.1% range.

I do not think, and I can almost promise this, we will not jump another 44 basis points in the interest rate spread and that's really because of a couple of reasons. And, although – and first reason, although we now fully and completely comply with all regulatory requirements for liquidity ratios, as a company we have felt it's prudent, because of the worldwide financial situation, to increase our liquidity ratios this quarter and to hold them on that basis on a going forward basis, while we are in a state of flux in Europe and the world.

And at this time, in the Canadian marketplace, we have found that we can obtain an increase in attracting more deposits then we've traditionally done and this can be done quite effortlessly at a very nominal increased cost and so far we've been conducting this program for several weeks and we can do it for as little as 5 to 10 basis points.

However, carrying the extra liquidity with present short-term interest rates, it can have a slightly negative effect on interest spreads. So, that is why that's why we give guidance of $3 to $3.10. If we have over funded, we are quite comfortable that we've funded – is prefunded some of our 2012 lending requirements and if liquidity became tighter, it's nice to have the money now when it's easier to obtain before any turmoil in the market. We feel that either way it's a prudent move and it's been going on a few weeks and will probably continue to the end of the year. The other reason the net interest spread probably will stay in the range it is now, is we, as a company, will not change our risk profile to attract higher spreads.

As someone who's been through the wars – the lending wars for the past 25 years, higher spread do not justify the higher risks you sometime have to take, and so we are very comfortable with our present risk profile we have now, we have low arrears, we have high credit borrowers. We found we can get very reasonable loan to values, we are very comfortable in the space we occupy.

The space the brokers understand what our requirements are and what our risk parameters are, and we are not going to change that even if we were able to do so to get higher yields. So it's a long winded way of saying we're comfortable with the present spread and we will probably continue in that $3 to $3.10 for the next several quarters.

I just want to touch on the increase in non performing loans during the quarter. There was a modest increase from last year from 26 basis points to 32 basis points and 90 days loans that were either sold by the borrower or by sold by Home in the third quarter close either on September 30 or the first few days of October, so that were not recorded in the year end statement and all of which have now closed are now recorded on their books.

And we believe to the best of our information that the over 90 number, a 0.32 will be lower at year end, we do not see it increasing. And we continue to monitor credit application – the credit app quality very carefully on all of our loans. We do not believe that there are any – there has been any slippage in that credit quality, and so, we are quite comfortable with the present risk profile and we will, in the near future, continue lending the way we have done. Notwithstanding that we always look on a continuing basis we'll tweak an individual markets loan to value and criteria across the country, if we find there's a bit of weakness in any particular market.

Looking ahead, we remain cautiously optimistic about our prospects. You've seen what we've done for the last 14 years with the consistent year after year return – high return on equity. The volume of our lending is very steady. There is a need and a demand for the products by Canadians of the products that we do. We, high-quality borrowers, and I know that the steady as you go, consistent increases in profit on a modest basis, good return on equity, is a story you've heard before.

But we kind of like this story and we like it to continue and the guidance we give for the fourth quarter is we are looking for steady increasing profitability continue with a high return equity, continue through the fourth quarter and into next year.

So, thank you very much for listening, and I look forward to delivering on these comments to you when I report in February 2012. Questions? Operator, I think...

Operate: [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning,

Good morning, Geoff.

Just had a couple of questions. What are you guys seeing so far in terms of housing activity and home prices so far in Q4? Had it changed much? I know, it's seasonally a slower quarter, but keeping that in mind, do you have some thoughts that you can provide?

Yeah, the thoughts we provide is, for a while now we were a little ahead of the statistics. We saw flattening out of the market and I think we saw it last quarter and it's continued. We haven't seen prices go down, but we definitely have seen – which we applaud, we have seen a little bit of the irrational exuberance go out of the housing market.

For example, we were aware of a house we are approaching was perfectly performing, and we had about $1.8 million mortgage on an upscale house in a very nice area of Toronto and the person was out at 3.5 and 3.5 and he paid his payments, it didn't bother us, he just told us he was going to sell it and we gave him a break on the penalty, so that's how I became aware of it, but the market was such that until he dropped it to 3.2, he dropped that top 10% off the market, which I don't know was ever worth it or not, it's just didn't sell, he dropped the price it's sold and it sold and we're getting paid out.

So what happens is, I think there is little bit of the irrational exuberance coming off the top of the market, but we continue to see the well priced houses listed, they continue to sell quiet briskly and we see that with our own listings, we see it with client's listings and that's a feedback we get from the real estate agents. So, we still see good level of activity throughout the quarter, on a seasonally adjusted basis, nobody likes to buy a house and move in December.

Okay. The second question I had was just relating to that alleged mortgage fraud that was mentioned in the press release. Have you guys done some kind of internal investigation, just was curious if there was certain things that you could have – in hindsight detected that and has that changed how you are going with that underwriting these types of mortgages going forward?

Absolutely. There is always a lesson to be learned and there was a – the big lesson for us on the condominium loans, by way of background, it was a condominium loan that through – where condominium needs improvements can come forward and borrow money. And prior to the condominium corporation laws in Ontario are, that if it's done properly by the members of the Condo and by the Board and properly processed, it is a lean on the property in priority to all other leans except taxes, and it comes ahead of mortgages. So, it's a super priority type of lean, the loan is very secure if it's done properly.

The situation, both with the equitable loans and the $4 million that we have, and they have the $15 million, four point something million we have, the issue is whether the Condo Corp. fulfilled all their criteria properly. The – we had some of the correct signatures but there was a suggestion whether they were obtained by fraud or not. The way for us in the future, if we did another Condo loan, we would compel somebody from the company, one of our employees would attend, first of all, at the meeting when they endorse the loan, if all the members of the Condo properly vote for it, and secondly the properly elected Condo officers sign it – then it's – it would be – we would have overcome all the problems we had. But if the procedure that we have put in place, so to if we do any more of these loans, they will follow the new procedure and we won't have this problem.

I should tell you that this is the first time I've heard of this type of fraud in 25 years of lending, and there is the person who perpetrated it, his company who is the management company running it for the Condo, his company is now in bankruptcy and at the meeting he phoned in from Bangladesh saying he is still willing to cooperate but not come back to Canada.

So, fraudsters do exist and no one can never be too vigilant and we still think on the merits of our particular factor of situation, there will be a recovery in the number of parties along the way including our own insurance company that will get compensation for it.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Shubha Khan from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Shubha.

So, in your prepared remarks, you mentioned that you didn't – that you don't intend to chase higher spreads going forward. But, that said, you did see substantially wider spreads in your non-securitized loans in this quarter, I think the increase was about 15 basis points quarter-over-quarter and then 35 basis points year-over-year. I wonder what drove this increase and did competition soften? Did vendors pull back from certain markets? What transpired

I'll give you an overview and then I will let Bob Blowes, our CFO, take a crack at it. So, one of the things is we cut back on the volume, we were prepared to look at some of the fully insured loans that were generally not enthusiastically taken by some of the large lenders, and I will give you an example; there is a CMHC program that if someone buys a duplex or a triplex or a fourplex small, which is the ones we are talking about, and they put 20% down at 80%, if you fulfill the criteria, you get an insured loan.

And usually, because of the work involved and what's entailed in it, you can usually get a bit of a premium over a regular five-year fixed rate and the premium can be a quarter to a half a point. Now, the person would still have to fully qualify, the rents would have to be proven, but it's a little more work and we've done a bit more of that, there is a few other categories where we think that -we are very comfortable on a rental property at 80% with a strong borrower getting a bit of premium than we would at 95% with the average home owner.

So, we're quite comfortable with that category of lending, fully insured and we just follow CMHCs criteria. And so we get a little bit better spread on the stuff we're doing, but there is some also on – I will turn it over to Bob and there is something else that's in that part of that component.

Gerry, I don't know if I have too much to add there, but it's on a case by case basis, we have been able to move their margins up a little bit in all categories. I don't think we see people retreating from market sectors or anything like that, it is just on a loan-by-loan basis and working with our borrowers and brokers, and looking at the cost of funds we have been able to take advantage of some opportunities. And I think we see that; that should likely continue.

We wouldn't see increases as you said but we should be able to maintain our margins based on the mix of the business geographically and also based on the types of borrowers that we're working with.

So, it's just hard work and just doing it carefully.

Okay. If I understand you correctly the bulk of the increase this quarter though was driven by prime insured mortgages, not so much your traditional classic portfolio?

Actually, it's the converse.

Okay.

Converse, and I think that one of the points we would like to reinforce is that we are not moving into higher degree of risk. We are essentially obtaining a little bit better return for the risk that we have been taking all along or the nature of the risk we have been taking all along.

So, second question on the originations. The originations of your classic product have been growing at a fairly decent clip now. I know the low interest rate environment is helping, but how much of a factor is deeper penetration in new markets? Can you talk about any new markets that you have an expanded presence in?

Yeah, we do spell that out how we originated province by province in the quarterly, and we've generally experienced nice increases in all provinces as we've have gotten to get more comfortable with all of the markets, and before I'm finished with the call, I will tell you what page it's on, I can't quite find it.

There is a chart in there which shows province by province increase in the classic and so that penetration has helped, and just doing what we are doing. I think that, as we said earlier, a little bit of a market place that we are good on what we are doing and how we are operating.

For example on page 42 of the full quarterly, you will see our loans by geographic region and type and we do spell out our residential mortgages and we do spell out of – how that's occurred, you'll see that there is a little bump up, there was another chart as well.

Well, I will get you that one as well, but there is a chart which shows that there was a nice little movement upward in all the provinces over the last quarter year-over-year and we see that trend continuing. We've strengthened the people in the branches, we have added staff, we've added people and we do it cautiously.

We find that you can't just jump into the market. You've got to ease your way in and find out every market has certain areas that [indiscernible] (23:45) certain profiles you don't want in. And we've been very successful in expanding across the country.

Thank you so much.

Okay. You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Stephen.

Just one question. I notice asset to capital ratio jumped half a point in the quarter. I'm just wondering if that trend – do you expect that trend to continue, I guess that within a couple of quarters you may need more sub debt or capital. I just wondered what your thoughts are.

Well, a little bit is what we put on in the securitized mortgages. And, we've always stated that we are comfortable up to about 15%-15.5%, which we are not able to talk about our regulatory numbers, but that's a very comfortable number in view of what we have, it gives us a big margin of comfort.

Yeah. The detailed $30 million of Home capital that we could drop down – we are not using it to buy a share of the new Toronto Stock Exchange group, as someone had suggested, that was never in our thinking, but it just gives us [ph] sort of like (25:18) ability of how to use it, and if the growth of the business continued, we'd just lend it back into a Home Trust.

At the present time, we don't need it. So, we think, we have a pretty stable lending ability, both for the balance in next year, and pretty well all of next year. This year and next year and we'll just see how business goes beyond that.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Steve.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Aaron Hoffmann from National Bank Financial. (25:58) Your line is open.

The numbers look great. And good morning...

Good morning.

What safe spread do you have in place, if there real estate prices across Canada dropped around 25% to 30%? How are you protected in that scenario?

Well. What we do is the risk group run continuous stress-test, we probably run four complete models of maybe about 25 different scenarios every quarter, using 5% or 10%, or 15%, and I think that we wouldn't come out quite well if there is, as you say, a 25% drop in the real estate market.

We would still – there is no doubt that it would increase along the way some of the non-performing and maybe some of the losses, quite – bear in mind we went through this in 1990, there was a 25% to 30% drop in rates, we were a small company, I've got involved in '87, but it was the same scenario, we are a smaller company, but smaller capital base. And by being very careful, [indiscernible] type of lending (27:23) lower loan to value, our average loan per value.

To start with is probably on our average residential mortgage design of 70%, and the insured mortgages, we're not worried about those, because we do have insurance and they will be paid. But on the other half of the portfolio, our average is 70%. So, a 25%, 30% drop would clear some mortgages, there is no doubt our losses would increase, but we tightened up all our lending, we know what the problems will occur, we've tried to prevent those from occurring now.

Though, I think we can survive it quite nicely, we might have a bit of a full flattening to a drop in profits depending on how severe the recession was through the whole economy, but I don't think there is any questions protecting the shareholders. After all, I think, most of the management are shareholders and the board are all shareholders, we all have a vested interest in the shareholders equity being protected, and we will do everything in our power to do so.

Thank you. And just a second question here, I have noticed you've switched over your profile to doing less insured – less CMHC product. That seems like a bit of a concern, what are your thoughts on that?

Why is that a concern?

Well, these mortgages have a higher risk profile as you've said, the mortgages that are not securitized, you're taking on the risk yourself as opposed to loans may see to insure it.

Okay. Well, we have been in this business for 25 years and we seem – we really do feel that we've got a handle on the profile of lending. We do a lot of things differently than regular conventional lending.

As I said, our average loan value on the uninsured portfolio is something 70% or a touch under. So we build in a much bigger margin of equity. And we, also, are very careful about the credit quality and the profile of the people we do lend to. We have learned that there are profiles that do work for us and some that don't. Some people are business for itself, their proof of income may not be as documented.

But we are quite comfortable that we have operated over the last 15 years and the uninsured losses have been well under 10 basis points, throughout that whole period. Some years it was as little as two or three.

So, we think even if there is a drop we've lend carefully, we do get a better return, we – with the uninsured you may get a spread of 50% to 100% with no losses. But if you – what we are doing we have a 3 to 3.10 and we have under 10 basis points losses, over a long period of time, we think it's a good business model and it does work.

And we do look to balance the book of business we are about half insured and half uninsured. We see that more or less continuing.

I just don't think it's a very prudent time with real estate value peaking across the country to be turning away from the insured – insured mortgages it just seems to be bad timing, I know in 2009 you switched the other way when values were dropping to more insured mortgages but now it seem like you're doing the opposite.

Well, we stress that with our strategy very carefully. And I guess what we will do is we have to talk in subsequent quarters to see who was right. But we are comfortable with our strategy and we are monitoring and with the greatest respect, we do disagree with your conclusions.

Thank you for your time.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldberg from Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, Gerry.

Hi, Michael.

I have a couple questions, one of which will just go back to the one that you just dealt with, but before I do, you regularly produce sequential earnings growth, but this quarter your recorded earnings were up barely from the second quarter, and you also disclosed $4.1 million negative impact of held for trading derivatives that I understand are largely there to hedge available for sale investments, so, there seems to be an accounting asymmetry there, that being the case, is it reasonable to add back the impact to this asymmetry to get a more apples-versus-apples comparison of your earnings?

Yes. That is the short answer. I will give you the longer answer. We are not big fans of doing earnings as other companies sometimes do, we should have had this, we could have had that, mainly we have this.

We report the earnings as is, and it's clear that the hedge is about $0.09, so, without it we would have been somewhere close to $1.50, but it's not a loss, it's an accounting loss, it's not an actual loss and as of the close of business last night, something over a million dollars would have come back to us, at the most November 2 instead of September 30. So, those hedges will get closed out in due course

They did have a negative impact on the quarter, but I think if you take that out, I think the real earning capacity of the company and the ability is looking at it without those hedges as those may come back next quarter and we've taken steps that it will not be a reoccurring event.

Can you elaborate whether you removed the hedge or what?

No, we haven't [indiscernible] (34:12) – the best of our information is that it will not be a reoccurring event this quarter.

Okay. Now, second, to get back to this question that just keeps coming up over and over and over and over again over time, and you have been doing this for a long time, and I've been covering the stock for a long time; I understand that many deposit taking institutions recently did undergo [audio gap] (34:45), and in fact one of the major bank has described the impact on it of this stress test that was small in term of its earnings power, can you give us a more quantified description of the impact?

Okay. First of all, there was a request by OFSI that all companies do stress test in certain criteria, it's statutory, not even a letter, it's in the act. We're not at liberty to disclose any of that without their consent, where it was in a quarter. We're happy to go back to OFSI and just find out if they have lifted their requirement of confidentiality.

We will go back and find out if we can release that. But at this point, we believe, had enough to maintain a nice relationship with your regulator. I don't want to breach something that I know I am not supposed to talk about. So, I am happy to investigate this, you'll send me what you got from the other bank. I will go and talk to them and see if there is some change in policy and I will report to you what they – what I can say and what I can't say.

Okay. I will follow-up on that. Because you provided a breakdown in expected loan production going forward and there has been a change in the mix that's taking place. Could you give us some idea of what the pipeline looks like for a classic mortgage growth for the remainder of the year and what your expectation would be in 2012?

Well, the percentage mix that I gave you as guidance, I think that's the way our pipeline looks. And we think that the production we did in the third quarter it will be somewhat similar in the fourth normally, historically, October was a good month for us and it will steady as it goes.

November usually is pretty good, but December, after about the middle of December, things do slow down. People do have distractions with stuff like Christmas and holidays and presents and we find the closing activity, whether it's purchases or refinance really slows down in the last two weeks.

But we think, notwithstanding that, the quarter should come in somewhat similar to last year – I'm sorry, the third quarter [audio gap] (37:40) U.S. financial market in '07, everybody has been saying gloom and doom in Ontario and Canada, but the market is ready to tip over and disaster is going to take place.

We remain cautiously optimistic. We told you when we saw some funny things happening in '07 and '08, we've made some changes there. We still, in the Western Provinces find a little of too much of exuberance. So, we really – we've redone all of our criteria in the Western Provinces to cut them down a little bit. But at this point we find the Ontario market pretty stable, Quebec stable. We've recently have an initiative to put our toe in the water in Winnipeg, in the New Year, the East Coast is really going very nicely.

So, with the rest of Canada, except for the West, it seems to be performing well. The price increases seem to have moderated. And we do expect that sometime next [audio gap] (38:57) sooner or later these rates won't stay forever. But we are looking at careful loan to values. We are looking at all aspects of the application. And we are not lucky, so it's not someone who is doing traditional insured lending suddenly jumped into this, which people tend to make a lot of mistakes when they do it at the beginning.

But we've been doing it slowly and steadily, we monitor every time we see any kind of arrears, we are monitoring it. The rest of Canada, as – all of Canada, I should tell you, is really performing quite well and the market is quite healthy, unemployment is not going up, people are still able to find jobs, salaries and all other indicators seem to be fairly flat. None of the real bad things that have occurred in the States are happening.

And we are very disciplined, nothing like being around for a while and getting – having to eat your own mistakes from time-to-time, you stay very disciplined and vigilant. And so, I see it a pretty good market, I stick by what I said. I think we are going to have a good fourth quarter and rising profit and I think that I can see a very good next year.

And we don't see the need to, at this point, for a capital preservation and safety to just do insured mortgages. From – historically we did basically none. We are now up to 25%-30% on a going forward basis and we are quite comfortable with that kind of ratio.

If things change, we could always change the ratios fairly quickly and we do have a lot of forward monitoring indicators from very early arrears, from information in all the branches from the appraisers, from the agents, we talk to a lot of people. And we are still cautiously optimistic about the future.

Thank you very much, Gerry.

Okay, you're welcome Michael.

Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brown from Macquarie Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bryan.

This might be a question for Martin or Bob. But the NIM un-securitized loan, that benefited this quarter from some hedge accounting related to interest rate swaps, which lowered the funding size and there's – that would related to the $4.1 million loss you saw this quarter?

It's Bob speaking, Bryan. No, it doesn't. The benefits in the securitized, the cost of securitized funding is related to the hedges that we put in place at the beginning of the year against the interest-rate risk on the funding side of those arrangements. Because it's a very well matched – the risk is very well matched on the instruments against the interest rate risk, most of it is effective and is accounted for through the interest expense line.

The $4.1 million is primarily related to some bulk hedging, as an economic hedge of various balance sheet positions. Because of the nature of the positions we were hedging, it was not really possible to designate those hedges as designation for hedge accounting purposes. So, consequently, we have to mark those instruments to market on a quarter-by-quarter basis and, as Gerry mentioned, the turmoil in markets resulted in those instruments being below our cost; the fair value is below the value at the time we entered into them. So, we had to take that loss through the P&L.

Okay. So, the securitized NIM aspect, does that seem to expect – to occur again in the future?

Yes, because there nature of the hedging relationship, we would expect that it would dampen the movement one way or the other. So, it's functioning appropriately as the hedge against that risk.

Okay, got you. And the SAP system. Could you remind me what the capitalized amount is? And do you expect the amortization that kicks in next quarter to completely offset efficiencies that we're going to see in the expense line?

The capitalized amount is in the $55 million range and – I'm just going to pick up the number itself, we will be offsetting net capitalized amount with our R&D tax credits that we've applied for but that have not yet been assessed. So, we haven't accounted for the credits. We are in the process of filing further [ph] claims against the 2010 year, (44:14) 2009 has been filed but not yet.

But we expect that the total capitalized value it's probably going to end up some place in the $55 million range net of credits. And, consequently, we'll be amortizing something around $500,000 per month. We expect that that will be roughly offset by savings on our operations. It's a little bit difficult to peddle at the moment.

We are still in the working phase and we're still, actually, finishing off the development. So, it's a little bit early to say.

Okay.

But at the same time, we got a real focus on operational efficiencies, so we would expect that there should a net payback, but it will held as long and takes – start to realize that payback is a little bit up in the air for a moment.

I'll give me you one number Bryan that maybe of some help to you. A year ago, at the end of September, after the summer students – the university students have gone all back to school, we had 552 people on staff.

This year, same timeframe, after all the students have gone back, company's approximate assets up 15%, 18% -- 15% year-over-year. We had 552 people, exactly for the operation.

Now, I don't how it worked out to be exactly because there is always people coming and going, maternity leave, transfers, people go to other companies, they leave, they come. So, we were able to utilize partly from the technology to run a bigger operation with the same people, and we think that, not that we are ever going to shrink our staff, but I think we are going to get efficiencies that we can grow without just adding people, and notwithstanding that, we have added quite substantially in the area of enterprise risk, in compliance, in anti-money laundering, internal audit, all those areas have had substantial increases in staff over the past year.

And nevertheless, the overall staff for the company stays flat. Now, it may go up one quarter and down, but I think that's one of the ways we start to see efficiencies over a long period of time. We're quite happy with the system that keeps giving us pleasant surprises and we still see a lot of good coming out of this.

We are in it, we are doing it, we are functioning. We are believers or we wouldn't have spent the money to start with, but we think that that will give us a platform on the going forward basis to keep our growth going and not just have to add people.

Okay. And just one last question, has there been any progress on moving securitized loans off the balance sheet through program such as whole loan sales?

No. But if you and your firm has an idea, we would love to talk to you. But at this time we are not aware of anyone who has done it. We have had extensive conversations with a number of financial institutions. We've talked to CMHC, we do not have – and to the best of our information, they do not have a method of doing securitized loans and getting them off the balance sheet at the present time. But we continue to look and there is – when it happens we would be happy to advise everybody. But it's not there today.

I might just add to that Gerry, we don't have a solution to remove previously securitized margins from our balance sheet. There are some potential plans for new loans. At the moment the way our business is developing and our strategy is being implemented, we don't have that major focus on that. There are also opportunities to sell whole loans as you've mentioned and we had a lots of work on that, and that may be part of our strategy in the future but we are not executing on that in the short term.

But I think, as we look at our future we have a number of option and we'll be explaining those a little bit further when we implement, depending on our strategy with respect to [ph] insured lending (49:16).

Thanks. That's all I got for you.

Thanks.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Okay. Thank you. So, thank you, everybody. Thanks for attending, thanks for the questions and we look forward to reporting to you on the end of the year in February. Thank you. Bye-bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.