corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Home


Capital Group, Inc. First Quarter Earnings Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer sessions. Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.


[Operator Instructions].


I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded on Monday, May 12,


2008 at 10:30 AM Eastern Time. I will now turn the conference over Mr. Gerald M. Soloway,


President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.


Gerald M. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to report on Home Capital first


quarter 2008. The results are a continuation of the momentum that we had during all of last year


2007. That momentum continued into the first quarter and in some ways were like the little engine


that just keeps on chugging quarter-after-quarter and putting up very strong results.


Now, the first quarter what we had in net income was an increase of some 18.9% to 25.2 million,


but that was after an event that we hope is pretty extraordinary, which is the loss of 2.1 million after


tax on the sale of Quebecor World Inc. preferred shares. Now without the Quebecor World Inc.


loss, income would have been about 27.3 million and 28.7 increase quarter-over-quarter.


Now a word about our preferred share portfolio, it’s 100 -- about a 150 million, it’s predominately P1


and P2. For regulated financial institutions, the dividends flow through tax-free. It’s a good source of


steady, consistent, tax-free income, which we’ve had a portfolio for many years. And in fact the last


time, we had a loss, any of a material loss on the preferred share portfolio was some 15 years ago.


So we’ve had a very good record and, hopefully, we can look at some kind of similar time in the


future before we get any other of the companies making an assignment in bankruptcy protection.


Now, the rest of the portfolio is again as I say predominantly P1 and P2. We’ve reviewed it carefully


and we do not foresee any problems with any of the other companies that we hold. So it occurred,


we really do believe it was a one-time event. And as I say, without the one-time event we really had


a super quarter, we had a very good quarter even incorporating that. And I might add the return on


equity for the quarter was 27.9, and if we did not have the Quebecor loss, it would have been over


30% return on equity.


Our assets were up some 30% year-over-year. Mortgage originations, we had a super quarter.


There were some 867 million, an increase of 58.7% over the year before. And I don’t think we can


do those kind of number every quarter, but just to give everybody a heads up, I think we’ll get a


very strong pick up this quarter in the residential mortgages by the momentum we’ve shown in the


first six -- five weeks, I guess, of this five and a half weeks of this quarter.


I think, we’ll be in for a good increase over last year’s residential mortgage originations. Probably,


you’ll see some slowing down in the commercial mortgage originations. We think that some of the


good opportunities are not there at the moment. There is a little hesitation in the commercial market


-- mortgage market. And we are quite comfortable being quite cautious with our market just to make


sure that the economy goes the way we think it’s going to go in. You’ll see a somewhat smaller


number on the commercial mortgages in the next quarter than we had in this past quarter. But we


see overall in origination still a very strong quarter but the mixture will be a little different in the next


couple of quarters.
corrected transcript


Home Capital Group, Inc.
 
HCG.CA
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We had another strong quarter in the Equityline Visa. We are up 30% year-over-year. And the Visa


program, we have a number of internal marketing methods that we think will keep the momentum


going, and we look for strong growth in our Visa program over the rest of the year.


The impaired loans slightly improved to 0.71 over 0.72 and we -- you probably read in the media


that one of the mortgage insurers, Genworth report -- Genworth, sorry, Genworth reported they


were finding an increase in arrears over the last quarter or two. We saw that little bit of deterioration


occurring last year and about part way through of ‘07, we started tightening our criteria, and I think


the peak of our arrears at this point has passed through. We are quite hopeful that the arrears level


will stay at the present level to maybe modestly lower for the next few quarters. We don’t see any


bubble or any increase in deterioration or anymore arrears, and we think if anything there may be a


small improvement in our nonperforming over the next few quarters.


The housing market on the whole in Canada, except for a few isolated pockets, is really quite stable


and people can sell their home. There may be a few less homes being sold this year than last


across the country. But the market is a healthy market and it’s stable and it’s affordable because of


the rates that are out there now for a lot of Canadians.


We’ve also put a big push on in the quarter and over the last -- really since about last August to


change the way we’ve -- change the amount of our liquidity. At the end of the quarter we had some


734 million in liquidity, which was more than double what our regulatory requirements were, and up


substantially over where we were at end of last March, which was more in keeping with normal


times, which would be about 400 million.


But we think as long as there is liquidity problems in the Canadian economy, even though the extra


liquidity may result in some costs to the company overall, there is nothing like having money in your


jeans, as you keep up a vigorous program of lending. The worst thing that would be is if you


continue to have a program to keep lending and then have difficulty obtaining funds. So, we keep


very high liquidity levels and we’ve been cautious and we probably will until the liquidity issues


come out of the Canadian economy.


But overall, no matter how you slice it, we had a super quarter. The rest of the year looks very


good. We seem to be firing on all cylinders. All aspects of the business are looking good. The


residential mortgages, the mortgage-backed security business is good. We’ve been doing more


lending with the Canada bond program and it’s proved to give very good margins at this point.


Visa is doing well. We probably over the course of the next few months will start our first hoe in the


water on the merchant acquiring business, but nothing much will happen over this next quarter. It’s


probably going to be really starting in the third quarter that will first get going. We are getting our


Visa bin activated probably by this quarter and then we have an agreement to have access to a


MasterCard then through a partner and that will get activated in the third quarter and then we’ll be


going ahead with the merchant acquiring.


But I will tell you more about it as we get closer, you won’t see any numbers on it in this quarter.


We’re just quietly working our way to get off the technology and all the systems and all the


processes organized before, fully organized and tested before we start.


The other thing I would comment on is -- I repeat this again, but we’ve had the good fortune of not


having any exposure to the US subprime market. And we have had zero exposure to the


commercial paper program and the conduit that you’ve read about in the paper. We’ve really


avoided those two big issues that you read about almost daily from various companies both sides


of the border.


So, excluded from those, we stick to the businesses we know. We know our VISA business, we


know our residential mortgage, we understand the commercial mortgage what we are doing and we