Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald M. Soloway — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Martin K. Reid — President & Media Relations Contact, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Robert J. Blowes — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jeff M. Fenwick — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Michael Goldberg — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Bryan Brown — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jay and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I would now like to introduce Mr. Gerry Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, shareholders, ladies and gentlemen. I'm delighted to report to you on Home Capital's second quarter 2013. The company had a very solid quarter, which did culminate in an 8% dividend increase, which I'll talk about a little later. The net income for the quarter was up 15.7% year over year. The diluted earnings were CAD1.77 a share as opposed to CAD1.54 last year in second quarter, which was up 14.9%. Our return on equity was still a very strong 23.6% for the quarter and 23.8% for the first six months of the year.

Always in the mortgage lending business, the credit quality is important and the quality at Home on our lending portfolios remained very strong. The non-performing came down slightly. It came down to – and you know with non-performing, the lower the number is the better it is. The non-performing was down slightly to 0.31 as opposed to 0.32 last year and this indicates across the country that we're dealing with a pretty stable housing market, and we are not seeing any substantial increase, or actually any increase, in the percentage of non-performing or people having problem paying their mortgages. So that was continued on a very good level.

During the first quarter, real estate activity across Canada was relatively weak, and we saw that. And we – however, we did experience an increased demand for all of our products during the second quarter. And I might add that we're now one month into the third quarter and that strengthening demand continued throughout the month of July. And based on commitments and forward bookings, we think the third quarter will continue with the trend that we saw during the second quarter, which is an increased demand for all of our products, good credit quality. And we see that trend continuing, really, throughout the rest of this year.

Now, as a result of that strengthening demand across the country, the total originations in the second quarter was CAD1.63 billion as opposed to CAD1.38 billion in the first quarter. But among our traditional mortgages, we saw the increase to CAD1.24 billion, up from CAD0.99 billion in the first quarter, which was a very healthy increase. And that CAD1.24 billion is even ahead of last year which is CAD1.19 billion in the second quarter last year. So on all fronts the traditional mortgage business and the overall lending business has rolled along very nicely, and is – really, we're seeing good quality and good performance from the products we're lending on.

Now, as a result of the performance, the board of directors considered the dividend, and they have granted a 2% increase in the dividend from CAD0.26, or CAD1.04, annually to CAD0.28 or CAD1.12 yearly, so close to an 8% increase in dividend. And that was due to the continuous strong growth of the company, the increasing profitability, and the company does have a strong commitment to embracing and granting where – however, they can, shareholder value. And the three commitments were in place and the dividend increase was granted and that represented for Home the 9th – or the 16th increase in the last nine years. So, as you can see, it's a company that we consistently look to our dividend and, where possible, we look to increase it wherever we can. And that trend and that commitment continues.

First a little bit about some of the disasters that occurred in Canada during the first quarter and the second quarter, and even into the third quarter. The most tragic one was the tragedy in Lac-Mégantic, Québec, and it was a terrible accident and we really feel very sorry for all the family and members of the family and all the loss of life. However, Home Trust had no exposure whatsoever in that area. Our lending in Québec is pretty much confined to the major centers. And when we did a check, we had nothing, any – no loans anywhere in that area, neither insured nor uninsured.

Regarding the deluge that occurred in the Greater Toronto market, although a lot of people had wet basements and were very unhappy, we have not determined that there is any material losses that will arise out of it. Nothing has come forward. We've had no problems. We very carefully check anybody whose check didn't go through in the beginning of July or phone calls coming in. And we do not expect in Ontario that the floods that occurred here will have any material effect, bearing in mind if the loans are uninsured, the people have at least 20% equity. And usually, that is enough of an incentive to fix whatever damage there was to the house and we have not heard of anything worse than flooded basements in the Ontario market.

Now clearly, out in Alberta the floods were more severe. And we have just under CAD1 billion in insured and uninsured loans – in real estate loans and residential real estate loans in Alberta. Of that total, about 55% is insured and about 45% is uninsured. And when these floods occurred, both in Calgary and in High River, we dispatched teams, both from the company and using outside personnel that we were able to hire on a contract basis. We looked at all the houses that were in the potential flood plain areas, and we in fact looked at close to 500 of the 3,000 properties.

We did not do a – we did not go into all of the houses, but we did have a chance to observe them on the outside. And what we found is, although there were a large number of the houses that had a garbage bin outside in the street, there was activity with people cleaning out basements and throwing out the contents, nowhere did we encounter any situations where the houses looked like that they couldn't – that they were not habitable or that people were not back in the houses attempting to do what they could do or have a hiring contracted.

We saw a degree of – an evidence of activity in all the houses that looked like they've been through the flooding. So, we also closely monitored that with our non-performing, and we noticed for the 1st of July that out of over 3,000 mortgages out of Alberta, there was under 20 people, and I think, again half insured, half uninsured, that did request a month's deferment of a payment, because people who had previously paid, the difficulties of either getting to the bank or getting the arrangements made.

And as a practical matter, when there's hardship, we always will work with the homeowner and give them deferment of that. And then I say, out of our whole portfolio, probably under 20 were looking for that deferment, and we questioned them carefully and none of the 20 were not – were thinking of leaving the house. They were all very much unanimously looking how to rehabilitate the house, fix it up, and go back and live in it, resume the payments.

So, when we looked at it very carefully, we did not think that it warranted any additional reserves. We do not expect anything of a material nature, and I think, we're quite fortunate that we did not suffer, or do not expect – and do not expect to suffer any material losses out of the three disasters that hit Canada.

What I wanted to do is, before I, kind of, wound up the conference call, I wanted to kind of chat with you about something that's occurred to the company over the last little while, and people have asked, like, why there was such a surge in volume over the last few days prior to the release of the results, and I'll give you what I think is the best information I can. I might add that security among the Board and Management about the results is very strict and we're not – we don't have any thoughts or any indication that that security wasn't kept intact.

But, I'll just give you this kind of background. There was a large short position that was put on in May of this year, right around the middle of the month, against Home Capital. Now, the root of it seems to be that a hedge fund manager by the name of Steve Eisman, who was really the central hero of a book by Michael Lewis, The Big Short, which came out in 2010, and this Steve Eisman had very astutely called the U.S. housing market and predicted some of the problems that occurred. And this Steve Eisman spoke at a hedge fund conference in New York, and while chatting about various short opportunities, commented on the Canadian market.

From what we understand, without that much in-depth knowledge of the Canadian market, sort of suggested that the Canadian housing market was going to be in for a fall, and if people wanted to play the decrease in the Canadian housing market, one of the ways is to deal by shorting Home Capital. And Home Capital was one of the largest pure residential housing plays in Canada, that as you know, over about 85% of our assets are in residential mortgages, whether insured or uninsured, but residential mortgages compose the largest portion of our portfolio.

And during the few days after the conference, the total short position by the end of May was up to 5.5 million shares. And I might add that when one looks back historically, prior to the beginning of 2013, we had averaged about 800,000 in short shares, sometimes up a bit, down a bit, and it was really at quite a low level and then it shot up very quickly in a very short period of time to this 5.5 million. And a lot of the short activity by just looking at the days of very heavy volume were from let's say the CAN53 level down to the CAD49 level. And when one looked at the end of May, the price was – and the end of June, the stock price was in that area of CAD51 to CAD53.

So depending on the individual's point of entry, they weren't offside very much, but during the month of July, especially during the last week, the stock started to creep up, the fundamentals hopefully was what drove it, but hopefully it was the fundamentals which were strong and continue to be strong. The stock crossed CAD60 a few days ago. And then we saw that the volume picked up. And our assumption, we only have colloquial evidence, verbal evidence of this, that there was a lot of shorts who were looking at the July month-end, and they realized that they would have to square their position, either put up more cash or collateral, or else they have to sell the stock to cover their position, and they had to do it by the end of July.

And so, we believe that the volume increased and the short started buying back to cover their position, and we think that was a large reason, or that accounted for a large portion of the volume over the last few days that had moved the stock ahead of the release of the earnings this morning.

So, we do say that we hit a new all-time high of CAD64 today, and we feel that the price probably has been on the low side over the last year or so because of the negative sentiment. But, as a company and as management, we never get too excited when it goes up, we never get too depressed when it goes down, we just try to work on the fundamentals. And I think the kind of quarter we just delivered is strong on the fundamentals, increased the dividend, keep the growth pattern going, keep the arrears low, and just build out a very solid business.

So, I think that might account for what you've seen over the last few days and might answer some of your questions in that regard. As we look ahead to the future, we remain cautiously optimistic. We see the rest of the year being quite good. We see demand is strong. We see rising interest rates. When they do occur, we think we'll be – that it'll be a slow progression. There already has been a little bit of an increase in the five-year cost of funds and the five-year rate for mortgages.

The market seems to have handled that quite well. And we continue to see the rest of the year quite positive, and we believe that we can – the objectives that we delivered earlier in the year and that are set out in our annual report and in this quarter, we continue to believe that we can deliver within all of the objectives we set out. So, those are the prepared remarks, and I look forward to your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

Had a question for you, just kind of what you guys are seeing in terms of sales activity commitments? I mean, the data up in Canada, generally speaking seem to show that – I don't know if stabilizing is the right word, but maybe getting less bad. And I know, at least out here in Vancouver, I'm seeing a lot more sales activity going on. I'm just trying to square that with what you guys are seeing.

I'm going to turn this over to Martin, but I can tell you that Vancouver, from our perspective, is a lot healthier than it was six months ago. The values seems to have flattened out. And I'll give it to Martin and he'll sort of chat about it.

Yeah. Hi, Geoff, I would say your analysis would be pretty accurate to what we're seeing. A much healthier market now. The second half of 2012 was much weaker in terms of activity, and the prices out there – out in B.C. anyway. So, we're seeing better activity – better quality activity as well. So, the quality of the buyer is much better than what we would have seen a year ago or two years ago.

Okay. In terms of the NIMs on the securitized book, I mean, we knew that it was going to be coming down as the old books were rolling off. I mean, what's the kind of thoughts around how much more there might be to come in terms of NIM pressure, or are we kind of there?

Okay. Bob Blowes, our CFO, will answer that.

Good morning, Geoff.

Good morning.

Our – the NIM in that part of the book is a little bit unpredictable because it depends on prepayments and penalties, and how much of the penalties are passed along. But we would expect that it's hitting pretty much its floor at this point. But it does depend on some of the things that happen on a quarter-to-quarter basis with those some of the fundamental changes, like the shift from the higher returning securitizations and some of the replacement asset issues are starting to dissipate, so we would expect to have a reasonably consistent performance in that part of the book.

Okay. And the last question I had was just around those R&D tax credits. If you guys get them approved, are those ones that you would essentially try to kind of claim them right away, or is there a timing delay in terms of being able to recognize that?

Right. So we've had those claims into CRA [Canada Revenue Agency] for some time. They're in the audit process, the review process. One year has been approved. The next two years are in the hopper at the moment. We expect we would have a resolution of those in over the next six months. At the time the work was done, Geoff, we didn't have a view to claiming these credits, so this work goes back to a period before we had some of the tax expertise that we have today.

And when we did the work, we – although we had a good understanding of what some of the uncertainties were that we were going to face with some of the technical challenges, we weren't doing it in the sense of accumulating tax credits. So we had to do quite a bit of work to identify the specific issues that were challenged and the costs associated with that, and consequently, there is some degree of uncertainty as to how much and how well this is supported. But that should be resolved over the next six months and as it's resolved, we'll take those into the income.

And you can take it in right away or is it – have to be spaced out?

No, it'll come into income as it's approved.

Okay. Perfect.

Okay.

Okay. Thanks.

Next we go to the line of Jeff Fenwick with Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Hello. Good morning.

Good morning, Jeff.

I wanted to follow-up on the securitized lending activity as well here. I mean, obviously NIMs are coming in, and I know you're still waiting for some definitive answer from OSFI [Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions] around your proposal. I mean, what – if they do say no, what's the plan for continuing with this level of activity here? Do you let the securitized assets slowly roll off and shrink, or do you maintain it around where it is today? It did look like the – that loan balance for the securitized loans shrunk in the quarter. So what's kind of the outlook here, if you don't get the OSFI approval?

Well, there's two parts to that total. One is the multi-res high-rise apartments, and that business will continue because it's lent on a non-prepayment basis. And on that basis, we can get off-balance sheet treatment. So we will continue with the multi-res insured product. On the single family, the other strategy, which we have not deployed because it's – again, it would be a fee business. We do them and we sell them as a whole loan, and there's considerable demand to selling them as a whole loan product, but the margin on that is fairly skinny. And before we geared up and started to do that, we wanted to just exhaust all possibility. And in answer of the anticipated question, we think we're closer. But, I can't really say more. I don't want to aggravate anybody. I don't want to put any pressure. I don't want to say anything that could jeopardize what we think is something where we're fairly close to having the complete answer.

That's fair enough. And the second question here, you mentioned a bit about your exposure in Alberta earlier in your comments. Just wondering in terms of going forward, just in – in terms of geographic diversification, you're obviously still very heavily focused on Ontario, which is the biggest market. But, I look at some of your peers out there like Equitable Trust. I mean, they've made a bigger push out West relative to the size of their business. And what's your thinking in terms of areas like Vancouver or Calgary or other markets maybe where you could maybe be a little bigger presence?

Well, we're looking at that. That's a – it's a good point. We've been very leery about the Alberta market – about the B.C. market up till recently. We found that the price increases made us somewhat leery. And we sometimes wouldn't give the loan-to-value that others might have given because we have – we looked at a house in Toronto and maybe it sold for CAD1 million, and we saw the same house in Vancouver and it was selling for CAD2.5 million, and in the similarly distance from downtown good area.

We just got gun shy. I don't know how else to put it. Like, we got scared. So, we – probably, over the next year or so, as the market stabilizes out there, we might – and I think probably we'll increase our lending presence. But, the B.C. market has given us a little bit of a caution because of what's happened. But, we are seeing some improvement. And we probably could see some further lending in the Alberta, but again it has been a boom-and-bust economy at times. And so, we just treat it a little more cautiously. We don't have a problem with the CMHC [Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation] lending. And as you – as I mentioned earlier, about 55% of our lending in Alberta is insured. So, probably we'll see an increased presence in both the provinces over the next year.

And obviously, then, you still feel there's a lot of growth capacity just in the Ontario market itself then?

Absolutely.

Okay, thank you. That's all my questions.

Thank you. Thanks, Jeff.

Next is the line of [ph] Aren Hoffman with National Bank Financial (27:13). Your line is open.

Hi.

Hi, [ph] Aren (27:19).

Hi. Another good quarter. But, I wanted to ask about – I've noticed that Home is not achieving its 2013 target of 10% to 15% growth in total loans under administration. With slowing credit growth in Canada, do you think this target is achievable without compromising the quality – the credit quality of your loan book?

Well, I think – I guess, Bob will help me here, but I think, we're up to 10% at the present time.

Right.

Go ahead.

Yes, we are. And the – and when we set those targets, one of the things that we assumed in the target setting was that we would be able to have a much more robust securitized prime business with an off-balance sheet treatment. We had expected that we would have the confirmation of the regulatory accounting long before today. And consequently, the targets included a fair bit of securitized assets off book, which have – we have not been able to develop because of the current regulatory accounting.

So, we don't see this as a reflection of the demand for our products, but rather our current capacity given the on-balance sheet treatment and the relatively low margins in that particular book.

So, what we've been doing is shifting our attention continuously into the non-prime space, which is very attractive margin-wise and the credit quality has been excellent. So, we're achieving our earnings targets without having as many assets under administration or on book.

We continue to be optimistic that we will get a confirmation of the regulatory accounting and when that occurs we will be able to increase our production of non – or sorry, of insured prime mortgages, which will be off book.

So, I think, we would expect that – if that happens, we will be back up into the mid-levels of our target range. But, that would not happen until somewhat later in the year.

But, if you're increasing your non-prime book, shouldn't that be having an effect in increasing your NIMs? I mean, your net interest margin dropped from 2.17% to 2.14% quarter-over-quarter. Shouldn't that be going the other way with this increase in conventional lending?

Well, there's a – there are a number of factors. In the past quarter, the spread on the non-insured book actually increased in the mortgages themselves, but we had a bit of a drag on NIM from our cash position. We could see a fairly big build-up of origination during this quarter, and the quarter just passed.

And as Gerry said, July was also pretty strong. So, we had to have good cash position to move into that. So, that puts a bit of a drag on NIM. We also had some reduction in NIM on the securitized portion of the books, so that tends to bring down the average NIM as well.

But, as we deploy the cash and it's deployed into the non-insured portion of the book with a strong spread, we would – we should continue to enjoy a pretty healthy net interest margin.

Yeah. I think, if you look over – our NIM over a period of not just one quarter, but over a couple years quarter-by-quarter, it does move up and down, and there are things that one cannot always calculate. There's always – rates can move in one way. There can be a little bit of pressure on what people are willing to charge, and you have to adjust what you can lend out if you like the quality.

And so, there'll always be a bit of bouncing. I don't see any permanent change in our overall NIM. And we do aim to try to – on the uninsured part, try to achieve a 3% lending – spread on the lending that's non-insured and we think that's still attainable.

Okay. One question here. Do you anticipate rising interest rates to be beneficial to Home Capital?

No, I think they'll be neutral. I don't think they'll hurt us, I don't think they'll help us.

And final question is which area of Canada do you see weakness in right now? Do you – are you looking in the interior of B.C. at all, or other areas of B.C. that you see weakness? What's your – what's the worst area for you right now?

Well, I think – I don't see any. At this moment, the four changes that the federal government did to change CMHC lending and the changes that OSFI did with B-20 to change some of the lending, we think it's had generally the desired effects right across the country. It slowed down the pace. It slowed down some of the speculation. The buyers that are coming forward are – we find on the whole a higher Beacon score and stronger credit. And we don't see at this point any kind of black hole in the country. We're quite happy to lend right across the country. We don't isolate in any area. There's – we stick to the basic principle that we're not a big rural lender. We like cities. We like communities where there's a population base. And we're quite – we'll entertain applications coast to coast from urban buyers. So, there's no area that we have sort of red circled and said don't lend here. We're happy to lend wherever the applications come from as long as they're not too rural.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Michael Goldberg with Desjardins Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, Gerry.

Good morning, Michael.

A couple of questions. So, first of all, I guess that your take is that the run up in the stock price represents some evidence of short covering that's taking place. And when I look at the cumulative trading since July 15, it looks like in both Canada and the U.S. there's been about 1.2 million shares traded. So, I don't know how much of that might represent the short covering. Let me ask what you think. And then, is there any reason that why the remaining short position may or may not be under equal or greater pressure to [ph] the (34:36) cover as the price of your stock goes higher?

Well, to give you the whole answer, we don't have that much hard evidence. We only have snippets of evidence here and there from what some of the – what we've been told. We don't have – we won't really have complete evidence until the shorts reports come in probably later in August. But I would say this. I would think all the shorts would be under the same pressure. Having hit a new all-time high today at CAD64.20, that will cause pressure on their positions wherever they are, unless they're very pessimistic about the Canadian housing market and they really see serious problems ahead. But they'll each, in their own way, have certain economic pressures. And maybe Martin – I'll leave the rest to Martin and he could answer.

Yes. Hi, Michael. Yes, until we actually get those reports that Gerry talked about, it's hard to get hard evidence of that. But, we know a lot of these shorts were established at much lower levels, so you have to have a pretty strong stomach to keep riding through a rising price on those shorts. So, we would anticipate that there would be a fair bit of pressure to cover those in.

Okay. My other question is how should we interpret the big increase in your accelerator originations during the quarter in light of the application you've had before OSFI for more than the past year?

It's a reflection of our internal optimism and I know that isn't a good answer, but we had some room in our portfolio so that if we do get the necessary approvals, which we have not – I should make it clear, we don't have this yet, but as a company we're highly confident that will be forthcoming at some point.

We just wanted to reactivate the accelerator program and move it back up to about CAD100 million a month in originations and sort of we'll then tread water. It had wound down to in the CAD50 million range and we needed to internally deploy people to get the mechanism up, to get the – let some of the brokers know that we're back in the business. And so, we have balance sheet room to accommodate it, even if we can't sell them off.

And we just – if I can put it this way, we gently turned the tap on and gently increased our internal capacity, because one can't go and increase it just overnight. You have to kind of get the pipeline going, and we've achieved that and we met the objective of sort of CAD100 million last month. We got CAD100 million this month. That's enough until we get the overall approval because we can just use them as part of our liquidity. We could use it for replacement assets and the rest just sit on the balance sheet. They don't produce a lot of net income, but they don't – you don't lose anything on them. And at the end of the day, they may be a balance sheet impediment, but they're not a cash impediment. They're all securitized and sold and we don't have to maintain – don't have to raise the deposits for it. So, we're optimistic and we've felt quite comfortable as an overall management team that the time to move it up was a little while ago. And we hope in the near future to have more news on that.

Okay. So, if the door is open to you to do this, then it's open to other mortgage lenders also.

Absolutely.

Do you think that OSFI's decision could also be connected with the pending implementation of a leverage constraint in Canada perhaps as a way of providing some relief on the mortgaged side to the adverse impact of a leverage ratio?

Well, the way the – in the discussions we've had, there seems to have been a lot of thinking going on. And then when the final decision does come out, it'll probably reflect some constraints that companies just don't "go crazy" and start – on a small capital basis, just start doing something that's beyond their capacity and they – on the other hand, they don't want all the banks to just sell off all the strips that they have on securitized lending. So, there seems to be a number of other discussions, a number of levers that would help to restrain too much exuberance in this area, but would allow companies like ourselves who want to do it and not have too much balance sheet constraint, there would be some room to do so. Your concern is being thought out by the – I think I can say it, it's very much front and center. And I think part of the reason why that decision has been this slow in coming because there's a lot of bigger policy issues than just Home doing mortgages and selling the strip. But once the ruling come out, it applies to everybody. Big and small, they're all treated the same and they don't want to have a decision that would have adverse effects to the country's financial system.

Do you think that we'll get an announcement about the leverage regulations at the same time as we might get some announcement with respect to your application?

I have no more information on that than you do. It would be – the only thing I could say is CMHC brought out some guidelines recently in these – maybe, Martin, just explain [ph] where it got public (41:34).

Yes. On their securitization guidelines there was some information in there with regard to the selling of the strip, and so that's the only other piece of evidence out there. But, as far as the leverage ratio, Michael, it would be pure speculation at this point.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

The next question comes from Bryan Brown with Macquarie. Your line is open.

Hi. I just have one question.

Okay, Bryan.

The salaries and staff benefits seems to still be elevated from when it increased last quarter and I just wanted to know what was driving that higher level?

Well, I'll give you an overview and maybe Bob will fill it in. But, we have very considerably, over the last year, increased all the people in the control positions. Over the last two-and-a-half years, the number of people that in the producing end of the company, like sort of the mortgage originations, Visa, et cetera, has – had almost no increase in staff over the last two-and-a-half years. The most increase has been in the controls area, like the risk group, like internal audit, compliance, anti-money laundering, credit, IT. All of those have been beefed up substantially to really gear up the company and to have the controls and the capacity for the growth going forward. And so, probably the level you're seeing now is not likely to go down and it's what we need to run a company of our size.

I would agree with that, Gerry. The – we look forward to a strong market and hopefully for some opportunities in the off-balance sheet activity. All of those things take very strong controls. Operationally, we need to be satisfied that we can handle this, and we've been investing in both systems and people to be sure that we can do that. We – the systems are particularly helpful in terms of leveraging on the production side. We don't get quite the same amount of leverage on the control side, so that's where a lot of our investment has gone. In the quarter itself, those costs have ticked down a little bit and that reflects on – that can be explained by the – moving through the minimum – or the maximum Canada Pension Plan payments and [ph] EIC (44:34) and a little bit of vacancy in some positions. But on an overall basis, we would suspect that costs will increase as volume increases and would still have a very strong contribution to the bottom line.

Yes. And I am just looking at table seven on the complete quarterly report, which is on page 19. And salaries and benefits in the quarter were CAD16,673,000, and in the first quarter, it was CAD16,950,000. This quarter was 1.6% less. Now, year-over-year, it was up about 15% for second quarter this year over second quarter last year. But I think you'll see some leveling off because we have been able to – some of the consultants that we had on IT, we've been able to roll them off and replace them with full-time people. But I don't think you're going to see any decrease. It'll only be a shifting around of some of the income in there. And if we're going to be geared up to increasing through continuing our growth, it's important we get all the control groups up to their required level now, because the worst thing would happen would be to grow beyond our ability to fully control it. So, we've invested in all the control groups, including IT, because we really do believe that we're going to see growth in the years ahead.

Great. Thank you very much.

Our next question in queue comes from [ph] Burton McConnell (46:33), private investor. Your line is open.

Hello, Gerry.

Hello, Burton.

Yes. I first invested in your company 17 years ago when you were there, and the price of shares, I think, was CAD0.85 at the time and it split once. I'm obviously a happy guy.

Well, congratulations. You're the investor of the year.

My – but I notice that you're still there and so my question is how long are you going to stay?

Well, I – what the structure is that – I may be CEO, but Martin Reid is President, has a very expanded role and I always say that he has to be in the position of fully integrated with everything and doing everything so that if I don't wake up tomorrow morning, the company doesn't find any change in pace or momentum and everything's okay.

My health is good. I feel good. I'm enjoying it. I'll probably be around a few more years. But at some point, if I'm not feeling quite so good, I'll just bow out. But as long as I think I can make some contribution, and fortunately my mind is still reasonably good, I'm happy to be around and to see what I can do. I hope I have – I hope I have a few of my mother's genes. She's coming up to 98 and is doing very well. And I promise I won't be here until 98. I'll be long gone long before that, but I don't really have a hard and fast deadline.

Thank you. Hang on.

Okay. Thanks, [ph] Burton (48:22).

Okay.

We have no further questions in queue at this time. I would like to hand the call back over to Mr. Soloway.

Okay. Well, thank you, everybody. Thanks for joining. We were really very pleased with the quarter and what's happening. We think that this next quarter will be more of the same and we look forward to reporting to you in three months' time. Thanks for joining us today, bye-bye.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.