Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jill MacRae — Director-Investor Relations, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Yousry Bissada — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Bradley Kotush — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Home Capital Group, Inc.
Nik Priebe — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Marco Giurleo — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Cihan Tuncay — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Graham Ryding — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning my name is Lisa and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Home Capital Group. First quarter financial results conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] . Thank you.

Jill MacRae, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Lisa. Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us today. We'll begin the call with remarks from Yousry Bissada, President and Chief Executive Officer, followed by a review of our financials by Brad Kotush, Chief Financial Officer. After the presentation we'll have a question-and-answer session for analysts and investors. With us on the call to answer your questions, are Ed Karthaus, EVP of Sales and Marketing, Mike Forshee, EVP of Underwriting, David Cluff, Chief Risk Officer. Benjy Katchen, Chief Digital and Strategy Officer, and Victor DiRisio, Chief Information Officer.

Before we begin I'd like to caution listeners that this conference call may provide management the opportunity to discuss financial performance and conditions of Home Capital and that such comments may contain forward-looking information about strategies and expected financial results.

Various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the audience is cautioned against undue reliance on these remarks. Finally, a link to the slides accompanying this live webcast is available on our website at homecapital.com. With that I'd like to turn it over to Yousry Bissada.

Thank you, Jill.

Good morning and thank you for joining us today as we present our results for the first quarter of 2019. I'm going to start with our originations in the quarter. Historically Q1 is the industry's slowest quarter in a year. We are pleased to report that our origination volumes in Q1 improved over last year. Last year's originations included funding commitments pulled forward in advance of B-20 taking effect. In the absence of that effect in this quarter, a year-over-year increase marks meaningful progress.

In single family residential, our originations were 7.3% higher than in the same quarter last year. Commercial originations fell by 2.3% for overall growth in mortgage originations of 4.9%, and our overall loan book grew by 9.26% over Q1 of 2018. This growth is the result of continuous efforts that started last year and continued into this year. Under the leadership of Ed Karthaus and Mike Forshee we focused on building on our relationships and providing better service to our focused group of brokers who understand the business of near prime lending.

Our investments in helping our broker partners understand how best to work with us and emphasizing a service culture with our own people is improving the Home customer experience. That combination is driving high quality, appropriately priced business volume. We are fortunate that our efforts are earning the attention and appreciation of our customers and broker partners. On May 2 at the 2019 Mortgage Awards of Excellence, Home Trust was honored to be named for the first time as Bank Lender of the Year. We're very proud of this accomplishment and the recognition from our industry peers. It validates our strategy to compete on service and relationships. We have also experienced growth in our direct-to-consumer Oaken channel led by Benjy Katchen. Oaken source deposits have grown by more than 10% year-to-date. Oaken is very important to our overall strategy of deposit growth and diversification.

The financial strength of our company continues to improve. First, we were pleased to receive upgrades from our two rating agencies EBRS and S&P. We're working diligently to achieve an investment grade rating. And second, we have deployed capital to steadily repurchase shares under our NCIB at a discount to book value. We have begun to implement our multiyear technology investment program internally known as Ignite under Victor Dirisio's leadership.

Brad will speak to you about the impact of our financial results, but I want to share with you an early look at some of the operational benefits. We have completed the migration of one of our data centers to the cloud providing scalable on-demand computing capability for the company. We have implemented paperless underwriting and funding for residential and small commercial loans. We funded about 40% of our loans without the use of paper this year and are looking to do so for all our originations in the near future.

This has allowed us to start working on near straight through processing for residential and small commercial mortgages. Combined these initiatives provide a number of benefits, improve the efficiency of our lending processes, reduce the manual work for our underwriters and funders by allowing them to make better and more efficient decisions, empower our decisions with data and technology, and improve our impact on the environment.

We are also adding features and benefits to our solutions at Oaken Financial to make it even more convenient for Canadians to do business with us. For example, we have implemented self-service account linking. We are working on many other initiatives as part of Ignite which I look forward to sharing with you on future calls.

All these indicators are confirming that our focus on service and execution is taking us in the right direction that we can be successful in the face of changing market conditions and that prudent risk management is indeed compatible with sustainable growth.

And I now will turn the call over to Brad to discuss our financial results.

Thanks Yousry, and good morning, everyone. For the first quarter of 2019, we're recording growth in our assets, book value and earnings per share. The success of Oaken Financial is supporting our funding efforts and our IT roadmap offers promising opportunities to increase our operating efficiency and customer service levels.

Slide 7 and slide 8 of investor presentation presents a summary of our results for Q1 2019 on both an IFRS basis and adjusted for items of note. The adjustment to earnings this quarter arises from a change in the estimate of useful life of legacy IT assets that will be retired as part of our IT roadmap.

Slide 9 has a summary of those adjustments.

Slide 10 shows our originations in the quarter. As Yousry mentioned, our volumes in Q1 2018 were positively impacted by an industry-wide increase in demand driven by customers who wanted to get funding commitment ahead of the B20 changes. Against the strong quarter, we still managed to grow originations by 7.3% to CAD 933 million. Year-over-year growth in our core business which is the traditional single-family mortgage reached 11.3%. Q4 2018 was a continuation of several strong quarters of origination activity in 2018. Our growth in originations has help grow our on balance sheet loan. As you can see in the chart at the top of slide 11, the value of loans on our balance sheet grew 9.6% from Q1 2018. By comparison, there are some industry forecasts of mortgage balances growing a low-single digit range for fiscal 2019.

Home's net interest margin rose from 1.99% in Q4 2018 to 2.01% in Q1 2019. Margins in the quarter benefited from lower interest rates on our new deposits and prepayments, but the overall cost of funds is still impacted by the cost of funds to meet obligations related to the SIB and deposit loan repayment in the fourth quarter of last year.

Slide 13 shows the high set of parameters of our loan portfolio. If you look at FICO scores as a measure of credit quality you see that Home has a very high quality of borrower in our single-family residential mortgage product. There has been much discussion lately about the potential for decline in home prices in Canada. The potential impact of home is mitigated by the low loan to value ratio of our mortgage loans, which was 70% on origination this quarter and 59% for the portfolio at Q1 2019 evidence of our disciplined underwriting and risk management principles.

Slide 14 shows our net non-performing loans at 0.49% of gross loans. This is a modest increase from 0.47% at the end of 2018, and well within our internal risk tolerance.

Slide 15 shows provision for credit losses on an annualized basis for the past eight quarters. Provisions were 15 basis points of gross loans for the quarter on an annualized basis. This provision is largely attributable to our HVAC rental component of our other consumer retail loan portfolio where a portion of the portfolio was transferred to State Street and the provision for credit losses increased accordingly. The increased supervisions was partially offset on this portfolio by recovery in commercial loan provisions. It's disappointing that a line of business in which Home is originating new loans has detracted from a quarter otherwise positive results.

Turning to slide 16 for a customer funding picture. Oaken Financial has grown its share of a funding mix. Oaken deposits in Q1 grew by more than 10% from the end of 2018 to over CAD 2.9 billion which confirms our ability to grow their strategic funding channel. Our plan for Oaken includes digital initiatives making it even easier to do business at Oaken.

Slide 17 gives you a picture of our liquidity profile. As of March 31st, we were holding CAD 1.36 billion of liquid assets on our balance sheet along with a CAD 500 million standby facility or CAD 1.86 billion in liquid assets. Further, our maturity schedule shows our near-term mortgage maturity significantly exceed our deposit securities for the next 12 months.

Slide 18 shows our capital and leverage ratios. As of March 31, 2019, our CET-1 capital ratio stood at 18.99% and our leverage ratio at 7.6%, both lower than our internal risk limits.

Slide 19 shows the progress of our NCIB. As of yesterday's date, Home had repurchase over 1.9 million shares out of our approved purchase limit of approximately 4.75 million shares at an average price of CAD 16.88 per share. The purchases were made at a substantial discount for book value

of CAD 27 at the end of the quarter. Home remains committed to continue deploying capital through NCIB to help create sustainable value for our shareholders. We are pleased with the results of our core operations and aware of the opportunities we have available to generate even better results in the future.

With that I will turn it back to Yousry for concluding remarks.

Despite industry conditions there are still – that are still showing the effects of regulatory changes. Home has succeeded in growing our assets, our customer deposits, and our value to our shareholders. Canadians are recognizing the merits of our company as a place to borrow, a place to save, a place to work, and a place to invest. And our technology initiatives will keep us moving forward on the path of service and innovation.

With that I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Nik Priebe from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Okay thanks. Good morning. I just wanted to start with a question and on the increase in the impaired HVAC rental equipment loans in the quarter. Brad, I think you alluded to this in your comments but I just want to make sure I caught it correctly. You attributed that to the transfer of those assets, is that correct?

Yeah. The movement in stages Nik.

Moving in stages – to stage 3, is what you mean?

That's correct.

Got it. Got it. Yeah. And the size of that I think it was $14 million if I read that correctly. That kind of seems large in relation to the overall size of that portfolio and I know that that's a bit of a legacy portfolio for you guys, but was there anything that you would attribute that to?

Sorry Nik, what's the $14 million that you're referring to?

I know what number he is speaking of.

Okay.

Thanks Nik. We had a number of those loans in stage 2. We've increased that in 2018. Now some of those have migrated into stage 3 in addition we've booked some more, and we've taken a look at – we had ordinarily looked to our underlying merchants who are counterparties and whose accounts are currently current and have decided that at this time on a forward looking basis it's more appropriate to have a view at some of the underlying assets as well as the merchant.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. Just shifting gears then just a bit of a higher level question here, looking at GIC rates out there they've clearly declined speaking late last year. Have you started to either address pricing strategies accordingly or I understand pricing is a bit opaque at least in the Alt-A market, but have you seen competitors start to react at all?

I think it's always competitive. We have been able to maintain our rates on the asset side. Over the last couple of weeks, we've seen some slight increases in the GIC rates, but we're still working towards improving our spreads.

Okay. And then maybe just one last quick one on non-interest expenses, it took a little bit of a step up in the quarter and you guys had signaled that was coming previously with as you begin to start to invest in IT and related initiatives. Just wondering going forward here through the balance of 2019, should we expect to see like another step up or is that just, is that growth rate going to be a little more modest consistent with the growth in the FTE and other expenses?

I think it's safe to assume that – I think last quarter we mentioned that we were thinking that the adjusted expense run rate would be around $60 million a quarter and we continue to – well, we continue to forecast that rate.

Okay. I'll requeue. Thanks very much.

Our next question comes from the line of Marco Giurleo from CIBC. Your line is open.

Hi good morning.

Good morning, Marco.

Good morning.

I just wanted to touch again on the HVAC rental equipment portfolio. Could you quantify the size of it? Is it – so your other – your other consumer retail loans totaled about CAD 350 million. So is the HVAC portfolio mainly that or is it a smaller portion of that?

It's roughly a CAD 140 million.

Okay. And how much of that book is impaired right now?

The CAD 13 million of the shipment is stage 3 [indiscernible] (00:17:07).

Okay. So the – there were no previous impairments in that book prior to today's build?

Not for purposes of our provisioning.

Okay. And so in your 2019 outlook you mentioned that there could be some volatility and provisioning related to this portfolio through the remainder of the year. I'm just wondering, how much of a drag do you think it could be on the loss rate? We saw 5 basis points sequential increase there this quarter, so I'm just wondering your thoughts there. Keeping in mind that we did have a pretty sizable release on the commercial side.

Well, we said, I think starting back in 2018 that we do expect to see more volatility and provisioning with the implementation of IFRS 9 as a forward-looking projection. So that's part of the reason for explaining that there's variability. We have not seen any further issues to-date in that portfolio, but it's always prudent to let people know that we're prepared in case circumstances change. So obviously, we're working very hard to make sure that doesn't happen and last year we had some volatility in some of our commercial provisions that we were subsequently over provided on. So we're always working towards doing the best estimate at the time of reporting and we're continually monitoring this with our credit recovery team and risk group.

All right. Thanks. And if I could just follow on next question with respect to the expenses, you spoke to a CAD 60 million expense run rate. Now, we were at CAD 60 million on a reported basis this quarter. And so, I guess if you adjust for that the CAD 3.2 million in amortization getting – we get to around CAD 56.8 million. So what you're saying is you expect the expense rate to migrate higher through the year or next quarter? Correct?

Yes. That's correct.

Okay. Thanks for the clarification there. I'll re-queue.

Our next question comes from the line of Cihan Tuncay from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning team. Just wanted touch base on the capital ratio situation. So I guess firstly just based off of the Q1 performance, the NCIB activity and your outlook for the balance of the year, and at the end of Q1, the capital ratio, the CET 1 ratio was 18.99% was an uptick there. Do you think by the end of the year just kind of order of magnitude will it be materially different than that, higher or lower at all, just your commentary on that?

It will be roughly similar.

Okay. Appreciate that. And then just on a separate note here the other, recently the Bank of Canada was commenting on the potential of fostering a private mortgage backed security market in Canada. Just wondering, what your thoughts on that would be. Have you engaged in any discussions about that or just what's your general commentary there?

We're continually examining alternative funding channels you would have in we have added some other financing facilities that will enable us to smooth out some of the peaks and valleys of the deposit business and so that that was, I think we would say that's a very encouraging statement from the governor of the bank of Canada and we would work towards doing developing that funding channel.

Okay. Great. Those are all the questions I had. I will re-queue. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Graham Ryding from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Maybe I'll start with<Q>: Hi. Good morning. Maybe I'll start with portfolio growth. Do you look at your portfolio growth more on an on-balance sheet perspective supposed to your loans under admin?

Well, right now, Graham, we've been focused because of the levels of capital we're carrying and it is generally more profitable for us to maintain loans on balance sheet. As we continue to grow, we'll certainly look at alternatives and be focused more on an overall loans under administration perspective. So, I think for now you'll see us focus more on what's on balance sheet. And then over time, we'll be looking towards more overall LUA perspective. We made significant progress in rebuilding our business and very positive in how we've been able to work through some of the issues. But yeah, over time I think LUA would be a more important metric for us.

Okay. Appreciate that. And currently, the growth rate of your on-balance sheet is noticeably higher than your loans under admin. Is that because some of these mortgages that are coming up for renewal, you're choosing to keep them on-balance sheet as opposed to sort of renew them off-balance sheet?

Yes.

Okay. On the credit side, is there – like I realized your models are sensors and there is lot of – under IFRS 9, there is lots of puts and takes. Are there any key sort of changes in your models that caused some of the credit provisions to be released on the single family and commercial side of your portfolio?

Yeah, because of forward looking, some of the economic scenarios have moderated. So, our residential despite the growth in the portfolio some of that provision was released and on the commercial side, it was mostly some recovery that we had in some stage too.

Okay. And the – I guess my last question would just be on the net interest margin outlook. I realize that there's always going to be – it's always been somewhat fluid but do you have any visibility on how you think it may evolve in 2019 given where mortgage rates and deposit rates are trending or are sitting out today?

Hope – we would hope for – our – for a modest improvement in the net interest margin to the extent that deposit rate stay relatively similar to where they are now. As I mentioned earlier, we've been able to maintain a lot of our pricing on the asset side and we're having some – especially particularly in the latter part of year we're going to have some of our higher rate deposits roll off and we're going to replace them with potentially lower rate deposits.

Okay. And ...

So ... [indiscernible]

(00:24:57)

... well I think we're still saying it will be – it's base – two basis points or three basis point movement in and around 2% right now.

Yep. Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

And we have no further questions in queue. I'll turn the call back to the presenters.

All right. Well that concludes the conference call for today. Thank you everybody for joining us. I know it's a busy reporting week for a lot of our analysts. We look forward to speaking with you again. We have our Annual Meeting on May 15 and our next quarterly conference call in August. If you have any questions – follow-up questions please contact investor relations to contact information is on the website and I wish you all a great day.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.