raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to this ImmunoGen First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded and at this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I’d like to turn the conference over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and


Corporate Communication, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.


Carol Hausner, Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Great. Thank you, Melissa. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our quarterly


conference call. At 4 ‘O clock this afternoon we issued a press release that summarizes our


financial results for the first quarter of our 2006 fiscal year. I hope you’ve all had a chance to


review it; if not, it can be found on our website at immunogen.com.


During today’s call we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ


materially from the projections made. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an


investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which can also be accessed through our


website.


With me today are Mitchel Sayare, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Junius, our


Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mitch will provide an update on


ImmunoGen and Dan will discuss our financial results. We will then open the call for questions.


Mitch?


Dr. Mitchel Sayare Ph.D., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Carol. We are off to a strong start for our 2006 fiscal year. Our huN901-DM1 multiple


myeloma study is up and running, we are making solid progress with the two studies underway with


this compound in small-cell lung cancer, and we'll report from one of these studies at the EORTC


meeting in a couple of weeks. We’re also making significant progress in the clinical study on our


huC242-DM4 compound. We will be presenting data supportive of our TAP technology at the


upcoming EORTC meeting as well our partners. And we continue to have important endorsements


of our capabilities by our partners.


Let me take you through these in more depth. With huN901-DM1, patient dosing underway and our


clinical trial assessing this compound for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The study is being


conducted at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and additional centers are coming on board so we


can complete patients enrollment as quickly as possible. Because we have so much experience


with huN901-DM1 and small-cell lung cancer, we were able to start dosing at 40 megs/meter


square rather than the much lower doses typical of the Phase I study. As you know, this study is


being conducted in patients with CD56 positive multiple myeloma that have failed at least one prior


treatment. So, they maybe but don’t have to be Velcade failures. As I said earlier, we are also


making good progress with the two trials accessing huN901-DM1 in small-cell lung cancer and we


will report the first findings from the study initiated in the UK at the EORTC meeting later this


month.


Actually, although this study was started in England it’s now running in the US as well and these


several sites have been added here to accelerate patient enrollment. In the study, patients with


small-cell lung cancer and other CD56 expressing solid tumors, receive huN901-DM1 daily for


three days in a row, every 21 days. Encouraging Phase II data from our weekly dosing study were


reported in May at the ASCO Annual Meeting and that trial has been expanded in size. And over
raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the past few months, we’ve substantially increased the number of clinical centres participating in


this study. Our goal is to complete most of the patient enrollment by the end of our fiscal year in


June.


I know that that will be presenting clinical findings with huN901-DM1 at EORTC in a couple of


weeks. We will have three other poster presentations there as well; including data on the impact on


human tumors of combining huN901-DM1 with other agents commonly used to treat small-cell lung


cancer. We will also present animal data on huC242-DM4, the next compound I will talk about.


In June, we announced the initiations of patient dosing with this compound at the CTRC in San


Antonio. In the Phase I study huC242-DM4 is administered to patients with CanAg expressing


cancers, the target for this TAP compound. Accrual is good and we look forward to reporting


findings from the study when it’s at the appropriate stage. Our goal is to complete most of the


enrollment by the end of our fiscal year in June. You may recall that our business model is to


develop our own products and minimize the cash we consume in doing so, by outlicensing our TAP


technology to other companies for use with their antibodies.


One of the benefits of having partners that use our technology in addition to reducing our cash burn


is that it increases the number of TAP compounds in development that can generate data


supportive of our technology. Thus in addition to the four posters we will have at EORTC, three of


our partners will present a total of five posters on TAP compounds. Four of these will feature


preclinical data and the fifth by Boehringer Ingelheim, will show clinical findings with bivatuzumab


mertansine for the first time. Even though bivatuzumab mertansine is no longer in development,


the clinical results definitely merit presentation.


In terms of other upcoming presentations, it’s worth noting that Millennium stated during their


analyst meeting yesterday that they expect to report additional clinical data on mln2704 during the


first half of 2006 and to make a next step decision regarding this compound in that timeframe. One


very visible partnering development since our last quarterly call was sanofi-aventis’s commitment of


$18.2 million to extend the duration of our research collaboration to a fourth year. As you know,


this collaboration was originally established with Aventis Pharmaceuticals and there were some


concern on Wall Street on how the merger of Aventis and Sanofi would impact ImmunoGen. I think


the Street took some comfort when sanofi-aventis advanced the lead collaboration product huMy9-


6-DM4 in the clinical testing earlier this year. Sanofi-aventis’s extension of our research


collaboration and the funding commitment that goes with it clearly shows that our scientific


contribution to this collaboration has withstood internal scrutiny.


We are also pleased that they formally identified and named the three compounds they licensed


from us during their recent analyst meeting. As a reminder, these are huMy9-6-DM4, which they


call AVE9633. The anti-IGF-1 receptor naked antibody, which they call AVE1642 and the anti-


CD19 TAP compound for B-Cell malignancies, which they call SAR3419. The first of these is in


clinical testing as you know; the other two are advancing in their preclinical pipeline.


So, Dan will now discuss our financial results. Dan?


Daniel M. Junius, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance


Yes, thank you Mitch and good afternoon everybody. Revenue for the first quarter ended


September 30, 2005 was $7.8 million compared to $9 million in the same period last year.


Research and development support revenue of $5.6 million was up nearly $1.6 million from the


comparable period a year ago. Contributing to this increase was approximately $1.1 million in


revenue from research activities performed in our fiscal 2005 under the sanofi-aventis agreement


that were identified and recorded during the September 30, 2005 period. These activities were