Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Hausner — Executive Director-Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Daniel M. Junius — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Charles Q. Morris — Chief Development Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Christopher N. Marai — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Andy Tsan-Yu Hsieh — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Matthew K. Harrison — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Michael W. Schmidt — Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC
Boris Peaker — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Mara Goldstein — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Simos Simeonidis — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Andrew Peters — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome, everyone to this ImmunoGen Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. At 6:30 this morning, we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for our fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 30. I hope you've all had a chance to review it. If not, it's available on our website.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

In our call today, our Chief Executive Officer, Dan Junius, will provide an update on ImmunoGen; our Chief Development Officer, Dr. Charlie Morris, will discuss our wholly-owned compounds in greater detail; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance. We'll then open the call to questions. Dan?

Thanks, Carol, and good morning, everyone. We said at the start of 2015 that we expected this to be a notable year for ImmunoGen. And I think it's become apparent as the year evolves that this goes beyond notable to being transformational for the company. There are a number of developments that will support that statement, the advancement of our proprietary pipeline being the most prominent. The findings reported at ASCO in June with our lead program mirvetuximab soravtansine, or IMGN853 were beyond expectations and frankly, even our own expectations. Over half of the women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, who received this ADC had mark tumor shrinkage for an objective response rate of 53%.

Putting this in context, single-agent therapy typically achieves response rates in the 15% to 20% range in this patient population. These data support our aggressive advancement of mirvetuximab soravtansine for ovarian cancer, a disease where there is an acute need for new therapies. The data also make an important statement about the power of our ADC technology. Mirvetuximab is now the fourth ADC with ImmunoGen technology to demonstrate marked activity in disease specific testing and notably, the second in the solid tumor indication.

In response to these findings, we're investing to rapidly advance mirvetuximab to patients with pre-treated ovarian cancer and also to expand its potential uses, as Charlie will discuss shortly. You'll also hear from Charlie about our other wholly-owned compounds, IMGN529 and coltuximab ravtansine for B-cell malignancies and IMGN779 for acute myeloid leukemia.

As he'll cover these products, let me turn to progress by our partners. Sales of Kadcyla continue to increase on a global basis driven by strong growth in Europe, Japan and other international markets. As we monetized our Kadcyla royalty stream earlier this year, the expanding use of this important drug does not impact our current cash inflow, but we could benefit in the later years of the royalty stream. Beyond the financial dimension though, we find it very rewarding to see Kadcyla helping so many women [ph] in its approved (3:28) indication. Roche is continuing to invest behind Kadcyla and if the data are positive, expects to apply for approval for second line treatment of advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer in 2016, using the GATSBY trial data.

They also have three registration trials underway in early breast cancer, as well as a Phase 2 study in non-small cell lung cancer. Beyond Kadcyla, there are nine compounds in the clinic through our partnerships, of which as many as three are expected to advance into later stage clinical testing, either Phase 3 or pivotal Phase 2 studies in 2016. Another two to four partner compounds are expected to enter the clinic by mid-2016, in addition to our own IMGN779. So, we are making very good progress with our wholly-owned pipeline. We're seeing several of our partners preparing to advance compounds into late stage testing, as well as bring new ones into the clinic and we're in a solid cash position. So, we're entering our fiscal 2016 with quite a bit of momentum.

With that, let me turn it over to Charlie to take you through ImmunoGen's product programs in more detail. Charlie?

Thanks, Dan. Good morning, everyone. I'll start with mirvetuximab soravtansine, previously known as IMGN853. We've noted that it is the first and only ADC that targets folate receptor alpha that has entered clinical testing. I think its distinctiveness became apparent at ASCO, when study investigators reported response rate from the first 17 evaluable patients treated with mirvetuximab soravtansine 53%, which is markedly above the 15% to 20% response rate normally seen with approved single-agent therapies such as Doxil or topotecan, and platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

We've previously stated that a 30% to 40% response rate as a single-agent will be sufficiently encouraging to pull the trigger on advancing mirvetuximab soravtansine into late stage testing as a single-agent for this disease. Given the strength of these initial response data, we're preparing to start Phase 2 trial by year-end, that if the data [ph] warrants (5:30) could potentially support an accelerated registration approach.

We're in the process of finalizing the design of this study and we'll disclose details later this year. The 53% response rate was seen in a group of patients selected for having folate receptor expression at a [ph] two plus (5:46) level on at least 25% of the cells using an IHC-based diagnostic we are developing with Ventana.

In the data reported at ASCO, 80% of the patients screened exceeded this cutoff level. We're continuing to evaluate the relationship between target expression and patient responses and we'll consider refining the cutoff if we determine we can even more precisely target the patients who will benefit. We plan to report our initial findings on the relationship between folate receptor alpha expression levels and response to mirvetuximab, and are targeting the AACR-NCI-EORTC conference in November for this abstract.

We're continuing to enroll patients into the Phase 1 cohort evaluating mirvetuximab as monotherapy for platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and are confident we will complete enrollment of all 40 patients within the next few months. Once these data are mature, we plan to discuss the findings with regulatory authorities in conjunction with exploring opportunities for accelerated development.

As a reminder, mirvetuximab soravtansine already has orphan drug designation in the U.S. and Europe. We remain on track to initiate assessment of mirvetuximab soravtansine as part of combination regimens later this year. We are pursuing this to further expand the potential of this promising agent to help women with ovarian cancer, including those with less heavily pre-treated disease.

In considering agents in combination with mirvetuximab soravtansine, we have looked at current usage data in various settings, taken input from opinion leaders on the spectrum of needs in the area, and been guided by our pre-clinical findings with different combination regimens, data that we also plan to present in the near future.

Folate receptor alpha is reported to be highly expressed on a number of cancers besides ovarian cancer, including certain lung, breast, and endometrial cancers. We're assessing mirvetuximab soravtansine for endometrial cancer in a Phase 1 expansion cohort and evaluating other indications pre-clinically.

We recently established a collaboration with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network's Oncology Research Program to facilitate the assessment of mirvetuximab in a variety of pre-clinical and clinical settings, including indications beyond ovarian cancer.

With all of these studies underway and planned, I'd also note that we will not be further assessing the modified weekly dosing schedule for this ADC at this time. While the weekly schedule has shown activity and tolerability consistent with what we saw with the three weekly schedule in dose escalation, we've not seen clear evidence of differentiation from the more convenient once every three week schedule we've been using. So we're focusing our efforts on the initiation of the two key mirvetuximab soravtansine studies, the single-agent Phase 2 trial and the combination trial, both scheduled to start by the end of this year.

I'll turn now to our ADC for B-cell malignancies, CD37 targeting IMGN529 and CD19-targeting coltuximab ravtansine. We are excited to have these two highly promising agents, as they remain strong lead for new therapies to treat B-cell malignancies, particularly relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, where both of these agents have shown activity.

DLBCL is typically treated with a combination of therapies, and we plan to initially advance both IMGN529 and coltuximab ravtansine in appropriate combination regimens and then determine next steps.

For IMGN529, the path is clear. Pre-clinically, it's shown impressive synergy in combination with rituximab. These data recently presented at the 13th International Conference on Malignant Lymphoma in Lugano. As you know, rituximab is widely used in the treatment of DLBCL and we've therefore planned to move IMGN529 forward in combination with rituximab. In fact, we are preparing to start Phase 2 combination trial with these agents later this year.

For coltuximab ravtansine, more pre-clinical work needs to be done prior to deciding which agent or agents to combine with. We're currently evaluating several options pre-clinically and expect to start pre-clinical testing of coltuximab ravtansine in combination next year. We plan to submit pre-clinical findings with both IMGN529 and coltuximab ravtansine in combination regimens to the ASH Conference in December. I'll wrap up my comments by noting that we're on track for submitting the IND for our CD33-targeting ADC, IMGN779 in the next few months. This is a new potential treatment for acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome, and uses our new DNA-acting payload platform. So, a lot is happening.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Dave to discuss the financials.

Thanks, Charlie. As Carol noted earlier, we issued a press release this morning with our fourth quarter and fiscal full year 2015 financial results. I'm going to review the highlights and then provide our financial guidance for fiscal year 2016. For our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, we reported a net loss of $60.7 million, or $0.71 per share, compared with a net loss of $71.4 million, or $0.83 per share, for fiscal 2014. Our net loss for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $30.5 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to a net loss of $26.5 million, or $0.31 per share, for the same quarter of last year.

Revenues for the year were $85.5 million compared to $59.9 million in fiscal 2014. And of that, revenues from license and milestone fees were $57.8 million in fiscal 2015 compared to $39.5 million in fiscal 2014, with the increase primarily due to more licenses being taken by our partners, specifically Novartis and Lilly and the associated amortization of their upfront fees previously received. We also saw increased cash revenue from partner milestone payments.

We reported $19.4 million in Kadcyla royalty revenue, $13.9 million is cash royalty and $5.5 million is non-cash royalty revenues, as compared to $10.3 million in cash royalty revenue we received in fiscal year 2014. The $5.5 million non-cash royalty revenue in FY 2015 is on sales of Kadcyla occurring after January 1, 2015, which fall under the royalty purchase agreement we announced in March. As a reminder, this royalty purchase transaction closed in early in the fourth quarter and provided us with net proceeds of approximately $194 million.

Going forward, we will be reporting non-cash Kadcyla royalty revenue, despite the royalty being passed to the purchaser of the royalty stream. Our statement of operations will also include non-cash interest expense associated with the royalty transaction which is treated as a liability from an accounting perspective. This interest expense will only partially offset the impact of the non-cash royalty revenue, resulting in non-cash net income.

Our fiscal 2015 revenue also includes $5.5 million of clinical materials revenue and $2.8 million of research and development support fees compared with $2.9 million and $7.2 million, respectively in the prior year.

Operating expenses in fiscal 2015 were $140 million compared to $131.4 million of last year. These consisted of a $111.8 million in R&D expense in fiscal 2015 compared to a $107 million in fiscal 2014 and $28.2 million in G&A expenses in fiscal 2013 compared to $24.5 million in fiscal 2014. Driving the change from prior year are greater third-party costs related to the advancement of our product candidates and higher expenses, related principally to recent hiring.

Cash used in operations was $55.3 million in fiscal 2015, in line with our guidance. Our capital expenditures totaled $7.4 million in fiscal 2015, and we ended the year with approximately $278.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, which is slightly higher than our guidance.

We provided guidance for fiscal 2016 in our press release this morning. This guidance is based on advancing our lead product, mirvetuximab across multiple fronts, clinical, companion diagnostics, as well as CMC. Additionally, it reflects substantially higher clinical enrollment across four development programs and the personnel growth needed to support these expanded programs.

So, turning now to that guidance for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016, we project revenues between $70 million and $80 million, operating expenses to be between $175 million and $180 million and net losses between $120 million and $125 million, cash used in operations to be between $100 million and $105 million, capital expenditures to total between $13 million and $15 million, and finally, we expect to end fiscal year 2016 with between $165 million and $170 million in cash.

In summary, we are well positioned to execute on advancing our product pipeline, including the initiation of later stage trials of mirvetuximab.

So with that, let me turn the call back over to Dan.

Thanks, Dave. As you heard from Charlie, there's a lot going on and we look forward to a steady news flow over the next 12 months. Let me take you through that. So starting with our own programs, we intended to submit an abstract related to biomarkers and clinical response to mirvetuximab soravtansine to the AACR-NCI-EORTC Conference taking place in November.

On the clinical front, we're preparing to start two trials with mirvetuximab soravtansine by year-end that potentially could be transformational for many patients with folate receptor alpha positive ovarian cancer. This will be a Phase 2 trial that assesses mirvetuximab as a single agent in patients with pre-treated disease and a separate trial that assesses [ph] if (15:39) used in combination regimens.

If successful, the single agent study could potentially provide an accelerated registration pathway in this disease. We will provide the study details when finalized later this year. Also, we expect to complete enrollment in the 40 patient Phase 1 cohort assessing mirvetuximab as a single agent for platinum-resistant ovarian cancer soon and plan to report these data in the second quarter of 2016.

We are preparing to start a Phase 2 trial assessing IMGN529 in combination with Rituxan for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in the next few months. Also, for IMGN529, we're submitting an abstract to ASH with interesting pre-clinical findings in combination with Rituxan, including potential mechanisms for synergy as was reported for this combination at the Lugano Conference in June.

We expect to initiate Phase 2 testing with coltuximab ravtansine in a combination regimen in 2016 and to submit initial pre-clinical combination data to ASH this year. We're on track to submit our IND for IMGN779 later this year. This will be the first ADC into the clinic using one of our new IGN DNA-acting payloads. We expect patient dosing to begin in early 2016.

And finally, a few highlights related to partner products. We expect new clinical and pre-clinical data to be presented for several partner ADCs in the next 12 months and as many as three more partner compounds to advance into late stage clinical testing in 2016. If the results are positive, we expect Roche to apply in 2016 for approval of Kadcyla for second line treatment of advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer off of the GATSBY trial data.

And finally, we expect additional partner compounds to advance into the clinic in the next 12 months. So we're making exciting progress in the clinic on a number of fronts. We're also seeing interesting data on programs in the research organization which we'll speak to in greater depth at our Analyst Day on September 18, but of all of this amounts to a significant momentum for our technology, for our product programs and for those of our partners.

So with that, let me turn it back to Carol, and we'll move into the Q&A portion of the call. Carol?

Thanks, Dan. We're about to open the call to questions. We ask that each ask or limit their questions to one to two per person until everyone has had a chance to ask questions, you can get back in the queue then.

Operator, we are now ready to open the lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Christopher Marai of Oppenheimer.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions and also congratulations on your progress. You highlighted you were looking at two trials for IMGN853, the folate targeted molecule. One being a single agent trial, is that expected to be a placebo-controlled trial?

And then number two, we're looking at potential combination therapy Phase [ph] 1/2 (18:52) trial. Would that be something that would be an open label trial? And what type of combinations are you looking at? Is that sort of platinums or are you looking at in combination with Avastin? Thank you.

Thanks, Chris. This is Charlie. We're yet to disclose the details of the design for either of the studies as you know. We will get into detail on that at the event that we're having in September, nothing will be ready at that point to disclose in detail.

So, I'm going to avoid answering the question to a certain extent, though I would not anticipate a placebo-controlled as being a feature of the single agent study.

From a combination, obviously, the key thing in the first instance there is to look at the tolerability. We will look at more than one combination agent, again, we'll disclose details a little bit later in the year. And that will include both the tolerability part as part of dose escalation and some dose expansion with one or more of those combinations. As I said in my remarks, we've looked at the use data in the market, we've looked at where we believe things are going, and we've looked at our own data in combinations. We think we're making very rational decisions in terms of those combinations and look forward to giving you a bit more detail later in the year.

Okay, great. But so, we – I'm just kind of curious, it doesn't sound like you're planning a Phase 2 placebo-controlled trial, but you think it might be registrationally worthy if the data is sufficient. Have you talked with regulators either in the EU or the FDA about this? Is there any precedent that you're pointing to here that could get us comfortable with a strategy like that? It seems a little higher [indiscernible] (20:39)

Well -- sorry, the question was whether it would be a placebo-controlled trial and that the question, I was saying it's unlikely to be a placebo-controlled trial. We will not go into detail of whether it'll be a randomized study or not at this point. We are – we do plan to speak to agencies during next year. We want some more data to come forward from this ongoing study before we go and meet with them. We're comfortable though that the designs that we're looking at would be enough to – would be able to support the strategies that we're working on. And obviously, we continue to look at precedent, including obviously things like recent approval, most notably I think for [indiscernible] (21:25) where a approval on the basis of response rate it was able to – with durability, was able to get in that approval. As I said, I'll get into detail a little bit later in the year. But we're not planning anything off the wall or outrageous here, we're just planning reasonable studies, primarily aimed of course at – that's more fully defining the efficacy and safety profile, that's what Phase 2 is about, but if the data are strong, we believe that the design would be able to carry us to an accelerated approval as well.

Okay. And one last quick one here, and that sort of control arm, that would be sort of a maybe dealer's choice sort of chemo? Thanks.

Details to follow.

Okay. Thank you so much for the questions.

Thank you. We'll go next to Andy Hsieh of William Blair.

Good morning. This is Andy Hsieh for John Sonnier. Thanks for taking the questions. Great data coming out of ASCO was mirvetuximab soravtansine. We have gotten a couple of calls from investors about that, the response rates were not confirmed by independent review. Do you guys have an estimate of what the discordance rates between the investigator or independent assessment might be in this setting? Thanks.

I do not have anything that I could meaningfully offer you in terms of discordance rate there, as we know. If we do independent reviews, there is sometimes some discordance. I think we're seeing less and less of that. Obviously, with this being a Phase 1 study, we – that was not originally built in, that we do – that we are considering looking at getting some of these, so that we can get comfortable ourselves, but I don't think in Phase 1, it would be unusual to have response rates not confirmed by independent assessment. And, of course, it's notable that Avastin's approval was actually based off investigator assessments of response and progression as well. But that we – we're certainly looking at all considerations going forward, including getting these scans reviewed, and incorporating at least a potential for independent review into the Phase 2's program.

Thank you. We'll go next to Matthew Harrison of Morgan Stanley.

Great. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to ask about patient populations. Can you talk a little bit about the kinds of patients that you have been enrolling in the Phase 1 program? Were those patients Avastin refractory, were they just chemo refractory, or were they not refractory or double refractory? Can you just sort of go through the kinds of patients you've been enrolling and how you think that might be the same or different as you progress into a Phase 2 study? Thanks.

Thanks, Matthew. I mean, first of all, let's think about the eligibility criteria, we allowed up to five prior lines of therapy. So most patients will have had above – in fact, all patients had previously been exposed to both platinums and to taxanes. And in the majority of cases, they've been exposed to those in – on more than one occasion, as is standard of care. Then they would move to a mix of therapies based around, again, standards of care including weekly Taxol, including doxil, and occasionally topotecan. Patients who had had – progressed after prior Avastin therapy were included, we have had patients who had had a prior [ph] path (25:22) inhibitors; we'd even had patients who had received other ADCs and other clinical trials.

Now, I'm not going to break out such small individual numbers and attempt to characterize response rates in each of those sub-groups. But I think it's a very representative group of patients with a reasonably heavily pre-treated disease that we've been enrolling onto the study. I don't think there's anything particularly unusual about them; obviously, our key selection criteria has been around their folate receptor expression. The data – there are some data to suggest that folate receptor expression has a negative prognostic impact, so this could be – may be a group of patients who would be expected to do less well, though there isn't really a strong data on that at the moment. But I'd say that this is very typical and representative of a group of patients coming through other clinical trials, and that it would be generalizable to a reasonably heavily pre-treated population of patients.

And again, and just – so in extending that, as we move into Phase 2, these will be a similar group of patients, we would anticipate that the patients we have treated, again, would've been – had prior platinum therapies, of course, in all cases, but we would also – I would anticipate that that population would be those who had already – likely to have already seen Avastin, if they are patients who are eligible for Avastin. So, we won't actually specify that one way or the other in the inclusion criteria.

Thank you. We'll go next to Michael Schmidt of Leerink & Partners (sic) [Leerink Partners] (27:02)

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. When – can you update us where you're with the endometrial cancer cohort and when we might expect an update from that portion of the trial? And the second question was on IMGN529, will you have a clinical update at the upcoming ASH conference on that program? And if so, what data should we expect there for IMGN529? Thanks.

Thank you, Michael. For endometrial, we have not provided any data update at the moment, primarily because that has proved to be a more difficult population to recruit than perhaps we had anticipated, and certainly relative to the ovarian.

I mentioned in my words that we are seeing about 80% of ovarian patients who were screened are eligible, at least on the basis of their folate receptor expression. It turns out in the real world that, for endometrial cancer, that expression level is not only lower quantitatively, but it's also the number of patients expressing the target is lower than we had anticipated.

So the reason we haven't seen any data yet is that there simply isn't enough to put it out there, and as those data come through, and I'm sure they will, I would think we'd be looking maybe at the middle of next year, but before, we were really able to give you something meaningful on patients with endometrial cancer. It's still a population that we plan target and to explore further though, with the expression rates being the way they are, we think ovarian is clearly going to be easier and obviously when you have data like the data we presented at ASCO, that also encourages people to want to be a part of those studies as well.

From the IMGN529 perspective, I think you should probably be expecting more clinical update next year. As I've said, we feel a little less urgency at the moment to get anymore around single agent data, because I think we've made a pretty clear guide that our next step will be to move into combinations. The data that we presented at Lugano was really quite compelling, admittedly preclinical, but those are the data that we have and there was clear synergy there and we think if we're going to have a differentiated profile in a competitive environment, we need to be really moving forward in the combination arena.

Yes. If I can ask one more, so I think the experience in the past has been pretty limited in terms of combining an ADC with chemotherapy, and I was just wondering big picture what your thoughts are on concerns related to overlapping toxicities with some of those? And I guess has there been any experience in the past on combinations with ADC?

I mean if we look in our own hands, we have certainly the major experience we have closest with IMGN901, we were able to successfully combine IMGN901 with Revlimid and dexamethasone in the treatment of multiple myeloma without excess toxicity there, though conversely we discontinued that because of some toxicities in combination with carboplatin and etoposide, but we're not dealing with that linked payload combination anymore. We believe from non-clinical data that we would expect efficacy advantages and we will look very carefully at the toxicity profiles both of our own product and combination targets and make those decisions very, very carefully. From a – I think if you look at where we're saying we would certainly want to go forward in combination with rituximab, don't anticipate we have much in the way of – for IMGN529, we would certainly not expect much in the way of overlapping toxicities there. For mirvetuximab, we're looking at a number of agents, we are looking at those as I mentioned in what I said before that we've got preclinical data, we're looking at where we are with the toxicities and for overlapping toxicities, but that will be very carefully navigated to ensure that we can move on in a safe and effective manner, but we believe that that will be possible.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. We'll go next to Boris Peaker of Cowen.

Good morning, and thank you for taking my questions. Just on the ASCO data, there's been a lot of questions. I believe there were four unconfirmed PRs in that dataset. Do we know for those patients that have gone on for that – for their second scan if those PRs have now been confirmed?

We're not going to disclose any new information at this point, as we bring data forward in the future, we'll give you more information on those. But as you rightly identified, the reason that these are unconfirmed is that simply not enough time had passed. We – the majority – most of the patients who had been – had a response and had been confirmed at that time, we need more time to elapse and as that happens, we will provide those data in those data updates.

Great. And were there any special protocols implemented in this ongoing 40-patient studies for managing side effects? And if so, how do you plan to change them or implement them in the plan studies?

I mean, I think the most important thing that we've seen from side effects has been the blurred vision. If you remember the data from ASCO and I'm sure we all do, we've seen some diarrhea mostly grade [ph] 1, 2 (33:04) that seems to be responsive to loperamide, which is something that we recommend as a treatment, not as a prophylaxis in the protocol. And that has been – what we're hearing from our investigators and patients that has not been especially troubling. We have a number of things that we've implemented around trying to understand the blurred vision and the keratopathy that we see with this and with other ADCs and we continue to implement those, have been using lubricating eye drops, we're looking at doing some further work understanding what the role for corticosteroid eye drops may or may not be, but I think that's the most important one.

I think the thing which most encouraged us about the data from ASCO was the reversibility and the manageability of all of the side effects essentially, but particularly of the blurred vision, which have been something which had been of some concern, but I think we now understand it much better, it does reverse and the patients are enabled – are able to continue therapy. They are able to both achieve and maintain responses at the lower doses. So I think the more that we can do to help understand that and keep patients on therapy, the better it will be for them and the better it will be for us and we continue to explore our understanding there. But it's nothing that's going to prevent us going forward, including work with this dosing schedule at this point, given we feel that the preliminary benefit risk, if you like, appears to be very positive.

Great. Thank you very much for taking my question.

Thank you. We'll go next to Mara Goldstein of Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thanks very much. I was just hoping, we could go back for a moment to the dosing schedule in the Phase 2 and the discussion around weekly versus every three weeks and what you did or didn't see, you kind of glossed through that and I was hoping you could just revisit that for me?

Yes, certainly. I think – so, at ASCO, we did present some data from dose escalation on the week schedule and I think a lot of the focus obviously has been on the ovarian cancer poster, but there was another poster looking at the dose escalation of both dosing schedules. You remember that the original intent here or thought was that there may be that we will be able to see a reduction in the rates of ocular adverse events, excuse me, as well as an increase in exposure and therefore putatively the potential for improved, even higher efficacy with that modified weekly schedule. I think as we look to dose escalation data from the weekly schedule, what we saw was, we saw some responses, we saw some CA125 responses and we saw some responses – which appear to approximate to what we had seen on the three weekly schedule.

Now, it's far from a randomized comparison. I cannot say with any certainty that it is better, worse, or the same as the three weekly. But it certainly wasn't strikingly different, strikingly differentiated from an efficacy point of view, we then looked as well as, of course, at the tolerability, we felt that for the relative inconvenience of a modified weekly schedule, we would need clear differentiation in terms of tolerability and for that to be something to take forward, but we saw the same -- we saw diarrhea, we saw some ocular adverse events as we had seen in the three week schedule.

So we felt that at this point, where we're seeing this 53% response rate with the three weekly schedule, where we have not yet treated that particular population with the modified weekly schedule, there was not enough [ph] data (37:01) to say that it was worth slowing down what we're doing on the three weekly to further explore the weekly at this point, because there was nothing there which was saying this is clearly going to be better.

Now, we will continue that work with the three weekly. I'm certainly not ruling out further work in the future with the modified weekly schedule and we can all point to the differences between three weekly Taxol and weekly Taxol as a reason to think about coming to that in the future, but there is – I didn't see anything nor did our investigators see anything in this point that would say, let's slow – let's slow this trend down, because we need to understand this modified weekly. And they're saying, look, this is very exciting data, let's push on with this three weekly schedule, which we're starting to understand where these patients are tolerating the drug, where they're having very high response rates, let's keep that going, because we can always come back to modified weekly later.

Okay. And if I could just ask a follow-on, in terms of the modifications that were made to try and reduce ocular toxicity, are you implementing those into any of these additional early studies for the other compounds?

Yes, I mean, we will continue to explore that, we will make decisions over what we think are the right things to do, and we will continue to do that and to continue for our own awareness and for our own education and learning. I don't think any of us in the ADC field at this point can say that we know exactly the right thing to do. The good news is, we do now have an increasing amount of information. I think one of the benefits to us in the return of coltuximab ravtansine is that we have access to approximately 250 patients worth of experience with that particular product and the work that Sanofi, very good work that Sanofi did, trying to understand the ocular events there. Obviously, we've got – the experience that we have now with mirvetuximab soravtansine and this is generally well tolerated with the – we are doing well, we're on track, there's clearly some relationships to dosing and schedule and pharmacokinetics, but there's other things that we want to do with lubricating eye drops, understanding the role, if any, of corticosteroid eye drops, and understanding how we can help patients have the best experience with the drug without the need for a dose interruptions because of any of these adverse effects.

And Mara, it's Dan. Just to be clear...

Hi, Dan.

... you referenced other compounds. The phenomenon of blurred vision seems to be with compounds that utilize DM4. So when we talk about ....

Yes.

...for example, IMGN529, as we look at the profile of that particular compound, blurred vision doesn't appear to be an issue with that. So there's nothing we need to think about in that particular area as we go forward. It's the DM4 compounds where blurred vision has proven to be the dose-limiting element and anything we can do to alleviate that would be constructive – but dose limiting, but not to the point of not giving us a constructive [ph] pass (40:05) forward with the two that we still are advancing on our own, which is SAR3419 or coltuximab and mirvetuximab.

Okay. Thank you for the clarification.

Thank you. We'll go next to Simos Simeonidis of RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. The first one is for Charlie. For IMGN529 plus Rituxan in DLBCL, as you mentioned, this is a fairly competitive [ph] phase. (40:36) Can you give an idea of the type of response you are hoping to see in order to decide whether to pursue further testing? I know you guys have said that you're going to test both IMGN529 and coltuximab and take one of the two, and I know IMGN529 is further ahead, because you have more data, but in DLBCL specifically, what range of responses or efficacy would make you say that this is worth taking forward?

As we look across this particular field where, as you know, Simos, really very – almost nothing in terms of approved agents, and the number of agents which have come through and have not made it, I think we've really got to be pretty far north of 50% of the response rate and almost certainly north of 60%, with a good durability and by durability, I'd be thinking about progression free survival in excess of six months, which would probably take a durability of responses, probably in the eight month to nine month range, to really think that you got a competitive profile that could be taken forward in patients with relapse and refractory disease.

The agents which have – going forward in developments at the moment, and as you know, there are a number of them, seem to generally be landing in that sort of – in combination, seem to be landing in that mid-50% range. A single agent, as we have seen with coltuximab, it seems to be in the 40%-ish range, but I haven't seen many agents where it's really starting to get more – clearly more effective than that. So I think you've really got to be in the 60% and higher range to have a serious opportunity to have a differentiated profile, which would make you feel confident that you could be successful in a Phase 3 setting.

Those are the kinds of things that we will look for as we think of the design of our studies. And we need to look at the data in the context of things which are available and going forward at that time, but it certainly hasn't been an easy area for drug development and therefore, I think we've got to see something really striking to say yes, this is something to invest in.

And that said, Simos, this is Dan, what has us encouraged here is the activity we've seen in single agent, and if you had got a chance to look at the Lugano data, very compelling data pre-clinically, looking at IMGN529 in combination with Rituxan. So, in this business, when you have preclinical data that points you in that direction, you have to conduct the experiment because, while there are a number of interesting agents, patients with diffuse large B-cell are not being cured. The agents are extending patients' lives, but at some point, they relapse and some patient populations struggle with the available therapies today. So we're going to conduct the experiment and, as Charlie said, we're setting the bar pretty high and we'll see how it goes.

Yes, it definitely makes sense. Last question for Dave, because nobody is asking him anything, I don't want him to be left out.

Thank you, Simos.

Yes. Thanks a lot, Simos.

Check's in the post. Simos, Dave's not here.

Well, then Dan, you're going to [ph] answer that (44:02).

No, no, I'm kidding, I was going back to Cheech and Chong. Sorry about that.

The guidance for $70 million to $80 million in revenue for fiscal 2016. Can you break it down, or how much of that would be in cash? And secondly, does that include any existing – does it [ph] count (44:22) any existing – sorry, any new partnership, or is it just the existing?

Yes, Simos, so we don't break it out specifically. But I think that there is a way within the guidance that we provide, to do the math, is that if we have a net – if we have a net loss of $120 million to $125 million in capital expenditures, [ph] it'll go in (44:47) the cash used in operations between $100 million and $105 million. The implication is that there's roughly $20 million of cash revenue that's involved there in the guidance.

Okay. Great.

So – but just as a reminder, any of the Kadcyla royalty revenue and that'll be growing obviously next year, over this year. That was in the $20 million, $25 million range, [ph] I can't remember (45:17) exactly this year. But that will be non-cash.

That will be non ...

And partially offsetting that as Dave said earlier, Simos there is the interest expense component that ends up below the cash, well, that's in the cash from operations line, but that tends to offset revenue. So we have to apologize that the accounting has made this more confusing than it probably needs to be, but that's where we end up with it.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Thank you. We'll go next to Jessica Fye of JPMorgan.

Hi, guys. This is [ph] Ryan (45:55) on for Jess. I appreciate you taking the question. I guess just a question on the ovarian Phase 2 study. Regarding the folate receptor alpha expression label. I'm sorry, if I missed it. But is the Phase II using the same expression level of the Phase I? And I guess, how comfortable are you with that if that's the optimal cut-off for the expression? Thanks.

That's one of the things that we're still looking to get clear and get right, as we look at the data. As we mentioned earlier, we are looking very extensively at the relationships between folate receptor alpha and the response rate. We do plan to submit an abstract to the triple meeting the NCI-AACR-EORTC meeting in Boston in for November that will explore that relationship in some detail.

And if we believe that it is the right thing to raise that cutoff to give us the highest chance of success, we will not be afraid to do it, because we believe we've got a highly active agent here and we don't want to dilute our responses and we want to [ph] give (47:05) patients the best chance for the response. So, we haven't said exactly what we're going to do with the Phase 2 at this point, but I think you can anticipate that it's something we will look out very, very carefully. And that we're not just going to say, well, let's put everybody in, that we're going to do everything that we can to ensure the success of the program.

Understood. Thanks for taking the question.

Thank you. We'll go next to Andrew Peters of UBS.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking [ph] the (47:35) question. So it seems like the next real update we're going to get from IMGN853 will be at ASCO next year. Yet you're continuing to enroll the remaining 20 patients to the study. I guess, should we infer that as you're going forward with the Phase 2 studies, you're continuing to see additional responses as patients are involved? And at some point, if the response rate observed starts become meaningfully different, how would that change your thinking regarding kind of studies going forward?

It's a lot of speculation in the question, I think, Andrew. I think, look – obviously, we continue to look at our data, I think there will be some meaningful update by the end of the year, but how much it will be of a clinical update versus sort of an exploration of biomarkers in the data of the triple meeting remains to be seen.

We will continue to explore this. We will continue to try to best understand who the patients are, who are responding and we will design the Phase 2 accordingly. Obviously, if this was some fluke and I don't see any reason to believe it would be, then we would have to address that as we design the study.

I think it's very clear, we've got a very active product, that obviously the thing that we know least about at the moment is the durability of responses purely because not enough time has elapsed. And obviously, we are able look at that and understand that – as best we can on an ongoing basis and we'll make adjustments accordingly as we go. So yes, if we need to make changes, we'll make changes and if they are substantial material changes, we will inform you as appropriate, and I think at the moment, we're feeling very, very positive, very optimistic, our investigators are feeling very positive and optimistic and thankfully, a lot of the patients we treated are feeling better.

So I think on that basis, we've got reason to really be looking at designing these programs, being very positive about these programs and believing that we have the ability to bring forward a new differentiated product for an underserved population and we will continue to do that as long as the data continue to be strong

Yes, Andrew, it's Dan. Just to add to Charlie's comments, you referenced ASCO as being the next update, we will – there is the balance that we always have to be sensitive to. We will update with whatever information we can at appropriate times respecting the involvement in investigators and the importance that they associate with preserving the data to disclose at appropriate medical conferences.

So, we think there will be important – first off, or maybe not from a data standpoint, but in terms of direction and providing some depth of understanding to the investment community, we think we'll have a robust discussion at our Analyst Day in September that I think will lay out in greater detail what our thinking is around how the single agent and combination studies coming up are going to designed. And so, I think that will provide some insight. I think there'll be additional insight at the triple meeting that Charlie has mentioned about certainly, how we're looking at the profile of the patients for biomarkers and the like, but potentially, additional patient data as we enroll.

I think that you can take – depending on how you interpret it, you can take comfort in the fact that we are enrolling the expansion cohort very well, we expect that could be completed soon. I think that's a reflection of the investigator enthusiasm for what they're seeing as the potential for this particular compound and the fact that we are investing as aggressively as we are, I don't think that our history as a company or this management team have invested down pathways that weren't supported by data or once the data no longer supported it, we adjusted appropriately. So, we're very enthused about where this is headed and our investment behind it, I think, is consistent with that enthusiasm.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. And with no further questions, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Carol Hausner, for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. Like to thank everyone for their interest in ImmunoGen and of course, [ph] issue (51:52) one more reminder that we'll be having an analyst event on September 18. Look forward to seeing a number of you there. If you have any additional questions today, don't hesitate to call. Have a great day.

Thank you for your participation. That does conclude today's conference.