raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to this ImmunoGen Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2005


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. And at this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr.


Mitchel Sayare. Please go ahead.


Dr. Mitchel Sayare, Ph.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and welcome to ImmunoGen’s conference call for our second quarter ended


December 31, 2004. With me is Karleen Oberton, our Senior Corporate Controller.


At 4 0’clock this afternoon, we issued a press release that summarizes our second quarter financial


results. And I hope you’ve all had a chance to review it, if not, it’s available on our website


immunogen.com.


Before I discuss today’s release with you, I’d like to remind you that this call will include forward-


looking statements, and that there are risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to


differ materially from our expectations. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with


an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which can be accessed from our


website.


In December, the Centocor subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson licensed the right to use our TAP


technology for an undisclosed target. As many of you know, Centocor is one of the world’s three


most successful antibody companies. The other two are Genentech and Biogen Idec, also


licensees of our technology.


Seven major companies have now licensed rights to our TAP technology: Centocor, Biogen Idec,


Genentech, sanofi-aventis, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Boehringer Ingelheim and Abgenix.


These partnerships provide Wall Street with reasonable comfort that smart independent parties are


willing to spend millions of dollars to access our technology. Importantly, these partnerships


increase our sharp sound goal, because our technology gets used with antibodies that are


proprietary to other companies and not otherwise available to us. Antibodies like Genentech’s


Herceptin and Millennium’s anti-PSMA antibody. So, we can derive a financial return from TAP


products that wouldn’t otherwise exist.


Our business model is to develop our own products and help pay for our programs by out-licensing


our technology to select partners. We invest cash we receive from these partners in our own


product programs. Indeed, the cash we received from our partners over the past two quarters has


covered virtually all of our operating costs. So, we’ve had minimal cash burns so far this year.


We started our 2005 fiscal year with $94.6 million, and ended up with $93.3 million in cash and


marketable securities at the close of the quarter. And during the same period, we made significant


progress with our lead compounds, huN901-DM1 and huC242-DM4.


At the start of the fiscal year, we took over Phase I/II study underway with our compound huN901-


DM1 from our former partner Vernalis. We have increased the pace of patients’ enrollment in this


study, and we have submitted the findings to-date for presentation at the Annual Meeting of the


American Society of Clinical Oncology. If accepted, we will report Phase II data on huN901-DM1 at


the ASCO Meeting in May. All of the patients in the Phase II leg have the same type of cancer;


relapse, small cell lung cancer, and all received the same doses of huN901-DM1, 60 mg/m2. So,


this is a more homogenous group of patients than was in the Phase I leg of the study, which


included patients with carcinoid tumors and which used a number of different dosage levels. While
raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the patient numbers won’t be huge, we hope to report on all of the patients that have been treated


in the study at the time of ASCO. I should note that Vernalis is making progress with the Phase I


study currently ongoing in the UK. So, data should be reported from that study too at some point.


huN901-DM1 also has potential utility in the treatment of hematological or liquid tumors. To


examine this opportunity for the compound, we are implementing a study with huN901-DM1 in


multiple myeloma. Our clinical department is working hard to get everything set with the study


centers and we expect patient dosing to begin soon. We will let you know when that happens.


We are also making good progress with our huC242-DM4 compound and remain on track to begin


clinical testing with it in mid 2005. We are confident in the design of huC242-DM4 and believe this


compound will become an important treatment for CanAg expressing cancers like colorectal and


pancreatic. An abstract on our preclinical finding with huC242-DM 4 was accepted by the American


Association for Cancer Research. These findings will be presented on April 17th at the ACCR


annual meting in Anaheim, California. The presentation will include data on how huC242-DM4


compares with its predecessor cantuzumab mertansine. We will share the data with you once they


are presented.


Our partners are making solid progress as well. We expect patient dosing to begin very soon with


the anti-CD33 TAP licensed by sanofi-aventis, and will let you know when that will happen.


Millenium has indicated that they expect to report data from the Phase I/II multidose study under


way with their TAP product MLN2704. We expect new data on this type of compound to be


presented at the ASCO Annual Meeting in June.


Karleen will now discuss our second quarter 2005 financial results. Karleen?


Karleen Oberton, Principal Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Controller


Thanks Mitch. For our second quarter ended December 31, 2004, our net loss is $2.2 million or 5


cents per share compared to a net loss of $1.3 million or 3 cents per share for the same quarter last


year. Revenues for this quarter were $9 million that’s compared to $5.2 million for the same


quarter last year. Our second quarter ’05 revenues include research and development support fees


from sanofi-aventis of $4.1 million, as compared to $3.9 million for our second quarter ’04. This


quarter’s revenues also include $3.6 million in reimbursements for the production of clinical


materials for our partners as compared to [indiscernible] for the same quarter last year. They also


include $1 million of license fees in milestone payment about the same in our second quarter ’04.


Our total operating expenses for our second quarter ended December 31, 2004 were $11.7 million


as compared to 6.8 million for the same quarter last year. Our second quarter ’05 operating


expenses include $3 million in cost of clinical materials reimbursed, as compared to $227,000 in the


quarter last year. And, they include research and development expenses of $6.6 million, as


compared with $5.2 million in the same quarter last year. We had $94.6 million in cash and


marketable securities on June 30, 2004 and $93.3 million on December 31, 2004. So, our cash


use was as Mitch said, modest for the first six months of this fiscal year. We continue to have no


debt.


As Mitch noted, our financial performance is a direct results of our business models, which is to


develop products and help fund our products program by selectively out-licensing our technology.


Mitch?


Mitchel Sayare, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Karleen. So, ImmunoGen is in excellent shape financially. We are making very good


progress and our partners are making solid progress as well. Over the next 6 months, we expect