Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Hausner — Executive Director-Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Daniel M. Junius — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Charles Q. Morris — Chief Development Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Adnan S. Butt — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Simos Simeonidis — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Whitney G. Ijem — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
John L. Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Mara Goldstein — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Joel D. Sendek — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Jonathan W. Chang — Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC
Shaunak Deepak — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Andrew Peters — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Jason D. Kantor — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day, and welcome everyone to the ImmunoGen Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. At 6:30 this morning, we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for our quarter ended March 31, 2014, the third quarter of our 2014 fiscal year. I hope you've all had a chance to review it. If not, it's available on our website.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

In our call today, our Chief Executive Officer, Dan Junius, will provide an update on ImmunoGen; our Chief Development Officer, Dr. Charlie Morris, will discuss our wholly owned compounds in more depth; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance; then Dan will review our anticipated events and we'll open the call to questions. Dan?

Thank you, Carol. Good morning, everybody. We're making important progress on our three wholly owned compounds in clinical testing that's: IMGN853, IMGN529, and IMGN289. Here, we'll report an interesting and encouraging data for IMGN853 at AACR. You'll hear more about that from Charlie in just a moment. We'll have additional data at ASCO on IMGN853, plus the first clinical data for IMGN529.

At the same time, we've also advanced through a number of dose escalations with IMGN289. We expect to report the first findings on this compound in the back half of 2014. While this is going on, we're also making good progress with our partners. I'm sure you all are aware of Kadcyla where we're seeing good sales development. Launch is taking place in additional countries and progress towards gaining additional indications. We also had encouraging clinical data for Amgen's AMG 595 reported in oral presentation at AACR.

Data on two compounds we've developed for Sanofi, SAR3419 and SAR566658, will both have data presentations at ASCO and Biotest has expanded its BT-062 clinical program to include assessment in two types of solid tumors.

While this is going on, we continue to expand our technology portfolio to enhance our leadership in ADCs. I'll come back to you on the partner activity and the technology, but now I'd ask Charlie to discuss our wholly owned compounds. Charlie?

Thanks, Dan, and good morning, everybody. I'll start with IMGN853 and the date that we recently reported at AACR. As you know, IMGN853 is our folate receptor alpha targeting ADC that's a potential treatment for ovarian, endometrial, certain lung and other cancers that highly expresses target.

We've reported to you previously that during our ongoing Phase I dose escalation, we started seeing activity with IMGN853 at doses of 3.3 milligram per kilogram and higher, with that dose being given every three weeks. And we encountered dose-limiting toxicity at 7 milligram per kilogram, the DLT being a type of reversible ocular toxicity.

We also disclosed that based on analysis we've conducted, we've changed study protocol to using adjusted ideal body weight rather than total body weight in determining patient size for dosing calculations, and that we would report the data behind these changes to AACR. What we reported at AACR were the data showing how we made the decision and the initial impact from a tolerability perspective.

Remember we compared the pharmacokinetic data from the first cycle of treatment for patients with and without ocular findings; we observed that ocular toxicity occurred in those patients whose IMGN853 plasma levels exceeded specific thresholds. This means a maximum concentration of Cmax just shy of 150 microgram per milliliter, and an area under the curve of the first 24 hours post dosing of about 2,800 of the relevant units. We also found that when dose was based on the patient's total body weight, there was marked variability between patients in their IMGN853 blood levels even though they were dosed at the same dose level. As a result, an overweight patient would be more likely to experience ocular symptoms than a patient with the same weight who happens to be taller.

Having seen this, we used other clinical PK data to model other measures of patient size, including body surface area and the adjusted ideal bodyweight. This modeling suggested that dosing according to adjusted bodyweight approach should have the greatest impact on reducing that PK variability among patients. This in turn will be predicted to reduce the variability in both Cmax and the day 1 area under the curve, which would mean we complete more patients below the toxicity threshold.

At the time of AACR we have treated six patients at a dose of 5 milligram per kilogram using adjusted ideal bodyweight and followed them for longer than the time at which we have previously seen ocular symptoms occur. Their PK was consistent with our models and sure enough, none of them had ocular symptoms. In contrast, in our previous experience of dosing according to total bodyweight, ocular changes were seen in four of the 10 patients receiving 5 milligram per kilogram. So, early data look promising.

We also modeled alternative dosing schedules, weekly, every two weeks, and so on, to identify the schedule that would give patients the most trigger exposure while keeping the peaks below those thresholds that we just described. We identified that dosing weekly for three weeks out of every four should achieve this objective and have now added a cohort to our current trial to evaluate this schedule and those cohorts we're now recruiting.

So we're encouraged by where we are with 853. We will report more data for the 173-week schedule at ASCO.

The next step to this schedule will be to begin the expansion phase, which we expect to occur this quarter. This will provide us the information on the efficacy and safety in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer or endometrial cancer. This phase will have more restricted patient enrollment criteria, including entry requirements for levels of target expression and the number of prior therapies. Once we have data on the modified weekly schedule and decided whether or not that is likely to provide any additional advantage, we will also look at lung adenocarcinoma with the selected schedule.

And now onto IMGN529. If you remember, this is our CD37 ADC for the B-cell malignancies. And as another reminder, this has the same linker and same payload as Kadcyla. In addition, the antibody is designed to enhance the efficacy having cell-killing properties of its own. This product is currently in Phase I testing for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. We're pleased to have had an abstract accepted at ASCO. It will be a poster which has been selected for the highlight section. This presentation will cover what we have seen in the clinic to date from both the safety and activity perspective, and will clarify the modification to the administration strategy that we had previously referenced and that now implemented. As we are still in dose escalation, we don't expect to have MTD information at that time.

Our first clinical stage asset is IMGN289. This EGFR-targeting ADC has the same length and payload as Kadcyla and this antibody once again is expected to contribute to efficacy. We have made good progress in the clinic to date. We've been able to advance to a number of dose escalations since we started patient dosing in November, and believe that we are now at or around the anticipated threshold for the clinical activity. We expect to report the first clinical data later this year, and are optimistic that expansion cohorts should begin accruing patients in the second half of this year.

With that, I will hand back to Dan, who's going to discuss recent progress with our partner compounds and with our technology platform. Dan?

Thanks, Charlie. Let me start with BT-062 as we have rights here to opt-in on co-development and co-commercialization of this compound with Biotest in the U.S. So as a result, we look at this somewhat differently than how we view our other partner compounds. The compound itself is a CD138-targeting ADC. The antibody itself is a targeting antibody as opposed to a potentially therapeutic antibody. And the compound was initially being developed \ as a treatment for multiple myeloma. There was data actually at ASH that was very compelling in terms of its efficacy when dosed in combination with Revlimid and dexamethasone. This trial is ongoing. It's now also being evaluated for solid tumors. There's a study that's initiated in Europe for patients with bladder cancer and triple-negative breast cancer. This is a monotherapy dose escalation study. It was initiated based on some very impressive pre-clinical data, and we look forward to seeing how that study evolves.

Turning to Kadcyla, last week Roche reported Q1 sales of CHF 102 million or approximately $115 million. This compares with sales of $215 million for all of 2013. Recall that Kadcyla was first approved in the U.S. in February of last year. From the first quarter sales that we reported, the U.S. continues to account for the bulk of these sales. Roche has indicated they think they're at about a 43% market penetration in the second-line [ph] and linker (09:31) markets in the U.S. But they're also starting to see increased activity ex U.S. Much of these comments from the EU approval that came out late last year, these sales are principally in Germany at this point where government approval is not required prior to launch for pricing and reimbursement. There was also a launch last week in Japan, another large market, so we would expect to see that reflected in sales as we move forward.

Looking at Kadcyla, there are a number of data presentations expected at ASCO. I think this is a natural evolution with an approved product because there will be a number of physician-sponsored studies that will have data on potential other applications of Kadcyla.

In terms of Roche-sponsored studies that will lead to registration filings, the next Phase III findings that we would expect would be MARIANNE in the second half of this year. Yeah, I'm sure you're all aware this is for first-line HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients. Data later this year would lead to filing in 2015 according to Roche.

There are multiple additional registration studies behind that. The GATSBY study continues for patients with advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer. Data and a registration filing would be expected here in 2015. There are two registration studies already underway in early HER2-positive breast cancer. That would be KAITLIN in the adjuvant setting and KATHERINE for residual invasive disease. There's also a third study in early breast – HER2-positive breast cancer. This is KRISTINE, a neo-adjuvant, which is scheduled to start this quarter.

Other clinical compounds with our partners; let me start with Amgen's AMG 595. This is an ADC that targets the EGFR variant 3. It's currently being evaluated for recurrent glioblastoma. This is a disease with high unmet need. There are very limited options available for these patients today.

The first clinical findings were reported earlier this month in an oral presentation at AACR and they were actually quite encouraging. It was data from the dose escalation stage across 24 patients. And it being dose escalation, I'm sure you'll appreciate that these patients would've gotten varying doses, different levels of target expression, different profile of prior therapies and the like. But that said, there were three patients who had meaningful stable disease. There was one patient with a durable PR and there was one patient with a near complete response that as of the presentation was ongoing for over 90 weeks, and I was told that the presenter indicated that that's a relatively rare event in glioblastoma and seemed quite encouraged by it. They did encounter their dose-limiting toxicity with thrombocytopenia, which is consistent with what was seen with Kadcyla. Given that AMG 595 has the same linker-payload construct as Kadcyla, that's not entirely as a surprising event to us.

In terms of other partner compounds, there are oral sessions for SAR3419 and SAR650984, both of those Sanofi compounds that we'll be hearing at ASCO. Recall SAR3419 is a CD19-targeting ADC. What we'll hear at ASCO in the oral abstract session is data from the Phase II STARLYTE trial. This is a trial that assesses 3419 as monotherapy for relapsed refractory DLBCL patients.

For 650984, this is a CD38-targeting naked antibody. So this is not an ADC, a naked antibody that's being evaluated in a multiple myeloma. Data from a trial assessing it used in combination with Revlimid and dexamethasone was another study that's been selected for presentation in an oral abstract session. Beyond that for 984, there'll also be a poster with updated data from the monotherapy Phase I trial. There was an oral presentation on this at ASH that again showed very encouraging data when they were dosing 984 for advanced patients with multiple myeloma.

So that's the upcoming partner activity. We also have been active and had some data at AACR around our technology portfolio. Recall there are three components to an ADC: the antibody, the payload, and the linker. We think that our antibody expertise is expressed in a number of compounds, but maybe most clearly with 984 with it being a naked antibody that demonstrates our ability to generate antibodies, as well as our expertise and target selection.

We've disclosed previously that we've developed a platform of DNA-acting payload agents, and this is to complement our existing platform of tubulin-inhibiting agents. In AACR, we had some additional data and this was on the lead agent in this new platform, something that we're calling DGN462. In preclinical models, it achieved the desired efficacy while avoiding delayed toxicity.

The data also illustrate the importance of the properties of the linker. The ADC constructs that we made with DGN462 on a cleavable linker had a wider therapeutic index than those made with a non-cleavable linker. So that, again, speaks to the importance of linkers as we look at the overall construct and it also leads to additional data that we reported at AACR on another new linker that we've added to our portfolio. This is a linker that we put in the cleavable category. Remember that we categorize our linkers as being cleavable and non-cleavable.

And the specific properties here is when the metabolite with the payload is cleaved inside the cancer cell, that's the activity of releasing the payload in a form that's even more active with this particular linker in animal models than those formed with our earlier existing cleavable linkers. So we think that, that's quite important. At the same time that we're showing this higher level of activity, again pre-clinically, it suggests a favorable tolerability, the same tolerability profile that we see with our earlier linkers. So it may again extend the therapeutic index.

So, I'm sure we'll have a chance to come back to some of this in the Q&A. But in the meantime, let me turn it over to Dave to cover our financial results.

Thanks, Dan. Since we issued a press release this morning that outlines in some detail our third quarter fiscal 2014 results, let me just review the highlights and then we'll discuss our updated financial guidance. Revenue for our third quarter was $6.9 million compared with $25 million in the same quarter of last year. Now, keep in mind that revenues in the prior year quarter included $11.1 million in amortization of upfront fees from Novartis, which were recognized in that quarter due to Novartis taking a license under our 2010 agreement with them. Novartis has taken three such licenses under this agreement with a portion of the upfront fees recognized as revenue each time one of those licenses is taken.

Prior year revenues also included a $10.5 million milestone payment earned from Roche with the approval of Kadcyla in the U.S. in February of 2013. Needless to say, this was a non-recurring event, but marks the start of ImmunoGen beginning to receive royalty revenues from Roche on Kadcyla sales. For example, the current quarter revenues include $2.6 million in royalty revenue on Kadcyla sales made during the quarter ending December 31, 2013.

Operating expenses were $44.3 million compared with $26.3 million in the same quarter of last year. One big item driving the year-on-year difference is a $12.8 million non-cash charge to R&D expense related to technology rights received and to be received under the collaboration agreement we established with CytomX in January. The balance of the increase in spending reflects expanded clinical program activity net of our 901 [IMGN901] program and an increase in manufacturing batches that were released to partners. As a result, we reported a net loss of $37.5 million or $0.44 per share for the third quarter. This compares with a net loss of $1.4 million or $0.02 per share for the same quarter of 2013 fiscal year. We ended the quarter with $164 million of cash and marketable securities.

As mentioned earlier, we have updated our guidance for the 2014 fiscal year, which ends June 30, 2014. We now project revenue to be $60 million to $64 million versus prior guidance of $71 million to $75 million. This reflects changes in projected timing of some partner-related events. We now project our operating expenses to be $133 million to $137 million, compared to previous guidance of $140 million to $144 million. This is principally due to the timing of spending on some of our pre-clinical and clinical programs, partially offset by the non-cash charge related to our CytomX collaboration.

Taking these two together, we project our net loss to be $71 million to $75 million, compared to our prior projection of $67 million to $71 million. However, we project our net cash used in operations to be $56 million to $60 million, which is lower than our previous guidance of between $64 million and $68 million.

The guidance related to capital expenditures is unchanged at $8 million to $10 million, and we're now projecting ending our fiscal year with more cash than previously projected. We now expect to end the year with between $134 million and $138 million in cash and marketable securities, compared with between $124 million and $128 million as previously projected. We believe that our cash position combined with expected cash flows from royalties and other revenue sources is enough to fund this at least through our 2015 fiscal year, as we continue to invest in the development of our proprietary product pipeline.

So with that, let me turn the call back over to Dan.

Thanks, Dave. Let me to run through the events, upcoming over the balance of 2014, and then we'll be happy to take your questions. It's starting out as an active year and projects to be a very active year for ImmunoGen and an exciting one, because across our various development programs were the stage where we're going to be getting the data that we need to understand what the potential is for these particular compounds.

At the same time, across the full spectrum of partnered compounds, we're getting again into an active data generation mode, we're seeing from the license that were taken over the past – certainly in 2013, those may lead to new compounds coming into the clinic. We think there's the opportunity for new IND filings, so a very, very active time for the company. I think it's quite exciting for us.

Specifically, on the ImmunoGen compounds for 853 [IMGN853], as noted, we'll have clinical data at ASCO. That data actually will be on May 31, for those of you that are starting to build your calendars. We look to start the expansion phase for 853 later this quarter. As Charlie said, we're enrolling patients under two different dosing regimens, so that will give us some further insight. And we'll now update a clinical data on 853 in the second half of 2014.

For IMGN529, we'll have our first clinical data on ASCO. That will be on May 30. And the expansion phase on that compound should start sometime in 2014. For 289 [IMGN289], we're planning to have our first clinical data in the second half of this year, and sometime over the course of this year. Once we've determined the MTD, we'll then move into expansion cohorts for that particular compound.

With partner Kadcyla, we'll learn about sales development on quarterly basis; we'll get insight into further potential for label expansion with the MARIANNE data that we should hear about in the second half of this year. For the seven other partner compounds in the clinic, we'll see quite a bit of data from Sanofi at ASCO, as I noted, we'll see the Phase II single agent data on SAR3419 in an oral presentation on June 1.

For the CD38 compound, 650984 from Sanofi in combination with Rev/dex, we'll hear about that again in an oral presentation on June 2. And then we'll see some updated data as a single agent. I beg your pardon; the oral presentation is the data as a single agent, which could be on May 30. The combo data would be a poster presentation.

But there's also potential for data coming out from our partners across the other major conferences over the balance of the year, ESMO, EORTC, et cetera. Beyond those compounds, with clinical data we would hope to gain some insights in our partner's plans for development over the course of this year. As I noted, there should be the potential for additional IND filings, an insight into new compounds with pre-clinical data, and then a traditional target licenses going out to partners over the course of the year. So, a very active of 2014 for ImmunoGen.

With that, I'll turn it over to Carol and we'd be happy to take your questions.

Thanks, Dan. We're about to open the call to questions. I'd like to ask folks to limit their questions to one to two per person, until everyone's had a chance to ask their questions. You can then get back in the queue.

Operator, we are now ready to open the line for questions.

Thank you. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Operator Instructions] And we'll now go to Adnan Butt from RBC Capital Markets.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Two here please, first on 289. How compelling is the evidence that there's less skin toxin? How much discontinuation is there with current drugs and does EGFR expression pattern change? That's one on 289. And then just a general technology question, what is CytomX technology bringing in that ImmunoGen maybe didn't have before? Thanks.

Adnan, hey. It's Charlie. I'll take the first part of that and I may have to ask you to repeat the second part of the question. But I think to date, the optimism around skin toxicity clearly comes from our preclinical information. In those preclinical studies, the ability of the antibody and therefore the ADC, to kill keratinocytes was much less than we have seen with currently marketed agents, including cetuximab and panitumumab. And there's also this very different release profile of cytokines in those same models, those cytokines contributing significantly to the chronic rash part of the toxicity which have been traditionally seen. And as we've described before, we believe that this relates to only a partial antagonist activity, which appears to allow enough signaling for skin cells to be able to resist some of the effects of the antibody, but enough antagonist activity for that to contribute to efficacy as well as the delivery of the payload. And I apologize; I sort of missed the part of the question about the EGFR, changing EGFR patterns. Could you...?

Yeah, yeah. Sure, Charlie. First, generally how much discontinuation is there with – due to skin toxin at this time with current drugs? And then, does EGFR expression pattern change with treatment?

Obviously we haven't presented any data yet. As I mentioned on the call, we intend to present data at the end of the year. I think, I will leave to your interpretation the fact that we have said that we have escalated through a number of dose escalations having only become dosing in November. So at this point, we have not seen anything which would change our belief in those preclinical data.

Sure. The question was about current therapies that are already on the market.

Well, as I said, I mean I think the primary aim, I think, here is thinking with the pattern of skin toxicity. We are all very much aware of the chronic rash and the acne form aspects of the rash, which has been seen with the antibodies in the TKIs. What the – not only is it out of cost, but we're aware that we might run the risk of delivering to the same skin cells a toxic payload in the maytansinoid. But we believe that the EGFR expression is very different in skin. It tends to be a lower antigen density per cell than it is on tumor cells, particularly if we look at things like squamous cell carcinomas where you see very, very high expression of EGFR similar to what has been described in breast cancer with HER2 and 3 [HER3] positive range that Kadcyla is addressing.

So we believe that if we can avoid the known skin toxicity around the rash that will enable us to dose at levels to have impact of both the antibody and to deliver sufficient maytansinoid for cell kill. With the likelihood, though we've got to see this yet in the clinic, that that would not pose any additional or different types of skin symptoms, because we do not believe that there would be enough entry of maytansinoid into skin cells to cause additional damage. And I guess it's a similar constructive thought to – historically, we talked about people concerned about the expression of HER2 on cardiac cells with Kadcyla. We have not seen reports of cardiac toxicity with Kadcyla. So we believe that it's precedent for believing that we can see this and that's what we're testing right now. And nothing to date has a given us cause for pause in terms of dose escalation.

So thanks, Charlie. And Carol, I had a question on CytomX, but I can come back to that later if – unless you let me just have that one.

Yeah.

I'll get to that now since it's on the table, Adnan. In terms of the – what does the CytomX technology potentially do for us, I guess I see it in a couple of areas. One, for those targets that we may have chosen to avoid with our existing technology or tubulin inhibitors, because of expression on healthy tissue that was potentially problematic, this would allow us to pursue those targets with our existing technology.

As I noted in the prepared comments, we also are moving along with our technology with the DNA-acting agent. And here, there may be even a more intense application of CytomX technology. For everyone's benefit, recall the CytomX technology is the ability to mask the binding region of an antibody, and the mask is released only in a cancer cell environment due to some proteases that are released extra [ph] cellularly (29:23) with a cancer cell. So you have a potential very specific application we're targeting with this masked antibody using CytomX technology. And given the DNA acting agent is less discriminate in terms of cells that it's going to kill than our tubulin inhibitor, it may afford us opportunities to look at diseases that – or go at it with a more aggressive cytotoxin than we have with our tubulin agent, because the DNA acting agent is more potent than our existing portfolio.

And again, may let us go with targets where there is expression similarly to what I referenced with tubulin inhibitors, where there's expression on healthy tissue as well. So it's very interesting. We've been impressed with the pre-clinical data. We're working intensely with CytomX on the elements to the cross license to bring compounds forward both on our behalf and on theirs, and we'll see where it goes.

Okay. Thank you.

And we'll now move onto Simos Simeonidis from Cowen & Co.

Good morning. Thank you for taking the questions. A question for Charlie first, you talked about the 853 newest data you have seen. Can you give us an idea of how the efficacy and the safety profile, which is improved now, may compare to Endocyte's newly approved drug in ovarian cancer in Europe?

I think it's really quite early for that kind of comparison. Clearly, they have completed some much larger studies. We, as we've said, remain in dose escalation and I think, we will get much more detailed information on efficacy as we begin to progress through the dose expansion cohort. I think one of the critical things to think about, though, is the size of the populations that we're addressing because there is clearly, although we're not sure, quite how many of the patients, which are addressed by having the maximum sort of effect on the Endocyte test or overlap with the higher expressions of the folate receptor. What we do now is that their approval is in a pretty narrow population, I think it's about 10% to 15% of the ovarian cancer population.

In our hands, the expression 3 plus in that epithelial ovarian cancer group is about 50% to 60%. So I think we are looking to address a broad population. We're obviously very encouraged that we've seen as we've previously reported single agent activity. And I think you'll see a little bit more about relationships between pharmacokinetics and activity as we get to ASCO. And that, I think, will also further clarify some of the decisions that we've remained around trying to get the dose right. So, I think, it's early for that type of commentary. It's good for them that they have that European approval, but I think right now the overlap is relatively small and doesn't really change any of our plans for moving and pressing forward with 853.

Okay. Great. And a second one for Dan. Dan, Kadcyla sort of got out of gate with a great start in the first couple of quarters. The last three quarters, even though we've seen good progress ex-U.S., in the U.S. the growth has been less than in the first two quarters. The last three quarters growth was, I think, Q-over-Q, 14%. It was negative last quarter, and this quarter it was 11% approximately in the U.S. Are you concerned that there might be a flattening or a plateauing at Kadcyla sales in the U.S.?

I'm not. I think, you have to come back to the fact that all the feedback that we hear and not that we're out surveying docs on a regular basis, Simos. But the feedback from the docs is that this is a great drug. They like the fact that it has a very beneficial impact on patient while being minimally disruptive to their lives. We still are in relatively early days here with a somewhat narrow indication or narrow label, I should say, relative to its potential.

So I think that there is the tendency to scrutinize very early on, and microscopically examine quarter-to-quarter. But I think you have to give this a little bit of time to get a real better understanding of its potential. I think the MARIANNE data is going to be very important. We'll see how expansion goes in Europe and other jurisdictions. But the potential for Kadcyla is so significant that I think for people to be expressing concern, given its therapeutic profile just seems to be misplaced.

Great. Thank you very much.

We'll now go to Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.

Hi. This is actually Whitney, on for Cory this morning. Two quick questions, first on the revenue guidance, can you give us any more granularity on the changes in partner activities that you mentioned whether what they are or maybe what's driving some of those changes?

Sure. I'm not going to say who the partners are, but the nature of the change is anticipated activities in terms of either taking a license or reaching a milestone, a clinical milestone, that sort of thing. So these are things that we don't anticipate going away. They're just – the timing of them has slipped out from anticipated being in the latter part of our Q4 fiscal year into the early part of our 2015 fiscal year.

Got it. And then in terms of the updates on the proprietary programs at ASCO, can you give us any more detail in terms of what we should be expecting on patient numbers or cycles of therapy, duration, anything like that?

I think we're public. ASCO's about six weeks away, I think. You'll get more information at that point. For 529, it's really about where we are in terms of dose escalation and an update on things that we previously indicated in terms of the initial both signals of activity but some other effects that we had to overcome. And with 853, the focus is really going to be again on PK relationships to the activity that we've seen to date. So I think it will all become clear, hopefully, as we finalize those ASCO posters.

Got it. Thanks for taking the questions.

And with our next question, we'll move to John Newman from Canaccord.

Hi, guys. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. I had sort of a two-part question. The first one is if you can comment at all, obviously you can't promote here, but if you can comment at all qualitatively as to whether or not you're seeing off-label use of Kadcyla in the frontline HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer? And then also, in terms of the MARIANNE study, I'm curious as to what the trial protocol allows for in terms of dose reduction in the arm containing two biologic agents and which one of the agents can be reduced or if both can be reduced and whatnot? Thank you.

John, this is – it's a question that's probably more appropriate, properly directed to Roche, given that in terms of any off label use outside of this second-line and later in metastatic, that would be something that they would see. I guess I would just say anecdotally, my understanding is that some of that given reimbursement is getting tougher and tougher. And in terms of the MARIANNE protocol, again that's under the control of Roche and we wouldn't have any comment on that.

I can send you what they've reported, but that would come from them, so I can send that to you.

Okay. Thanks.

And we'll now move on to Mara Goldstein from Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hi. Can you hear me?

Yep.

Yes.

Great. Thanks very much for taking the question. I just had a question on 853. I think if I go back to probably around the R&D meeting, where there was a discussion around activity levels for 853 and looking for possibly a 20% [indiscernible] (38:37) for continuation in ovarian cancer, and I'm wondering if given the change in the dosing and what you're seeing, if that is still the case?

I think our thresholds for determining what we would perceive to be proof-of-concept are not really going to change. I think historically, we've tended to suggest that something north of 30% is likely to be of significant interest for further progressing. I think that would remain true. The aim of changing the dosing is really to maximize that opportunity for all patients. The variability that we saw dosing on a total bodyweight basis, meaning that some patients that were unable to continue at the dose which were being assigned, we think more patients will be able to continue at that dose.

So none of the ambition around the product changes, in fact it gets enhanced because now with the intent here is to have as few patients as reasonably possible with the ocular symptoms, but as many patients as possible above threshold for activity. And I think it's been a purposeful and to date worthwhile process of trying to get it right. But none of the strategic intent is changed by what we do.

Okay. Thank you. And if I could just ask a quick financial question, just to confirm, that change in the revenue guidance is all cash as opposed to just recognition of cash?

No.

Okay.

The change in revenue guidance is, for example, when you recognize licenses, it's simply an amortization of upright cash we've already received.

Right. So, how much of that change is all the change in guidance essentially recognition of cash already received or it's a portion of it?

It's a portion of it.

Okay. Are you able to share what that is?

No. We're not getting that specific because – but I think what you can determine out of that is the fact that our cash usage is actually down. And the fact that our ending cash balance is also up.

Okay.

And the only really non-cash expense we've added is the $12.8 million for CytomX. It's a fairly easy math exercise to determine that the majority of it is non-cash revenue.

Okay. Thank you.

Sure.

Then with the next question, we'll now move to Joel Sendek from Stifel.

Thanks. I just have a couple of housekeeping things. I'll just follow on from the last question. If we back out the CytomX piece from the R&D number, would that be the kind of annualizable run rate that you're on, as far as actually cash R&D spend?

Well, if you took – well, I would say the short answer is it depends. And it depends on sort of the clinical success that we see in our expansion cohorts with our three internal products. As you can imagine, if we see activity and that's going to lead to further likely larger trials, then that leads to more clinical expansion. In terms of the pure research side, I think it's pretty much annualized.

Okay. And then, as far as the – I know you guys had a ton of data at AACR, so I'm wondering when the abstracts for ASCO come out and I know you're working on the posters now. But when the abstracts come out, is there a possibility that we'll see any additional data or is it going to be old stuff as far as when you submitted those abstracts as far as the proprietary compounds?

I think what we want to do with the presentations is try to have the most up-to-date information that we can, bearing in mind that that involves a certain amount of work to bring data in, get it cleaned up, and everything else. So I think you should expect to see things more [indiscernible] (43:00-43:13)

Just to clarify, I was wondering if the [indiscernible] (43:16) abstracts themselves will be old relative to AACR.

Well, I think it will be different because the abstracts for ASCO really are intended to address different questions than the ones at AACR. So 529, for example, we haven't previously presented any data, and we consciously obviously working with our investigators in the abstract offers, try to address different questions with the AACR poster than the ones that we're addressing with the ASCO poster. So I think it's different data rather than sort of newer or older data.

All right. Great. Thanks for the clarification.

And our next question will come from Michael Schmidt with Leerink Partners.

Actually, this is Jonathan Chang, stepping in for Michael. Thanks for taking the questions. My first question is with regards to BT-062. Could you walk us through the rationale for testing 062 in triple negative breast cancer and urinary bladder cancer and then maybe remind us what the preclinical evidence was for pursuing these specific indications. And then, maybe more big picture toss what the timelines and catalysts are for 062?

Hey, Jonathan. It's Dan. Again, this is being advanced by our partner, so it's partner data versus ours. But some preclinical data – Carol, do you recall when that was published?

Oh, I want to say, early last year.

Yeah, last year.

All right. So, AACR a year ago was when the preclinical data was published around I think it was four different solid tumor indications. So it was bladder cancer, it was prostate, it was triple negative breast, and it was pancreatic. And I think if and we can point you to that afterwards if you haven't had access to that data, but I think what you'll find is – and again it's preclinical, but it was quite compelling, the suggestion of activity being seen in each one of those indications. So that's the underlying rationale because the initiative to move then offer that clinical data into clinical studies was based on that and the process took them until early this year to get those studies established and begin dosing patients.

With that, your question around timeline, it's just going to be a function of dose escalation expansion cohort and what the data shows. And it's just too early since they're only dose escalating. The only caveat I'll give is that since they do have mono-therapy data in multiple myeloma, it gives them some advantage with respect to starting dose. So you don't necessarily have all of the early low doses before you're getting into a therapeutic range. So that may compress the timeline a little bit to move through a Phase I study in those indications.

Okay, thanks.

Yeah.

And just a second question on your DNA-alkylating payload, DGN462.

Yeah.

If you could just generally compare that to a tubulin-binding payload? What are the differences and the advantages of each, that'd be helpful? Thanks.

There's maybe two – I'll focus on two primary differences. The tubulin-inhibiting agent will kill a cancer cell or disrupt the cancer cell that will lead to cell death by preventing the cell from dividing. So it has, I'll call it, a discrete mechanism that is only applicable in cells when they're undergoing cell division. That's important because you can look at targets, as you are evaluating applicability for the technology. You can look at targets where there maybe some degree of expression on healthy tissue, provided that either the level of expression and/or the nature of the cell is such that it's not going to be dividing. And you can accept that level of expression.

The great example for that is HER2. HER2 is expressed on a variety of healthy tissue, outside of breast cancer where it's applied with Kadcyla. But you've not seen toxicity; you've not seen issues with healthy tissue of any meaningful level with Kadcyla despite that expression of HER2.

When you move over then and look at our DGN42, there what you have is an indiscriminate killer from in terms of a self killer. So you don't have the luxury of looking at expression across a range of healthy and cancerous cells. And say I can apply this and not have the same degree of concern about healthy tissue expression. You would go into it with the assumption that you're going to adversely affect healthy tissue, and so therefore the relative degree of expression is going to play much more prominently in target selection.

I reference CytomX. CytomX technology may afford us an advantage of using that as a means of avoiding the potential risk of healthy tissue expression in utilizing our IGN technology.

But otherwise, without that type of a mechanism, you're going to have to be very cautious about what the target selection is, and what the level of expression would be relative to healthy tissue expression. The other differentiator is that our IGN family, of which DGN42 is the lead indication, is significantly more potent than our tubulin inhibitors. So as we think about dosing, we think about a number of dimensions there, we would expect to be dosing patients at a much lower level with an IGN-oriented compound than we do with a tubulin-based comp. We wouldn't need the level of material or the level of dosing to be able to – to get to a reasonable level of activity.

Okay. Thanks. That's very helpful.

Okay.

And our next question will come from Shaunak Deepak from Jefferies.

Good morning, guys. I just had a few questions on [indiscernible] (49:56) Kadcyla. First, I was hoping to get your thoughts on the recent NICE decision on Kadcyla. Then, I'm just curious if the 20% discounts on Japanese pricing was in line with your expectations. Finally, I just was hoping if you'd be able to provide a little bit of an update on reimbursement pricing in Europe beyond UK and Germany?

Shaunak, it's Dan. Again, these are elements controlled by Roche. I'll give some thoughts on it. But the interactions between regulators and reimbursement authorities are all taking place with Roche. As it relates to the decision with mates in the UK and I'm sure everyone saw it, but NICE came out with a negative recommendation based on quality added life years for Kadcyla. I don't know whether you say that was expected or unexpected, given where NICE has come out on a number of therapies, it becomes part of a process. I know that Roche, in a quote that I saw, expressed significant disappointment.

So, but it is probably just early in the process of moving things through. And I would expect there will be active discussions about how they can come up with an approach that will receive the endorsement from NICE. There is an alternative mechanism to reimburse patients in the UK today. And so I don't know that it shuts off the avenue of access to Kadcyla for UK patients.

The discount in Japan to a 20% discount, again, I don't know that that's necessarily unexpected. Japan does look at the U.S. as reference pricing. And so, I think that the 20% discount isn't – doesn't strike me as being severe. But that obviously came out of discussions between Roche and the authorities in terms of what was going to be acceptable in Japan. So, and there's going to be more coming out around reimbursement, as they move through other jurisdictions, and we'll just have to learn over the course of the coming quarters how that takes place and will impact introduction of Kadcyla in a lot of other jurisdictions.

Okay. And thank you.

Yeah.

And we'll now move to Matthew Roden from UBS.

Hey, guys. It's actually Andrew Peters, in for Matt this morning. A couple of quick questions, the first one just on expectations for data later this year for 289; as most should we expect more of a safety update or are we going to see some kind of early data? I know that it's unlikely that most patients were seeing MTD yet. And secondly, just a question on AMG 595, if you could just kind of compare that or how is it different than AbbVie's ABT-414? I know that their, they have a bit of a broader development plan looking at solid tumors as well as glioblastoma. So is there a rationale for doing that or have you spoken with Amgen on why they're limiting it to glioblastoma so far?

So 289, you know, as I said, we announced that we'd open the Phase I in November. We're going through dose escalation. I think the – we certainly will be planning to provide an update on safety. And obviously, if we're seeing efficacy, I think you can fully expect us to want to share it, but really will be a safety update. You know, hopefully able to demonstrate to that we all have been able to escalate through without significant skin issues, which I think has been one of the primary focuses. I think we may be at MTD by that time, so there may be some additional information. But, it's a dynamic situation.

And obviously, there is more than one meeting in the second half of the year, there's ESMO, there's the EORTC triple meeting. So exactly which meeting, we still just need to exactly work out. But we fully expect to submit something so that we at least begin to put out some data during this fiscal year, this calendar year, sorry.

Andrew, and on your question around AMG 595, now we're getting into partner strategy and the like, and that's just something that we can't go beyond what Amgen has said. And frankly, all that we've heard from Amgen publicly is what was disclosed at AACR. So that's not a path that would be appropriate for us to go down.

Okay. In terms of any differences between 414 and 595, is that also in that same bucket?

Yeah. When you get into comparing; now it even goes beyond comparing a non-partner's compound to a partner's compound. I think you'd want – I would want them to be responding to that as opposed to me saying anything about it.

Okay. Fair enough. Thank you.

And our final question will from Jason Kantor from Credit Suisse.

Hey, great. Thanks for taking my question. On 853, just a couple things. One, I guess how confident are you that this the new dosing strategy will do away with the ocular tox? It seemed like from the AACR posts, you're still kind of very, very close to the exposure where you're seeing ocular tox. And then also, I think in the past you've spoken of possible accelerated approval paths in ovarian cancer. Do you think that actually exists in the U.S. just given other companies' experiences with the FDA and the need to come up with some survival data for approval?

Hi, Jason. This is Charlie. Well, yes, in terms of the ocular tox, I think the key thing here is – I don't think it's going to go away, okay. I think we would be willing in the face of a highly active drug, we'd be willing to accept a certain degree of symptoms, but I think the problem with the previous dosing strategy was that it was becoming unpredictable who was going to get it. So here, I think what we're doing is we were able to exercise control. And I think you saw the data that say, AACR, you're absolutely right that we were pushing up against line. But having not seen any ocular toxicity, we've actually said, well, we should go one dose higher and see if we can get more in and see what happens there as well, and then decide which is the right level on which to go forward

So I think the key message I think from there is that, if you use total bodyweight, we saw four out of 10 in that 5 milligram per kilogram dose because some patients were over-dosed, frankly. And if you're used to just the ideal bodyweight, you get better predictability and therefore, less ocular toxicity. Now, it's a matter of just finding that balance between the two, and that's what we continue to strive to do.

So I think it has to date achieved what it was set out to achieve. I think one thing to – the note of caution on the data of AACR is that the range of body weights of patients in that cohort was actually relatively narrow, compared to what we've seen previously. So obviously, we were highly encouraged by what we've seen, but perhaps they haven't tested a particularly heavy overweight patient or particularly underweight patient during that particular cohort. So there's more to learn, but we're very pleased with where we are so far.

In terms of ovarian cancer, it's always data dependent. I think, yes, if we saw some kind of dramatic response, I think there's always a conversation to be had with the agency. But we're also well aware that that's been tough without overall survival, let alone progression-free survival in the past. I think we should also bear in mind that we have begun to see activity in endometrial carcinoma, which I think is clearly a highly unmet need with – if any product is indicated for it, it must be a very old product.

So that's something where I think we really could have an accelerated path. So, we don't close anything off at the moment. I think the main message from us is that we will always be on the lookout for that opportunity. Clearly, we would like to transition to being a company in a pivotal development and a commercial company at the earliest opportunity and we will continually be on the lookout for the opportunity to do that.

Jason, just if I could add to Charlie's comment, as I think about what's been done in developing this dosing strategy, I applaud Charlie and his team. I think it's given us an important new tool that we're applying looking at 853 and the dosing strategy. Recall also, we're looking at weekly dosing, which has come out of some of the same work that may afford us both the opportunity to calibrate dosing around ITOX and what's acceptable while having higher exposure to patients that may have a significant impact on efficacy. So, I think it's going to be very important there.

It also, I think, has provided us an insight that may have application as we think across the entire portfolio. It's not clear, we're not ready to make a statement that this is the dosing methodology that we'll use uniformly. But for compounds that have a certain PK profile, I think it would be appropriate and it gives us a sharper instrument as opposed to a very blunt instrument that in hindsight was what we were using with the dosing schedule given the parameters of 853. So I think we have to learn more, but it has the potential quite frankly to be a very important insight that'll significantly enhance our ability to succeed with some of these compounds.

And with that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Carol Hausner for closing remarks.

Great. I'd like to thank everyone for your interest in ImmunoGen. And if you have any subsequent questions, please don't hesitate to call. Have a very great day.

And that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation.