Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sarah Cue Kiely — Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Mark J. Enyedy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Anna Berkenblit — Chief Medical Officer, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Biren Amin — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
John Lawrence Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Cyrus Amoozegar — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Jessica M. Fye — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Boris Peaker — Analyst, Cowen & Company, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome, everyone, to the ImmunoGen December 31, 2016 Financial Results and Operating – Op Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for our introductions, I will turn the call over to Sarah Kiely, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Good morning and thank you for joining today's call. Earlier today, we issued a press release that includes a summary of our recent progress, our financial results for the period ended December 31, 2016, and our financial guidance for 2017. You can find this press release on our website, immunogen.com. The call today has accompanying slides which can also be found on our website under the Investors section.

On the call today, our CEO, Mark Enyedy, will review ImmunoGen's recent highlights and upcoming anticipated events; and our CFO, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance. We will then open the call to questions. And Anna Berkenblit, ImmunoGen's Chief Medical Officer and Rich Gregory, ImmunoGen's Chief Scientific Officer will join Mark and Dave for this portion of the call.

Looking at slide 2, during today's call, we may be making forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which can also be accessed through our website.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Mark.

Thanks, Sarah and good morning, everyone. We're pleased to be with you today to review the progress we made during the second half of 2016 and how we built on that momentum in 2017.

We'll also discuss our financial and operating results for the six-month period and the quarter ended December 31. Looking back at 2016, we took a number of important steps during the second half of the year to strengthen the business and position us to deliver on significant clinical milestones this year. These steps included developing a new and simplified strategy for the company and completing the comprehensive review of our operation to ensure that we execute efficiently across the business and most effectively manage our cash.

Turning to slide 4, just to briefly review our strategy, our goal is to build a fully integrated biotech company that sustainably delivers innovative ADC therapies to cancer patients around the globe. To achieve this goal, we are focused on four strategic objectives.

First, as some of you will heard and say ImmunoGen has been in business for 35 years and it's time for us to put a product on the market. So our number one priority is to complete the development and obtain approval for mirvetuximab in ovarian cancer by 2020.

Second, we will accelerate the development of our early stage portfolio with an emphasis on our IGN programs. With potentially broad therapeutic index, we believe we can markedly increase the number of cancer [ph] detectable (02:56) by ADC therapies with this technology.

Third, building on our leadership position in ADCs, we will continue to drive innovation in this space to unmatched depth and breadth of expertise in new payloads, linkers and methods of conjugation.

And finally, we will continue to lever our platform to support our existing relationships and pursue new collaborations that will generate revenue, mitigate expenses, enhance our capabilities and expand the reach of our innovation.

Moving to slide 5, over the last six months we've made substantial progress towards these priorities. First, we positioned mirvetuximab for pivotal development with compelling data from our Phase 1 expansion cohort, which we recently published in JCO, positive meetings with FDA and EMA supporting the design of our Phase 3 FORWARD I trial, which will allow for full approval with the single study. Pursuing combinations to expand the potential market from mirvetuximab, and most importantly activating multiple sites and dosing the first patient in FORWARD I.

We also advanced our early stage portfolio by enrolling patients in the Phase 1 study of IMGN779 with our new DNA-alkylating payload in AML, and delivering an oral presentation at ASH demonstrating a differentiated profile with our alkylator platform using IMGN632 in comparison to cross-linked agents in hematologic malignancies.

Our partners also continue to make good progress including most recently Sanofi advancing isatuximab CD38-targeting antibody into a Phase 3 clinical trial in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone in multiple myeloma. And Novartis dosing the first patient with HKT288 in a Phase 1 study in ovarian cancer and renal cell carcinoma.

And finally we restructured our operations to strengthen the business and reduce our burn rate. So, 2016 was a very productive year and we look forward to further progress in 2017.

So moving to slide 6, looking ahead, we expect a [ph] data reach (04:56) here in 2017 with several key readouts from our proprietary pipelines as well as advancements in the programs of our partners. These milestones included presenting an expanded Phase 1 data from the biopsy cohort from mirvetuximab at SGO in March. As a reminder, these data look at FR-alpha expression levels in archival tumor tissue compared to fresh biopsy. The data we will present support our patients' screening strategy for FORWARD I. In April, we will present nine abstracts at AACR, which highlights the productivity of our platform and generated novel and differentiated ADC candidates.

Moving into the second quarter of this year, we expect to report initial data from our FORWARD II trial evaluating mirvetuximab in multiple combination regimens that included Avastin, carboplatin, Doxil and Keytruda. We will also present data from more than 100 patients treated in our Phase 1 program to include new data from a 40-patient cohort administered steroid eye drops to better manage ocular events, and a pooled analysis from multiple Phase 1 cohorts that will include the JCO, expansion cohort, our 27 patient biopsy cohort and the 40-patient steroid eye drop cohort.

In the middle of 2017, we will also have data from our AML study with IMGN779 which will be the first clinical data to be reported with our alkylator payload family, and we expect to file an IND for IMGN632 in the third quarter of 2017. And lastly we are intensely focused on patient enrollment for FORWARD I and we will bring on more than 100 sites over the course of this year to meet our accrual targets for this study.

So an important year ahead of us and with that I'll hand the call over to Dave to review our financials.

Thanks, Mark. Moving onto slide [ph] 7 (06:45). Our financials were discussed in detail in our press release this morning. So, I'm just going to review some of the highlights and then talk about our guidance for 2017.

Revenues for the six month period ending December 31, 2016 were approximately $22 million, which included a $5 million partner milestone from Novartis with the start of a Phase 1 trial that Mark just mentioned, and we expect the cash from that to be received in the first quarter of 2017. It also includes about $13 million of non-cash royalty revenue on the sales of Kadcyla, with the balance of our revenues in this period being R&D support and clinical materials fees.

Operating expenses for the six month period were approximately $89 million, which included $67 million of R&D expenses and $18 million of G&A expenses, as well as approximately $4 million of restructuring charge related to the workforce reduction we announced in September of 2016. Net loss for the six month fiscal year transition period was about $79 million or about $0.91 per share. And, we ended the year with approximately $160 million of cash and cash equivalents and have $100 million of convertible debt outstanding.

Now, turning to our guidance for 2017. We project revenues are expected to be between $70 million and $75 million, including about $28 million of milestones from our partners. Operating expenses to be between $175 million and $180 million, and we expect to end 2017 with between $35 million and $40 million in cash. We expect that this will enable ImmunoGen to fund our operations into the second quarter of 2018. So, with that, I'll turn the call back over to Mark.

Thanks, Dave. And, just to wrap up on slide 10. In 2016, we strengthened ImmunoGen operationally and financially with a focused strategy and disciplined execution. Building upon this momentum, we entered 2017 well-positioned to deliver significant value for our patient shareholder fleet with a lead program in Phase 3, a strong team of productive platform, high value partnerships and a solid financial position that will enable us to execute on our strategy. So, we look forward to keeping you up to date on our progress over the course of the year.

And, with that, we'll turn it over to Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will pause for just a moment to allow everyone an opportunity to signal for questions. We will take our first question from [ph] Andy (09:41) from William Blair. Go ahead, sir.

Hi. Thanks for allowing me to ask a question. So looking at the FORWARD I design the primary end points are PFS and high expressers in the overall population. Just – how should we think about the powering as [ph] notions (09:59) among the high expresser cohort, given that the high expressers will be about two-thirds of the entire population?

Anna?

Hi, [ph] Andy (10:10). Thank you, for your question. The study is designed and powered as a robust Phase 3 study. And we have ensured that we have sufficient power for the overall population, which is about a third of the patients who have medium expression, and as you said about two-thirds of the patients will have high expressions.

So we are using a Hochberg procedure, which allows for testing in both the overall population and the high subset at the same time. This procedure is not a higher article testing, but rather allows us to claim success on either the entire population or the high subset or depending on which P value is more significant.

Still a follow-up on that. So does that mean the P value would potentially – could potentially be lower than 0.05 for these two cohorts? And just thinking about scenario analysis, what is the regulatory path going forward if you hit on the overall population but not among the high expressive?

That would be an extremely unlikely situation [ph] Andy (11:29). And I'm saying that for two reasons. One, is from all of the preclinical data that we have, as well as all of the clinical data that we've generated, I would find it an extreme unusual occurrence if we had significance in the medium patients that is so profound that it's overcome or negates a "negative results" in the high subset. It just – we have not modeled that because we do not think that that's a possibility. I can assure you that our biostatistician however has modeled a lot of potential scenarios to ensure the robustness of the design.

Okay. Thanks for that. And just lastly, I think there's a partnered compound targeting CDH6 in ovarian cancer now, is there a conflict between that and mirvetuximab soravtansine?

This is the Novartis compound, and this is Mark. They just dose their first patients and – it's a Phase 1 study in ovarian cancer and in renal cell carcinoma, so I'd say, it's pretty early to tell what that's going to look like.

And maybe just one other point on the Phase 3, I mean, we did review the fiscal analysis plan with the FDA, and so they're signed-off on easing the Hochberg procedure for purposes of this study, and that will be sufficient to support an approval of the P value, right.

Great. Thank you so much for all the insights.

Sure.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from Biren Amin from Jefferies. Go ahead, sir.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just on the IMGN779 Phase 1, I guess what – how many patients should we expect later this year? And I'm going to assume that these are primarily relapsed/refractory patient new trials, so are they eligible at some point for stem cell transplant, or are they coming into the trial already failing on transplant? Thanks.

Good question. Were our IMGN779 trial is enrolling as quickly as a Phase 1 dose escalation trial can enroll. So, we expect in the middle of the year to present safety data from several cohorts. In terms of the patient population you're absolutely right. Since this is a Phase 1 trial, the patients have relapsed/refractory disease, a subset of them have already had a transplant and have relapsed after the transplant.

Got it. Thank you.

We will take our next question from John Newman with Canaccord. Go ahead, sir.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I'm just wondering if there's been any changes to the approach to manage ocular toxicity at this point with mirvetuximab or, if you're pretty satisfied with the methodology that you've been using at this point?

We're very satisfied with the methodology that we've been using and there has not been any changes. As a reminder, we are including not just lubricating eye drops, but also corticosteroid eye drops in all patients in our Phase 3 trial because we believe this will help us manage the ocular toxicities and maintain dose intensity.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

We will take our next question from Matthew Harrison with Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, sir.

Hi, yes. This is Cyrus on for Matt. Thanks for taking the question. I want to ask about the biopsy cohort. What sort of information do you expect to learn? And then for the combination cohorts that we're going to see the data in the second quarter, what kind of info should we expect to see?

I'll take the biopsy question first. So, those data will be presented in poster format at SGO next month. And as Mark mentioned, it will show – the data will support the selection strategy that we're using in our Phase 3 trial based on archival tissues.

The biopsy cohort is designed to select patients based on their archival FR-alpha expression. And then we have taken fresh biopsy prior to this first dose of mirvetuximab soravtansine for each patient, and then also patients received post-treatment biopsy as well.

So there will be biomarker analysis as well. But the key message from that presentation at SGO next month is that our strategy for patient selection based on archival tissue is appropriate.

Right.

Moving on to your question around the combinations, we will be presenting dose escalation data for all four combinations, and the focus will primarily be on safety. And whatever efficacy data we have available at the time of presentation, we will present.

At this point, we have been able to give the highest dose of mirvetuximab soravtansine, which is 6 milligram per kilogram identical to the monotherapy dose in combination with each of the highest dose for each of the combination agents, and those are the monotherapy doses that are typically used in ovarian cancer.

Got it, thank you.

We will take our next question from Jessica Fye with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hey, there, thanks for taking my questions. Two from me. First with respect to the data coming out at ASCO and new patients that we will see on single agent mirvetuximab, can you help us understand how many more patients will get data for that look like the patients that you are enrolling in your Phase 3? And second, you give expectations for your cash balance at year end; can you talk about your expectations for how to fund the company over the next kind of couple of years? Thank you.

So, I'll take the first question regarding the number of patients we have now, who would meet our Phase 3 eligibility criteria. And, we've over doubled that population, so that really increases the confidence that we have that our initial statistical assumptions used to design the Phase 3 are indeed ones that will lead to a trial with a high probability of technical success.

Hey, Jessica, Dave here. For the second part of the question. What we've said is that as part of our strategic review that we undertook last summer in looking at our portfolio, we decided that while we are enthusiastic about our DLBCL compounds, we have to focus. And, in deciding to focus on mirvetuximab and AML products, we chose to monetize the DLBCL assets and conversations are underway right now.

Additionally, we talked about partnering our other products that we have that are already in our clinical trials right now, particularly the AML products. We think that they would be best developed with a partner on a worldwide basis, while we would retain our commercial rights. So, we're not talking about out licensing but a true co-development sort of a proposition.

And, some – a partnership like that would have substantial upfronts as well as sharing expenses moving forward. And, it's not out of the question, at some point that something along those lines happens with mirvetuximab, which would then once again have the same properties or probably even a larger sort of upfront, but also sharing expenses, while once again maintaining commercial rights, particularly in North America.

Okay. Understood. So it sounds like, partnering more for say ex-U.S. is on the table, as a means of kind of financing?

Yes.

Okay. And just to follow-up on my first question, I think, you said you've doubled the number of patients who would match the Phase 3 population. So like that sounds like it would be at least another 16 or so patients. Are we going to see data for all 16 patients of those at ASCO?

Yeah. So we've more than doubled it and we have submitted a pooled abstract to ASCO, focusing on the 113 patients in total from all three ovarian cancer expansion cohorts and then drilling down into the subset that would be FORWARD I eligible. So yeah...

Okay.

...it's – we've over doubled it.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Boris Peaker with Cowen.

Great. My first question is on FORWARD I study. I'm just curious, are you specifically monitoring components with the eye drop used to manage the ocular drug?

So we are requiring that all patients have lubricating eye drops and corticosteroids eye drops. And we are educating investigators and we have materials to maximize the compliance. We also are ensuring that every site has an ophthalmologist that is appropriately trained as well to help us with the study.

Got it. Okay. And then my next question is maybe for Dave regarding finances. And so perhaps similar question to what we got early. I mean, your guidance suggests ending the year with about six quarter worth of tax which I think it would be considered to be running relatively low. So, if some of these partnerships still materialize maybe in the next few months or by mid-year, are there other alternative on cost reductions that perhaps maybe available?

Hey, Boris, yeah. That's always a possibility, it's to – as the finance head here, I always have to look at all the alternatives. So I look at the upside then the downside. So I assure you that, that all the scenarios have been analyzed that we're looking at. And our first and primary goal is to put more mirvetuximab onto the market. And we will do whatever it takes to make that happen.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey Thanks, Boris.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ms. Sarah Kiely for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in ImmunoGen. If we can be of further assistance, please don't hesitate to let us know. Thank you.

That concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.