Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sarah Kiely — Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Mark J. Enyedy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Anna Berkenblit — Chief Medical Officer, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Mara Goldstein — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Biren Amin — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Boris Peaker — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
John Lawrence Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Michael Schmidt — Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome, everyone, to the ImmunoGen Quarterly Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Sarah Kiely, Manager, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining today's call. Earlier today, we issued a press release that includes a summary of our recent progress and financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. You can find this press release on our website.

On our call today, our CEO, Mark Enyedy, will provide highlights related to ImmunoGen's strategic priorities; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance. We will then open the call to questions. And Anna Berkenblit, ImmunoGen's Chief Medical Officer, will join Mark and Dave for this portion of the call.

During today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Mark.

Thanks, Sarah. We're pleased to be with you today to discuss our financial and operating results for the last quarter. We respect your time, and in light of our recent business update, our comments this morning will be brief.

Last month, we announced the completion of a strategic review of our operations designed to strengthen the business and drive long-term growth. As a result of this initiative, we've moved forward with a plan to create a leaner, more agile company, better positioned to achieve our mission and deliver on our core objectives.

We continue to make significant progress with the business. And for today's call, I'll briefly cover the highlights from last quarter as well as outline a few key events for the coming months.

Our top priority is executing on a speed-to-market strategy to complete development and obtain full approval for mirvetuximab soravtansine in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. We're excited about our FORWARD I Phase 3 trial which is on track to begin before the end of the year.

As a reminder, this study will enroll 333 patients randomized 2:1 to receive either mirvetuximab or a physician's choice of Doxil, topotecan, or weekly paclitaxel in the control arm. To be eligible, patients will need to have been diagnosed with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, having treated with up to three prior regimens and have medium or high levels of folate receptor alpha expression. The primary endpoint of FORWARD I is progression-free survival which will be assessed in the entire population and in the subset of patients with high levels of folate receptor alpha expression.

FORWARD II, our Phase 1b/2 trial of mirvetuximab combinations, is currently enrolling in the U.S., Canada and Europe. Recent progress with this study includes the first patient dosed in the Keytruda cohort and, following successful completion of dose escalation, a Phase 2 expansion cohort is now enrolling that is assessing the combination with Avastin where we're using the full-label dose for Avastin and a full dose of mirvetuximab. We expect to begin reporting data from FORWARD II in 2017.

In addition, we received word on Wednesday that the manuscript for the 46-patient mirvetuximab cohort reported at ASCO this year has been accepted for publication in JCO. And we appreciate the recognition for this important study.

Turning now to our early-stage portfolio, we continue to advance our IGN programs. IGN is the term we use to refer to our highly potent DNA-acting agents. These agents alkylate DNA without cross-linking it which, in pre-clinical models, has demonstrated significant efficacy and important tolerability benefits that we believe will enable repeated dosing.

There are currently two IGN ADCs in our proprietary development portfolio, IMGN779 and IMGN632. And pre-clinical data for both of these programs will be reported at the upcoming ASH Annual Meeting in December, including an oral presentation for IMGN632. As a reminder, IMGN779 is currently in Phase 1 testing in acute myeloid leukemia, and we expect to report the first clinical data from this study in 2017. For IMGN632, we expect to file an IND and begin Phase 1 testing in 2017. We will continue to update you on our progress with these programs as we move to the end of the year and into 2017.

So, with that, let me turn the call over to Dave to talk about our financials.

Thanks, Mark. The financials were discussed in detail in our press release issued this morning. So, I'm just going to review the highlights and then our updated guidance for the six-month period that is ending December 31. Also as a reminder, effective January 1, we're going to be changing our financial reporting cycle to align with the calendar year, so we will issue guidance for 2017 in the early part of that year.

Revenues for the period ending September 30, 2016, were $7.7 million, which included about $6 million of non-cash royalty revenue on sales of Kadcyla, with the balance of our revenue this period being R&D support and clinical material fees. Operating expenses in the period were approximately $47 million, which included $33 million of research and development expenses and about $10 million of G&A expenses, as well as approximately $4 million of restructuring charge related to the workforce reduction we announced last month and a $1 million loss on some office space that the company is seeking to sublease.

We anticipate an additional $300,000 charge in the next quarter related to the restructuring and also in that quarter to begin realizing the overall cost reductions related to the restructuring.

For this last quarter, we reported a net loss of about $45 million or about $0.51 per share. The cash used in operations for the period was approximately $49 million, and capital expenditures were about $400,000. For the period ending September 30, 2016, we ended with approximately $196 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $100 million of convertible debt outstanding, reflecting our financing transaction that we completed in June that provided us with net proceeds of approximately $97 million.

We're updating our guidance for the six-month period ending December 31. Projected revenues are now expected to be between $25 million and $30 million compared to our previous guidance of between $40 million and $45 million, reflecting timing of partner milestones and license taking, the majority of which is non-cash revenue recognition.

Operating expenses are now projected to be $90 million to $95 million compared to previous guidance of $95 million to $100 million. And the net loss is expected to be between $70 million and $75 million compared to previous estimate of $55 million to $60 million. Cash used in operations is now expected to be between $70 million and $75 million, which had previously been expected to be between $65 million and $70 million. And the guidance for capital expenses is unchanged and is expected to be between $2 million and $5 million.

We expect to end the six-month period with between $165 million and $170 million in cash compared to previous guidance of $170 million to $175 million. We expect that this will fund our operations through the interim analysis of mirvetuximab soravtansine and into the middle of 2018.

So, with that, let me turn the call back over to Mark.

Thanks. As we continue to make progress against our strategic priorities, we anticipate a number of upcoming milestones most notably the start of our Phase 3 FORWARD I study for mirvetuximab.

With an experienced team, a robust portfolio, a productive platform, and a strong cash balance, ImmunoGen is well positioned for sustainable value creation. I look forward to keeping you updated on our progress as we execute on these priorities.

With that, we will open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go first to Jessica Fye of JPMorgan.

Hey, guys. This is [ph] Ryan (08:36) on for Jess. Thanks for taking our questions. I know you guys will provide 2017 guidance at a later date, but just sort of broad strokes, can you talk about how we should think about potential milestones for 2017?

Yeah. Dave, here, [ph] Ryan (08:52). As you know, milestones are lumpy and they depend on progress by our partners. I would count on license and milestone fees next year to be – our current projections are perhaps a little bit less than this year, once again, depending on the timing. But at this point, it's hard to be a little bit more specific than that, and we will, as I said earlier, provide full guidance in early 2017.

Okay. Understood. Thank you.

Yeah.

We'll go next to Mara Goldstein, Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thanks very much for taking the question. I just had a question on IMGN779 and the trial there. Does that involve any prophylactic use of steroid or teardrops in that clinical trial?

Let me turn that over to Anna Berkenblit. Go ahead, Anna.

No. IMGN779 is the new platform. It's the IGN. And so, we do not have any expectation that there's going to be the ocular issues that we've seen with the maytansinoid. So, we have not put any prophylactic steroid eye drops in that trial.

Okay. And if I could just ask that there is any update on the divestiture of [ph] rituximab (10:14) and any of the other products?

Yeah. We have preliminary conversations ongoing at this point, and there's not much else to say on that point.

All right. Thanks so much.

Sure.

We'll go next to Biren Amin, Jefferies.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Just to start on the financials, your guidance suggests about a $25 million to $30 million burn for Q4. Is that a burn rate that we should assume going forward for 2017 per quarter?

If you just do the math, I think that you would come to an average of about $30 million to $35 million per quarter moving forward.

Okay. And then just on, I guess, FORWARD II trial, you've announced dosing of the first patient with Keytruda. Can you just tell us if you – are you, I guess, in the first dose of the dose escalation phase or just, I guess, provide a little bit more color on where you are with that cohort?

So, the first patient was dosed just – I believe it was last month. So, we're really just getting started, and so far, so good.

Okay. Thank you.

We'll go next to Simos Simeonidis of RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. This is [ph] Matt (11:41) on for Simos. Thanks for taking the question. So, I wanted to ask about the planned data presentation from FORWARD II coming next year. One, are you guys thinking that we'll likely see this at ASCO? And then, two, what should we expect both in terms of specific patient cohorts? And then also, is this likely to only be dose escalation data or is it possible we would see data from the Avastin expansion cohort as well?

Yeah. That's a great question. Thank you. So, we're confident the dose escalation data will be ready in time for ASCO. The expansion cohorts, we're excited about them, it really will depend on enrollment and how things are going.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

We'll go next to Boris Peaker of Cowen.

Great. So, my first question is a financial. I'm just curious on the outstanding convertible debt. Is there a limit on how low you could bring down your cash balance or maybe any other financial constraints?

No. There aren't any covenants that are directly associated with it. It's pretty straightforward with the five-year term. And it's a physical settlement. So, this is just plain vanilla of a convert, as you can imagine, but there are no covenants there.

Right. And my next question is on FORWARD II study. I'm just curious if you've established any kind of an internal efficacy threshold that you'd like to hit prior to advancing this combo into the future pivotal study?

Which combo are you specifically referring to? Because we're combining with four different drugs.

Well, for any of them, or any specific internal metrics that you may share that you expect for each individual combo.

Yeah. Sure. So, as you can imagine, we do have benchmarks for each of them. The patient populations may be slightly different given the number of prior therapies for each of the cohorts. So, for example, the carboplatin cohort is in patients with platinum-sensitive disease. The other cohorts have platinum-resistant disease. So, yes, we do have internal benchmarks that would assist us in go/no-go decision making for those combinations. [ph]

Look, aren't (14:03) you able to share what those benchmarks are?

Not at this point.

Okay. Great. Well, thank you very much for taking my questions.

Sure.

We'll go next to John Newman of Canaccord.

Hi, guys. Just one additional question on FORWARD II. Will you be able to tell us what the results look like based on the expression levels of folate receptor alpha next year?

We are collecting that data. In the combination trial, the cutoff for the combinations is FR alpha expression of at least 2 plus in at least 25% of cells. The rationale for this cutoff is that, given the synergy we've seen pre-clinically from mirvetuximab with several chemotherapies, we think the patients with lower FR alpha expression may benefit even more from combining mirvetuximab with other cytotoxics.

So, we are gathering that data, and we do expect that the distribution of patients with low, medium, and high in the combination trial will be similar for what we're seeing in the original trial and in the overall ovarian population. So, yes.

Great. Thanks.

We'll go to Michael Schmidt of Leerink Partners.

Hey. Thanks for taking my question. I had one on mirvetuximab. My question is really, how much overlap is there in terms of PARP – I'm sorry, BRCA mutation and the folate alpha receptor overexpression patient populations and how do you think about the competitive space evolving with PARP inhibitors entering the market in the near term?

Thank you for that question. So, what we know at this point is that BRCA mutant ovarian cancer and high FR alpha expressing ovarian cancer, medium and high, they're not mutually exclusive but they're not entirely overlapping.

We know that the PARPs right now are really making a lot of progress and headway in the maintenance setting in platinum-sensitive disease that's relapsed. That's not a space where mirvetuximab is going initially.

We are generating data, looking at how the BRCA mutant patients that we've enrolled thus far, what their FR alpha expression is and how they do with single-agent mirvetuximab. And we do look forward to sharing that data in the future.

Okay. Thank you. And then can you remind me, Dave mentioned the interim analysis for FORWARD I in 2018, what the statistics are there in terms of potential outcomes of that interim analysis?

Yeah. So, the primary endpoint for the trial is progression-free survival by independent radiology review. And the interim analysis is after [ph] AD (17:05) events, and it's just a futility analysis. Because progression-free survival is the primary endpoint, we do not have an early [ph] stop (17:15) for efficacy.

Okay. Thank you.

And at this time, we have no further questions. I would like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.

Thank you for joining us today for the call and for your interest in ImmunoGen. We'll be available for additional questions should you have any. Thank you.

And this conclude our conference for today. We thank you for participation.