corrected transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby, we are about to begin. And welcome to the ImmunoGen First Quarter


Fiscal Year 2008 Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. Now, at this time I would


like to turn the conference over to the Executive Director of Investor Relations and Corporate


Communications, Carol Hausner, please go ahead.


Carol Hausner, Executive Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our quarterly call. At 4 o’clock this


afternoon we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for the first quarter of our


2008 fiscal year, the quarter ending September 30, 2007. I hope you have all had a chance to read


it, if not its available on our website at immunogen.com.


During today’s call we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially


from the projections made. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an


investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings which can also be accessed through our


website.


With me today are Mitch Sayare, our Chairman and CEO and Dan Junius, our Executive VP of


Finance and CFO. Mitch will provide an update on ImmunoGen and Dan will discuss our financial


results. We will then open the call for questions.


I will now turn the call over to Mitch.


Mitchel Sayare, Ph.D., Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Carol. We are delighted that there are now five products in the clinic that make use of our


proprietary TAP technology, two wholly owned by us and three through our partnerships with


Genentech and sanofi-aventis. Additionally a sixth product that we developed to make an antibody


also assumed human testing by sanofi-aventis. We expect clinical findings to be reported with most


if not all of these products over the coming year and indeed last week we reported updated Phase I


findings with our huC242-DM4 compound. Dose escalation in that study has been completed so


that now only patients with 2 plus or 3 plus homogeneous CanAg expression are eligible for


enrolment.


While this Phase I study has provided important information on the safety of huC242-DM4 it isn’t


designed to assess activity, to do that this past summer we initiated a Phase II study in gastric


cancer with this compound. We chose gastric cancer because it has few treatment options and was


found to be sensitive to huC242-DM4 in our preclinical studies, but as a true test of the compounds


activity as a single agent, I’m pleased to report that patient enrolment is going well in this study and


that we expect to report initial findings from it in 2008, most likely at the ASCO meeting in June.


We are also making good progress with the Phase I trial study 003 that evaluates our huN901-DM1


compound in patients with multiple myeloma. We’ve completed several dose escalations since we


last reported data from this study and will be reporting updated findings at the ASH meeting next


month. The findings in study 003 will inform our future development plans for huN901-DM1 and we


expect to be able to share them with you in the next few months. We’ve also submitted all of the


paperwork needed to reopen the two studies that evaluate huN901-DM1 in CD56 expressing solid


tumors. Our studies 001 and 002 and expect new patient enrolment to start later this month.


Turning to the four compounds in clinical testing through our partnerships, Genentech is making


great progress with T-DM1. They began Phase II testing of T-DM1 in July in patients with HER2
corrected transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


over expressing metastatic breast cancer that has progressed during prior treatment with HER2


directed therapy. Genentech already has over 30 sites enrolling patients in this study and plans to


include 100 patients. So they are often running with this compound.


They are also continuing to report new Phase I data on T-DM1. As you know at the ASCO meeting


in June, they reported that three out of nine patients treated with T-DM1 at the maximum tolerated


dose had an objective response. Even though all of these patients had cancer that progressed on


treatment with Herceptin plus chemotherapy. By the time of the ECHO meeting in September, 15


patients had received T-DM1, at its MTD, and five of these patients have had an objective


response. Phase I findings are also scheduled for presentation at this year’s St. Antonio Breast


Cancer Conference to be held about six weeks from now.


We’re pleased that our partner sanofi-aventis has advanced SAR3419 into clinical testing. This


TAP compound targets CD19, an antigen found on B-cell malignancies including non-Hodgkin’s


lymphoma. SAR3419 was originally developed by ImmunoGen. We license it to sanofi-aventis as


part of the broader collaboration between our companies. They presented quite a bit preclinical


information on this exciting compound last year and we will report more at the ASH meeting next


month. This bring to three the number of compounds now in clinical testing through our


collaboration with sanofi-aventis.


We are also conducting multiple trial with the other two clinical stage compounds. AVE9633 and


AVE1642 and we will be reporting clinical data for both compounds at the ASH meeting next


month. As you recall AVE9633 is a TAP compound in development for the treatment of acute


myeloid leukemia. At ASH they will report clinical findings from an ongoing Phase I study that


evaluates the compound when given once weekly for 2 weeks and a 4 week cycle. Sanofi-aventis


is conducting a Phase I trial evaluating AVE9633 given three times a week every four weeks as


well.


AVE1642 is a naked antibody that binds to and blocks the IGF-1 receptor and thus prevents cancer


cells from using a pathway to help some survive exposure to chemotherapy. The findings at ASH


will be from a Phase I study evaluating the compound given as a monotherapy to patients with


multiple myeloma. As it would be expected based on how AVE1642 works we think the most


interesting findings will come from studies where it is used in combination with chemotherapeutic


agents. All in all a lot is going on as you have heard and Dan will now discuss our financial results.


Dan?


Daniel M. Junius, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Finance


Thank you, Mitch. Let me take you through the components of our income statements and talk


about our cash consumption and our outlook for the balance of the year. In terms of the quarter, we


recorded revenue of $11.4 million which is up from $7.8 million last year. In terms of the individual


components, our research and development to support these were $4.5 million, we are down $1


million from last year. Recall that this is primarily funding turned into our research collaboration with


sanofi and to a larger extent from our other partners. The sanofi commitment for this fifth year


which began in September is $10.4 million, that compares with $18.6 million which was earned


under this collaboration agreement in the year that ended August of 2007.


Our license and milestone fees in the quarter were $4.2 million that is up from $1.4 million last year.


The first quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $3 million related to initiation of the Phase II testing of TDM-


1 by Genentech. You’ll note in our early release that we indicated we received $5 million in cash


with this event, the remaining $2 million will be recognized as revenue once the contingent event is


achieved that we expect to occur in the current quarter that’s the second quarter of fiscal 2008.