Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Courtney O'Konek — Senior Director-Corporate Communications & Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Mark J. Enyedy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Anna Berkenblit — Senior Vice President & Chief Medical Officer, ImmunoGen, Inc.
John Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity LLC
John Scott — Equity Research Associate-Small/Mid Cap Biotechnology, Cowen and Company
Kennen MacKay — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Andy T. Hsieh — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Aaron Welch — Equity Research Associate, H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC
Biren Amin — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Jonathan Chang — Analyst, SVB Leerink LLC
Michael Schmidt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the ImmunoGen's Second Quarter 2019 Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Courtney O'Konek, Senior Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you for joining. Earlier today, we issued a press release that includes a summary of our recent progress and the second quarter 2019 financial results. This press release and a recording of this call can be found under the Investors and Media section of our website at immunogen.com.

On the call today are Mark Enyedy, our President and CEO; and Anna Berkenblit, our Chief Medical Officer. Dave Foster, our Chief Accounting Officer will also join us for Q&A. During today's call, we will review recent progress, our second quarter financial results and highlight upcoming milestones. During the discussion, we will use forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mark.

Thanks, Courtney. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. During the second quarter, we fundamentally restructured the business at ImmunoGen with a focus set of strategic objectives, a prioritized portfolio of four innovative product candidates and a strong cash position that will enable us to advance these programs through their next phases of development. We look forward to a productive second half of the year with a number of important milestones for the company.

Starting with mirvetuximab, with the benefit of the safety and efficacy data we've generated to-date, we believe mirvetuximab has the potential to displace single-agent chemotherapy in ovarian cancer patients with high FR alpha-positive platinum-resistant disease and to serve as the preferred partner for combination regimens across multiple lines of therapy. To achieve these objectives, we are pursuing a comprehensive development plan to obtain initial approval as a single-agent in the platinum-resistant setting, followed by label expansion into earlier lines of treatment through combination studies.

For monotherapy, we are finalizing the design of our registration study which we expect to review with regulators and initiate patient enrollment before the end of the year. In addition, we will share the full data from FORWARD I during an oral presentation at ESMO at the end of September. In parallel, we continue to advance our combination cohorts with encouraging data from the Avastin combination presented at ASCO in June which Anna will review in a moment.

We will also present initial data at ESMO from our triplet, combining mirvetuximab with carboplatin and Avastin in an earlier-line patients. Finally, we anticipate completing enrollment in our second mirvetuximab plus Avastin cohort in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer regardless of platinum status later this quarter.

Moving to our earlier-stage portfolio, we've made significant progress with IMGN632, our anti-CD123 ADC which we are developing in AML and BPDCN under our collaboration with Jazz. Over the last quarter, we have determined the recommended Phase 2 dose for this program and have filed a new protocol to move forward with combination studies in relapsed/refractory AML as well as in frontline patients with minimal residual disease following induction therapy.

In addition, we will continue to enroll relapsed/refractory BPDCN patients under our existing protocol. We will share data from both AML and BPDCN patients at ASH in December. Finally, we continue to advance IMGC936, our novel ADAM9-targeting ADC being co-developed with MacroGenics [indiscernible] (00:03:49) clinic as well as completing the activities needed to transition our next-generation anti-folate receptor alpha ADC into pre-clinical development next year, so significant progress with the portfolio and a number of important milestones over the remainder of the year.

Turning to our financial results which we detailed in the press release issued this morning, during the second quarter, we generated $15.5 million in revenue, which included a $5 million milestone payment from Roche and $10.4 million in non-cash royalty revenues related to Kadcyla.

Operating expenses were approximately $57 million, comprised of $29 million in R&D expenses compared with $39 million for the same quarter in 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by lower personnel expenses as well as lower clinical trial cost compared to the prior year when these expenses were driven by accelerating patient accrual in FORWARD I; a $19 million restructuring charge principally related to the workforce reduction in conjunction with our operational review and $9 million in G&A expenses which were level with the prior year. We ended the quarter with approximately $240 million in cash on the balance sheet.

We're updating our financial guidance today. For the full year, we expect revenues to be between $40 million and $45 million, our operating expenses to be between $175 million and $180 million and our cash at year-end to be between $165 million and $170 million.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Anna to review our pipeline progress in more detail. Anna?

Thanks, Mark. Looking first at mirvetuximab monotherapy, we look forward to meeting with FDA this quarter to discuss the design of the registration trials and anticipate being able to provide additional details regarding this when we announce the full FORWARD I data at ESMO. We also plan to seek protocol assistance from the EMA prior to initiating the Phase 3 trial which we are on track to do before the end of this year.

Turning now to combinations, as mentioned we recently announced mature data at ASCO from the FORWARD II expansion cohort evaluating mirvetuximab in combination with Avastin in patients with FR alpha-positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. We were pleased that this combination in this population continues to demonstrate encouraging antitumor activity with durable responses and a favorable tolerability profile, particularly among patients with medium or high levels of folate receptor alpha expression who have received up to two prior lines of therapy as our data compared favorably to that of Avastin with chemotherapy in the AURELIA trial.

We remain focused on establishing mirvetuximab as the combination agent of choice in ovarian cancer, supporting its use in the earlier lines of therapy. The mature data presented at ASCO support further exploration of this doublet in the platinum-agnostic cohort that is finishing up enrollment this quarter as well as the ongoing expansion study evaluating a triplet combination of mirvetuximab with Avastin and carboplatin in patients with platinum-sensitive disease. We look forward to presenting initial FORWARD II triplet safety and response rate data at ESMO in September, along with full FORWARD I data.

Moving now to our early-stage portfolio, IMGN632 is being evaluated for the treatment of hematological malignancies with a focus on AML and BPDCN. IMGN632 is a CD123-targeting ADC that deploys our most potent IGN payload. And during this quarter, patient enrollment continued in our expansion cohorts of the Phase 1 study in patients with relapsed/refractory AML and BPDCN. We look forward to sharing updated data from the ongoing clinical trial of IMGN632 monotherapy, along with pre-clinical data combining IMGN632 with azacitidine or venetoclax at ASH should our abstracts be accepted for presentation.

We also advanced two additional assets that demonstrate our continued innovation in ADCs: IMGC936 which is in co-development with MacroGenics and our next generation anti-folate receptor alpha ADC which is expected to enter development in mid-2020.

With that, we'll open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Newman from Canaccord. Please go ahead, your line is now open.

Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking my questions.

Good morning, John.

Hi. I just had two. So just wondering if you can give us a sense as to some of the types of data analyses that we might see from mirvetuximab at ESMO? Obviously, those data are embargoed but I'm just curious if you can talk about the types of analyses that we'll see other than obviously the split between the FR alpha high and medium and low?

And then the second question [ph] Anna (00:09:31) so previously you talked a little bit about some of the tweaks and changes that you can make to the second Phase 3 in ovarian cancer and obviously you're going to be meeting with the agency. But just wondering if you can speak in general about what some of those things could be? Thank you.

Sure, John. So, the analyses that we'll present at ESMO for the FORWARD I study will include the key primary and secondary endpoints that were protocol-specified, and that will add color to the top line data that we've already reported.

In addition, we've done some exploratory analyses to further understand the trial and the population, and those exploratory analyses that are informing the design of the next Phase 3 trial will be shared as well.

Maybe just remind them what the primary and key secondary as well?

Yeah. So the key primary endpoint for FORWARD I was progression-free survival by blinded independent review (sic) [Blinded Independent Central Review] (00:10:33). And the key secondary endpoints included overall response rate and overall survival.

The other question was around tweaks.

Right. So the tweaks will be based on the analyses that we've done on FORWARD I and the additional analyses, the exploratory ones we will be designing or we're in the process of finalizing the design of the next Phase 3 trial. We anticipate that much of it will be the same in terms of platinum-resistant with one to three priors. Clearly, we will focus on our FR-alpha high patients because that's where we saw the strong consistent efficacy signal from the FORWARD I study.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Boris Peaker from Cowen. Please go ahead.

Good morning, this is John Scott on for Boris. Thank you for taking our questions. First, previously you indicated you may monetize some lower priority assets. I wanted to know if there's any update on that process?

And then secondary, looking ahead if mirvetuximab has a label that's limited to the FR high population based on the new study, do you anticipate the combinations that you're pursuing would also be limited to FR high or do you anticipate maintaining a more broad strategy for all FR positive for those combinations? Thanks.

Sure. In terms of business development, you'll appreciate that those kinds of conversations are not generally amenable to play-by-play. So, it's an active process with outreach to multiple parties, inbound interest and we're pursuing those conversations with all deliberate speed. Right now, we're accruing patients in the combination studies with both medium and high levels of expression and we're continuing to evaluate those cohorts in terms of looking for one that will provide us with a clear path to the next label beyond a monotherapy label. And so, what I would say is to be determined in terms of a registration path. But for the time being the cohorts that we have up and running include both high and medium patients which are roughly 60% of the overall population.

Okay. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

Sure.

The next question comes from the line of Kennen MacKay from RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Good morning and thanks for taking the question. I was wondering if maybe you could talk a little bit more about the potential costs of the additional FORWARD or the next FORWARD Phase 3 trial and sort of what some levers are there in terms of the remaining moving parts in the trial design? Is there anything that could still move the needle on the estimates for the cost of this trial that hasn't been sort of completely solidified yet? Thanks so much.

Yeah. Kennen, we have not previously sort of disclosed total trial costs and you'll appreciate that we're in the process of working through an RFP with the various vendors who might support that trial on a go-forward basis. And so with that as a backdrop, I think that's about what we would say. I mean the expectations for this study, we will be adjusting the hazard ratio assumptions for this study from what we used in FORWARD I to reflect the data that we have and that will have some impact on sizing and then focusing exclusively on high patients. So those two things will factor into it. But at this point, we're just not in a position to comment on the costs.

Understood. Thanks for taking my question.

We'll take the next question from Andy Hsieh from William Blair. Please go ahead, sir.

Great. Good morning and thanks for taking my questions. I have two. So, obviously I'm very intrigued about the MRD+ AML population in the – I would assume consolidation setting. With that, do you have a estimate in terms of its duration and also in terms of EMA, just from a scenario analysis perspective if they are willing to review the FORWARD I study, how would that impact this ongoing effort in designing the new study?

Sure, so I'll let Anna – well, Anna, you can cover both of those topics, so...

Yeah. Sure. So we're really excited about the MRD+ cohorts for IMGN632 monotherapy because as you know patients who get intensive frontline therapy and then ostensibly do well but still wind up having minimal residual disease that's detectable by flow cytometry for example, they don't do very well and so there is the potential for a well-tolerated monotherapy like ours to really benefit this population and it would be a way for us to get further signal of efficacy and understand the safety profile of our drug in less heavily pre-treated patients than are currently being enrolled in our Phase 1 trial.

In terms of the EMA, we do plan to meet with the European regulators this fall for protocol assistance regarding the next Phase 3 trial for mirvetuximab.

Okay. [ph] Anna (00:17:05), so in terms of timing will that occur before or after ESMO?

After.

Okay. Got it. Cool. Thank you very much.

The next question comes from the line of Debjit Chattopadhyay from H.C. Wainwright.

Hey, guys. Good morning. Thanks for taking our questions. This is Aaron Welch on for Debjit Chattopadhyay. So I just want to ask about IMGN632 now that you indicate you've determined the recommend Phase 2 dose and presumably the dosing schedules, would you be able to disclose what that would be?

So we will share data...

...or could you tell us [indiscernible] (00:17:51)?

Yeah. So, right. So there are two schedules that we have explored, which is a q.3 week schedule and then a weekly schedule and we look forward to sharing data from both schedules at ASH should our abstract be accepted.

Okay. Great. And for the next Phase 3 mirvetuximab study, would you be able to tell us – have you ever heard anything from physicians indicating strong interests? Again, I know there is a lot of interest in the first trial, so what have you heard?

Yeah. Absolutely. We have really heard overwhelming enthusiasm and support for the next Phase 3 trial, because this is the only way that physicians will be able to get access to mirvetuximab for their patients and platinum-resistant ovarian cancer has a high unmet need when you look at agents that are approved. And if you even look at the clinical trial landscape, this is not where the PARPs show their greatest benefit. And there are not a lot of other drugs in the pipeline at this point that are being explored in platinum-resistant disease. So, the enthusiasm is really high. Investigators want this drug for their patients and they are looking forward to working with us as we are with them to execute quickly and well on the next Phase 3 trial.

All right. Great. Looking forward to it. Thank you, guys.

We will take the next question from Jessica Fye from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is [ph] Daniel (00:19:32) for Jessica. Thanks for taking our question. When we think about the next steps for IMGN632, do you plan to conduct a randomized Phase 3 trial as an add-on to Vidaza or venetoclax or are these going to be single-arm studies?

Well, first things first, we need to do a dose escalation study to basically demonstrate the safety of the combinations and the doses that are combinable. Venetoclax plus azacitidine is a very effective regimen. It's not a walk in the park. There are some adverse events associated with it so we will proceed as quickly as we can, as thoughtfully as we can to identify the combination that we would then move forward. And certainly a randomized trial would be involved in the development plan. It's just too soon to say when the appropriate time would be.

All right. Thanks. And if I can ask one more. It seems that the focus for IMGN632 will be – now, going forward will be AML. Do you still intend to develop it for BPDCN as well?

Absolutely. We have an ongoing monotherapy cohort in BPDCN and we shared initial promising efficacy data from a very small number of patients at ASH last year. I'm glad to say that we have enrolled additional patients and we continue to see encouraging activity, and again we look forward to sharing those data at ASH.

All right. Thank you very much.

We'll now take a question from Biren Amin from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys, thanks for taking my questions. What are your plans in the platinum-sensitive setting? I know you've looked at the mirv triplet combo. Could you share what your plans are going forward with that combo?

Sure. So, based on the tolerability profile of mirvetuximab, we aim for it to be the combination partner of choice and to displace chemotherapy. Towards that end, in platinum-sensitive disease, patients get platinum-based combination therapy and therefore the initial carboplatin doublet that we explored was quite favorable which led us to aggressively explore the triplet of carboplatin, mirvetuximab and bevacizumab and we look forward to sharing initial safety data and response rate data from that cohort at ESMO.

We really have two options then for further development for mirvetuximab and that would be basically doublet therapy with carboplatin or a continued development with the triplet. And right now we're really thinking through the options to figure out what makes the most sense for patients.

And then, maybe in terms of the combination with the PARP, I know that trial is ongoing. When can we expect data from that study?

Yeah. So, you're referring to the investigator-sponsored trial with [indiscernible] (00:22:34) David O'Malley at Ohio State, looking at rucaparib with mirvetuximab and it's co-sponsored with Clovis. So it's an ISP, it's in their hands. It continues to enroll and they will share data from it when they're ready to.

Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take the next question from Jonathan Chang from SVB Leerink. Please go ahead, sir.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First question, can you give us a sense of how mature the FORWARD I data will be at ESMO?

At ESMO, you will see data from the final progression-free survival analysis which was our pre-specified protocol-based analysis. You will also see updated overall survival data. You may recall that the median overall survival for patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer is somewhere between the 11- and 14-month range. And so, based on us having finished up enrollment first quarter last year that gives you a sense of how mature the data will be from an overall survival perspective.

Got it. Thanks. And just a second question is the IND filing for IMGC936 still on track for the second half of the year?

So, in conjunction with the restructuring, we are in the process of transferring the lion's share of the operational responsibility for the IND to MacroGenics and I spoke with Scott last night just to talk through. And at this point, our guidance is that the IND will go in in the first half of 2020 to account for the need to transition a fair amount of this work and get there. In particular, their clinical team up to speed and in a position to support the IND in the way that we would like.

Got it. Thank you very much.

Sure.

The last question comes from the line of Michael Schmidt from Guggenheim Partners. Please go ahead.

Hey guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I just had a couple on IMGN632, maybe if you could give us a sense of how many patients at the potential ASH update will have been treated at that recommended Phase 2 dose? I had a question just regarding your level of confidence and actually having identified a good Phase 2 dose I think at the ASH presentation last year. You've seen activity at various doses, including very low doses so I'm just curious your confidence level as to having identified the right dose?

And then the last question on IMGN632 was if you could just touch on how you think about potential areas of differentiation from some of the bispecific antibodies that are going after the same target? Thank you.

Sure. So, you may recall that when we presented data at ASH last year, we had already explored several dose levels and we saw activity across the dose levels. We now have additional data across multiple dose levels. They give us confidence in the recommended Phase 2 dose. We think they'll probably be around 20 patients worth of data where you can see not just safety, but efficacy at ASH for that.

Moving to differentiation with the bispecifics, our drug is relatively short infusion that can be given as an outpatient once every three weeks, assuming the patient is well enough. It does not have the risk of the cytokine release type of things that you can see with a bispecific, so potentially a better safety profile. There's no head-to-head data comparing that, but looking at our safety profile we feel that it's quite well-tolerated again over range of doses and has a convenience factor that patients could wind up appreciating very much.

Okay. And then maybe just one follow-up, I guess can you remind us just to what degree is Jazz involved in this sort of early development phases and is there an opportunity to combine this maybe with Vyxeos?

This is a highly collaborative relationship so we have formal contract committees that meet on a quarterly basis, but the team is engaged on a much more regular basis. So our lead position here at ImmunoGen came out of M.D. Anderson and you probably know Stefan Faderl who's on their side. So the two of them were colleagues at M.D. Anderson and speak regularly. And so it's highly collaborative.

So, as we move this program forward, it's in lockstep with them. ImmunoGen does control the development just from a contractual standpoint but again it's a collaborative approach and there is a potential to combine with Vyxeos and we're sorting through the specific indication where we would I think maximize the benefit of those two agents together but that's an active conversation.

All right. Great. Thanks for the update.

Sure.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back to Mark Enyedy for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. So, we very much appreciate everyone joining us on a summer Friday morning and we will look forward to seeing you all at ESMO at the end of September. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.