raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to this ImmunoGen Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2005


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and


Corporate Communications Ms. Carol Hausner. Please go ahead ma'am.


Carol Hausner, Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for our quarterly conference call.


At 4 o’clock this afternoon we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for our


fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005. I hope you’ve all had a chance to read it. If not, it’s available


on our website at immunogen.com.


During today's call we will make forward-looking statements, our actual results may differ materially


from the projections made. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an


investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which can be accessed through our


website.


With me today are Mitchel Sayare, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and Dan


Junius, our Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mitch will provide an


update on ImmunoGen and then Dan will discuss our financial results and provide guidance for our


2006 fiscal year. We will then open the call to questions. Mitch?


Mitchel Sayare, Ph.D., Chairman and CEO


Thanks Carol. Hello everybody. 2005 was the best year we have had so far in ImmunoGen. We


made significant progress in the development of our own products. Our partners made important


progress and three leading antibody companies licensed the right to use our TAP technology to


develop their products. Let me give you the highlights, and I will begin with our huN901-DM1


compound. We took over the development of this product on July 1, 2004, since then we have


accelerated the pace of patients enrollment in the Phase II study on small cell lung cancer and


reported encouraging initial data from that study at the ASCO meeting in May.


We also expanded the study to include more patients and more clinical science. Our goal is to


complete most of the patients enrollment for the study in our 2006 fiscal year ending next June. As


you may know there is a second study underway with huN901-DM1 in small cell lung cancer, that’s


testing the compound once given daily for three days. I am pleased to report an increase in the


pace of patients enrollments in this study as well. And we expect to present findings during the


current fiscal year, indeed we are preparing an abstract in the study data now for an upcoming


conference. When we know it’s accepted we will put the time and date of the presentation up on


our website.


You probably can detect that we are really quite excited about the prospects for huN901-DM1 in


small cell lung cancer. After all the findings presented at ASCO include reports of tumor shrinkage


and stable disease in this very difficult cancer. At the same time we also believe that it’s important


to study huN901-DM1 in multiple myeloma where the tumor cells nicely express the target for our


compound.


While new treatments have come along for multiple myeloma, it remains a fatal disease with


serious need for better treatment options. Multiple myeloma also offers a potentially faster
raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


developmental pathway than small cell lung cancer does. I suspect that I don’t have to remind you


that shortly after we took control of the product, we put in place the clinical program to evaluate it in


multiple myeloma. We have recruited the sites, developed the protocol, gained IRB approvals in


even initiated the first site. In fact the lead clinical center has everything it needs to begin dosing


patients. So, first patient dosing really is day-to-day. The good news here is that once it is started


patient enrollment should accelerate and to that end, we are bringing on additional clinical centers.


Although, we will provide more details in this study once patient dosing begins, I am going to take


this opportunity to answer a couple of questions about the study that some of you have asked.


First just to be clear, this is a Phase I dose excalation study. huN901-DM1 hasn’t previously been


administered to patients with multiple myeloma. We have some comfort regarding the behavior of


the product in small cell lung cancer patients, so we feel that we can start at a somewhat higher


dose than we would otherwise, one closer to the maximum tolerated dose established in small cell


lung cancer.


I am frequently asked if the study will be with VELCADE failures. Here is the deal. To qualify for


enrollment, patients need to have received at least one prior treatment for their disease and of


course their disease cells must express the CD56 antigen or target, so VELCADE failures are


eligible and so are patients that have failed other therapy and have never seen VELCADE.


Turning now to our C242-DM4 compound. Last year I said, we would initiate clinical testing which


use C242-DM4 by the middle of calendar year 2005 and as you know, we did it. Patient dosing is


underway at the CTRC in San Antonio with Dr. Tony Tolcher whom you may remember is highly


experienced with our technology through his work with both huN901-DM1 and cantuzumab


mertansine. The trial begins as a dose escalation study and that portion is open to patients with


any refractory CanAg-expressing cancer. Once the maximum tolerated dose has been established,


a number of patients will be dosed at that level. These latter patients must have tumors with strong


homogeneous CanAg-expression. Here too our goal is to complete most if not all patients


enrollment during our 2006 fiscal year ending next June.


Obviously, we have a very active clinical program underway. Indeed, we believe that the best use


of our resources is for us to aggressively develop our products and prove the value of our


technology. However, this does have implications for our burn rate in 2006, and Dan will discuss


that shortly. When, we unveiled huC242-DM4, we noted that we had created several new ways to


optimize the design of our TAP compounds. These design options have been available for


sometime for use by us and by our partners, and includes alterative effector molecules, such as


DM1 and DM4. Perhaps, you weren’t aware that the design options also included various linkers.


For example, when evaluating a new antibody with our TAP technology, we and our partners


typically tested different linkers, including a new cleavable linker, as well as the non-cleavable linker


that recently was disclosed in a patent application of ours that become public last week. So, when


we were evaluating alternative to designs for cantuzumab mertansine, we tested all the options.


The original design, designs with the non-cleavable linkers, the huC242-DM4 design with the new


cleavable linker that’s now in clinical testing as well as other designs.


We found that the huC242-DM4 design with the cleavable linker, and the design with the non-


cleavable linker both worked very well against cancer cells and tissue culture. In some cases the


non-cleavable linker worked even better. However, the huC242 design with the cleavable linker


had far superior efficacy against human tumors in animals. This help us make the decision to


advance the huC242-DM4, cleavable linker design into clinical testing. We found that with some


antibodies and targets one design is best and with other antibodies and targets other designs work


better. Indeed we have spend quiet a few dollars in developing alternative effector molecules and


linkers so that the best design can be selected for each antibody and target.


Moving onto our collaborations, in March of this year our partner sanofi-aventis advanced the TAP


compound huC196-DM4 or as they call it AVE9633 into clinical testing for the treatment of acute