raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to this ImmunoGen Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2005


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr.


Mitchel Sayare. Please go ahead sir.


Mitchel Sayare, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks. Good afternoon and welcome to ImmunoGen’s conference call for our third quarter ended


March 31st, 2005. With me is Karleen Oberton, our Senior Corporate Controller. At 4 o’clock this


afternoon we issued a press release that summarizes our third quarter financial results. I hope


you’ve all had a chance to review it, if not, it’s available on our website, immunogen.com.


Before I discuss today’s release with you, I need to remind you that this call will include forward-


looking statements and that there are risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to


differ materially from our expectations. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with


an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings which can be accessed from our


website.


As you can see from our financials, our cash burn for the first nine months of this fiscal year was


approximately $3 million overall and $1.5 million on an operating basis. This is against total


expenses of about 37.8 million during the same nine-month period. Our low burn rate is a direct


result of our business model to develop our own – wholly owned products and help fund these


programs by out-licensing our payload technology to other companies for use with their proprietary


antibodies, antibody like Herceptin, that aren’t available for use in our own product programs.


Speaking of Herceptin, as you know, Genentech was the first company to purchase access to our


payload technology when they licensed the right to use it with antibodies to HER2 such as Receptin


a few years ago. Last week, Genentech became the first company to take a second license to use


our payload technology, this time with their antibodies to an undisclosed target. We received a $1


million from Genentech with this event and are entitled to receive milestone payments and of


course royalties on sales of any resulting products.


Then earlier this week, Genentech renewed the multi-target agreement that enables them to test


their technology with their antibodies to specific targets. We received $2 million from Genentech as


a result of the renewal. I want to make it clear that it was only the technology access agreement


with Genentech that was expiring. The license agreement that allows Genentech to use our


technology with antibodies to HER2 such as Receptin did not need to be extended.


Two of our other partners also had recent achievements, Millennium reported the final results from


their Phase I single dose escalation trial at a Prostate Cancer Symposium in February. The full


results from this study were consistent with the preliminary findings reported at ASCO last May.


And Millennium is scheduled to report data from their multi-dose study at ASCO on Saturday, May


14th. Millennium said on their recent conference call that these will be interim results in about 21


patients since enrollment is still ongoing.


Our partner Sanofi-Aventis moved the anti-CD33 compound that they licensed from us into human


clinical testing. We earned a $2 million milestone payment at March, when the first patient was


dosed. This compound now known as AVE9633 is in development for acute myeloid leukemia.


So, our partners are busy and they are providing us with cash. We in turn are actively engaged in


the development of our own products. We will report data on huN901-DM1 at ASCO on Tuesday,
raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


May 17th and in accordance with ASCO rules we will put our press release out after the start of the


poster session at 8 AM.


The data reported will be from the Phase II leg of the Phase I/II study underway in the US. All of


the patients in the Phase-II leg have advanced small-cell lung cancer and all have relapsed


following treatment with other agents although their cancer is not necessarily refractory. The


patients receive 60 mgs/meter square of huN901-DM1 weekly for 4 weeks in a 6 weeks cycle.


They expect to report data on about 12 to 15 patients since this study is still underway as well.


We also are preparing to start a trial with this compound in CD56 positive multiple myeloma. As


you know, we were hoping the trial would start a little earlier this year. It was delayed for purely


logistical reasons by the institutional review board of the clinical site where the study will be


conducted. Happily that is now behind us and we expect dosing to begin within the next month or


so. We will announce it when it happens and provide more details on the study at that time.


We are making great progress with huC242-DM4 and expect to begin clinical testing with this


compound within the next month or so as well. The IND has been reviewed by FDA and we are


pretty much set with the study center and their IRB. We will provide you with more details on this


study when patient dosing has begun as well.


In April, we reported pre clinical findings with huC242-DM4 at AACR. In our models, we found that


huC242-DM4 to be much more active than huC242-DM1 against colon cancer cells, they provide


comparable tolerability. huC242-DM4 is also highly active against CanAg expressing pancreatic,


gastric and lung cancer cells. We believe that in clinical evaluation, huC242-DM4 will prove to be


highly active at doses that are well tolerated.


Karleen will now discuss our third quarter 2005 financial results. Karleen?


Karleen Oberton, Principal Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer


Thanks Mitch. For our third quarter ended March 31st 2005, our net loss was $3.6 million or 9


cents per share compared to a net loss of $0.8 million or 2 cents per share for the same quarter last


year. Revenue for this quarter were $10.2 million as compared to $7.6 million for the same quarter


last year. Our third quarter ’05 revenues include research and development support fees of $4.6


million as compared to $4.1 million for our third quarter ’04. This revenue was primarily aren’t [ph]


in our collaboration with Sanofi-Aventis, but also includes amounts earned under our agreement


with Biogen Idec and Centocor.


This quarter’s revenue also includes 2.4 million and reimbursement for the production of clinical


materials for our partners as compared to $0.9 million for the same quarter last year and they


include $3 million of license and milestone fees as compared to $2.6 million for our third quarter


’04. Our total operating expenses for our third quarter ended March 31st 2005 were $14.3 million


as compared to $8.7 million for the same quarter last year. Our third quarter ’05 operating


expenses include $2.3 million in cost of clinical materials reimbursed as compared to $0.7 million in


the same quarter last year and they include research and development expenses of $9.8 million as


compared to 6.2 million in the same quarter last year.


Included in research and development for our third quarter ’05, is a $1.3 million expense for excess


raw material inventory. In accordance, with our accounting policy for inventory reserve, we


expense the cost of raw materials in excess of 12 months’ forecasted demand and forecasted


demand was reduced with discontinuation of development of bivatuzumab mertansine by


Boehringe Ingelheim in February 2005. We had $94.6 million in cash from marketable securities on


June 30th 2004 and 91.6 million on March 31st 2005. During the first nine months of our 2005