Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Hausner — Executive Director-Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Daniel M. Junius — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Charles Q. Morris — Chief Development Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Adnan S. Butt — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Simos Simeonidis — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Cory W. Kasimov — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Joel D. Sendek — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Jason D. Kantor — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Michael W. Schmidt — Analyst, Leerink Swann LLC
John S. Sonnier — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Shaunak Deepak — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Andrew Peters — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Bert C. Hazlett — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Steve Byrne — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. We're about to begin. Good day, everyone, and welcome to this ImmunoGen's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communication, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you very much. Good morning. At 6:30 this morning, we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for our quarter ended December 31, 2013, which is the second quarter of our 2014 fiscal year. I hope you've all had a chance to review it. If not, it's available on our website.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

In our call today, our Chief Executive Officer, Dan Junius, will provide an update on ImmunoGen; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will provide our financial results and guidance – will discuss our financial results and guidance. We'll then open the call for questions.

Our Chief Development Officer, Dr. Charlie Morris, is here with us for the Q&A section of the call. Dan?

Thank you, Carol. Excuse me. Good morning, everybody. We come into 2014 with quite a bit of momentum having closed our 2013 with a high level of activity. We're making important progress in our three wholly-owned compounds in clinical testing: IMGN853, IMGN529 and IMGN289. We also recently made the decision to discontinue the development of IMGN901, and I'll take you through that in just a moment.

Beyond our proprietary compounds, we've seen a significant uptick in partner activity in 2013, particularly in the latter part of the year. Clinical data was reported on six compounds by four partners in 2013, data on four of these was in the latter part of the year. Also, Amgen, Lilly, Novartis and Sanofi all took licenses to our ADC technology in 2013. Four of these came in the back half of the year, too, from Novartis. And we also took some steps to continue to augment our technology portfolio, in particular, with a cross-license with CytomX.

Let me walk you through the details of these, starting with our wholly-owned compounds, and let me start first with IMGN901. Recall that in November, we announced we were stopping our IMGN901 small-cell lung cancer study. This was due to an imbalance of deaths due to infection without sufficient proof of benefit to justify continuation.

Once we took that step, we wanted to assess available data before deciding on any further payouts for IMGN901. As you might expect, we did quite a bit of analysis, and through that, there was no suggestion of an issue with the compound or with the technology. However, the analysis was challenging as we had only a handful events to evaluate for each different dimension that we were looking at out of the study. From that, we were unable to identify a clear reason for the imbalance. We do suspect the combination played a role in increasing the level of infection from what one would see with etoposide/carbo alone because that is – we did see a level of infection in that arm of the study that did not include 901.

But out of that, we decided to discontinue development of the compound. This is certainly disappointing for us, for the potential that it offered to patients suffering from small-cell lung cancer, although I expect this outcome doesn't come as a surprise to many of you. But with this decision, we'll now focus on our newer high-potential products, and let me now turn to those.

I'll start with IMGN289. This is an ADC that targets EGFR. It advanced into the clinic since our last call. We are in a dose escalation Phase I study, and enrolment is proceeding well. We're looking for patients and enrolling patients likely to have EGFR-positive solid tumors, then we'll open expansion cohorts once we've established the maximum tolerated dose.

There's quite a bit of interest in this compound, part of it stems from this being a target EGFR that's well known by clinicians. It also includes an active antibody, so it has a potential dual mechanism both from the antibody itself, as well as from the cytotoxin in the ADC.

It also parallels with Kadcyla, both concerning the target and that it's in the ErbB family on solid tumors as is HER2 for Kadcyla, as well as the design of the product. It has the same linker, the same cytotoxin as Kadcyla.

The second proprietary compound I'll mention is IMGN529. This is an ADC that targets CD37. As just noted with 289, it has the same linker, the same payload as Kadcyla. And also similar to 289, it has an active antibody, an antibody that's actually very active pre-clinically. Right now, we're in dose escalation with this compound for NHL.

We've noted on earlier calls that we saw a biologic changes, as well as evidence of activity at lower-than-anticipated doses. Based on our analysis after we'd seen that, we believe we know the reasons for these changes. And what we've done is added premedication to the protocol, which allowed us to resume dose escalation.

We have submitted an abstract to ASCO that will give us the opportunity to discuss the things that we've seen in early patients more extensively than we've been able to thus far.

And then the final proprietary compound is IMGN853. As we previously discussed, we're dosing patients once every three weeks with a dose that's now based on adjusted ideal body weight. We're enrolling very well, and we expect to move into the expansion cohorts in the next few months.

While the expansion cohorts will be for patients' dose once every three weeks, we'll also be assessing a weekly dosing schedule concurrently. This is based on PK analysis that suggests more frequent dosing may offer advantages to patients, so that the dosing that will be three weeks – weekly for three weeks on a four-week schedule. And as I say, we're very interested in the results that, that will generate.

Based on those two approaches, the every three weeks and the modified weekly, we'll select the best schedule event for ongoing evaluation of the compound. We have submitted an abstract and expect to present data in AACR of the PK modeling that gets us to the adjusted ideal body weight. We're also submitting an abstract to ASCO that will provide additional data, so a more expanded clinical database that will reference the PK modeling work that we've done. So, we think you'll find that interesting.

In terms of the first meaningful amount of disease-specific data, that won't come until the back half of this year probably at ESMO or at EORTC.

Beyond the clinical programs, we continue to focus on other pipeline development, looking to expand the opportunity for substantial new therapies through both our internal research, as well as in-licensing.

In our last call, we discussed our new DNA-acting agents, as well as another of our new linkers, both of which we had a medical conference late last year. On the delivery side, we announced the collaboration with CytomX earlier this month. This will allow us to create anti-cancer compounds using our ADC technology and combining it with their antibody masking technology. This supports the opportunity for further improvement in the therapeutic window for ADCs and potentially can expand the universe of targets, such as those with less discrete expression on cancer tissues.

So, let me now turn from our proprietary compounds and talk about our partners, because there's been quite a bit of activity there since our last call. And let me just cover a few of the key compounds. I'll start with Kadcyla. As yesterday, Roche reported 2013 Kadcyla sales of CHF 236 million or approximately $250 million. Almost all of those sales, CHF 222 million out of the CHF 236 million came from the U.S. where Kadcyla was approved and launched in early 2013.

Kadcyla was approved in the EU in November and they were able to launch soon after the approval in some countries such as Germany. However, many of the countries require agreement on pricing or reimbursement first. We expect this will lead to gradual pan-European launch over the course of 2014 and commensurate sales with those launches.

In terms of other Kadcyla activity focusing on label expansion, the results from the MARIANNE Phase III study are still expected in the back half of 2014, with filing in 2015. Roche also expects data and filing in 2015 for Kadcyla for use in HER2-positive gastric cancer, this would be second line. As well as in late 2015, they should have data on neoadjuvant use based on pathological complete response, again, in HER2-positive breast cancer.

They also recently announced that they started the Phase III study in the adjuvant setting. This is a study that they've termed or named KAITLIN. This would be looking at Kadcyla in combination with the Perjeta versus a triple combination of Herceptin plus taxane and Perjeta for up to one year. This all would be after three to four cycles of standard anthracycline-based therapy.

Two other compounds I'd like to note where there were important presentations at ASH, the first being BT-062 which is being developed by Biotest. This has their antibody along with our ADC technology. Recall here we have the opt-in right for co-development and co-commercialization with Biotest in the U.S.

At an oral presentation at ASH, they reported initial results from a trial assessing BT-062 used in combination with Rev/dex to treat relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Virtually, all of the patients in these studies, and this particular study, had prior Revlimid and Velcade, and 76% had prior autologous stem-cell transplant. We thought the data was quite interesting that 100% of the evaluable patients had stable disease or better. This included two patients with CRs, four VGPRs and five PRs, so a very interesting activity from this compound with the Rev/dex combination.

Overall, the objective response rate was 73%. This includes patients who were refractory to Rev/dex. The overall response rate in patients with – who were refractory to Rev/dex was 75%, and the overall response rate was 89% among patients treated at a maximum tolerated dose. At the same time, the tolerability profile looked very good.

The MTD was 100 milligrams per meter squared, which is above 2.7 milligrams per kilogram when dosed weekly for three weeks every four weeks on top of Rev plus low-dose dex.

The other compound that was featured at ASH and actually with another oral presentation, and it was selected for Best of ASH, was SAR650984, which is a compound being advanced by Sanofi. And this is a naked antibody, so a little different than most of the compounds we talked about, in that this is not an ADC. The antibody targets CD38, it was created by ImmunoGen during our Sanofi collaboration. And in that it is a naked antibody, I think it does a very nice job of demonstrating the company's expertise in the antibody area.

In terms of the data reported at ASH, here it was used as a single agent again in patients with heavily pre-treated multiple myeloma. Among that population, 77% of the evaluable patients had stable disease or better and there was a 36% objective response rate among evaluable patients receiving higher doses. This included two CRs, one PR, a minimum response in a number of patients with stable disease. Now, obviously, it's a small number of patients, but given that this was a naked antibody with heavily pretreated patients, these looked to be very interesting results. With 984, Sanofi also has a trial under way assessing 984 in combination with Rev/dex.

So, let me now turn it over to Dave to discuss our financial results, and I'll come back to you during the Q&A.

Thanks, Dan, and good morning. Since we issued a press release this morning outlining our second quarter 2014 results, let me just review the highlights, and then we'll speak to the balance sheet and updated financial guidance.

Revenues for the quarter were $30.1 million as compared to $2.6 million for the same quarter last year. This increase is principally due to greater revenues from license and milestone fees. And that will be a recurring theme to my review here.

So, the current quarter revenue includes $18.2 million in amortization of upfront license fees from the multi-target agreement established with Novartis in fiscal 2011. We recognized these fees this quarter when Novartis took two licenses to use our ADC technology and executed a one-year extension of that multi-target agreement. Additionally, the current quarter includes $2.2 million in amortization of upfront license fees from Amgen and a $5 million milestone payment from Roche which was earned with the approval of Kadcyla in the European Union.

Revenues for the quarter also include $2.3 million of royalty payments from Roche on sales of Kadcyla during the quarter ended September 30, 2013. Our operating expenses for the quarter were $26.3 million, similar to the $27.1 million in the same quarter of last year. We reported a net income of $3.8 million or $0.04 per share for the second quarter. This compares with the net loss of $24.4 million, or $0.29 per share for the same quarter in our 2013 fiscal year. The difference is primarily due to increased revenue from license and milestone fees earned in the current quarter. However, we continue to expect to have a net loss for our 2014 fiscal year overall.

Cash used in operations during the first six months of fiscal 2014 was $21.6 million compared to $42.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2013, with the difference primarily due to an increase in milestone payments, upfront license fees and royalties.

We've updated our guidance for 2014 fiscal year which ends June 30, 2014. We now project that our net cash used in operations will be between $64 million and $68 million, compared to our previous projection of between $69 million to $73 million. And that our cash balance on June 30, 2014, will be between $124 million and $128 million compared to our previous projection of between $119 million and $123 million.

These changes in projected cash used in operations and ending – our cash balance primarily reflect reductions in anticipated cash expenses, consistent with those that we've seen year-to-date.

On a P&L basis, however, we anticipate that these reductions will be offset by non-cash expenses that we expect to record related to the CytomX collaboration that we entered into earlier this month. However, the accounting treatment of that transaction has not yet been finalized. We believe our cash position, combined with expected cash inflows from royalties and other revenue sources, is enough to fund us at least through our 2015 fiscal year, as we continue to invest in the development of our proprietary product pipeline.

The rest of our guidance is unchanged from that which we provided in October. We continue to project that revenue for our 2014 fiscal year will be between $71 million and $75 million. Operating expense for this fiscal year will be between $140 million and $144 million. And our net loss for 2014 fiscal year will be between $67 million and $71 million.

So with that, let me turn the call back over to Dan.

Thanks, Dave. Before we get to the Q&A, let me just take you through anticipated events over the course of 2014. I noted at the outset that we feel we have a great deal of momentum coming into the year. I think that's demonstrated as I'll take you through the events themselves. And it's not just the events but it's the quality of events. We think that, over the course of the year, we're going to gain very important insight into our proprietary portfolio as we get deeper into expansion cohorts, as we move to expansion cohorts with 289. But also with our partner compounds as many of them are getting into a stage where there'll be next-stage development decisions forthcoming. We expect to see some expansion of the pipeline from our partners in terms of new compounds coming into the clinic. But let me get to the specifics.

So, for IMGN853, we expect the expansion cohort to start sometime during the first half of this year, but we will have data on the relationship of dose, efficacy and toxicity in the second quarter. And as I noted during the earlier portion, we would expect to see the first disease-specific data in the second half of this year.

For IMGN529, we'll have the first clinical data in the second quarter of this year and look to begin expansion cohorts in the back half of the year.

For IMGN 289, there's the potential for the first clinical data and/or development events sometime in the back half of 2014.

For partner compounds, we'll gain increasing insight into sales in the U.S. and the rest of the world for Kadcyla as Roche reports their quarterly data. And we'll see the MARIANNE results that's anticipated right now to be in the second half of this year.

Off of the seven other compounds in the clinic, we would look to see data at ASCO, ESMO, EORTC, ASH, et cetera, possibly at some of the smaller medical conferences that would be disease-specific over the course of the year.

And about the other progress from our partner compounds, we'll get some development insights as they report data. We would look to see some one or more INDs being filed by partners over the course of the year. Accompanying that, we'd love to see some pre-clinical data on a number of compounds being evaluated by partners. And we would – well, it was an active year for target licenses in 2013. We'd expect to see more target licenses being taken over the course of 2014 as well.

So, with that, let me turn it back to Carol and she can moderate the Q&A for us.

Thanks, Dan. We're about to open the call to questions. I'd like to ask you to limit your questions to one to two per person. Until everybody has had a chance to ask questions, you can then get back in the queue. Operator, we are now ready to open the call to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will take your first question from Adnan Butt from RBC.

Hi. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for taking my question. First, Dave, congrats on joining. Two questions here. First on 853, have you decided which disease-specific indications to pursue? Is non-small cell lung cancer one of them or isn't one of them? And then the second question for BT-062, when is the opt-in decision made, when will it be made and what do you need to see, and if you can disclose the terms of that, that would be helpful as well. Thanks.

Probably. We'll start with Charlie answering the 853 and then Dan for BT-062.

Adnan, yes. For 853, I think our primary focus at the moment there, I think we would be looking at ovarian and endometrial carcinomas, primarily because that's the majority of the patients that we have recruited, so where we have the greater amount of information. Obviously, we're very interested in the non-small cell lung cancer opportunities within that, as well as other potentials, which will come through our screens. But I think, certainly, as we start to hopefully bring more data to you over next few months, you'll see that most of our information at the moment is in the gynecologic area.

And then on the question on 062, the opt-in, we haven't disclosed a specific event. We've noted that the opt-in fee is $15 million and it's development related. I don't think that we'll be facing a hard decision on that for probably a couple of years. So, you can sort of figure out where that might be in terms of development. But it is one that we're watching very closely.

As I noted during the initial comments, we're quite excited about the data that it generated and reported at ASH. But the fact that they now have a couple of – well, they have one study looking at a couple of indications in solid tumors, should generate some additional, we hope, interesting data. And if we have a good dialogue with Biotest, we'll monitor the progress of the compound very closely.

Adnan, do you have anything further?

I'm sorry. Thank you.

We'll move next to Simos Simeonidis from Cowen & Co.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking the questions. Actually I have two on Kadcyla. The drug had a very good year overall in terms of sales. In the first 10 months it was used, $255 million sales worldwide. But we did see a slowdown of the growth in the last couple of quarters. Can you tell us where do you see the drug being used? I mean, where has it been used this year? And do you have any quantitative data on conversion of patients that were in Herceptin and chemo, for example, because that was essentially the goal of – or one of the goals for Roche to put the drug in the market? Thank you.

Adnan, it's Dan. I'm sorry, Simos. We don't really have any insight to help you with that. That's something that you really – you would want to go to Roche to gain any information about conversion, et cetera. I think my comment would be it was a very strong start from zero to generate about $250 million in sales. I think that with the approvals now in place in Europe and Japan, we will look to see growth with what right now is a relatively narrow label, but still see good growth over the course of 2014, as they move to submission for meaningful label expansion in metastatic breast cancer, as well as in gastric cancer moving into 2015. But that's the best I can do for you.

Okay. And maybe you might not be able to answer this one either then, but I'll ask it anyway. There's been a lot of excitement at least on the investor side about another HER2-targeted drug, neratinib. Do you see any change in the direction of the two adjuvant and one new adjuvant trial, KATHERINE, KAITLIN that is ongoing, or do you not see that as a potential threat – that drug is a potential threat in that early setting? Thanks.

Well, again, I'm not going to be much help here. I mean, we're always going to see competitive markets. I guess, the reference point I would have is the anecdotal comments we get from physicians who describe dosing with Kadcyla as dosing their patients with water. They find it to be astonishing that they can administer something with such a benign tox profile that has very good benefit for many of their patients. So, I think that if that's the underlying attribute of the compound, I have to think it will continue to perform reasonably well. But it's going to be a competitive market because there are a number of people focusing on HER2.

All right. Thank you for taking the questions.

We'll move next to Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. First one is on your partner compound with the Sanofi 1984. Is there any work that's ongoing to add a payload to the naked antibody, or is this just going to be as it is and with no plans to change it?

Cory, it's Dan. That being a partner compound, we really can't comment on any plans that they may have for how they take that forward. Right now, again, they have it as a naked agent. They do have it in a combination study with Rev/dex. But anything further would have to come from the partner versus us.

Okay. And then, Dan, you mentioned in your prepared comments that there's quite a bit of interest in 289. Are you talking of investor interest, or is that coming from the industry? And do you have any desires strategically to partner that compound at some point in time in its development?

I gave the interest is coming from investigators. We have a lung cancer advisory panel, and they've shown quite a bit of interest in participating in that study as we've enrolled various centers. And Charlie said it could – if we wanted to take them all in, it would be the world's largest dose escalation study. But it's also coming – we have a dialogue with potential partners to always keep them aware of what's going on in our pipeline. We think at some point, as our portfolio matures, that there could be productive discussions around how we would globally develop a compound recognizing all the obstacles that exist for regulatory pricing, reimbursement, as you move outside of the U.S.

We also think that for something like 289 where you've had a target that's expressed on a wide range of diseases that thinking about moving against a number of indications simultaneously, bringing a partner in to assist with that could make sense, but that's really the extent of the discussions at this point.

Okay. That's what I assumed. Thanks. Thanks for taking the questions.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

We'll move next to Joel Sendek from Stifel.

Thanks a lot. So, two questions. So, between those three drugs, the proprietary drugs, which, I guess, they're all in Phase I, I mean, which do you view as the lead compound? Do you view any of them as the lead compound? And where do you have the potential to move one of them into Phase II the quickest? Maybe that might be a different answer. And then I have a quick question in Kadcyla after that. Thanks.

Hey, Joel. It's Charlie. I think just by stage and amount of information we have available, I think we would have to say 853 is the lead compound at the moment. And we're certainly confident that we will be moving into dose expansion phase of the Phase I pretty soon, which, for all intents and purposes, is the Phase II portion of that particular study. So, I think that's clearly there, though as you rightly say, the other two are beginning to get fairly close behind as well. So, I think we've got a wealth of opportunity, but I think we will be seeing the nearest near-term opportunity to really invest more heavily in one of the compounds I think is likely to be 853.

Okay. Thanks a lot. And then with regard to Kadcyla, I guess the biggest market for Herceptin is adjuvant. And obviously, they're going there. You've laid out the strategy that they have for gastric and neoadjuvant and things like that. I'm just wondering, in your models, where do you put in Kadcyla revenue from adjuvant? How long until we get there, not only the data but the label? Is there any way you can help us with that? Thanks.

Well, we do some work internally, but that's speculation on our part which probably isn't a whole lot better than yours. I think that the fact that they now have the study open, and you look at the precedent of the adjuvant work that was done with Herceptin says you're sometime – you're certainly in the back half – I mean, we're close enough to the back half, anyway – but deep into the back half of this decade before you would logically have mature data that would look for label expansion. But that's just based on the precedent of how the Herceptin assessment went to introduce it into the adjuvant setting.

Okay. Thanks, Dan.

Yeah.

We'll move next to Jason Kantor from Credit Suisse.

Thanks for taking my question. On the upcoming data regarding the dosing strategy, I think, for 853, is that going to be Phase 1 patient data or is that going to be animal data? What exactly are you going to be showing, and how do you think that's going to impact the way people think about the drug or the strategy?

Hi, Jason. Yeah. Well, the data will be taken from patient data from the Phase 1 study, and then with some modeling of that data, which I think will help deepen the understanding of what we have been saying about the reasons for changing the way of calculating the dose. So, the primary data we have submitted to AACR, and we hope to have some additional follow-up on that using PK data from patients in the Phase 1 follow through at ASCO. So, everything that we're talking about is clinical data.

And the AACR data, will that include clinical activity as well or that's just going to be PK/PD?

I think for AACR, I think we should really be anticipating the pharmacokinetic piece of the story. We hope to have some additional – may well be a small amount of clinical response data in the ASCO follow-up as well.

And could you just comment on how many patients' worth of data we might see at AACR and at ASCO?

I think I've given you quite a bit.

Okay. Thank you.

Michael Schmidt from Leerink has your next question.

Hey, good morning. I had one on 289. How does the antibody used in that product differ from Erbitux and how might that affect tissue selectivity? And then I have a bigger picture question. With the [new hire] earlier today, how do you see the overall product strategy to work for the company? Are you looking to introduce more compounds for the clinic going forward, looking at established targets? Are you looking at new targets that you might have discovered? Sort of what's the overall strategy long term? Thank you.

Okay. I'll take the piece a little bit about the 289 antibody. I think the – when we originally screened for antibodies for the EGFR project, the essential thing that we were looking for, and, in fact, initially was an inactive antibody which could just deliver maytansinoid to EGFR expressing cells. But during that process, we came – we're able to identify an antibody which had both inhibitory activities of EGFR, while in our skin models did not seem to have the same skin toxicity. And we believe that's because it is not a complete antagonist.

So, Erbitux and other drugs which have been developed have tended to be developed because they are complete antagonists. This is a partial antagonist, so it is able to turn off EGFR signaling sufficiently in cancer cells to enable some antitumor activity in and of itself, while leaving enough signal in keratinocytes that it does not seem to have the same level of direct killing effect on keratinocytes and also it does not have the same cycle time release profile. So, obviously, if from our perspective that was quite a big deal to be able to identify something which could contribute to the activity of the agent adding a direct anti-EGFR effect, as well as carrying maytansinoid at payload with a hypothesis that we may be able to see some sparing of the skin toxicity. Now, obviously, we're now in Phase I, and we hope to be able to explore that further in the real world. But clearly, that will be – this is where the rubber hits the road, as we've given it dose escalation portion of that study.

I'll let Dan take...

Yeah. To your other question, Michael, and I think we've demonstrated having brought three compounds into the clinic that we wholly owned over the last two years and introducing through a number of different scientific conference, press releases, et cetera, with the scientific conferences talking about the new effector molecule, a new linker that's available for future compounds with the CytomX relationship that we announced earlier this year. We clearly have an interest and I think the wherewithal to be bringing new compounds and enhanced compounds with new technology into the clinic.

There's a balance there in terms of how much we can support on the development side, plus just the time it takes to get it right with the compound before we introduce it into the clinic. But we remain very interested in expanding our proprietary pipeline. I think it will come from a number of avenues, the compounds we brought in to date, all contain 100%, if you will, ImmunoGen technology from antibody through linker through cytotoxin.

We have active discussions with parties who have other antibody capabilities that may bring us more interesting targets, antibodies with different attributes. We look at other targeting vehicles outside of antibodies. So, I think, you'll see the portfolio continue to expand over the next several years in some cases with compounds that look similar to ones that we've introduced thus far, in other cases, ones that are introduced that may have meaningfully different attributes.

Got it. Thank you.

We'll move next to John Sonnier from William Blair.

Thanks for taking the question and, first of all, welcome to Dave. It's wonderful to have you at ImmunoGen. My question, I guess, is for Dan, and it's a bit of a continuation of the last one. Your development organization has evolved meaningfully since the change in the Sanofi deal. I know it's arguably much, much more depthful now than it was even just a few years ago. And I guess the question is, as you look at your experience with 901, are there any lessons that you feel you can take from that into the current organization to better equip you to handle your proprietary candidates as they progress through the clinic? Thanks.

Well, that's one thing that you always look for, John, as a compound develops well or not well as we saw with 901, what can be learned. I do think there are some things that we've learned about 901. One of the attributes that we've known for some time but we thought, based on clinical data that we've seen from earlier studies, is that 901 has a very short half-life in part due to target expression being in places other than cancer cells, in particular, on NK cells.

And as we digest the experience and think about what may have led to the results that we saw with 901 or what prevented it from being a successful compound, short half-life certainly plays prominently. Half-life was, I think about a day, maybe even a little bit below one day. And therefore it says that the biologic system is processing a lot of the conjugate in a very short period of time, and therefore maybe placing undue stress on some of the metabolism to be able to deal with that. So, that's one attribute that we'd taken as we look at other compounds. There are thresholds that we'll evaluate.

I think there are others, but that just maybe gives you a taste of making sure that we maximize the information we get from every study to help us develop better compounds going forward. I don't know if, Charlie, your comment on the development organization – I would agree with Charlie. Being here alone is, I think, a manifestation of some of that, but he may have some other thoughts on lessons learned out of 901.

No, I mean, I think we all need to recall, of course just that 901 was in development for a long period of time. I think rather than unnecessarily speculating on lessons learned, I think you already see us applying ourselves in a sort of different kind of way. It takes me a lot of care and diligence over trying to get the dosing schedule right for 853 is an example of that; a much greater focus on patient selection that I think we've talked about previously.

So, I think what we're trying to do is spread our time in the sort of Phase I, Phase IIa portion of these studies, derisking the projects as best we can for later development. And we'll continue to do that so that – as and when we get to a point being ready to move into a development to launch phase, we do that with the highest of level of confidence that one could have.

Well, that's actually very helpful. I think just the question is really more from a process standpoint, and that spoke directly to it. So, I appreciate that, Charlie, and thanks for taking the question.

Thank you.

Shaunak Deepak from Jefferies has your next question.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Just had a couple on 853. First, I'm curious if you're evaluating this modified weekly dosing scheme because you're seeing ocular toxicity with the current dosing arrangement. Then second, when do you think we'd see some data from this weekly testing schedule? Is ASCO too early?

Let me take the first one first. Yes, ASCO is too early. So, well, a couple of things that we've observed, and this will become, I think, much clearer once we've presented data at AACR and ASCO this year. What we have seen is a relationship between the initial exposure and the occurrence of ocular toxicity. And we also believe that there may be a relationship between clinical activity and overall exposure as defined by AUC. So, we think that by – on a modified weekly schedule, we can keep that maximum exposure down and keep the overall exposure up.

So, based on the data that will be presented, I think the intent here is to explore that question. But doing it in parallel with the three weekly – because we have seen clinical activity, we believe we will have a dose identified for dose expansion in the near future. And so, obviously, we don't want to pulse that without having any knowledge of what's going to happen when we move into that weekly schedule. But I think it's really trying to get the – I would say, it's less – yes, it comes from ocular toxicity to some extent, but ultimately, we're trying to maximize the therapeutic window. And we believe that this may enable us to do that.

Just a comment. So it's clear, I think, that what we're doing with the adjusted ideal body weight takes us a long way to finding a therapeutic window that addresses high tox. This is simply an enhancement that you would normally go through, trying to optimize the dose before you commit to future study. So, I think it's just that the normal course of events as you're going through dose optimization.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

We'll move next to Matthew Harrison from UBS.

Hi, guys. This is actually Andrew Peters in for Matt. A couple of quick questions. I guess, first, the more broad-based strategic one. When you think about your wholly owned pipeline, is it more of a decision whether you want to kind of take it as far as you can and then partner? Or are these the programs that you see kind of taking – running the gamut yourself?

And then a question on 529, as you kind of look at the NHL or B-cell opportunity, are you going to focus on patients, ibrutinib, PIK3 failure patients or is it going to be a little bit of a broader kind of a program there?

Okay, do you want – Dan, you want to start and then Charlie will talk about the second question?

Yeah. And maybe we ought to just spend a second when we talk about partnering to make sure it's clear how we would define that. So, as we look at the pipeline and generate data from it, when I think of partnering, that's different from out-licensing a compound to a third-party. We're looking at being able to advance the compound, developing a commercial organization and supporting that ourselves although we may limit the geography for an initial compound as we go through the process, as something of a risk mitigation strategy, as well as I indicated earlier, an opportunity to advance these compounds as broadly as possible, both geographically and in terms of indications as quickly as possible.

So, it's a little bit of, I think, in response to your question, a mixed answer. Yes, we intend to advance these all the way on our own but not necessarily all the way on our own on a global basis. And that would be true for the first compound. I think let's not get ahead of ourselves in terms of what we might be interested in doing in order to be successful with more than one of these compounds moving forward. And I'll let Charlie answer the 529 question.

In terms of 529, I think, it hits on a really important question. This is going to be a changing treatment area with the introduction of ibrutinib [indiscernible] , another very interesting B-cell receptor signaling inhibitors. What we continue to need to understand or where best to position ourselves as we think about moving that forward, I think that may well be – it could well be as an initial play. You could look at post some of those agents but also the interest of course in obtaining combination data with some of those agents.

And obviously, we also need to try to understand where there remain areas of unmet need which are not necessarily being served by any of these agents where we may have the opportunity. So, I don't think we're necessarily going to commit today to saying, yes, it would be in this population or that population. I think what we're trying to do is ensure that we are fully aware of all the patients that we treat, all of their history, all of their risk factors, so that we – as we see clinical activity, we can understand who we think is best going to be served by the product. But I think you identified an important point which is that this will be a changing area, and obviously that will may – your other question may inform some of our thoughts around partnering on that particular compound as well.

Okay. Thanks. And the expansion cohorts you mentioned you expected for the second half of the year, is that going to be based on the data that we're going to see at ASCO?

The dose escalation phase is still relatively early. So, by the time of ASCO, I think what you'll see is some of the data to explain some of the effects that we've talked about in the past and what the changes are that we've made in terms of our approach to dosing. I think we will have more insight into expansion cohorts later in the year.

Great. Thanks so much.

Bert Hazlett from ROTH Capital has your next question.

Thanks. I have three short ones. On 289, given that the EGFR landscape is reasonably well-trodden, well-characterized, is there an ability for you to get to proof of principle, or proof of concept with that molecule a bit more rapidly than with others? And then I have two other questions.

Yeah, we hope so. I think, frankly, there are – I think that's true for 289 because of familiarity with the target. And I would also point to 853 when you're talking about pace. While we think through the traditional path forward, and I think with 853, because there's data around that particular target outside of the work that we're doing but also a meaningful unmet need, I think that the path forward there could potentially be compressed, who are we to see data out of these disease-specific expansion cohorts. And so, I look at both of those as being opportunities to move quickly if the data supports it.

Okay. Thanks. Then just two quick ones on partner programs. Back to Biotest 062, you said that there was a – that the decision for you to specifically opt in is sometime down – several years down the road, I think you indicated. Are you having dialogue with that company with regard to potential development areas? I mean, can you give us a sense of the dialogue kind of given your interest and your rights with that particular agreement?

We maintain different dialogues with each one of our partners. I'd characterize the dialogue with Biotest as probably being one of the more broad-ranging and – constructive may be the wrong term, but we have an active dialogue there. But also, I would have to couch that in saying that they control the compound. And so, development path is defined by Biotest. We've worked with them in a number of areas to explore the range of opportunity for that particular compound.

As you know, Bert, they've looked at a number of solid tumor targets where CD130 is expressed, and they've published some encouraging preclinical data. They're following up on that with the study right now for pancreatic and triple-negative breast cancer. So, we'll just have to see. I think that they're taking a somewhat aggressive path in developing the compound, and we'll just see where that goes. But there is a good dialogue, but we have no rights either now or frankly post exercising the opt-in that would give us control of the compound. That would still rest with Biotest.

Okay. Thank you for that color. And then just a brief one on 984, you had exciting results there. Has MTD been reached with that compound? Has Sanofi said anything along those lines? And when would we expect more mature data with that particular trial?

The only thing that I'm aware of that they've said beyond what was published at ASH was a comment that they made in the Q&A at JPMorgan where they talked about their enthusiasm about the compound, but they disclosed no further data or status update.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Yup.

We move next to Steve Byrne from Bank of America.

In your opinion, where do you think further progress in ADC technology is going to come from? Perhaps you could prioritize these buckets, new targets, better binding affinities, new linkers or new cytotoxin?

That's a tough one. There is, as you know, quite a bit going on, and it's tough to handicap it because of the scope of advances, or understanding maybe is a better term than just advances that have taken place over the last three or four years. I think that if you talk to people about the ADC space, including probably us, maybe going back five years, we probably would have been – we wouldn't have seen the opportunity with targets that's developed over the last several years.

As we talk to potential partners about the scope of targets because that's always going to be an issue for somebody who wants to enter into a license agreement, well, how much real estate really is left. We've been surprised at the range of target availability and target opportunity that's been there. So, I don't think that, by any means, we've reached the limit of what's available from a target standpoint.

I think there's a lot of opportunity coming forward with targeting vehicles that there are some innovative approaches there that may prove to be interesting. I think not to just tout CytomX alone. I think that's indicative of what can be done with targeting vehicles that potentially can further expand the range of useful targets.

In terms of binding or linkers, we'll see. I think that the – we think that the portfolio that we have today is extremely useful from a functional standpoint in terms of the properties it conveys with the cytotoxin once released within the cancer cell. So, maybe there'll be innovations that will stretch that. We do an awful lot of chemistry and biochemistry work there. But certainly, there are other approaches being taken.

Some things that are being advanced as significant innovations in this space, I think, have yet to be proven. And so, we'll just let that evolve and see whether, even if proven, whether they convey some of the advantages that are being promoted before there's any clinical data to support it.

Cytotoxins, we've done some additional work there. We think that there's opportunities. I don't know that they – the opportunities will be replacements for what exists as much as maybe defining new, I'll call them, niche opportunities and I don't how large or small niche is but they may open avenues that can't be adequately serviced by the cytotoxins that address – or that exist today, but I don't know that they will render today's toxins by any means obsolete.

So, I'm not helping you a lot, Steve, in terms of saying which is more important than the other. I've said on a number of occasions we're dealing with a system here that involve all of the elements that you know of, and I don't think that you can necessarily point to one or another as being the secret sauce. I think as each one bears different attributes on how they interact really is going to define how you optimize the solution.

Actually, Dan, that was helpful. And just one follow-up to that, do you think there's merit to considering also modifying the constant region of these antibodies as part of an ADC? Would there be incremental benefit to also affect effector cell interactions?

Well, there, you start to get into the space and we'll be learning more about this over the next couple of years. I think you start to get into the space of saying, is there any advantage to an ADC that has an active antibody to one that uses simply a targeting vehicle. And I think there is a bias to say the more you can do to impact cell, that's the better certainly. And as some of that can come from the antibody, all the better. But I think there's going to be a limited universe of active antibodies now whether modifying the antibody in some way can impact that, I guess, remains to be seen.

Charlie, do you have any thoughts there?

No. I mean, honestly, the great success that we've had with our technology today has been Kadcyla where we have an active antibody, and I think that anything where there are active antibodies. But then you have to also try to ensure that you have antibodies whose activity is there to about the same level where it is delivering adequate payload to the cell.

So, I think it's always an interesting one but I think if that – but to my mind, that and the work that we have done with CytomX, the work we've done around cytotoxins, it's broadly about addressing more targets. Those with lower, pardon the expression, but still with more potent payload, those where perhaps there was more expression on normal cells is the concept behind the Probody deal.

So, I think, overall, we're prioritizing all of them in a sense. But with a view, to my mind at least, of addressing more targets, and I think that would come in with looking at affected regions on antibodies as well.

You mentioned Kadcyla, I was actually thinking more along the lines of – what is the other Roche – Gazyva, where it's the interaction with effector cells that's been pulled in. Is that logical to consider doing something like that on an ADC?

I don't think we got the right people in the room.

Yeah, we may not have the right people in the room. And that particular one, there you're dealing with, that was CD20 as a target. I'm not sure – again, start thinking about the system and realize it's a broad question, but just to focus on that one CD20, when you think about targets, it's not a particularly attractive target for an ADC because of the behavior of that particular target and not internalizing well. So, you think about different things with different targets. I know you weren't asking specifically about CD20, but we'd have to have people that are more knowledgeable about that particular dimension to be helpful beyond that, Steve.

Okay. All right. Appreciate that. Thank you.

That does conclude our question-and-answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the conference back over to Carol Hausner for additional or closing remarks.

Great. I'd like to thank everyone for your attention and interest in ImmunoGen. If you have any subsequent questions, don't hesitate to call. And have a great day.

That does conclude today's teleconference. We thank you all for your participation.