Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Hausner — Executive Director-Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Daniel M. Junius — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Charles Q. Morris — Chief Development Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Richard J. Gregory — Chief Scientific Officer & Executive VP-Research, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Christopher N. Marai — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Jason D. Kantor — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Mara Goldstein — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Jessica M. Fye — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Michael W. Schmidt — Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC
John Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Andrew Peters — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good day, and welcome, everyone, to this ImmunoGen Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. At 6:30 this morning, we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, the third quarter of our 2015 fiscal year. I hope you've all had a chance to review it. If not, it's available on our website.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

In our call today, our Chief Executive Officer, Dan Junius, will provide an update on ImmunoGen; our Chief Development Officer, Dr. Charlie Morris, will discuss our lead wholly-owned compounds in greater depth; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance. We'll open the call to questions after these updates. Our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Rich Gregory, will also be available for the Q&A part of the call.

Dan?

Thank you, Carol, and good morning, everybody. We stated in our last call that we expect 2015 to be a notable year for ImmunoGen, and I think if anything, that momentum has accelerated since then. We're seeing encouraging findings with mirvetuximab soravtansine, which – and that's the official non-proprietary name for what we have been referring to as IMGN853. But we're seeing these encouraging findings in the treatment of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and are preparing to advance this compound in this indication, and also, further expand its development program.

You'll hear more from Charlie about these plans shortly, but I should note that they were one of the key drivers behind the royalty transaction we closed earlier this month. We don't want funding to slow the development of what we view to be a very promising compound.

The findings to-date in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer will be presented at ASCO next month. So, at that point, you'll be able to see what we're seeing. You'll also hear from Charlie about our promising compounds for hematologic malignancies, that would include IMGN529 for B-cell malignancies, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma; and IMGN779 for acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.

Additionally, as you probably saw in the release, we've now regained rights to the CD19-targeting ADC, coltuximab ravtansine, also referred to as SAR3419. This had been in development with Sanofi. You might recall that the findings from its Phase 2 STARLYTE trial were chosen for oral presentation at ASCO last year and also were selected for the Best of ASCO.

For this compound, the investigators noted that coltuximab ravtansine had demonstrated significant activity, this was as a single agent, in the treatment of relapsed refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and also that it has an acceptable safety profile.

In terms of another compound, we also have opt-in rights with Biotest to jointly develop and commercialize indatuximab ravtansine or BT-062 in the U.S. This CD138-targeting ADC is in Phase 2 testing for the treatment of multiple myeloma, and also in Phase 1 testing for triple-negative breast cancer and metastatic urinary bladder cancer. So there are lot of promising compounds advancing in our pipeline, most of which we wholly own; and BT-062 where we have opt-in rights.

Beyond our own product programs, we continue to invest in our technology, as well as in our research program. For example, earlier this week, there were a number of presentations by ImmunoGen scientists at AACR, including ones in our DNA-acting payload agents on site-specific conjugation approaches and on the companion diagnostic for mirvetuximab soravtansine. Also, our partners, Sanofi and Novartis, had presentations on novel ADC compounds they have developed using our technology.

We expect additional partner compounds to enter the clinic this year, and others already in the clinic to have data presentations and potentially meaningful development events in the coming year. The visible feasible of these developments today is the Kadcyla data from MARIANNE study to be presented at ASCO on June 1, but I suspect that's already on everyone's radar screen.

With that, let me turn it over to Charlie to discuss our wholly-owned product programs in more detail.

Thanks, Dan, and good morning, everyone. Yes, we've got luck going on on our plates right now and we expect this to increase going forward. I will start with mirvetuximab soravtansine, formally known as IMGN853. It is the first and only ADC directed at folate receptor α antigen to enter clinical testing, combining the tumor exposure benefits and antibody-targeting agent and our ADC technology.

Folate receptor α is highly expressed on many cases of ovarian cancer and also on other types of solid tumors, including some endometrial cancers and lung cancers. As you know, we started by assessing mirvetuximab soravtansine administered every three weeks in patients with tumors likely to express folate receptor α. Once we established this recommended Phase 2 dose, we began testing mirvetuximab soravtansine specifically for the treatment of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and relapsed/refractory endometrial cancer in patients pre-screening for [ph] target (05:38) presence, again using the average three-week dosing schedule.

As Dan noted, we're encouraged by the findings to-date with this product in ovarian cancer and are preparing to expand its assessment for this use. As discussed previously, our first step is increasing the size of the current study cohort from 20 patients to 40 patients to give us additional efficacy and safety experience. We're now also planning to start Phase 2 clinical testing with mirvetuximab soravtansine used as a single agent in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The study is being designed to support the possibility of accelerated registration approach in this cancer.

In planning this study and thinking about the registration pathway, we're simultaneously addressing all the supporting issues, such as those related to CMC and clinical materials, and having a companion diagnostic.

And we're planning this year to initiate assessment of mirvetuximab soravtansine used as part of combination regimens, as this should further expand the opportunity to help patients with folate receptor α-positive ovarian cancer, including patients with less heavily pre-treated disease. We have received input from opinion leaders in this area, and they are helping us think about the full spectrum of need and how we might best address these needs with mirvetuximab soravtansine.

We have applied for and received orphan drug designation for ovarian cancer in the United States some time ago, but didn't yet have the findings needed to secure it in Europe. I'm pleased to report that we recently gained the orphan drug designation for ovarian cancer in the EU as well. In addition to ovarian cancer, other types of solid tumors can highly express folate receptor α. We have a cohort open assessing it for target positive endometrial cancer and we're also assessing it in target positive non-small cell lung cancer.

We will determine the next steps in these cancer types when we have the data to do so. As you can likely tell, we're pleased with the findings we're seeing with administration of mirvetuximab soravtansine once every three weeks. However, to ensure we've optimized dosing, we're also evaluating a weekly schedule to determine if this could provide additional benefits. Dose exploration is ongoing and the findings we have to-date will be reported at ASCO next month.

So there's a lot going on with mirvetuximab soravtansine.

Turning now to our IMGN529 agent for B-cell malignancies. This CD37-targeting ADC is currently in the dose-finding portion of a Phase 1 trial assessing it as a single agent in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The findings with IMGN529 to-date are encouraging, particularly in the treatment of relapsed/refractory diffused large B-cell lymphoma, and we plan to initiate assessment of the compounds specifically in the treatment of this cancer once we have the recommended Phase 2 dose.

We also plan to start evaluating it for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, another highly CD37-positive malignancy. Additionally, we've seen interesting findings pre-clinically with the use of IMGN529 in combination with rituximab and are preparing to start trial later this year to asses this combination in the clinic.

These preclinical findings were accepted for presentation at the International Conference of Malignant Lymphoma meeting in Lugano, which will be in June. So a lot is going on with this promising compound as well. As I noted, we gained rights to the CD19-targeting ADC, coltuximab ravtansine, previously known as SAR3419, from Sanofi. Clinical findings with this product candidate were selected for oral presentation at ASCO 2014 and for Best of ASCO, as Dan noted.

The compound demonstrated a 43.9% objective response rate as a single agent in the treatment of heavily treated DLBCL versus the study hurdle of 20%. The main toxicities were hematological, as you'd expect in this patient population, and then the ocular events were grade 1/2, reflecting the dose optimization work that Sanofi did during the Phase 1 investigations.

We think it is a particular interest that the responses to coltuximab ravtansine we're seeing in patients with – irrespective of their cell of origin classification, i.e. responses in both patients with GCB and ABC subtypes of DLBCL . As you know, a number of the newer agents under investigation for this disease have demonstrated very little activity against pre-treated TCP disease. So we believe that coltuximab ravtansine's activity in relapsed/refractory DLBCL of all classifications may allow us to target a broader population than some other agents.

So, we now have two agents with potential in B-cell malignancies, and we're developing plans to maximize our opportunity in that space. I'll wrap up my comments by noting that we're on track for submitting the IND for our CD33-targeting ADC, IMGN779 later this year. It is a new potential treatment for acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome, and uses our new DNA-acting payload platform. Pre-clinical findings with it have been accepted for presentation at the Annual European Hematology Association meeting in June. So, many trials underway, more to start, and a lot of data presentations coming up.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Dave to discuss the financials.

Thanks, Charlie. As Carol noted, we issued a press release this morning with our financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, which is the third quarter of our fiscal year 2015. I'll discuss the highlights of that and then review the updated guidance.

Our revenues in the quarter were $11.4 million as compared to $6.9 million for the same quarter last year. The current period includes $5.1 million of revenue from license and milestone fees, which is principally a $5 million cash milestone payment earned from Novartis. Our third quarter financials also include $5.1 million in royalty revenue earned on sales on Kadcyla, compared to $2.6 million in the same period last year.

As you know, we recently reported a Kadcyla royalty monetization transaction, which will be reflected in our financial reports starting next quarter. Operating expenses in the third quarter of fiscal year 2015 were $32.7 million compared to $44.3 million in the same quarter last year. R&D expense was higher in the prior year because it included the $12.8 million non-cash charge related to the collaboration agreement we had executed with CytomX.

In this year's third quarter, we had a net loss of $21.6 million or $0.25 per share compared to a net loss of $37.5 million or $0.44 per share in the same quarter of last year. We ended the quarter with $111.8 million of cash and marketable securities compared with $142.3 million as of June 30, 2014.

Our cash used in operations was $27.4 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2015, and our capital expenditures were $4.5 million.

Subsequent to the close of this quarter, we completed the Kadcyla royalty monetization transaction that provided us with net proceeds of approximately $194 million. Based on this transaction and on our greater visibility into the expected timing of some partner milestone events and research-related expenses, we are updating our guidance for the fiscal year ending June 30. We now expect revenue to be between $85 million and $95 million versus prior guidance of between $100 million and $105 million.

We now project our operating expenses to be between $145 million and $150 million compared to previous guidance of $160 million to $165 million. Our guidance for our net loss remains unchanged however, and is expected to be between $60 million and $65 million.

Our guidance for cash used in operations and for capital expenditures is also unchanged, with cash used in operations projected to be between $55 million and $60 million, and capital expenditures to total between $7 million to $9 million.

We now expect to end the year with between $265 million and $275 million in cash and securities compared to previous guidance of $75 million to $85 million. So, we have substantially expanded our liquidity leaving us well positioned to support our product programs. So, with that, let me turn the call back over to Dan.

Thanks, Dave. So, over the course of the year, we look forward to providing you, updates in a number of areas. Findings in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer treated with mirvetuximab soravtansine will be presented at ASCO on May 30. We're on track to expand its initial assessment in this cancer from 20 patients to 40 patients, and are preparing to start a Phase 2 trial in this indication later this year that could potentially support an accelerated registration pathway.

We're also preparing to initiate a trial assessing it as part of a combination regimen for ovarian cancer this year. Patient enrollment is ongoing in the expansion cohort assessing mirvetuximab soravtansine for target-positive relapsed/refractory endometrial cancer, and we're evaluating its potential in other target-positive indications as well.

We're also continuing assessment of a modified weekly schedule, and we'll be reporting the findings to-date at ASCO also on May 30. Those finding is ongoing in our Phase 1 trial of IMGN529 in non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Once we have the recommended Phase 2 dose, we'll begin its assessment in relapsed/refractory DLBCL and begin dose exploration in CLL. We expect this to happen around midyear.

We're targeting ASH presentation of the next data with IMGN529 used as a single agent. Preclinical findings with it used in combination with Rituxan will be reported in Lugano, as you heard from Charlie, and we're preparing to start a clinical trial with this combination in the second half of this year.

For coltuximab ravtansine, we're assessing next steps and expecting them to share with you later this year. And for IMGN779, we're on track to advance it to IND submission in second half of this year and expect to begin patient dosing then early next year. And then a few highlights for key partner programs. The findings with the MARIANNE trial with Kadcyla are scheduled for presentation at ASCO on June 1. Roche indicated they expect a readout from the Kadcyla GATSBY trial in gastric cancer this year; and, if positive, to submit for approval for the use of study.

We expect global sales of Kadcyla continue to grow. We've seen that in the data reported by Roche just earlier this week that Kadcyla continues to expand with acceptance and an increased use ex-U.S. We expect data disclosures and/or developments for other product candidates in the clinic through our partnerships and additional partner compounds to advance in their clinic this year.

And also, to note, there continues to be considerable interest in our technology. I think the Takeda license that we announced earlier this month is an indication, or I guess it was now in March, but speaks to the continued interest in ADCs in general and, in particular, in our technology. So, all-in-all, it continues to be a very active year and we look forward to reporting our progress as we go forward.

So, with that, let me turn it back to Carol for the Q&A.

Great. Thanks, Dan. We're about to open the call to questions. We'd like to ask everyone to limit your questions to one to two per person until everyone has had a chance to ask their questions.

Operator, we are now ready to open the line.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Chris Marai of Oppenheimer.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First question really is regarding IMGN853. You certainly indicated that you've seen some interesting signals here in your recent study. If I recall correctly, prior studies that you had presented maybe a year or two ago now has not looked all that interesting on the efficacy side. And I'm wondering if you could help us highlight the difference between the patient populations perhaps or the two studies, and why we might be seeing a stronger signal. Is that related potentially to folate expression?

And then finally, I was curious if you could maybe help us understand IMGN779. It's a CD33-targeted ADC, if I'm correct? And I think one of your competitors out there in ADC land has something similar. So I'm wondering if you could kind of maybe contrast the two approaches. Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks, Chris. I'll start with the IMGN853 question. I mean, first of all, I think we're about five weeks away from ASCO, so I think a lot of the obvious questions we will be able to discuss in much more detail once the data become clear. But I think there's two key points. The first is that, obviously, the data that we released earlier was in dose escalation. We had not identified a recommended Phase 2 dose, and we were doing that in a relatively broad population of patients with unlimited number of prior lines of therapy and with quite broad acceptance of the folate level.

I think as we've gone into the dose expansion, we've had a much more limited number of prior lines of therapy. We have been screening for folate expression and we have a dose. And so I think the combination of those factors has put us in a position where we're seeing what we think is interesting levels of activity, and we'll disclose more information on that next month. So I'll hand over to Rich to sort of maybe talk a little bit about IMGN779.

So as you know, the IMGN779 program is our first program they're taking to the clinic with our new DNA-alkylating class. It's a real advance for us in targeting cancers that will have DNA-sensitive targeting. Yes, Seattle Genetics does have a competitive program in this space, taking forward also a DNA-crosslinking drug. And this is the primary difference between our drug and theirs, which is ours has, in our hands, a better safety profile than you see with a DNA-crosslinking drug. So we think that we're going to have a better therapeutic index as we take our program forward.

Great.

Great. And that program currently was in AML?

Yeah.

I'll jump back in the queue. Perfect. Okay. Great. Thanks, I appreciate the color.

Thank you. We'll go next to Jason Kantor of Credit Suisse.

Great. Thanks so much. You discussed a possible accelerated path for IMGN853. I think you've spoken about this previously as well, and I'm wondering if you've had any additional communication with FDA. I know for other agents in ovarian, they've been pretty reluctant to do anything except overall survival. And I'm wondering are you planning to seek a breakthrough therapy designation for the drug, which I think might help in an accelerated path? And then, finally on the EGFR program, I'm not sure if you mentioned it in your comments, but I thought in the press release it said that that had gone back into research. I'm wondering if you could give us some details there.

Thank you, Jason. Yeah, we have not had that conversation with the FDA at the moment. I think what is notable, of course, is that there has recently been an accelerated approval for – AstraZeneca has a lot approved in this space. So, I think we have at least some sense in a well-defined, well-described population, what the level of activity it might be required to consider accelerated approval. Obviously, we will take the opportunity when we have the appropriate amount of data to discuss the opportunity that we see with the agency, but we have not have that conversation at this point.

In terms of breakthrough status, we're not taking anything off the table. We think that we need to get to the end of the current study to have that type of conversation. Whether that's achievable, that's really going to be down to that conversation at that time. But we would agree, obviously, if we believe that it meets the criteria, we would seek it. IMGN289, that has been in Phase 1 testing. As you know, in heavily pre-treated patients, we have seen an unexpected safety concern, and therefore, we decided that we should take that out of the current study and do some additional evaluations pre-clinically to try to understand that and see if that's something that we can work around.

And can you tell us what that safety concern is?

I think at this stage, we're not going to be disclosing. We – that needs to come out in the appropriate sort of clinical settings in due course. And as we do the further evaluations, we'll be able to provide a sort of comprehensive description, and hopefully, explanation of the events that we're seeing.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to Mara Goldstein of Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thank you very much. I'm hoping you could give us just a little bit more color on coltuximab ravtansine and around the return of rates, and how that fits into your budgeting planning for the upcoming year given accelerated development of some of these other agents.

Mara, it's Dan.

Hi, Dan.

We are looking at that, and we have – given the fact that we have now another agent for B-cell malignancies, we want to take a look at that along with IMGN529, and we'll evaluate what the advantages of each is, where they fit either together or independently, and move forward. At the moment, I don't think we anticipate a significant impact from a budget standpoint going forward. We have some decisions to make, certainly. Were we to be advancing both, and I think we need to see some pretty compelling data to say, we advance both. I think that right now, our leaning is that we're going to evaluate each of them, see what the advantages are, and either through some head-to-head comparison or based on other criteria, decide which is the one to take forward. But I don't expect it to be terribly disruptive from a financial standpoint.

Okay. If you choose only to advance one compound, is the other compound a candidate for out-licensing? Would that be the plan?

Potentially, we want to work that one through as well. The – there's a few different things to consider when we go through that, and one is do we want to be creating our own competitors. But that's just one of a number of factors that we look at as we evaluate assets and what the appropriate place is for them.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to Jessica Fye of JPMorgan.

Great, thanks. I guess, first, can you just clarify whether the Phase 2 study that you're starting later this year for IMGN853 could potentially be used as a registrational study? Or I guess, what is it that you mean when you say, could support an accelerated registration pathway? And then, second, just where are you in development with your companion diagnostic, and do you need a diagnostic strategy finalized before you move into any kind of pivotal study?

Yeah, thanks, Jessica. What we are planning is that the Phase 2 study would be of a sufficient size to create a sufficiently large database, and to be able to have confidence in the size of the – of what we see in terms of the benefits of treatment that, that would be something that we would hope that could be reviewed in our – the FDA are – well, you can never be guaranteed about an accelerated approval, it's going to be dependent on data. But we are certainly ensuring that in embarking upon the next level of investigation, that we have everything lined up. So, that if we continue to see the level of activity we see now, we would be in a position to go to the agency with those data and discuss that possibility for approval.

To that end, we've got the CMC pieces worked out. And indeed, we have – we signed a deal around the companion diagnostic and we are doing the work on that in parallel. So, we're just making sure that everything is there to enable that to happen should the data support it at the end of that study.

Yeah, Jessica, it's Dan. Just to add a little bit to Charlie's comments. We're not – with the same time, we're not doing this in a vacuum, we're in conversation with experts in the field around ovarian to get their input around data coming out of the study. And so, we're testing our assumptions of what we're seeing with the data to ensure that they're well-grounded. But the approach to make sure that a study could potentially qualify the pivotal study, as Charlie noted, is comprehensive. We're trying to look at all of the dimensions that the regulators will look at and make sure that we have the foundation in place that would support both the discussion and a potential filing if the data warrants it.

Okay. Thanks. And maybe just one follow-up. It sort of sounds like you're focusing us on ovarian cancer for IMGN853. Should we read this as de-emphasizing the endometrial opportunity or what do we see in there?

I think it's more about emphasizing the ovarian opportunity. It's a more common disease at least in the advance settings, and certainly now, hence, we're seeing considerably higher numbers of patients with expression of the target in ovarian cancer than we are in endometrial. So, in large part, this is about the fact that we have more data in ovarian and we like what we see. So, I wouldn't take it as de-emphasis, I would see it more as an emphasis on ovarian. And I think the pathways forward there are becoming clearer as we get more data and as we interact with opinion leaders who are giving us the input we need.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to Michael Schmidt of Leerink.

Hi. Good morning, and thanks for taking my question. I just had a follow-up on SAR3419, the CD19 ADC. I guess, what was behind the Sanofi decision to return the rights to this compound? It seems a bit surprising in light of the ASCO data presented last year. And I noticed that Sanofi recently announced collaborations with other ADC technology companies. And I was wondering if there is anything – any concerns behind the technology itself that caused Sanofi to move forward with that step.

I can't speak comprehensively for Sanofi. The indication to us in giving it back was that it was a portfolio decision. And as you know, they've done some realignment within their oncology research area.

Embedded in your question what you suggest around technology, I mean there's comprehensive data at this point around SAR3419 and it's indicating both solid activity, as well as a good safety profile. So I think people can judge for themselves off of that whether that suggests anything from a technology standpoint. Certainly, the data that they've presented thus far does not. But we deal with a wide range of partners and you end up with some decisions that reflect their internal strategic direction that aren't always crystal clear to us, but each company has some motivation. So I wouldn't try to overanalyze it.

Got it. Okay. And can you update us on the status of the CD38 antibody that's partnered with Sanofi as well?

I'm afraid that's going to fall into the same category. That's in Sanofi's portfolio; and we really don't want to put ourselves in a position of disclosing information that should be disclosed by a partner. So they've spoken very highly of it, they featured it at ASCO last year. But in terms of their current plans, I think I'd point you to Sanofi for that.

Okay, great. Thanks so much.

Thank you. We'll go next to Josh (sic) [John] Newman of Canaccord.

Hey, thanks for taking the question. So I had sort of a two-part question. The first one is it sounds like based on your comments that you are encouraged specifically by the magnitude of activity that you're seeing with IMGN853 in ovarian cancer, but you are also planning to take the compound forward in terms of combination studies in Phase 2. Should we interpret that as sort of allowing for the current FDA regulatory environment in terms of perhaps combining with Avastin or other specific combinations that you have in mind there?

I mean, it sounds like you're quite positive on what you're seeing in terms of a single agent. So I'm just curious if there are specific things that you're thinking about doing in Phase 2 just to kind of satisfy the agency. Thanks.

So, yes, we are highly encouraged by what we're seeing as a single agent, and just to note again that's – I think all our conversations will be helped when that data becomes public at ASCO in a few weeks' time. From a combination point of view, the cancer has never been majorly successfully tackled by single agents. And we think that the future opportunity will be probably in combination, not just in single agent. I think there are pathways for approval as a single agent, and we have to go after those. But there are, as you note, newly approved agents in the area and things where we believe that the combination could add even more and we have been doing some preclinical work at the minimum to understand that.

We haven't disclosed yet what those combinations will be, but they will be based upon preclinical information that we have and those agents which are widely used in the marketplace today. The Phase 2 that we're designing is a single agent study. And that with the hope of really completely characterizing the Phase 2 activity and seeing whether that Phase 2 activity could be enough to support approval – that would probably be in a later line setting. I think to get into the earlier lines of setting to compete with the multi-agent chemotherapy combinations that exist today we probably need to be in combination to have our greatest chance of success there, hopefully with improved safety profile, and hopefully with a better efficacy profile to enable that to be successful.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. We'll go next to Andrew Peters of UBS.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Apologies if this has been asked already, I had some phone troubles throughout the call. Just curious on IMGN779, I was wondering if you can – if you're using anything that you can learn from the Seattle CD33 program to maybe help in terms of trial design, whether that's patient selection or kind of identifying other potential compounds to combine it with, to increase activity. So, I think CD33 is an interesting target. Just curious your strategy going forward there, what you can learn from others? Thanks.

Yeah. I mean, obviously, we watch what other people are doing and we try to understand. We try to understand their efficacy profile. We try to understand their safety profile, and they are a little ahead of us. So we have clearly got to understand how we can be competitive. So I think watching what they're doing will provide us some important learnings, but we've also got to believe in the preclinical data from our own products and the data that we put together, much of which is now being presented to make some of those decisions based on what we believe will be the right thing for our product. But Seattle has already presented some interesting data and we hope we will have similarly, if not more, interesting data as we get into the clinic in the coming months.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to Jason Kantor of Credit Suisse.

Thanks for taking the follow-up. Just wanted to ask kind of a bigger picture question. I mean, you're talking about moving into a potentially registrational study, which I think would be fantastic. Are you prepared to take this drug all the way and become a commercial entity in cancer? Is this something you want to sell in the U.S., sell globally, what is your strategic thinking?

Jason, it's Dan. We've had discussions about this as far as I can remember, when people ask us the question about what the long-term strategy is. And now, I think it's coming into sharper focus around IMGN853. The game plan would be, to answer your question directly, yes. We would intend to take this forward ourselves and commercialize it. The caveat would be looking at the range of lines of therapy within ovarian, looking at indications where folate α is expressed. There is the potential for broad application for this particular compound. And so, I think to be realistic in our expectations or in our ambitions, we would be focusing those on a limited geography.

Certainly, the U.S., whether that's North America is, I'll say, a detail. But we would be looking for a global partner who we would work with then to deal with both the scope and complexities of global development. And I think those can be both complementary and successful in allowing the company to bring this compound forward on an accelerated basis, while also transitioning us from what I would now characterize as a development stage company to a fully commercial company. So that is the ambition. We put the financing in place now to take us through the next phase. I think that a global deal, as I've described, would provide additional financial support to be able to advance this on a prompt or an expeditious basis, and also open other opportunities for us to bring additional funding into support for the development of IMGN853, as well as our further proprietary pipeline.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to John Newman of Canaccord.

Hi, thanks for taking the follow-up question. My question is, can you tell us – when you're talking about the excitement that you have around the level of activity that you're seeing, can you tell us as to how this compares to the statements that you made on the previous call, where you said you'd want to see something sort of in the 20% to 30% response range to push this forward? Or should we be thinking about magnitude of response with respect to current agents or magnitude of response with respect to your prior statements, or a combination of both? Thanks.

I think the – sorry to come back to the obvious response, but I think this is going to be a much easier conversation in about five weeks' time. It's five weeks from tomorrow, in fact. So let's – clearly, what we have said is – previously and what we are seeing and saying today are fully consistent with each other. We are in an area of, at least by response rate, where I think people will be interested in the product when they see it, where we have investigators and opinion leaders who are interested in what we're planning to do and are encouraging us to take this forward to the next level. In just a few weeks' time, I hope that we can get more into the detail of that and reading out a lot more color, and make the conversation a little bit easier.

Okay. Very well, we will anxiously await that data. Thank you very much.

Yeah, and actually, abstracts come out in...

Mid-month.

Yeah.

13.

So, say three weeks as opposed to the five weeks, and hopefully, that will provide some additional color.

But we will be updating for ASCO, obviously.

Sure. Yeah.

Yeah.

I think on that note, I think we are done with questions. I think we're out of questions. And so I want to just thank everyone for your interest in ImmunoGen. And if you have any subsequent questions, please don't hesitate to give us a call. Take care.

Thank you for your participation. That does conclude today's conference.