Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Carol Hausner — Executive Director-Investor Relations, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Daniel M. Junius — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Charles Q. Morris — Chief Development Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Adnan S. Butt — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Matthew K. Harrison — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Andrew Peters — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Jason D. Kantor — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Brian J. Klein — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
John L. Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Christopher N. Marai — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome, everyone, to this ImmunoGen First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. At 6:30 AM this morning, we issued a press release that summarizes our financial results for our first quarter ended September 30, 2014. I hope you've all had a chance to review it. If not, it's available on our website.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which also can be accessed through our website.

In our call today, our Chief Executive Officer, Dan Junius, will provide an update on ImmunoGen; our Chief Development Officer, Dr. Charlie Morris, will discuss our wholly-owned clinical compounds in greater depth; and our Chief Financial Officer, Dave Johnston, will discuss our financial results and guidance. We'll then open the call to questions after these updates. Dan?

Thank you, Carol, and good morning, everybody. ADCs continue to be an area of keen interest for drug development with over 35 agents in development across more than 20 firms for a vast array of cancers. And we are executing our business strategy of using our leadership in ADCs to develop novel therapies that can make a meaningful difference for individuals with cancer. There are already 11 high potential ADCs in the clinic with our technology, three wholly-owned by us and 8 through our partnerships with Amgen, Roche, Sanofi and other leading healthcare companies. We expect this number of clinical programs to increase markedly over the next year.

In a few months since our last call, we've made meaningful progress with our wholly-owned programs, each of which has the potential to address sizeable medical needs. We're evaluating IMGN853 specifically for the treatment of difficult ovarian and endometrial cancers and expect to have the data needed to make key decisions for this agent in 2015. Updated IMGN529 clinical data is to be reported at ASH in December and dose finding, with this promising agent for B-cell malignancies is ongoing. Dose finding with IMGN289 is ongoing as well, with first data reporting expected in 2015 and IMGN779 is on track for IND filing in 2015. You'll hear more from Charlie about these in just a moment.

At the same time, we're advancing our compounds, our partners continue to be very active. Kadcyla sales now annualized to over $600 million and last week Roche reiterated that they expect the readout from MARIANNE this quarter. Roche also reiterated that, assuming favorable results, they expect to apply next year for marketing approval of Kadcyla, for first line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer off the MARIANNE trial, and for second line use in advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer off the GATSBY trial. They also have three trials underway with Kadcyla for different early HER2-positive breast cancer indications.

Sanofi now has four promising compounds in their clinic through their collaboration with us: CD19-targeting SAR3419 in Phase II for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma; CD38-targeting SAR650984 in Phase II for multiple myeloma; SAR566658 in Phase I expansion for CA6-positive solid tumors; and SAR408701, which advanced into the clinic last quarter, for the treatment of CEACAM5-positive solid tumors.

Amgen, Bayer and Biotest continue to make progress with their clinical stage compounds, two of these with Amgen and one each with Bayer and Biotest. And our more recent partners Lilly, Novartis and CytomX also continue to make progress. Novartis provided some insight on two of the ADCs they're advancing with our technology during their R&D Day this summer. And earlier this month, they took the last three of the six licenses available to them under our collaboration agreement.

I'll now ask Charlie to discuss our promising wholly-owned programs in greater detail.

Thanks, Dan, and good morning, everyone. I will start with our most advanced wholly-owned compounds, IMGN853, with precision target folate receptor alpha and antigen highly expressed on many ovarian and endometrial cancers as well as on several other types of solid tumor. As you know, we are pursuing a two-pronged strategy designed to enable us to expeditiously advance IMGN853 deeper into clinical testing by gaining information on the activity of IMGN853 in key cancers, at the same time that we're assessing further optimization of its dosing schedule.

During dose finding with a 173-week dosing schedule, we saw evidence of activity with IMGN853 in both ovarian cancer and endometrial cancer, the predominant cancers enrolled in that study. We have shared details on the activity seen with an advisory board of key opinion leaders, and they're impressed with our single agent data and enthusiastic about further development of the product. We're now assessing IMGN853 specifically for the treatments of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and relapsed/refractory endometrial cancer with it administered once every three weeks at its recommended Phase II dose.

We're pleased with the dose established, comfortably about the dose at which activity was first seen, but below the level associated with dose-limiting side effects. Enrollment in both of these cohorts is progressing well.

These patients also are being pre-screened for target expression prior to enrollment in this part of the trial. As you recall during the dose-finding phase in which the patients weren't pre-screened, IMGN853 demonstrated activity in patients whose tumors highly expressed its target, consistent with expectations based on the mechanism of action. The information we gained about the activity of IMGN853 in these two cancer types will help us refine its clinical program, such as the cancers to be targeted and likely trial size necessary for appropriate statistical powering for further studies.

The second aspect of the testing underway is to ensure we take IMGN853 forward with the best dosing schedule. Recall our research conducted earlier this year indicated that dosing IMGN853 more frequently than once every three weeks may provide patients with greater exposure to the therapy, while keeping post-dosing levels in the blood below the threshold associated with side effects. That research suggested the best schedule for IMGN853 may be weekly dosing for three weeks, followed by a skip week before resuming weekly dosing. We've been assessing escalating doses of IMGN853 using this modified weekly schedule and we're pleased to report that our findings to-date are consistent with our expectations based on our modeling. We expect to establish the maximum tolerated dose of the schedule in the next few months.

We intend to report findings that we have from these assessments as a package in 2015 targeting ASCO. In the interim, we plan to provide program updates, including decisions made about dosing schedule.

I'll turn now to our IMGN529 agent for B-cell malignancies. The CD37-targeting ADC is currently in the dose finding portion of a Phase I trial, assessing it as a single agent in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The first data from this trial were presented at ASCO in June and showed already seen evidence of activity with IMGN529 at doses as low as 0.2 milligram and 0.4 milligram per kilogram administered once every three weeks.

We believe part or all of the activities seen at those low doses could be from the antibody part of IMGN529, which is highly active. The steps taken to address side effects seen at low doses have enabled dose escalation to continue and we're excited to be reporting updated findings at the ASH Meeting in December. Once we've established its recommended Phase II dose, we intend to begin evaluating IMGN529 in disease-specific patient populations.

Dose finding also is ongoing with IMGN289, our EGFR-targeting ADC. We've been studying it administered weekly but don't want to rule out examining of the schedules as appropriate as we have for our other agents. Once we establish its recommended Phase II dose, we plan to assess IMGN289 specifically for the treatment of cancers at the high expresses of EGFR and which have limited treatment options today. Such cancers include squamous cell head and neck cancers, squamous and non-squamous cell lung cancers, and many breast, gastric and other GI tumors. We're targeting reporting initial findings for this compound at a medical conference in 2015.

Lastly, our IMGN779 compound for acute myeloid leukemia remains on track for IND filing in the second half of 2015. It is the first ADC with one of our new DNA-acting payload agents, which we refer to as IGNs and has an exciting profile preclinically. We'll be presenting additional preclinical data for IMGN779 at ASH as well.

With that, I will turn the call to Dave to discuss the financials.

Thanks, Charlie. As Carol noted, we issued a press release this morning with our first quarter of the fiscal year 2015 financial results. I'll discuss the highlights and then I will review our guidance for fiscal year 2015.

For the quarter ended September 30, 2014, we reported the net loss of $22.3 million or $0.26 per share, compared to a net loss of $11.2 million or $0.13 per share for the same quarter of last year. Revenues in our first quarter of fiscal year 2015 were $13.2 million as compared to $17.2 million for the same quarter of last year, reflecting that our non-cash revenue from amortization of upfront license fees was lower in the current period than in the prior year period, $1.8 million versus $7.8 million, respectively.

As we've said previously, such revenue tends to be lumpy. For example, we reported earlier this month that Novartis took the remaining three licenses under the agreement with them, which will trigger recognizing $22.7 million of amortization revenue in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015.

Our cash revenues were greater in aggregate for the first quarter of this year compared with last year and include $4.2 million in royalties earned on its sales of Kadcyla compared to $2.1 million in the same period last year. As a reminder, we receive and recognize royalties on Kadcyla sales one quarter in arrears.

Operating expenses for our first quarter of fiscal 2015 were $35.1 million, compared with $28.6 million in the first quarter of last year. These consisted of $28 million of R&D expense in the first quarter this year, compared to $22 million in the same period last year, and $7.1 million in G&A expense this year, compared to $6.5 million in the same quarter of last year.

We ended the quarter with $121.8 million of cash and marketable securities compared with $142.3 million as of June 30, 2014 and we continue to have no debt. Cash used in operations was $18.9 million in the first three months of fiscal 2015, down from $23.6 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures were $1.7 million in the first quarter, compared with $600,000 in the same period of last year.

Our fiscal year 2015 guidance remains unchanged from what we issued on the August 2, 2014. Specifically, revenues are expected to be between $100 million and $105 million, operating expenses to be between $160 million and $165 million, net loss to be between $60 million and $65 million, cash used in operations between $55 million and $60 million, and capital expenditures to total between $7 million and $9 million.

Lastly, we expect to end the fiscal year with between $75 million and $85 million in cash. We believe our current financial resources, combined with expected cash inflows from partners, are enough to fund us through establishment of proof of concept for our lead programs, and that development of our own portfolio of important new therapies will result in the greatest creation of value for our shareholders.

With that, let me turn the call back over to Dan.

Thanks, Dave. We expect quite a bit of activity with both our wholly-owned programs as well as our partnered programs over the coming quarters. We look forward to providing you updates on those.

And let me review what we expect to see happening across both of those categories, and I'll start with the wholly-owned compounds. IMGN529 investigators will be reporting updated clinical data on this novel ADC for B-cell malignancies at ASH in December, which should provide insight into our excitement about this compound. There also will be new preclinical data reported on IMGN529 at ASH. We expect the recommended Phase II dose to be established for IMGN529 in the coming months and for it to begin disease-specific testing in 2015.

For IMGN853, our folate receptor alpha targeting ADC, we expect to establish the recommended Phase II dose with a modified weekly schedule over the next few months. We'll also have findings from evaluating IMGN853 every three weeks, specifically for the treatment of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and relapsed/refractory endometrial cancer. We plan to select the best dose between those two and scheduled to take that forward into more advanced testing and potentially could have this information by ASCO. Our plan is to report the findings we have from these evaluations at a medical conference in 2015 and right now we're targeting ASCO.

For IMGN289, our novel EGFR-targeting ADC, we expect dose finding to continue with the possible exploration of alternative schedules and to report findings in 2015, either at ASCO or at a medical conference later in the year. Once we establish its recommended Phase II dose, we plan to move IMGN289 into disease-specific testing and we would expect this to start during 2015.

For IMGN779, our CD33-targeting ADC for acute myeloid leukemia, we'll report additional preclinical data for this novel compound at ASH and we're on track to submit its IND in the second half of next year. Let me make a couple more comments around our partner compounds. First of all, we would expect to see several presentations on partner compounds in December at ASH.

For Kadcyla, Roche continues to project reporting the readout for MARIANNE before the year-end, with the full dataset to be presented at a later date. With positive data, Roche is projecting filing for marketing approval Kadcyla for first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in 2015 off of the MARIANNE results. Our understanding is that this could be Kadcyla alone, Kadcyla+Perjeta, or both depending on the study findings. Roche is also projecting filing for marketing approval of Kadcyla for second-line treatment of advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer in 2015 using the GATSBY results, again assuming positive data.

We would expect presentation of both MARIANNE and the GATSBY data in 2015, although that's our estimate. It's not something that's been confirmed by Roche. Roche has projected having the first data from its KRISTINE neoadjuvant trial in late 2015. As noted earlier, we expect multiple compounds to advance into the clinic through our partnerships over the course of 2015 as well as our own IMGN779 ADC. And we expect several partner compounds to advance further in clinical testing as well as multiple data presentations on partner compounds. So all in all, we expect the coming quarters to be very active for ImmunoGen.

With that, let me turn it back to Carol and we'll be opening the call for the question-and-answer period.

Thanks, Dan. We're about to open the call to questions. We'd like to ask each person to limit their questions to one or two per person. Until everyone has had a chance to ask their questions, you can then get back into the queue. Operator, we're now ready to open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Adnan Butt of RBC Capital Markets.

Good morning. Two questions. First, for Dave perhaps. Dave, reaching 2015 guidance requires a big step-up, but do you have more visibility into certain partnerships versus others generating revenue and can you share that with us?

And then a second question on IMGN529 specifically. Is this data at ASH focused more on safety, or is it for both activity and safety data? And maybe could you repeat [ph] where seeing (17:07) dose at this time and if the expansion cohorts aren't being selected at this time until sometime in 2015, is it because you're seeing good tolerability? Thanks.

Sure. Hey, Adnan. I actually missed the first part of your question. I'm assuming that you're asking about the revenues part of our guidance. Is that correct?

Correct. Thanks.

Yeah. So what we do when we're establishing guidance is we go through the expected activity of all of our partners, and we do have some insight into what the expectations are, and we obviously handicap that some. But what we haven't done and I don't think we're going to do today is walk through partner-by-partner the activities that we expect to have. But it's a fairly well thought out process and, as of this point, we're confident that it reflects what we should expect in terms of 2015 revenues.

Maybe just to provide a little bit more color, Adnan, note that within the – in Dave's comments, he pointed to, for example, Novartis where in the December quarter, we would recognize the deferred revenue associated with the licenses that they took in early October. So there are discrete events like that that have revenue, have characteristics, where it's going to be somewhat lumpy and it's coming from multiple sources. In some cases, deferred revenue. Certainly we expect, as you noted my comment about more partner compounds coming into the clinic, moving further into the clinic, all of those would be milestone-related events. And again, we have some degree of visibility into that and that's what underlies the revenue forecast.

And so, in terms of IMGN529, what we will present at ASH will be update from the information that we currently have from dose escalation. We are still in that dose escalation phase, but based on available information and what we know about the rest of our pipeline, we believe that we will likely be in a position to move into the sort of expansion efficacy testing during 2015. So I think what you should expect is an update on the safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics, all available information from the dose escalation phase.

Thanks.

Thank you. We'll go next to Matthew Harrison of Morgan Stanley.

Great. Thanks very much. So, first one on IMGN529, just want to confirm in your remarks and the answer to the last question. Does that specifically mean you haven't reached the MTD yet with IMGN529?

And then, separately on IMGN853, in terms of where you are with the dosing schedule, so you started on the weekly schedule, and exactly when do you expect to have completed data that you'll be able to share with us when you choose which schedule and which dose you're going to go forward with? Thanks.

For IMGN529, I think it's safe to say that we have not yet established a maximum tolerated dose, though that's obviously and dose escalation is a rapidly moving target on occasion. So, but for IMGN853, what we would anticipate is that we're pleased with the progress that we've made in escalating with the weekly schedule. We believe that we're doing the right thing here, which is continuing to add patients into the expansion efficacy cohorts on the three weekly.

We imagine that around about the middle of 2015, we would anticipate having information both from those cohorts at three weekly, as well as having enough information from the dose escalation of the weekly that we would be in a position to, at the very least, get some further information on that weekly, and hopefully able to make the decision between which of those will be going to the next stage.

But I think the basic message is that we're pleased with the progress on all fronts here. We're pleased with the three weekly, but we're seeing the weekly has been an interesting step as well, and we're learning more from it. And I think overall, we're putting ourselves in a good position for being able to make the best decision during 2015.

Thank you. We'll go next to Andrew Peters of UBS.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the progress. A couple, first on IMGN779. As you kind of look ahead to filing the IND, was just curious, when you look at the history of CD33-targeting agent in AML, what have you learned in terms of maybe a potential benefit in certain patient populations, as well as kind of your own experience with the previous sanofi-aventis CD33 in terms of kind of targeting that area? So, just a broad question there.

And secondly on IMGN529, as you start the disease-specific patient populations later next year, to what extent does the competitive landscape play a role in kind of defining which populations you plan to target or is that going to be purely data driven?

Charlie?

So, CD33, I think one of the interesting things, as we go out and talk to the opinion leaders is that, clearly Mylotarg had a complex history. But I think a lot of the investigators you find now feel that they finally understood how to use the product around about the time that it was taken away from them. So there is actually quite an interest in this as a target. Obviously, we try to learn, we try to understand what some of the pitfalls were, particularly around the toxicity issues. We believe that the design of the payload will have some advantages in terms of the potential for lower risk of some of the long-term effects.

I think we also – what we know from the prior experience with a maytansinoid-based targeting of this one is, first of all, we have a good sense of the pharmacokinetics of the antibody which gets us off to a good start. And perhaps, one of the other learnings, of course, was that we did see some degree of activity in there but that the activity that we saw was in patients with particularly high levels of CD33 expression.

So I think now using a more potent payload, the level of expression is likely to be key. Some with a more potent payload, we should be able to have benefit in patients with lower target expression. I think we're using a different mechanism of action than we used with a maytansinoid because we're now targeting DNA rather than targeting the microtubules. And I think we – and we all know that the expression of CD33 on normal tissue is relatively low. So, I think there's a real opportunity here. I think there's a good opportunity, first of all, to learn a lot about our IGN platform, but I think there's reasons to be positively optimistic that this is actually a good target with a well-defined population in acute myeloid leukemia.

From IMGN529, I think we have to be impacted by the competitive landscape, but we also have to be impacted by the data that we see as we emerge. We'll update on what activity we see at ASH and I think that may influence some of our thinking. And I'll remind you that of the interesting single-agent data, for example, for SAR3419 with Sanofi in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, which would suggest that our platform may have a role in DLBCL, an aggressive lymphoma, which despite all of the new agents coming in, remains an area I would argue of high unmet need. So I think we will be impacted by our data. But we're not going to just sort of – we've got to be aware of idelalisib and ibrutinib and where others are working and trying to understand what the new opportunities are, which are created by those new agents coming in.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from Jason Kantor of Credit Suisse.

Thanks for taking my questions. I'm just wondering a couple of things. I'm just looking at your forecast year-end cash. It looks like you'll be needing to get more cash if you're going to move these things forward. So I'm just wondering what your stock worth is if your thoughts around partnering your proprietary drugs, where your head is on that and whether or not that's something we might also look forward to in the coming year. And then if you could give us any kind of update on your thinking around ocular toxicity, whether or not that's something that you've gained the better understanding of in terms of managing it and the causes of it, et cetera. Thank you.

Dave, do you want to take the cash one?

Sure. Hi, Jason. Yes, so, we're in a pretty good cash position and we anticipate ending the year in a pretty strong position. But you're right. The more success we have with our own proprietary products clinically, the more demand that there's going to be to advance them and, as you understand, that's an expensive business.

So you're also right. With our current stock price, we would not be eager to be issuing new equity at these prices. But we do have several other options available, including one that you mentioned, which is potentially doing a partnership probably on a geographic basis at some point in the future on some of our internal products. But there's other options as well that are open to us. So in terms of having cash available, what I always tell the guys here is, you guys advance the products and we'll find the cash.

And from clearly the agent, where we were experienced some of the ocular adverse effects that have been seen both with our own and other platforms with IMGN853. I think we are – well, I know we're pleased with the progress that we've made, particularly, I think the dose adjustment works made a big difference here. As you know, we changed the dosing calculation to base it on adjusted ideal body weight. We've been doing the work on the weekly schedule. And we're pleased with the progress and, obviously, as we get toward ASCO, we'll be able to give a full update on that as we go through.

But I think those have been the key activities. We continue to try to understand whether there are other interventions that may help. But I don't think we're in a position to make any sort of concrete statements about the success of – or otherwise there. But I think the dosing work has clearly made an important difference there and has enabled us to be, I think, very optimistic about where we are with IMGN853 right now.

And in terms of the dosing, you're looking at the weekly dose versus the every three week dose. Would you – you're going to have the dose escalation around the same time you have the expansion cohort data for the every three weeks. Would you have enough information to move directly to an advanced study with weekly, if that's the way you wanted to go or would you have to run an expansion cohort part for the weekly dosing?

The slightly unhelpful answer, I guess, there is it depends. I think if we saw encouraging data during dose escalation, we may be prepared to go straight to more advanced study. The other option would be to conduct expansion cohorts using that weekly schedule. But all of that, obviously, would be to try to confirm what we believe was the important findings in dose escalation. So, I don't think we're in a position today to make that call one way or the other, but I certainly wouldn't rule out being able to move to – quite rapidly to more advanced studies, if we like what we see in dose escalation.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll go next to Brian Klein of Stifel.

Great. Thank you for taking my questions. First on IMGN529, just wondering if now might be the right time to start thinking about combination studies, with some of the approved agents, and maybe other immuno-oncology agents that are being investigated.

And then my second question is on IMGN853, if you could just comment, beyond the ocular toxicity, if you're seeing any other major toxicities arising in the three weekly dose versus the weekly dose. Thanks.

So IMGN529 combinations are, yes, it is the time to start thinking about that. We are doing an extensive panel of preclinical work to really try to get the best insights into what would be the right combinations there. And I think that will be an important part of a future development.

In terms of immuno-oncology, I think broadly speaking, whether it's IMGN529, IMGN853, IMGN289 or anything else, that's certainly something that we are keeping a very close eye on. I think as we get closer to understanding our own profile and our own safety profile, our own efficacy profile, that would be another possibility, if not probability, for seeking opportunities for combination work.

For IMGN853, I'm completely blanking on what the question was...

The question, are we seeing any other toxicity...

Oh, right. I mean, obviously, we'll disclose full information when we next present data, but at this point, I don't have any new concern at this particular time.

Yeah. And, Brian, it's Dan. I would point to the data that we disclosed as we were talking about IMGN853 on the every three weeks, that the DLT was ocular, which caused us to look back. And so, there were no other major issues that we were seeing from a toxicity standpoint. The reason we adjusted dosing was to deal with the DLT. So I think I'd leave it at that for now.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from John Newman of Canaccord.

Thanks for taking the question. I just had a couple, so the – I think it was the $29 million you mentioned from Novartis in terms of amortization revenue. Just want to confirm that that would all be recognized in the fourth quarter. And then wondered if you could give us a sense as to whether or not there's going to be a milestone payment associated with mission of the sBLA for Roche assuming MARIANNE is successful. And then finally, just wondered if you had any thoughts on Roche's comments on their recent quarterly call regarding their expectations for the MARIANNE study. Thanks.

Hi, John. This is Dave. I'll start with the Novartis question on terms of the amortization of the revenue. I think what we said is it'll trigger about $22.7 million of amortization. And yeah, and that would all hit in what would be our second fiscal quarter of 2015, which would be the calendar year fourth quarter.

Yeah. And then, the other question was on, is there a milestone associated with...

Yeah. You should not – we've disclosed incremental milestones. The filing of an sBLA for first-line metastatic would not trigger a milestone.

And your question around the Roche comments for MARIANNE -- I think the major caveat I think we all have to pay attention to is that Roche -- any comments they made were qualified by, well, it all depends on what the data says. But I think that they continue to emphasize an important role for Kadcyla in their HER2 franchise, looking at it as an avenue to pursue for first-line metastatic, as well as earlier HER2-positive breast cancer, but they covered a pretty wide range as they made those comments. But I think that what they tried to do – what I heard them trying to do is to make sure investors waited until the data was available to be able to provide a more detailed discussion around where Kadcyla will fit in the treatment paradigm.

Right. Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from Chris Marai of Oppenheimer.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First question really regarding IMGN853, I'm wondering in the early data if you've seen any differential activity in patients who are higher expressers at receptor. And then secondarily, with respect to any Phase II trials, will you be stratifying by receptor expression? Thanks.

Certainly, obviously, in dose escalation you've got relatively small numbers. So, it's difficult to be absolute about this, but as we've presented previously, the activity that we've seen, both in terms of objective responses, CA-125 responses and long-term stable diseases. There certainly seemed to be most of the patients having that, had the higher expressions of the receptor.

And as we go forward, we certainly anticipate selecting patients according to their folate receptor expression. I think it's an important part of patient selection. I think if you're going to call it a precision agent, you need to be precise about who you're going to treat. And I think all of the science and the logic would say that we should be selecting higher expression and that is the plan. Even in the expansion cohorts that we're now conducting, we are selecting patients according to their folate receptor expression, both for ovarian and for endometrial carcinomas.

Okay, great. Well, thanks. Congratulations on the quarter.

Thanks.

Thanks, Chris.

Thank you. We'll take our next question from [ph] Morey Reycraft of Guggenheim Securities (36:23).

Good morning. Thanks for taking my call. Just to follow up on Brian's question earlier for the combo studies with IMGN529, can you provide any more clarity on that, so what type of regimens?

Probably not.

Okay.

There's a whole bunch of new agents out there that we need to be thinking about and a whole bunch of older agents that we need to be thinking about testing with. We have a significant screen ongoing. I think we have – clearly we have to be aware of a broad class of agents, BTK inhibitors, PI3 kinase inhibitors, other B-cell receptor signaling mechanisms, as well as what now seems like the old school treatments of monoclonal antibodies against CD20. So all of these things need to be under consideration. All of these things are in play, and we will – with so many choices, we need to get preclinical data to – which helps us prioritize, which would be the right way to go in that. That's what we're working on doing right now.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. With no further questions, I'd like to turn the conference back over for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. I'd like to thank everyone for your interest in ImmunoGen. And if you have any subsequent questions, please do not hesitate to call. Have a great day.

That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.