Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Monique Allaire Lyons — Investor Relations, Thrust
Mark J. Enyedy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ImmunoGen, Inc.
David B. Johnston — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Richard J. Gregory — Chief Scientific Officer & Executive VP, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Anna Berkenblit — Chief Medical Officer, ImmunoGen, Inc.
Michael Schmidt — Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC
Jessica M. Fye — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Cyrus Amoozegar — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
John Lawrence Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Matthew Eckler — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Mara Goldstein — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Boris Peaker — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Biren Amin — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
John Steven Sonnier — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ImmunoGen First Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. And at this time, for openings remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to Monique Allaire with Thrust Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Earlier today, we issued a press release that includes a summary of our recent progress and our financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. The press release and a recording of this call can be found under the Investors section of our website at immunogen.com.

With me today are CEO, Mark Enyedy, and CFO, Dave Johnston. Anna Berkenblit, Chief Medical Officer and Rich Gregory, Chief Scientific Officer will join us for the Q&A session.

During today's call, we will make forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from such statements. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with an investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings.

With that, let me turn the call over to Mark.

Thanks, Monique. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us today. We will start the call this morning by briefly reviewing our progress with the business over the last quarter, providing an update on our portfolio and highlighting some of our upcoming milestones. Dave will then cover our first quarter financial results and we'll conclude by opening the call for questions.

Beginning with our operational performance at the start the year, we made significant progress towards the strategic priorities we set for the business with the focus on advancing our portfolio, supporting our partners and driving continued innovation in ADCs. You'll recall that our number one priority is complete development and obtain approval for mirvetuximab soravtansine by 2020. Mirvetuximab is our internally developed, first-in-class ADC targeting folate receptor alpha or FRα as we refer to it. This is a marker expressed on a number of tumor types including ovarian, lung and endometrial cancers.

In January, we had achieved an important milestone by treating our first patient with mirvetuximab in our FORWARD I registration trial. FORWARD I is a Phase 3 randomized study designed to compare mirvetuximab with the current standard-of-care and up to 333 patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancers, whose tumors express folate receptor alpha at medium or high levels. The eligibility criteria for this trial include patients treated with up to three prior therapies, which represent a market of approximately 12,000 to 14,000 women in the U.S. alone in a similarly sized population in Europe.

Since enrolling our first patient, we've initiated more than 40 sites in North America and Europe and are on track to activate at least a 100 sites in these geographies before the end of the year. I commend our clinical and medical teams for the work they've done to accelerate enrollment in this important study.

In addition to advancing FORWARD I, we've gained increasing recognition from the medical and scientific communities through a number of a data presentations demonstrating the breath of our ADC expertise. We presented expanded Phase 1 data from the biopsy cohort from mirvetuximab at the SGO Annual Meeting in March, which indicate that archival tumor tissue can reliably identify patients with FRα positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. More importantly, these data support the patient selection strategy for the FORWARD I trial. We also delivered nine presentations at the AACR Annual Meeting in April, highlighting ImmunoGen's innovative technology platform and novel ADCs targeting a range of tumor types.

Our partners also continue to make notable progress over the quarter. Bayer completed enrollment of its Phase 2 registration trial assessing anetumab ravtansine for the treatment of mesothelioma. And Takeda advanced its preclinical development, the first of our novel DNA-alkylating payloads directed to a solid tumor target.

Looking ahead to the rest of 2017, we expect several key rate data readouts from our proprietary portfolio.

At the ASCO Annual Meeting in June, we will be presenting new safety and efficacy data relating to mirvetuximab, which we will cover in greater detail when the abstracts become available later this month. We plan on presenting an initial Phase 1 clinical data in mid-2017 for IMGN779. This is an anti-CD33 ADC we are developing for acute myeloid leukemia. This is the first ADC in the clinic to deploy our novel DNA-alkylating payload, which we refer to as our IGN program. In the third quarter, we also plan to file an IND for our second IGN program, IMGN632, which is an ADC targeting CD123 that we intend to develop for multiple hematologic malignancies.

Lastly, we expect to advance the first candidate under our collaboration with CytomX into pre-clinical develop this year. So the remainder of the year promises to be rich in data from our proprietary portfolio and we look forward to updating you on our progress with these programs as well as those of our partners.

And with that, I'll hand the call over to Dave to review our financials.

Thanks, Mark. Our financials were discussed in some detail in our press release issued early this morning. So, I will just review some of the highlights.

Revenues for the first quarter ending March 31, 2017 were approximately $29 million, which includes $6 million in partner milestone payments, $13 million in amortization of a non-cash fee related to our license agreement with CytomX, and $7.6 million in non-cash royalty revenues. The balance of our revenues in this period were from research and development support and clinical materials.

Operating expenses in the first quarter were approximately $41 million, driven by $33 million of R&D expenses, the remainder are G&A expenses. For the first quarter, ImmunoGen reported a net loss of about $17 million or $0.20 a share. Cash used in operations for the period was about $33 million. We ended the first quarter with approximately $127 million of cash and cash equivalents, and a $100 million of convertible debt outstanding. We expect this will allow ImmunoGen to fund our operations into the second quarter of 2018. Lastly, our financial guidance for 2017 has not changed.

So with that, I'll turn the call back over to Mark.

Thanks, Dave just to wrap-up. In 2016, we laid out four priorities for the business. One, completing development and obtaining approval for mirvetuximab by 2020. Two, accelerating the development of our early stage portfolio within with an emphasis on our IGN programs. Three, building upon our leadership position in ADCs and continuing to drive innovation. And four, levering our platform to support our existing relationships and pursue new collaborations that will allow us to generate revenue, mitigate expenses, enhance our capabilities and expand the reach of our innovation. We started 2017 with significant progress towards each of these objectives and look forward to updating you as our business evolves over the remainder of the year.

And with that, we will open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And, we'll take our first question from Michael Schmidt from Leerink.

Thanks. I had one Mark regarding ASCO. Can you just help us or investors understand, what expectation should be regarding the upcoming updates there for mirvetuximab? And then I have a follow-up?

Yeah. So, mirvetuximab will have essentially two data presentations. The first relating to a pool data set essentially aggregating the totality of our patient experience in the Phase 1b study. And then the second will be an update on our progress in FORWARD II, and as a remainder this is a combination, a set of combination cohorts. With mirvetuximab combined with the Avastin, Keytruda, liposomal doxorubicin and carboplatin. So, what we plan to do, Michael, is provide greater detail on the data presentations once the abstracts are released in the middle of the month.

Okay. Great. And regarding the balance sheet, obviously, you said you got it to cash into the second quarter of 2018, I was just wondering in this context how you're thinking about additional sources of maybe non-dilutive capital – in that context I was wondering, specifically, how do you think about additional business development opportunities regarding some of your remaining pipeline assets? Thanks.

Sure. So, we share your view on the balance sheet and our focus intensely – everything is dilutive at one level, I suppose. But fundamentally as we mentioned last fall, we look to prioritize the portfolio and so we chose to target our B-cell programs for outlicensing and so there is active interest there which we are pursuing as we speak. In addition to that, as you know we have a number of agreements that provide for downstream royalty obligations. And so, we continue to explore the possibility of monetizing those royalty streams for upfront cash.

And then finally, we are entertaining interest in our development stage programs with respect to co-development and co-commercialization arrangements for this programs that would enable us to generate upfront cash, as well as mitigate our ongoing expenses while retaining substantive commercial rights in those programs downstream. And so, we are actively exploring each one of those avenues as we speak with a goal of, as you say, improving the shape of the balance sheet.

Thanks. And then, one question regarding the AML programs, you talked about the IGN payload and obviously those two assets you mentioned are in a space that is somewhat competitive. And I was wondering if you could just highlight potential sources of differentiations from other ADCs that have DNA acting payloads in development.

Sure. So I'm going to ask Rich Gregory to address that.

Thanks for the question, Michael. So from the beginning of these programs, what we thought to do is differentiate the mechanism of action from some of the other DNA targeting payloads. The key differentiator is that our payload basically modifies one strand of DNA, it doesn't crosslink, and therefore we have a different level of toxicity on both tumor and normal cells. And what we see is in practice in preclinical models as we have the same level of potency against tumor cells with our payload as you see with the cross-linking drugs such as Seattle's, but we find that we have a higher level of tolerability, meaning we can dose more frequently and more often. We think this will manifest itself as hopefully superior profile in the clinic.

Okay. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Jessica Fye from JPMorgan.

Hey, thanks for taking my questions. Good morning guys. I just wanted to ask you about the FORWARD I study and now that you are getting kind of say it's really up and running in lung patients, if that's affected your view at all on the ultimate time it's going to take to enrol that trail?

Thanks Jessica. No. So we are expecting to undertake the futility analysis and in early 2018 and have results from the study in early 2019.

Great. Thank you.

Sure.

We'll take our next question from Matthew Harrison from Morgan Stanley.

Hi, this is Cyrus on for Matt. Thanks for taking my questions. So, I guess the first one is for this pooled analysis that we are going to see at ASCO, what sort of new information should we expect versus the prior cohorts and data in terms of efficacy?

Yeah, so the data we showed at ASCO last year was a 46-patient cohort, which was essentially in all-comers I guess up to five prior lines of therapy. We then added to that dataset with 27 patients from a biopsy cohort. Again, these were heavily pretreated patients with a different goal.

And then finally we ran a 40-patient cohort in patients, platinum-resistant patients that received three or four prior lines of therapy. And I guess there were some platinum-sensitive patients in that cohort. So essentially, what we're doing is taking all three of those cohorts and adding them together and we'll have both efficacy and safety data from that pool analysis and we'll also have a subset of those patients, who have been eligible for FORWARD I.

Got it. I guess my next question for the FORWARD II safety data presentation, are you going to see any preliminary efficacy or we just see the dose escalation and safety?

We'll have preliminary efficacy data in that presentation.

And then what sort or key theoretical toxicities are you guys concerned with for FORWARD II?

I'll let Anna address that question. I mean, what we've been able to see as we dose escalated is that we are proceeding with those of the comparable or the combination agents that are used in the ovarian cancer treatment setting. And so we're at our preferred Q3 weekly schedule plus what's regularly used there. And so, we're pretty excited about the tolerability profile of the combination agents. I don't know if you want to add to that?

Yeah. Based on the monotherapy safety profile from mirvetuximab soravtansine we did not anticipate any significant overlapping toxicities for any of these combinations, in particular because mirvetuximab soravtansine is targeted to FRα positive. So it does not have a lot of marrow suppression, so we did not anticipate, we would see any sort of synergistic toxicity on the marrow.

And indeed as Mark said, full dose merge is combinable with full doses of each of these agents. Similarly, we're not seeing alopecia with mirvetuximab soravtansine, like you would with other [ph] turbulent (15:55) directed therapies. And it doesn't have the hand-foot syndrome that you would see with Doxil. So we're really quite confident around the ability to combine mirvetuximab with full doses at each of these agents. Avastin has its own set of toxicities, we don't see hypertension, for example, with mirvetuximab. And pembrolizumab, of course has its own immunology-related adverse events and profile. Again mirvetuximab, yes it's an antibody, but it's targeted to FRα-positive cells, so we didn't expect to see increased stimulation of the immune system and autoimmune problems. So, so far so good.

Got it. Thank you. And I guess one last question. For IMGN779 what kind of data, can we expect by midyear? And should we expect some sort of response rate data, or could there be enough follow-up for durability?

Yeah, so we expect to present pre-clinical data for IMGN779 as well as clinical data from the Phase I dose escalation study. And we will share all of the data that we have available from dose escalation in terms of safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and antitumor activity. We're still in the midst of the dose escalation, we have not hit MTD, yet.

Got it. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from John Newman from Canaccord Genuity.

Hi. All my questions have been answered. Thank you.

Okay.

Thanks, John.

And we'll take our next question from Matthew Eckler from RBC Capital Markets.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. So, we're starting to see a changing landscape for the treatment of ovarian cancer with the approval of the PARP inhibitor. So, I wondered if you could just talk broadly a little bit about how you think that mirvetuximab fits into this changing landscape? Thank you.

Yeah, so, I'll start but I'm going to quickly hand it over to Anna. So, our initial approval is targeted for platinum-resistant disease, and right now the standard-of-care there is single agent chemotherapy, and we also see combination use with Avastin. But we think there is a substantial room for improvement in terms of response rate, progression free survival and also the tolerability of those agents. And we think on each one of those parameters, mirvetuximab will be well-positioned. As you know, we've moved ahead with FORWARD II to evaluate mirvetuximab in combination. That will give us an additional leg-up in platinum-resistant disease and also give us some early observations with respect to how we might think about managing platinum-sensitive patients, either in initial therapy or even potentially in the maintenance setting.

So, we think when we look at the profile, mirvetuximab today it's very well-positioned to address both of those segments, again with an initial approval as monotherapy in the resistance setting. And then, I'm going to ask Anna to sort of address the whole PARP inhibitor environment. We think this is good news for patients and we think we've got a role to play here as well, so.

Thank you, Mark. So, let me start with PARP inhibitors in the platinum-resistance setting, because that's the initial phase in which mirvetuximab is going to be approved. And the data for PARP inhibitors is platinum-resistant disease even in BRCA-mutant patients, which are about 20% of the ovarian cancer population is pretty underwhelming, I mean it's about the same as chemotherapy. So for example, olaparib then rucaparib have about a 25% to 30% response rate, in platinum-resistant, BRCA-mutant patients. So only that 20% that have mutation. They really have no appreciable activity, in the BRCA wild typesetting in platinum-resistant disease with a monotherapy response rate of 4% to 10%. So that's quite different from what niraparib showed in the platinum-sensitive maintenance setting in all-comers. So we do not think that PARP inhibitors will be used in the platinum-resistance setting.

Platinum-sensitive, no doubt, they're really changing the landscape and the standard-of-care is really evolving. And I think that is wonderful for patients. We do believe that mirvetuximab will combine well, for example, with PARP inhibitors and we have an IST, that's going to start-up combining with rucaparib, where we and Clovis and co-sponsoring that. So we are using that as a potential combination approach.

And then bevacizumab, let me remind you that, it was approved. So Avastin was approved in December, last year in the platinum-sensitive recurrent maintenance setting. So the same setting that niraparib has been approved in. Bevacizumab is used for all-comers and it would be really interesting to see how the PARP inhibitors are used in the platinum-sensitive setting. The greatest benefit is for the BRCA-mutant patients, the wild type patients also benefit. So it's an evolving landscape. And, I think mirvetuximab's really nice tolerability profile will allow us to move up into that space, potentially in either or both of these combinations.

And furthermore, because we are able to combine with carboplatin, there is the opportunity for us to be the preferred doublet for carboplatin-based therapy as well. So, we have a lot of options. Right now our initial focus is on enrolling our first trial and getting the drug approved and then expanding our opportunities.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Mara Goldstein from Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thanks for – excuse me – taking the question. I just had a question, I guess on FORWARD II which is collecting or plans to collect biopsy data, and I'm curious as to how much biopsy data you intend to have for this trial and when we may see that data?

So Mara, that's a nice question where we did present the biopsy data from the – our initial biopsy cohort at SGO a couple of months ago. So that's that 27-patient cohort that Mark mentioned where patients had archival tissue for screening in patient selection and then they had a pre-treatment biopsy and a post-treatment biopsy. What the data at SGO showed was that archival tissue is really sufficient for patient selection, and that's the strategy that we're using in our Phase 3 trial.

In our combination study, FORWARD II, where we're combining with those four different agents, the only arm in which we are doing some exploratory biomarker work is actually the pembrolizumab arm. Merck has supplied pembrolizumab for us for that study. And we are going to be quite interested in those translational medicine of the exploratory objectives but we won't have any of that data at ASCO.

Okay. And I also noticed, I think, assuming it's an investigator-sponsored trial in triple-negative breast cancer with mirvetuximab, and I'm just curious as to the rationale for that?

That's a great question, Mara. Thank you. We have partnered with the NCCN and we have committed $2 million in that partnership for them to run several preclinical studies, as well as three clinical studies, two of which are neoadjuvant triple breast cancer studies. The rationale for that is that FR-alpha expression is over expressed in triple-negative breast cancer, not as highly frequent as in ovarian cancer, so it's not our initial indication, but certainly we're quite interested about exploring triple-negative breast cancer. What I like about these NCCN studies is that they are neoadjuvant studies, so we'll have pre and post biopsies and we'll get a readout rather quickly from a proof-of-concept perspective.

Okay. And if I could just ask if you don't mind a non-clinical question, and that is, can you just remind us of the economics on Bayer agreement for anetumab ravtansine?

Sure. Mara, there's significant amount of milestones, I don't recall the exact numbers but it's into the high – like it's north of $150 million, and the royalties are 4% to 7%.

Okay. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it.

And we'll take our last question from Boris Peaker from Cowen & Company.

Great. Thanks for squeezing me in. I just wanted to just base regarding the [indiscernible] (24:57) opportunity. Specifically, you've earlier mentioned potentially licensing some non-core assets to buildup the cash balance. And I'm just wondering, I think previously you've discussed potentially out licensing mirvetuximab ex-U.S., is that still on the table? Is there a specific dataset you think a potential partner is waiting for prior to closing the deal? Just want to kind of get a sense of where that may stand.

Yeah. So we've had inbound interest with respect to the ex-U.S. rights to mirvetuximab. And so, we're evaluating those proposals in light of where we are with the program today and as you say, the data that's worth coming and what impact that might have in terms of the value that we could command in one of those transactions. I would be reluctant to comment further than that, other than its inbound interest. And our view is we need to read commercialization of the product in the U.S. Ex-U.S., this is still a relatively concentrated market even outside the U.S., particularly in Europe. And so this is something that a company of ImmunoGen size could effectively manage.

That said, if there is any opportunity to generate some near-term cash, reduce the ongoing expenses of development that's something that we need to consider in. And as I say, are entertaining at this point.

Great. And on your CD23-targeting ADC, I'm just curious given the competitive nature of this space now, what hematologic malignancies specifically you're thinking of targeting?

Sorry, CD123 Boris?

Yeah.

Yeah. So I think, the potential indications there are AML, MDS, BPDCN and BALL are the things that we are contemplating as we speak. And we will make a decision on that in the next really couple of months. As I mentioned, we expect to file the IND, but before the end of the third quarter I have our first patient in before the end of the year.

Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

Sure. Thanks.

And we'll take our next question from Biren Amin from Jefferies.

Hey, Biren.

Hey. Thanks for fitting me in.

Sure.

Just on your CD33 program. With the SGEN program they went into some issues with FDA, temporarily. And we've gotten clearly some transparency around that program in the last few months. What I guess, key considerations have you incorporated from learnings from, I guess at least safety learnings from that program into your Phase 1-2 trial?

Thanks, Biren. So, this is Anna. So, our drug as you heard from Rich, has a slightly different mechanism from the other CD33-targeted ADCs. Both Mylotarg and Seattle Genetics CD33 directed ADCs cross-link DNA. So they cause profound damage, that's difficult for cells to repair. That's probably playing into the venoclysis disease, that has played both compounds in AML patients, particularly those in the peritransplant setting. The fact that this was also seen with Pinatuzumab, a CD22 directed ADC with calicheamicin, the same payload as Mylotarg suggests that it's not target-related.

So, we think that, at least theoretically, our drug has a potential safety advantage and therefore we are proceeding with our Phase 1 dose escalation trial. Of course we are monitoring patients for potential VOD, but we're not, at this point excluding patients, because they've had a prior transplant. We are proceeding with AML patients and typically in Phase 1 trials you enroll patients who have relapsed/refractory disease and who may be statistical transplant.

Got it. Great. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from John Sonnier from William Blair.

Hey. Thanks for taking the question. Mark, you're about a year or so into the new role, and I'd love to just hear you talk about how it's gone. You came in obviously with a set of expectations. And what's gone better, what's gone worse, you obviously had to make some difficult structural decisions kind of right out of the gate. But just love to hear how you're thinking about the job now versus a year ago? And again what's gone better and worse over the past year? Thanks.

Yeah thanks for the question. I appreciate it. Yeah. So, first anniversary is on the 16th. And obviously there have been some things that were different. The Board of Directors asked me to join ImmunoGen to really oversee a transformation of what has been a very productive research organization that had also translated out into early stage development to a company that could deliver products to the market and commercialize on its own bottom.

And I would say the things that I'd hope for on the upside materialized in the way in which I'd hope. So success in this business begins with great people and I inherited a great team. And that team has really rallied over the course of what's been a challenging year to advance the business. And so, in terms of moving mirvetuximab into pivotal studies, that came as we had expected it to and we got a good design, a good correspondence with the agency and are well-positioned to deliver on the timeline that we've projected for you.

When I look at the platform, we continue to be very productive in terms of innovating new ADCs and moving those into the clinic. So, we are making great progress with the CD33 program and the profile that drug is emerging as we had have hoped it would, with in terms of efficacy and importantly in this setting the tolerability. And we're on track to file our next program within next quarter.

And so, as I look at it our principle challenges will be around capital, that's been the focus of some of the questions on this call. I think we've got a good handle on that in terms of looking at our assets and devising different strategies to raise capital whether it's out licensing, monetizing royalties or pursuing co-development relationships.

And so, I think we articulated four priorities for the business, which I reviewed at the end of my prepared comments today. And we are very much on track to do that. And importantly, as we have gone by the executing on those objectives, I really have seen the transformation in house in terms of the agility of the organization, the level of focus and discipline and really turning our attention to what it means to bring a product to market and be responsible for delivering the patients around the globe.

So, I'm excited about our prospects, I was excited to join the company. We had a few challenges for sure. We will certainly have more to come but I'm quite sanguine about our prospects. Let's appreciate the opportunity to talk about it. [indiscernible]

(33:21). Thanks for taking time to answer. I appreciate it.

That concludes today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference over to Monique Allaire for additional or closing remarks.

Thanks, everyone for joining us today. Don't hesitate to reach out, if you have any follow-up questions.

This concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.