raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to this ImmunoGen Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2005


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions,


I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate


Communication, Carol Hausner. Please go ahead.


Carol Hausner, Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communication


Thanks, Lisa [ph]. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our quarterly


conference call. We have announcements this afternoon. A couple of hours ago, we announced


that we had been engaged by Genentech to develop a commercial-scale manufacturing process for


Trastuzumab-DM1. And at four this afternoon, we issued a press release that summarizes our


financial results for the third quarter of our 2006 fiscal year, the quarter that ended March 31. Both


of these releases are available on our website at immunogen.com.


During today’s call we will make forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ


materially from the projections made. Descriptions of the risks and uncertainties associated with


investment in ImmunoGen are included in our SEC filings, which can be accessed through our


website.


With me today are Mitch Sayare, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Junius, our


Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mitch will provide an update on


ImmunoGen and Dan will discuss our financial results. We will then open the call for questions.


Mitch?


Mitchel Sayare, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Carol. This has been an eventful quarter for us and for our partners. Let me start with


some recent partner developments. As you know, sanofi-aventis is conducting Phase I clinical


testing of the TAP product AVE9633 in the U.S. We are pleased to pass on that patient


involvement is going very well and that the compound is now in clinical testing in Europe as well.


As a reminder, AVE9633 is in development for the treatment for the acute myeloid leukemia and


was initially developed by ImmunoGen. It was one of the 3 pre-clinical compounds that we licensed


to sanofi-aventis, as part of our broader collaboration with them.


At the AACR annual meeting last month, additional pre-clinical findings with AVE9633 were


reported. They showed that the product is effective of killing AML cells isolated from patients had


those who that allow normal progenitor cells to survive. Sanofi-aventis has also reported pre-


clinical findings at AACR on the anti-IGF 1 Receptor, to make it antibody and the CD19 TAP


compound, the two other compounds they licensed from us as part of our initial deal. Both are


progressing nicely towards the clinic. The anti-IGF-1 receptor antibody, which they call AVE1642,


has potential applications for the treatment of both solid and liquid tumors, while the antiCD19 TAP


compound called SAR3419 is in development for the treatment of certain B-cell malignancies,


including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.


Another of our partners Genentech has informed us said Trastuzumab-DM1 has advanced into


clinical testing, the first patient have in fact being dosed with this compound. This TAP consists of


Genentech's Herceptin and our DM1. The study is being conducted in patients with metastatic


breast cancer that previously received Herceptin and chemotherapy.
raw transcript


ImmunoGen, Inc.
 
IMGN
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This afternoon we announced the Genentech entered into an agreement with us to develop a


commercial scale manufacturing process, which has Trastuzumab-DM1. Nicely paying tribute I


should add to the depth of our expertise and to develop that from scale of those manufacturing


processes for TAP compounds. To some, we may have seen a little early for Genentech to be


preparing for the commercial production of this compound, after all we just entered Phase I. But it


makes a lot of sense given the timelines, just to be clear this new agreement is for us to develop a


manufacturing process for commercial material, not to make the material itself. Indeed all of our


partnership agreements commit us to manufacturing materials only for non-pivotal studies and we


are financially compensated for this.


The collaborator always is responsible for the production of the materials for pivotal testing and


commercialization themselves. As part of these discussions with Genentech, we may negotiate it


some others terms of the May 2000 agreement that gave Genentech right to use our TAP


technology with antibodies to HER2. As a result we amend that agreement has substantially


greater financial potential for ImmunoGen. The original agreements included some $37.5 million in


milestone payments to ImmunoGen plus the $2 million up front payment. With this re-negotiation,


the milestone payments now totaled 44 million. We also increased royalties from many HER2


targeting TAP compound developed by Genentech under the agreement. As always the level of


these royalties are not disclosed. I must say that I am very pleased with how things are moving


along with the Genentech programs.


We are turning to some of our other collaborations in June, Biogen Idec has scheduled to present


preclinical data on the TAP compound, they are developing at a conference on Recombinant


Antibodies in Zurich. They have now disclosed that their target is quick to approaching downs on


the surface of many solid tumor cells. And in March, Millennium the agreement that provides them


with a right to test, our TAP technology with antibodies to a specific number of targets.


Now, turning to our own products. We are making substantial progress in the clinical trial underway


with our huC242-DM4 compound at the CTRC in San Antonio. A number of dose levels have been


assessed without hitting those limiting toxicity. So, greater and greater dosages are being


evaluated. We anticipate reporting interim data from this study at the EORTC meeting this fall.


Additionally, we are making excellent progress with the 3 clinical trials underway with our huN901-


DM1. Patients are being enrolled into our multiple myeloma studies, we continue to dose escalate.


Numerous centers around the country are enrolling patients in the Phase II study in small cell lung


cancer that evaluate the weekly dosing schedule of 60 mgs per meter square. And dose-escalation


is still underway and the daily dosing study, we reported at EORTC last November. You will


remember that at that time, the highest dose level that had completed the evaluation was 36 mgs


per meter square per day or a 108 mgs per meter square over the 3 days, given every 21 days and


a complete response was seen along with reports of stable disease. Since that time, several more


dose-escalation’s have been completed. We potentially could update it from the study at EORTC


as well and will keep you close to our progress.


So, there is a lot of studies underway or in the works with TAP compounds. You may be wondering


why there is so much going on now. While it’s certainly arises in part from our aggressive product


development programs as well as those of our partners, it’s also due in part to enhancement to our


technology platform that we made a couple of years ago. At that time, we expanded our portfolio


payload agents to include additional molecules. One of which as you know is DM4, which is proven


to have considerable promise. We also expanded the variety of linkers, the agents we used to


attach our payload molecules to antibodies. So, we can create bonds with different degrees of


stability including non-cleavable bonds. These innovations enable customization of TAP


compounds to achieve the greatest therapeutic window, the most efficacies with the least toxicity,


for each antibody and its targets.