Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Loudon — Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President Supply Chain, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Robert Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Indigo Books & Music Inc. FY 2019 Q3 Investor and Analyst Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Tuesday, February 5, 2019.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Craig Loudon. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good evening and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's third quarter fiscal 2019 results. My name is Craig Loudon and I'm the incoming Chief Financial Officer. Joining us from Indigo today is the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market closed this evening. It can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. This conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM Eastern Time on February 12, 2019.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent it does, we refer you to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Good evening, everyone, and thank you for joining. As we've discussed in the past few quarters, we are executing on a very ambitious capital investment plan to renovate our retail stores and to bring our reimagined retail experience to a greater number of our customers. While we remain convinced that the transformation will bring long-term success, the complexity of the renovation project has for sure had some short-term impact on sales and profitability. As we move stores, some have been closed longer than we expected. To some extent, customers get disrupted and it takes a little bit of time. Not in all circumstances, but in some for those customers to reacclimate either to the new store or to situations where we've moved. So there's still some impact here.

Another, and I think perhaps the most important temporal factor which impacted us in this quarter, and it impacted sales, net margin and cost was the Canada Post strike. Indigo is hugely dependent on Canada Post in the third quarter as we are during the year. And the strike severely hurt our ability to serve customers in a manner that today's retail environment demands. As a result to some extent, customers chose not to shop online or when they did shop online and we did send them to our stores to pick up the product, our cost to transfer the product was often quite high as we had to use a number of alternative carriers.

The combination of the lower sales and the increased costs were further exacerbated by the fact that the incoming trend, the incoming growth trend online that we had anticipated for online, influenced how much inventory we bought and of course we had to clear that inventory out through our system. So you have the triple whammy, you have customers who don't get what they want, you have some customers who we satisfy through alternative set of networks that was more expensive, using our stores and then we had the need to discount product that we fully expected to sell through our online channel, that then had to go through retail and of course when you mark it down, you mark down all of the products. That combined with some number of stores that opened later than we hoped did have a big impact on the season.

Now, there were also some notable external market headwinds as the Canadian retail industry faced a challenging December in particular. But some of these downward pressures on performance resulted in comp sales for the quarter coming in essentially equal to last year, although we fully expected them to be up both because of online growth and because of new stores that we would have hoped to be fully online much earlier than they were. And then, in fact, so we were basically flat. But the bigger impact was EBITDA. You had product sold, as I say, at margins less than we had hoped, and we had the impact of all of the costs that we did not anticipate, so the combination of the costs and the margin.

While some of these factors are temporal, we recognize that we are facing significant market pressures and we will have to overcome these forces by leaning on our ability to be innovative, which has been the history of Indigo. And that basically is the story. Do we think it's going to immediately pick up? No, but we can see the trend already starting to come back. It'll take a little bit of time, but we remain optimistic about our position in the market. What I will share is, in moments like this, we look very carefully at our customers and we can see that the customers who we did dislocate we can already see that they are starting to return. So, that's the point we are right now. Craig?

Great. Thank you, Heather. The results we are discussing are for the 13 weeks ended December 29, 2018. Revenue was CAD 426 million for the quarter, which was CAD 7.3 million less than the third quarter last year. The retail channel was impacted by ongoing renovations in seven stores and the closure of two low-performing stores, while the online channel was negatively affected by the Canadian Postal strike, as Heather mentioned.

A one-time breakage revenue adjustment in the prior period due to a change in accounting estimates also contributed to lower revenues. Total comparable sales, including online were essentially equal to last year sustaining the year-over-year comp growth achieved over the past two record holiday seasons. This is notable given the general Canadian retail market weakness and the downward pressure from the postal strike which the impacted the company's primary growth channel.

Gross profit decreased by CAD 15.8 million driven by deeper discounting in response to the sales disruptions discussed as well as increased shipping costs as the company engaged higher cost shipping alternatives in response to the postal strike.

Overall, operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 11.6 million compared to last year primarily due to the impact of legislated minimum wage increases across the country and disproportionate costs associated with the company's opening its first U.S. location during the period. As a result of the factors discussed, adjusted EBITDA decreased by CAD 27.4 million for the quarter and net earnings for the third quarter was CAD 21.5 million compared to net earnings of CAD 42.6 million last year.

On a fiscal year-to-date basis, total revenue decreased by CAD 16.6 million or 1.9% to CAD 847.7 million compared to CAD 864.3 million for the same period last year. Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA decreased by CAD 59.4 million compared to the prior year for the reasons already discussed. The capital investment in Indigo's long-term growth continues to have a temporary impact on profitability. However, based on the positive response to our new concept stores, our comparable sales and the efficiencies expected from our enhanced supply chain, we are confident that these strategic investments will bolster Indigo's position as a valued retailer. As our shareholders are aware, we continue to maintain a strong balance sheet position with to CAD 249 million in cash and cash equivalents, while having no debt.

At this point, we would like to open the call for any questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Bob Gibson from PI Financial. Bob, please go ahead.

Good afternoon.

Hi, Bob.

In your press release, Heather, you said Short Hills is resonating well. Can I get a little more color on that and what do you think your next steps might be?

So we set a, what we thought, was a fair budget for the first quarter – I mean, we opened in mid-October or third week in October. We set, I think, a reasonable budget for our first holiday and we slightly improved on it. So far, we feel happy with the response of the customer and we are being very careful about how that goes. But so far, we're happy.

Okay.

Anybody who's been – any customers who've been, anybody you've talked to, anybody who's been to the store, we've had nothing but positive response.

Okay. Would you disclose how many store renovations you think you're going to have for this calendar year?

We're actually going to hold off on any major renovations where we have two stores to open, one in a couple of weeks and one in the – at the end of the summer or very early in September. Those are the only major renovations we have planned. We will do some upgrading, a little bit of upgrading in some stores, but we are not planning to do the big renovation program that we did this year. We want to absorb a bit of what's happened and make sure that we are getting everything that we want out of what we did.

So, CapEx will come down considerably.

CapEx will come down considerably as will operating costs associated with this. We took our strongest stores and I think people will be very happy with how those stores all perform. But it was a lot for the company to absorb. And we just want to take a bit of a breather.

Great. Thanks so much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question is from David McFadgen from Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you. So, I have a number of questions. So, Heather, can you just talk about the stores that you renovated today? Are they still performing well as expected with a fairly significant revenue increase compared with the prior store?

The majority of stores are performing well. In total even the new stores, yes, the answer is the majority of stores are performing well. We have a couple that have not reached their potential. For the most part, the ones that have not reached their potential opened very late. We had originally thought, I think I told you this in the summer, we had originally thought that our entire program would be completed by September. It turned out, for all kinds of reasons, there were so many unexpected things happened, developers who didn't finish what they had planned to do in time for us to achieve what we wanted, just a series of things. A couple of things our teams learned along the way.

But the long and short is, some of the stores opened as late as the second week in December. When you open a store at that time, you're not going to fully achieve what you want to do as opposed to opening in May and you have some time to do it. So the answer to your question is the majority of stores are performing well to our expectations. With the few that have yet to hit their stride. But we are very confident that every store that we invested in will deliver the return that we expected.

Okay. So, if we look into your next fiscal year... [ph]

You have situations (00:12:53) Bob (sic) [David] (00:12:58) , you have some situations that even you can eyeball here. We have a store in the Manulife Centre, I don't know if you've driven around the corner, we made a major investment in that store. The mall itself looks like a war zone. So, of course, our traffic in that store is down, I don't know, 20%. That renovation in the mall has to come back so that we can get the expected experience, but we're very confident in the long-term opportunity. And that is the case in a few places.

So, if we look to your next fiscal year, fiscal 2020, if you're only renovating two stores, the disruption should be down quite a bit, so the profitability, the EBITDA should really bounce back quite a bit, no?.

Yes, it should. Yes, it should, I mean we have to be careful about what we can project. Yes, it should. The larger issue is there is a general slowdown in the Canadian economy. For example, publicly reported results which you can get at, in the month of December, overall toy sales in Canada decreased by...

14%. The market shrank.

The market shrank by...

Similar in the United States [indiscernible] (00:14:12).

14%. We actually – I mean, the fact that our sales with all of what was happening was flat does say something to about the customer commitment to us. But there are headwinds in the Canadian economy and particularly for those items that consumers consider non-essential. And I think you can look at some of that. So we are very respectful of that and we know that we will have to absorb some of those headwinds. But there's a lot that happened this year; the cost that we laid in all of which can come out, a number of things which happened that we don't anticipate happening, investments we made in our Calgary warehouse, we only get to turn on the online part of it this year. So there is a lot. When you invest this kind of capital, you know that some of it has to come. So we have some things we can do that we're very focused on, very focused on, and we still have to be respectful of what's happening in the market.

Yeah. And I think, David, just watching the stats, Canada numbers for the retail sector, we've gone from overall comparable sales growth of 5% to 7%, that in the last three quarters, that's dropped as low as 0.5 point. And if you look at some of the discretionary categories, some of the year-over-year comparable sales have even gone into negative comp territory. So we're watching that very closely and being very careful too with our inventory levels.

Okay, so can you quantify at all the impact from the Canada Post strike in the quarter?

Well I can tell you we had – I think what's fair to say is this, we were – we had a healthy double-digit growth trajectory for the entire year. At the moment the slowdown and then the pretty much full strike happened, we saw a real hockey stick down.

Yeah, we went from double-digit growth to a double digit decline. It was very impactful. And then also it drove a fair bit of cost too in terms of alternate operational arrangements.

Yeah, so when you're talking double-digit growth, the double-digit decline, you're talking specifically online only, right?

Correct, yeah.

Yeah, okay. And then, how long do you think it will take before you get the distribution center at west to optimized in terms of costs...

It's – it was always our plan to bring it up in a phased manner. It is performing very well. For our holiday, we had it operating for all of the Western Canada stores and in fact, it was performing extremely well at levels of productivity because it's better than our older operations, mainly because it has better equipment and has slightly higher level of automation.

And then it was always the plan this spring to bring online up. Just due to the IT complexity, we wanted to phase it out and ensure that we brought it up in a smooth manner. It was quite a successful launch.

Okay.

So the good news was we were in really great shape – I mean, there's no doubt, this was one of those years. You say, man, oh man, oh man. You have the labor raises. You have the postal strike. You have the larger softening just at Christmas time. But the customer is there. They're spending less. The customer continues to come to visit us. In fact, we had a slight uptick in customers. They're just spending less money.

Okay. Do you think that – I think that there's probably a lot of costs in the business that could be taken out. Is there any initiative on your part to say [indiscernible] (00:18:22)...

There is a very significant initiative already underway.

To take out costs? Okay. Can you quantify that for us?

No. You know I can't, Bob (sic) [David] (00:18:35).

No. No. Okay.

You like to ask. I know you. You like to ask, but you know I can't.

Okay.

There's no question that – we're just about to roll off finishing the last work as I say we have a store about to open and another one underway and we actually have an office move coming, but we are getting very close to being in that position and we expect to go into the New Year looking different.

And how many stores actually did open during the second week of December? Is it one or two?

We had two in December and then four in November, so they...

Before the end of November.

Yeah. Towards the end of it. So they did open much later than anticipated.

Right. Okay.

And they were good-sized stores so that you lose a lot of potential third quarter.

So, can you give us an idea on what the CapEx might be? Like would it be – would CAD 20 million be a reasonable number or that's too low for a fiscal – the next fiscal year?

I think it might even be less than that, David.

Okay.

Yeah.

Or that.

Yeah. Yeah.

Or that.

Yeah. It's certainly not going to be like that.

Kind of about that area.

Okay. All right. And then I guess lastly, what's sort of the plan for the U.S? I mean, you're going – so I take it that the revenue from that New Jersey store was about $1 million in the quarter because you said the revenue growth [indiscernible] (00:20:02).

We don't, Bob (sic) [David] (00:20:03). Bob, (sic) [David] (00:20:05) you are a wonderful person to talk to. We never give that information.

Okay.

And we can't give that information. I think your bigger question is what – how does this experience – what is the implication for the U.S. It was always our intention. I think we announced it right at the beginning that we were going to launch this store. And by the way, it was an unbelievably smooth launch like I will say this, unlike what often happens to people, it was an unbelievably smooth launch into the U.S. We always said we were going to operate the store fully for a year, learn everything we could; and over the course of the year, understand what, if anything, we might want to adjust before opening more stores.

I can tell you that our board meeting this morning there was a whole discussion and energy in the board around we should start looking, but we have no plans at the moment. Our full focus is on really optimizing this experience and learning from the customer. We believe if there is opportunity we think with the brand, it's going to be more than a one-year opportunity, right? This is what we're looking at something there will be growth. And there are a number of things we're already learning that we say would be small adjustments of what we might do moving forward. So we want this under our belt.

Yeah. Okay. Well, that's it for me. Thank you.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Please proceed, there's no further questions.

Okay. I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call. And have a great evening. Thank you.

Goodbye