Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Hugues Simard — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music's Second Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Thursday, November 2, 2017.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Hugues Simard. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to review our second quarter fiscal 2018 results. My name is Hugues Simard, I'm the CFO; and Heather Reisman, our Chair and CEO will be joining us also in a few minutes.

Regarding the material to this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday evening, and it can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM Eastern Time on November 9.

Oh, why can't I get into the call? Hello?

Oh, there you are.

Okay. Yeah. Okay.

Good morning.

Go ahead, Hugh. Just to tell you I'm here.

Okay. Great. Good to have you.

Great.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I would now like to review our financial results. The results we are discussing are for the 13 weeks ended September 30 of this year. Comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2016. We are pleased to announce another quarter of meaningful revenue growth. Following our strong first quarter, we once again achieved the company record with the highest ever second quarter to date. This marks our 16th straight quarter of top line growth.

For the second quarter, revenue was CAD 224.5 million, which was CAD 7.6 million more than last year. Revenue growth was 3.5% above, which is remarkable considering the blockbuster title release last year. Total comparable sales, including online, were up 2.8% for the quarter. Comparable retail store sales for the quarter increased by 2% in superstores, while small-format stores declined 4%, as last year's Harry Potter release had a greater impact on total comparable sales in that format. Online sales grew by 15.1% in the quarter.

We continued to see double-digit growth in general merchandise with Lifestyle and Toys performing particularly well. The core trade book business remains healthy, showing growth over last year after adjusting for the aforementioned Harry Potter event.

Margin dollars increased by CAD 2 million due to higher sales volume in retail and online and higher gift card breakage. Product margin actually increased in the quarter, but net margin declined slightly 0.6% due to timing differences associated with shrink and vendor support.

Operating, selling, and administration costs increased by CAD 6.5 million compared to last year, largely driven by higher sales volume, as well as significant investments in our digital, online, new store development and marketing to fuel our future sales growth.

Overall, adjusted EBITDA decreased by CAD 4.5 million for the quarter, driven by higher operating cost as a result of, as I just said, increased sales volume and investments to support our strategic projects. Consequently, net loss for the second quarter was CAD 4.7 million compared to a net loss of CAD 1.2 million last year.

On a fiscal year-to-date basis, revenue increased by CAD 20.8 million or 5.1% to CAD 430.8 million, compared to CAD 410 million for the same period last year. Year-to-date total comparable sales, which includes online sales, increased 4.4% while year-to-date comparable retail store sales increased 2.6% for the superstores and increased 0.7% in the small formats. Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA improved by CAD 1.4 million driven by higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating costs and investments that I spoke about earlier to support our strategic projects.

Our balance sheet continues to be very strong. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of a CAD 171 million and our assets totaled CAD 628.2 million, an increase of CAD 19.6 million from last year, and I point out that we still have no debt on the balance sheet.

We continued in this quarter to roll out our new store concept completing five new stores in this quarter. These new reimagined stores, which reflect our transformation from a traditional bookstore to a cultural department store for book lovers are showing exceptional results with an average 16% revenue growth. Based on these very convincing results, we will embark upon a major capital investment program to redevelop our retail network.

Subsequent to quarter close, we also acquired a distribution facility in Calgary. This is a great transaction for us, as it provides us with a state-of-the-art, readily available and ideally located facility to support our future growth across the country and more specifically to serve Western Canada more efficiently.

Finally, we're very excited to announce that we will be opening our first cultural department store in the United States. In an effort to test the largest retailing market in the world, we will bring our unique assortment and life-enriching experience to the renowned mall at Short Hills in New Jersey. We will try to replicate the success that we're having in Canada, which is due to creating that joyful and addictive omni-channel experience as well as creating the ultimate community for book lovers.

Just before turning to questions, I'd like to say that we are very, very proud of these results, which show not only good operational performance, but also wise and timely investments to fuel our long-term, top line and bottom line growth in both of our channels. Our entire team is engaged and energized, as we enter, as you know, our busiest time of the year and the most important for us, which is the critical holiday season.

At this point, unless, Heather, you would like to add a few words, I'd like to turn it open for the questions.

No, that's fine. Thank you, Hugh.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Bob Gibson from PI Financial. Bob, please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bob. [ph]

Hi (00:07:41), Bob.

Okay. So the United States, this is great. Can you give me some color on what you're thinking? Is it just going to be this one store or how should we be thinking about this?

We're going to do probably three, four, five stores over the next 24 months and test the market response to the concept. And then if we experience what we think we're going to be seeing then we'll look at further growth. But we'll definitely open a couple before making major commitments.

Okay. And this looks like it might have been in a former Saks store which was 100,000 square feet. Will that be the size of the...

You're exactly right. We are in that former space, but no, we are taking about 30,000 square feet.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you so much. And the Calgary, DC, what kind of cost should I be looking at initially to set this thing up? And then what kind of savings are you envisioning?

First of all, we're fortunate to acquire the facility at extremely beneficial cost because we bought this bankruptcy sale. But there will be software investments integrated into our own system, and we never announced the specifics, but there will be a couple of million for sure. And we don't say exactly how much, but it will be a manageable amount. It would give us very significant additional capacity.

Okay. Heather, last year, we had Reading Socks. What are we going to have this year?

We will definitely get more Reading Socks because those were highly successful, and they are continuing to be successful. But we really have fantastic – based on the product, it looks like it should be a very successful holiday season, really successful holiday season. There's lots and lots of wonderful things.

Great. I'll jump back in the queue. Thank you.

Thanks, Bob. That's all.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. And your next question is from David McFadgen from Cormark. David, please go ahead.

Okay. Thank you. Couple of questions. Heather, could you share with us any metrics that you would be looking at where the U.S. store [indiscernible] (00:10:14) where you would give the green light to get more aggressive on an expansion?

Well, we would want them to be as successful as our stores here. And I think if – every time we do a store, we model out what we would like its performance to be. We have a pretty simple but straightforward goals for sales per square foot, bottom line contribution, obviously customer affection for the brand. And as we do here, for any store we do or reinvest in. And as soon as we see that that's happening, then we will know that our experience resonates. We've had so many developers come to see us from the U.S. expressing their beliefs in the content. So, we're cautious but we're optimistic. [indiscernible]

(00:11:09)

...do as well as they do here.

Okay. And would the initial investment in the store be similar to the investment of a store in Canada?

Yeah. Yeah.

Okay. And then once the Calgary data center is fully up and running and integrated, do you expect to realize any synergies from this new center?

Synergies in terms of...?

In terms of cost. [indiscernible] (00:11:38) your cost structure before the data center, that's new – not data center, this new distribution. [indiscernible]

(00:11:44)

Yeah.

And then after, would the cost be lower?

Supply chain cost, would supply chain cost be lower?

Yeah.

So sure. Shipping costs to our western stores, the cost of shipping from the west to the west is obviously lower, so we should get some synergies there. And our ability to serve our customers, both our stores and online customers, will be improved. So that should drive some benefits in that respect. But some of that – so, yes, we definitely believe some of it we're still modeling exactly all elements of it.

But some of the savings which are clearly there will be offset by the fact that we will now have inventory in two locations. That said, we were at the point where our existing capability in Toronto... [ph]

Toronto (00:12:44). Yeah.

...needed expansion in any case. So we, for sure, would have had to expand. So, net-net, we are cautiously optimistic that there will be synergies after offsetting [indiscernible] (00:13:00) cost associated with additional revenue.

Okay.

And it should be very good for our service to the customers which by definition should drive more sales and again contribute.

Okay. And then, so prior to this quarter, I know that Indigo has believed or you believe that there were costs that could be taken out of the system to keep us in a flat or lower and then, this quarter we saw an increase on the SG&A line. Should that increase – do you think that's going to continue in the Q3 and Q4 [indiscernible] (00:13:39)?

The two main reasons – the two reasons, not main. The two, yeah, main – Hugh, you can jump in. But the two...

Yeah.

...significant reasons for the SG&A increase was we were renovating five stores and that, of course, there's the combination of the operating costs associated with renovating stores in place and some sales loss during the renovation time when you still have the costs associated with it. So, that was a part of it. But the biggest part was we did some supply chain capability expansion. We doubled the size of our online DC, this...

Yeah.

...quarter and there was investment in doing that which we – operational expense in doing that entire expansion, and that was some meaningful cost there. So, those two things, those are one-time costs relative to that. That said, when we go in next year, we're going to accelerate our store renovation program, that will have some impact on costs.

So, given you...

But we're constantly looking, we're investing. Indigo's at a important sort of flexion point where we've been testing things for the last couple of years, developing things, developing a perspective. And now, we see the market's response. So, we're going to move into an investment phase, which we think is going to give us very meaningful long-term advantages. So, that's what you saw this time. You saw a supply chain investment and you saw a store development investment. [indiscernible] (00:15:36), we've actually cut cost in some things and we continue to look for ways to take cost out of the [indiscernible] (00:15:43) or to look for synergies when we advance to do things.

Yeah. And if I may add to that, David, the home office other than what Heather has talked about and the support functions costs are actually down this quarter.

Yeah, exactly.

So, it's a true investment in what Heather has said, and on our online operations to make sure that we keep building the experience.

Oh really, I forgot that one, Hugh. We made a big investment in online operations.

Yeah. Yes.

Excuse me, we forgot that.

Absolutely.

Those are the investments.

Yeah.

So, the supply chain and the online investments were continuing obviously. They wouldn't be one-time in nature and that's like an added cost actually going forward, right, in the anticipation of growth, no?

Well, the supply chain at this moment, the cost on the Toronto base ones are now done. We've now got the growth...

Correct.

...we need for some period of time. But the digital ones will continue and there are other – yes, the digital ones will continue. There are other areas where cost, as Hugh says, we are taking cost out.

Yeah.

So, it seems like you're going to be renovating, refueling more stores in your next fiscal year. Is that true? Can you give us an idea on the magnitude versus this year?

We have not finalized our plan yet.

Okay.

But we'll do a good number of stores next year.

Okay. Okay, that's it for me. Thanks.

Great.

Thank you.

Thank you. Operator, are there any other questions?

At this time, there are no further questions. I will turn it back over to you.

Thank you. So, I thank everyone who joined in this morning. And I appreciate your time and attention. And we look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our third quarter results will be announced on or around the 7th of February, 2018 of course. And we'll be speaking then. So, thank you again and have a good day.

Thanks, Hugh. I'll be in the office shortly. Thanks. Bye.

Thanks, Heather. Bye.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for participating and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.