Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President, Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Craig Loudon — Senior Vice President, Business Finance, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music Third Quarter Results Conference Call. Note that at this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. But following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Note that this call is being recorded on Wednesday, February 8, 2017.

And I would like to turn the conference over to Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's third quarter fiscal 2017 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr; and Craig Loudon, SVP of Business Finance.

As previously announced, Mr. Loudon, will be taking on the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer with effect from February 9, when Laura Carr is leaving the company.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday evening and can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 P.M. on February 15, 2017.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements. And to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and to the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Thanks, Janet. As Janet mentioned, Laura Carr will be moving back to London, England with her family and we wish her well on her journey. We thank her for her work and we wish her well with her family in her next endeavor. She has been great support for us and we'll miss her, but we know England will be so happy to have her back.

To the third quarter, we know, in general, that this was a very challenging season for retailers, but we were pleased to see solid revenue growth, particularly on top of the previous year's double digit growth, makes these results particularly pleasing for us, not only that the quarter was so strong the year before, but there were no particular strong hits this year.

Third quarter last year same-store sales were up by over 15%. This year, we see total growth of about 4.5%. It was an unusual holiday season, we started well through Halloween, very strong October and then post – what we feel was a kind of post-election malaise and then a very strong finish. We had very good growth online and that notwithstanding the fact that we had some fulfillment issues that is the demand was more than we had capability for. So we even tamped down some of the demand.

On balance, we feel the results are good, particularly in the environment we live in. There is not a lot to say that the trends are continuing as they have been, very strong performance, in general, merchandize and we still had about flat growth in books against a massive, massive hit last year in coloring. So we feel that is a reflection of what we've been seeing all along and that is that physical books remain quite strong with consumers, ebooks declined again, which is further reinforcement of the core of the business. There is tremendous energy in the team. There is lots going on.

And I'm happy now to hand it over Laura.

Thank you, Heather, and good morning, everybody. Results that we're discussing today are for the 13 weeks ended December 31, 2016. The comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended December 26, 2015. For the third quarter, revenue was CAD 400 million, which was CAD 17 million higher than last year despite operating three fewer stores. Total revenue growth grew by 4.5%, which as Heather mentioned on top of last year's total revenue growth to 12.9%, the growth is notable.

Total comparable sales, including online, were up 3.8% for the quarter. Comparable retail store sales for the quarter increased by 3.1% in superstores and decreased by 0.8% in small format stores. Growth continues to be driven by general merchandise, notably in the lifestyle categories. The core trade book business remained essentially flat as the business cycled over the last year's trend for adult coloring books. We declined near the non-core print categories.

Third quarter revenue from general merchandise categories grew to 43.2% of the total, compared to 39.5% last year. For the quarter, margin dollars increased by CAD 8 million and margin rate increased by 0.1%, due to greater sell-through of full-priced goods, compared to last year.

Operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 4 million, compared to same quarter last year and the increase was driven mainly by higher sales volume and the distribution center costs. Overall, our EBITDA improved by CAD 4 million for the quarter, driven by higher revenues.

Third quarter net earnings of CAD 40 million, included a CAD 14.5 million non-cash tax expense. Last year, the company reversed a previously recorded valuation allowance, which resulted in a CAD 2.1 million net tax income recovery.

On a pre-tax basis, third quarter net earnings were CAD 54.4 million this year, compared to CAD 50.7 million last year. The improvement was driven by the EBITDA increase.

On a fiscal year-to-date basis, revenue has increased by CAD 36.5 million or 4.7% to CAD 810.3 million compared to CAD 773.8 million for the same period last year. Our year-to-date total comparable sales including online increased by 4.9%. Comparable retail store sales increased 4.4% in superstores and 2.6% in small format stores.

Year-to-date EBITDA has increased by CAD 0.7 million to CAD 54.8 million compared to CAD 54.1 million in the same period last year. However, last year the company received one-time net proceeds of CAD 4.5 million related to the exiting of a lease, without which the prior year's EBITDA would have been CAD 49.6 million. Therefore, excluding the one-time lease proceeds from last year, the year-over-year improvement in EBITDA would be CAD 5.2 million.

Turning to the balance sheet, which remains strong, we ended the quarter with CAD 316.3 million, which represents a CAD 4 million increase from Q3 last year. And finally, because I've mentioned this quite a few times, we were very pleased with our Sherway Gardens' new concept store performance. The Sherway Gardens store in Toronto continued to perform well in Q3. Revenues were up 34% compared to the Queensway store that it replaced, and the penetration of general merchandise [ph] product was (07:22) significant at 63% which not only the highest in the chain but also represented a significant increase to the Queensway store while the general merchandise penetration last year was 48% for the same period.

At this point, we'd like to now open the call for any questions.

Thank you, Laura. To ask a question, please press star one. Operator?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be from Bob Gibson of PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Bob.

Good morning.

Laura, enjoy England and, Craig, we'll try to be kind to you on your next call.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Bob.

Okay. You say, you are starting renovating four superstores, can you give us some idea of what you expect for the full year?

Yes, we have approximately 10 stores, 10 or 11 stores on the drawing board before the holidays. This a program that we are starting now and we intend to invest in our entire fleets over the next couple of years. So it'll just be a rolling program. The only thing is that we don't do any actual renovation in the third quarter as you could imagine. So this will just be a – we started in the fourth quarter of this year, it'll continue in the first and second quarter and then will pick it up again in the fourth quarter next year.

Okay. And will you be renovating any of the smaller formats?

Yes, there are some. We're actually going to be converting some of the smaller formats into the small Indigo concept that we've been developing, which includes, obviously, the core book, but a curated assortment of gift and paper and we're finding that that's working very well in the markets where they play the role and if there is not a – in many cases, if there is not a Indigo store right in the local trade area.

Okay. You said there were...

Of course, [ph] they can enter into (09:32) our online, so they get the larger offering at the same time.

Okay. You said there were some stabilization challenges in the warehouse, is that over with or might there still be some issues?

Well, first of all, it's stable now, it's completely stable now, but the size of the growth that we're anticipating, the changes that we implemented are just not sufficient for the size of the growth. So yes, it's stable now, but we will be making some – much more fundamental investments, because we feel that there is enormous opportunity for us in online growth.

Okay, excellent. And, I guess, lastly, do you have a CapEx budget for this year?

We don't specifically announce our CapEx budget.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

But what we can tell you is that we are careful with our capital spending, and we always try and earn a good return on it.

Always.

Okay. Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. Next question will be from David McFadgen of Cormark. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. I'll just start with a couple of clarifications. So when you talk about the 10 to 11 stores in the drawing board, are those all Sherway concept stores?

They're all iterations of Sherway Gardens. Yes, they are not all two stories, so some things will be different, but these will get pretty full renovations, yes.

So, similar to Sherway. Okay. Can you give us any idea of store traffic in the quarter, how it was, up or down?

Like you know what, I can't remember what that number was.

Yeah. I can. It was marginally down in retail, marginally, but we had very significant traffic to our online. So overall, from a customer basis, total traffic was up, but retail physical stores slightly down. However, we did pretty well on conversion. So we converted the traffic that we had, and then saw an increase in the sales in store.

So, if the in-store traffic was marginally down in the quarter then can we conclude that the average spend or purchase per customer was up?

David, I think, you've been on our calls long enough to know what information we provide and what we don't. I don't think we ever comment on average spend. In total, traffic to Indigo was up.

Okay.

Right, in total. So, customers – some customers do shop online. But I don't think we ever comment on average spend of customers.

Okay. I thought you are tracking... [indiscernible]

(12:18) but yet to realize what's happening today is that there are shifts, right. So, if online goes up, to some extent sometimes a customer will do all of their shopping. As we mentioned it earlier on, we think because we deliberately tamped down some of our online in order to ensure all our customers with 100% get the service that they required. We might have seen even a little more online.

And I think, in general, what people in retail are seeing is that there is a decision on the part of customers, some customers are just choosing to do their shopping online.

Okay.

I mean, we've had traffic up, I think, all through for quite some time, but this Christmas, I think we said it was, I don't know, [ph] 0.5 point just (13:12) very marginal, very marginal, but it was down. So, I think that's what you're seeing. If you want to take a trend from this, it's the huge opportunity as we're seeing and being able to shop both channels.

So, given the online businesses growing nicely, can you comment at all just directionally whether the margins are improving or wide or down sequentially for online?

Laura, I don't know that we want to let you comment on here. So, let me turn this over to you.

Yeah. We don't separate the channels out from the margin basis. So, I mean, yes, [ph] things have all (13:54) tracking positively in terms of the divisions that moves to online and margins are certainly improving.

Okay. Okay. I think, that's it from me. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, David.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. Thank you for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our full-year results will be announced on or around May 30, 2017. Thank you again for your support, and have a good day.

Thanks, everybody.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again, thank you for participating. And at this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines.