Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Hugues Simard — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music First Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

This call is being recorded on Wednesday, August 9, 2017.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Hugues Simard. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. My name is Hugues Simard. I'm the Chief Financial Officer of Indigo and thank you for joining us to review our first quarter fiscal 2018 results.

Also on the line is our CEO, Heather Reisman. But Heather is travelling and the connection isn't terribly good. So she is on the line, but I will answer your questions if that's okay, and then, I'm sure Heather will add some color if the connection gets a little better.

So regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday evening, and it can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 16 of this year.

This conference may well contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

So, first, I'd like to talk about the financials, and then we'll go into some of our strategic initiatives. So revenue, as you saw from [Technical Difficulty] (01:57)

Hello?

Go ahead. Go ahead.

Okay. So revenue for the quarter increased 6.8% and comparable sales grew by an impressive 5% this quarter, which is on top, as you know, last year's already strong growth, which was close to 8%. Our retail operations delivered solid results and our online performance, again, surpassed our expectations.

From a category standpoint, general merchandise continues its double-digit growth fueled by Lifestyle, Paper and Toys, which performed exceptionally well. While books remained healthy and showing growth over last year despite there wasn't any – this quarter – any major launch this quarter, but even despite that we managed growth on books.

In terms of our store, as you know, we successfully launched our Sherway Gardens, new concept store in Toronto last year. And following the success of that store, we rolled out our new store concept in Oshawa and Ancaster this past quarter, and both stores, I am happy to report, are showing tremendous results both on top line and on operational metrics.

This is excellent performance. It's a really good start to the year. And we're all energized and we will keep up the momentum. We've got a well thought-out plan for the rest of the year, and we will continue to deliver the best customer experience in the market.

In terms of more detail, if I can now get into a little bit more detail in terms of our financial statements. For the 13 weeks ended July 1, 2017, we recorded revenues of CAD 206.3 million, which was CAD 13.2 million more than last year, that is a 6.8% growth that I referred to earlier, and the 5% growth comparable – and comparable stores.

In terms of channels, both channels reported very, very high growth. In terms of retail, the growth was higher than what we had expected, and online we are maintaining double-digit growth there as well. Online was 20.5% growth, and the retail growth was in the 3.5% growth.

In terms of categories, we continued to record double-digit growth as I said earlier in general merchandise. The strongest products within the general merchandise were Lifestyle, Toys and then Paper. Core trade books, as I said, remains healthy with growth over last year.

In terms of margin, margin increased by CAD 8 million for the quarter, which represents a margin rate improvement of 1%, and that's due mostly to higher sales volume in retail and online, as I said earlier, and also higher gift card breakage.

In terms of costs, overall, the operating, selling and administration costs increased CAD 3 million compared to last year and that was, obviously, driven by higher volumes, but also, the important point here I think is that these costs decreased as a percentage of sales, showing our focus on maintaining controlled costs within the company.

For the year, adjusted EBITDA improved by CAD 6.2 million, which was driven by higher revenue and margin, and we achieved breakeven for the quarter.

After interest income, taxes and depreciation, the net loss for the first quarter was CAD 5.3 million, compared to a net loss of CAD 9 million last year.

Finally, looking at the balance sheet, it continues to be very strong. We ended the year with close to CAD 200 million, CAD 196.7 million in cash and short-term investments, which is CAD 20 million more than last year. And, of course, I'll remind you that we still have no debt on the balance sheet.

At this point, I'd like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Bob Gibson from PI Financial. Bob, please go ahead.

Good morning. Great numbers.

Good morning, Bob. Nice to talk to you.

Your small format stores beat the superstores on a same-store sales basis. I rarely see that. Can you give me a little color on what happened?

They're actually very similar. On the comparable, the issue was that there were fewer stores opened. We were renovating a few more superstores. So, on the comparable basis it shows slightly lower growth on the superstore versus the small format. But if you really – to last year, it's roughly the same 3.5% growth in all stores.

Okay. Let's follow up on that. How many stores do you think you're going to be renovating this year?

We have – very aggressive, I mean, we're focusing on superstores. I mean, we have a dozen other stores that are in line for renovation. We have more for next year. So there's going to be close to 20 stores that are going to be renovated within the next 12 months.

Okay. Great. And can I get a little more color on Unplug Meditation and why you made the investment?

Unplug Meditation is in our view – I think, Heather wants to make a comment on Unplug. Can you try again, Heather?

[Technical Difficulty] (08:22-08:28) as we explore certain activity that we might bring into our large format stores, we have an interest in the whole meditation area, and so this is just a little exploration concept for us.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Is there anything else, Bob?

Thank you. And your next question is from David McFadgen, Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Hi. I couldn't hear Heather very well there. So I'll just – did she say that you want to bring in some of that product into the stores...

Yeah.

...on the meditation side?

Yes. Exactly. I think she mentioned that it's – I'll let you go ahead, Heather. Perhaps we can hear you better now.

It's just a small investment. It's something we're exploring on a completely preliminary basis, and I don't think there's – we're constantly exploring ideas, and that's what I would say about this. We do think that meditation will be a big trend. We see it in the purchase of books in this area. And so we are exploring the potential of [Technical Difficulty] (09:43). So, that's all we can say about it right now. It's just one of our typical explorations.

Okay. Maybe I can just ask a question on the gross margin. So I see that the gross margin actually improved a little bit...

Yes.

...in the quarter year-over-year. On the other hand, your online sales were up 20%. So I've always been under the impression that the gross margin and online sale is a bit lower than sales you generate in store, maybe the growth in the merchandizing side, which has higher margin in books is offsetting a little margin on online. Can you give us any color on what's driving that improvement in gross margin and is our online sales, or do online sales have a lower gross margin? Just kind of wondering what's happening there.

Yes, David. To your point, yes. Online sales right now do have a slightly lower margin; shipping cost being a little bit higher. This is something we're working on and that we will fix over time. And you're absolutely right; in terms of margin, the general margin improved mostly due to the volume in general merchandising and some of the – as I said when I referred to the Lifestyle, which had a more than 20% growth since last year, the margins were very high on this, and we also got better, I'll say, on the books side in terms of discounting. We were more efficient at discounting this year and then improved margin on that from a little bit as well.

Okay. And so it sounds that you opened two new stores. I think they were in the quarter based on the Sherway concept. Can you give us an...

Yeah. David, they were partly in the quarter, not full quarter for Ancaster and Oshawa. They were only a few weeks of the quarter, they were in that. I think, I believe it's six weeks.

Okay. So, in the past you've given us an indication on the increase in revenue from moving from that old format to the new format for Sherway, and I was just wondering for those two new stores, have you seen a pretty good increase in revenue now with that new store concept for those two stores?

Yeah. These two stores are tracking more than 20% above other comparable stores. It differs depending on the period because as you know, there was the Harry Potter situation that we're facing, that we're comping over the past few weeks. So, it depends on which weeks you look at, but generally speaking since the launch we're looking at more than 20% improvement.

Okay. All right. Okay. I think that's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you. At this time, there are no further questions. I will now turn it back over.

Okay. Thank you, everyone. Unless, Heather, do you have any other comments; otherwise, I think we will bring this call to an end. Thank you, everyone, for joining.

Thank you, everyone. Thanks very much, Hugues.

Thank you. Bye-bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for participating and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.