Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Craig Loudon — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Supply Chain, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Siddhant Dilawari — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Indigo Books & Music Q1 Analyst Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. But following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Note that the call is being recorded on Wednesday, August 14, 2019. And I would like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Craig Loudon, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir. Hello?

Good morning, and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's first quarter fiscal 2020 results. My name is Craig Loudon, and I'm the Chief Financial Officer. Joining us from Indigo today is the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued a press release yesterday. It can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. This conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 21, 2019.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter. I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. On our last analyst call, we noted the industry headwind that challenged our fiscal 2019 results. Many of these pressures do remain present. That said, we have strategically moved to the [ph] for-less promotion. While this temper (00:01:50) sales is already showing the positive results in margin, [ph] trajectory (00:01:57) on margin will drive back into a profitable state. We are also working on a number of initiatives that will impact the growth potential of the business and while we're doing that, we remain extremely focused on cost management and productivity initiatives. I think it is worth noting that while there has been pressure on the business, our market share in the book business remain very strong, confirming that Indigo customers is remaining with us.

I would now like to hand it over to Craig to speak to the financial results in detail.

Thank you, Heather. The results we are discussing are for the 13 weeks ended June 29, 2019. Comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended June 30, 2018. This is our first quarter reporting under IFRS 16, the new leasing standard. The company's financial performance in the first quarter was materially impacted by the adoption of IFRS 16. Our financials on a reported basis and discussed today include the adoption of IFRS 16. However, we have also provided certain metrics for fiscal 2020, excluding the impacts of the new standard to assist with your analysis.

Revenue was CAD 192.6 million for the quarter, which was CAD 12.8 million less than the first quarter last year. The top line decline was the result of a deliberate shift to reduce promotional and discounting activity to improve profitability. This focus on profitability and continued focus on disciplined inventory management resulted in higher full price sell-throughs and a margin rate improvement of 0.8% for the period. The company's fiscal results continue to be impacted by softer consumer spending in the non-essential market space and the mature general merchandise assortment generating lower demand. There is an inherent time to market lifecycle related to changes in our assortment that we are working through to meaningfully change course and we'll provide a further update in the coming months.

Total comparable sales including online decreased 7.6%, comparable retail store sales for the quarter decreased by 6.5% in superstores and 2.4% in small format stores, primarily as a result of the company's planned efforts to reduce promotions. The online channel comparable sales decreased by 14.8% for the quarter. The reduction in promotional activity had a larger impact on the online channel given that the online customer has a stronger price sensitivity. Additionally, while we continue to expand the breadth of products offered in the online channel, we've refined our assortment of low value, low margin items to improve profitability.

Gross profit decreased by CAD 4 million driven by lower revenue, partially offset by margin rate improvements. Overall, operating, selling and administration costs decreased by CAD 17.1 million compared to last year. Excluding the IFRS 16 impact, these expenses decreased by CAD 0.5 million primarily due to the company's cost cutting initiatives and improvements in underlying operating performance, partially offset by higher severance costs associated with the reorganization of our workforce which began in the fourth quarter of last year. For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA increased by CAD 13.1 million, excluding the IFRS 16 impact adjusted EBITDA decreased by CAD 3.5 million, lower adjusted EBITDA was driven by lower sales as a result of the company's strategic shift towards lower promotional activity and a laser focus on profitability, partially offset by the margin rate improvements achieved.

Consequently, net loss for the first quarter was CAD 19.1 million compared to a net loss of CAD 15.3 million (sic) [CAD 15.4 million] (00:05:58) last year. The impact of adopting IFRS 16 for the quarter was an earnings improvement of CAD 0.5 million. Capital investment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was CAD 5.3 million compared to CAD 22.9 million for the same period last year. The decrease was a result of the completion of the company's intensive capital investment plan in fiscal 2019 to implement changes across Indigo's retail outlets as well as investments in digital and the supply chain. We are [ph] observing (00:06:31) the significant changes implemented last year and will hold off on further investment until we've assessed the customers' response to these initiatives. We ended the quarter with CAD 90.3 million in cash and short-term investments while having no debt.

At this point, we would like to open the call for any questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be from Bob Gibson at PI Financial. Please go ahead.

[Technical Difficulty] (00:07:17-00:07:23)

Hello, Bob.

[Technical Difficulty] (00:07:24) wonder if I could get any color on what his thoughts are?

Sorry, we missed, Bob, what you've said, it was cut off.

Okay. [ph] Nate (00:07:35), your new Chief Creative Officer.

Oh, Nathan Williams, yes.

So any color on what he's thinking or what he's doing?

I think – Heather, would you like to take this?

Yeah. Hi Bob, how are you?

Good.

Good. So he's only been in the job for a couple of weeks and so he's got a large ambition for the company, but I think we're going to have to give, usually it takes about a nine-month cycle minimum to start to see what the evolution in the product is. We have products still in the pipeline that he will be able to influence somewhat, but the real new role out of his product will be between approximately nine months from now.

Okay, great. The New Jersey store it's almost been a year. Any color on what you're thinking.

Yeah. I think, in terms of doing more stores you mean? Oh! Yeah. Because we're doing all of this work on sort of revising our assortment, we're going to hold off any more new stores in this year. We're going to really look to advance the overall presentation to the customer. And once that happens, we'll be in a better position to look at what our U.S. strategy is. We're not pulling away from the ambition at all. We just feel that it is extremely important to get this sort of refocus of the core verticals to really do what we want them to do.

Okay. And maybe a little color on where you think the consumer is now versus last quarter and their sort of shopping patterns?

Yeah. Look, there's no question that the intensity with which Amazon is in the market is huge and we have several categories that are up against them. Books, toys, to some extent some of the home office stuff that we do. So is that having some impact in general, in the Canadian economy? Yes, it's having an impact. Consumer – other than that, other than the way they will approach online shopping, I don't – I don't have a huge amount to say. We are seeing our customers come in, but they're spending a bit less.

So, if that some indication it's hard for us to tell, to really comment because we have so cutback on promotional activity, which we needed to do – I don't know if you remember last year, but the delay in the store program meant we had a lot of extra goods that meant we had to promote them to move them through the stores we had. And customers get used to that and we just – we didn't buy inventory that way this year. So, our customers are coming in, they're buying a bit less, that's what we see. As we take away all of that low price stuff, it has some impact on our sales is – are we saying this is because the customer is [ph] coming (00:10:35) back. I think it's more because we've cut the – more because we've cut the promotions back. We've got to live through it this year. We just have to live through it.

So, I agree.

I can't say that they're coming in. So, yeah, I'm hesitant to say that it's a consumer problem frankly, is that what you're asking?

Right. Okay, perfect.

Yeah.

Yeah. Bob, just a little more color though on the sales margin tradeoff. We're actually quite pleased with the way that worked out. In the end, that sales decline probably cost us something like CAD 8 million in margin, yeah. [indiscernible]

(00:11:13) with the online sales, yeah.

Not just even overall CAD 8 million in margins from sales, but we made up CAD 6 million in margin rate performance. So, we're actually quite pleased with that tradeoff because that also allows us to keep operating costs down through driving less volume to the network.

Okay, great. Thanks so much.

Thanks Bob.

Thank you. Next question will be from Sid Dilawari at Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

I guess just a follow-up on online sales, when we checked last quarter just stacking you guys up against Amazon, your book pricing with the discounting was pretty similar to Amazon, but I believe with the reduced discounting activity you guys are probably a little bit more expensive than Amazon?

Sorry, with what? I just didn't hear your question. Our prices stack up against Amazon, but...

But now with the reduced discounting activity, do you guys still stack up well against Amazon in terms of books?

Yeah, we didn't change any discounting on the books. The books are exactly the way they were. We've always been pretty much at parity with Amazon on where they – or in fact at parity with Amazon to best of our knowledge on where they are. Where we reduced the discounting was on a lot of general merchandise product.

Okay.

So books, we're still at parity. And for the most part on toy, we try and be at parity as well. Occasionally, they'll do something below cost. We just aren't prepared to do that. But on the – what we consider to be mass product, we recognize that in the market the consumer is going to expect pricing to be the same as Amazon. So...

Right.

And, Sid, just to be clear, the discounting comment also relates to retail so last year, given that some of our challenges of late renovations, we had a lot of markdown product in our physical retail stores and that is not the case this year. In fact, inventory is down CAD 16 million year-over-year and that's predominantly a general merchandise decrease in inventory.

Right. Okay. And then just a quick one on retail sales since we are talking about it. How are the newly renovated stores performing? Are the margins coming in as expected or is a softer discretionary spending kind of impacting the top line of these stores as well?

I think it's a mix than it's location specific like any time you engage in any real estate activity. We have some that are knocking it absolutely out of the park and we're thrilled. We have some that are meeting expectations and some that are below. But again, it's really case specific. For example, our [ph] Bay & Bloor (00:13:56) store continues to struggle but that's mainly because the Manulife Center is still under construction and it's very hard to access and it's been ripped apart for some time. We're hoping the end in sight – the end is near on that and that we'll be able to get back – back to normal, but – so it's really a site specific.

Right. And then in terms of EBITDA for the full year, should we be expecting to see a normalized EBITDA for this year or is that sort of a fiscal 2021 event?

As I'm sure you work with David, he will tell.

Yeah.

Said, David, that we don't provide forward – forward guidance on that. I think what we're saying is, we still see some – some headwinds, but I think that's all we're going to point to say on that point of this – this juncture.

Okay. And then I guess just last one for me. I noticed CAD 40 million cash burn for the quarter. Can you provide some color on that, should we be expecting similar cash burn to our fiscal 2020 or is that just sort of a onetime item?

I think what you're looking at is from quarter-to-quarter. I think you'll find year-over-year is more meaningful, that is a general pattern in our business just as post-holiday as vendors get paid. This tends to be a lower point of cash during the year. Year-over-year, yes, cash is down but we've spoken that on past calls that was related to last year's renovation activity. But, no, as we stated on our last call, our goal this year for capital investments is to be under CAD 20 million and that is still our plan.

Okay. All right. Thanks. Best of [indiscernible] (00:15:43).

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at this time, Mr. Loudon, it appears we have no other questions. So, I would like to turn the call back over to you, sir.

Thank you for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our second quarter results will be announced on or around November 5. Thank you again for your support and have a great day.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again, thank you for attending. And at this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines. Enjoy the rest of your day.