Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President, Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Indigo Books & Music Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for a question. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded on Wednesday, November 5, 2014.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's second quarter FY 2015 results. My name is Janet Eger, I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market closed yesterday, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM on November 12, 2014.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Good morning, everyone. I'm sure you've actually had a chance to review the results, so I'm going to keep my comments very short. Not surprisingly, we are pleased that for the second quarter in a row we're reporting meaningful revenue growth and this notwithstanding the fact that we had a couple of stores closed in the quarter. We have actually had double-digit growth in all of our general merchandise businesses, life style, paper toys and electronics. And we actually have growth in our core book business as well during the quarter. I think this is clear indication that the investments we've been making in the stores and online are starting to payoff. But as I say in every one of my meetings, we still have a long way to go to fully achieve what we think the potential is of the business.

We're now entering the critical holiday season and we're pretty energized by the response we've had from our customers so far. Our stores are looking fantastic and rich. Online is ready to go and we're looking forward to a great holiday season.

And now, I'd like to hand this over to Laura Carr, our CFO just to highlight a few points and then we'll take some questions if you have any.

Thank you, Heather and good morning, everybody. The results that we're discussing obviously the 13-week ended September 27, 2014, and the comparative figures we discussed [ph] versus (2:40) the 13-week period ended September 28, 2013. I know that you've all had a chance to review the results, so I'm just going to keep my comments brief as Heather mentioned. I think the key highlights which Heather just discussed is our revenue growth in the second quarter. We delivered an [ph] excellent (2:56) C$9.6 million revenue despite operating four fewer superstores and two fewer small format stores.

We were very pleased with our comp store sales performance with 9.6% growth in our superstores and 2.4% growth in our small format stores. We also grew online business by 13.4%.

As has already mentioned, we had double-digit growth in all of our new and general merchandise categories and we had growth in the core book business. Book revenue growth is driven by strong performance in [ph] key section (3:29) from hits such as If I stay and The Maze Runner and also in Kids, we had success with titles in Minecraft and Frozen.

Revenues from general merchandise categories grew to 27% of the total compared to 22% for the same period last year, which reflects our intended strategy of expanding our product assortment beyond core book offerings.

Although we increased our margin dollars during the period, the second quarter margin rate was impacted by the timing of seasonal summer clearance markdowns and we also took some additional markdowns to clear through some non-returnable book inventory. However, on a year-to-date basis margin remained flat, margin rate remained flat and we've increased our margin dollars by C$8.5 million.

The operating, selling and administration costs have gone down by C$4.1 million in the quarter and these cost reductions come from a combination of factors including low occupancy costs as a result of operating fewer stores. We've improved our efficiency at our retail DC and we have savings in our home office costs.

In home office, we spent less on marketing this year than in the prior period but some of that's related to the timing of marketing campaigns and will reverse in this quarter three. Overall EBITDA has improved by C$4.9 million for the quarter, driven by the higher revenues and lower costs. And on a year-to-date basis, we've improved EBITDA by C$11.7 million.

Finally, I just wanted to highlight that we have – we continue to have a strong balance sheet. We ended the quarter with C$149.4 million in cash and we have no external borrowings. We have not announced the dividend payment with these results and our intention remains to utilize our cash to support the ongoing transformation of our business.

At this point, we'd like to open the question – the call to any questions.

Thank you, Laura. As a reminder to ask a question, please press star-one. Operator, let's go to the phone [indiscernible] (5:20), please.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David McFadgen of Cormark Securities. Please, go ahead.

Oh! yes. Hi.

Hi David. Good morning David.

How is everybody doing? How're you doing?

Great. How are you?

Pretty good.

Good.

So a number of questions. So let's just start with American Girl.

Yes.

Obviously you had very strong growth on the general merchandise category. I don't know if you can, but I was just wondering how much of that growth would have been American Girl?

We had growth in each individual category. So we had meaningful double-digit growth in our lifestyle categories independent of our toy category. And in toy, we had growth independent of American Girl and American Girl on top of that.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(6:30)

Right. Including we had growth in book. So we had growth everywhere. American Girl is – absolutely that'll continue to be terrific for us and we are very full steam ahead in our plans to expand American Girl.

Okay. And so just on that note, you added a store in Ottawa...

Yes.

...so I was just wondering if you could comment on how that performance is going?

The performance is going extremely well for us. It's a slightly smaller store than the one that we opened at Yorkdale, because we think the market there is slightly smaller, but it is – as of last week, I think it's three weeks old or four weeks old. It's outperforming our target and so we're very optimistic about it.

Okay. And when do you think you would have additional announcements of some other American Girl stores? Yeah.

We'll work on it.

Yeah, we have a couple of – let me just say this. We have a couple of situations in the work and hopefully we'll have something to announce perhaps by next quarter.

Okay. So when you look at Q3, the all important quarter coming up here in December, what is the lineup look like in terms of book titles coming out relative to last year?

So, no big hits that we can see, but I don't recall that there was a big hit last year in the third quarter either. There just hasn't been a year when there've been any huge hits. There's a couple of teen books that have done extremely well for us, but no big hits, but just overall, we just seemed to be seeing nice performance in the book business.

Okay. And then lastly what's the outlook for your actual store count for the superstores? Do you expect to [ph] turn this some (8:24) more or are you going to hope that...?

No, we have no superstores on plan to close at the moment and we are looking for real estate in a couple of markets.

Okay. Okay. You may have some expansion then?

Yeah. We might. We are actively looking in a couple of markets.

Okay. Okay. I guess that's it from me. Thank you.

Thank you, David. Now we move to [ph] Bob Gibson (8:51).

Good morning, everyone.

Hi, [ph] Bob (8:54). How are you?

Good morning.

Not too bad. Okay. So, I'm going to continue on David's line of thoughts. Instead of big book titles, what about big toys coming up?

We have a fantastic lineup. I mean the biggest thing happening right now for Kids, if anybody on the line has kids is Frozen and we have all kinds of things in the Frozen area because that's just hot, hot, hot for little kids, but we've got lots of interesting things. We introduced exclusively a line of products, creative product called Seedling out of Australia that we launched in September, it's doing extremely well for us. It's a creative toy that inspires kids to do things. We did a new gift guide – look we – oh, yeah, [ph] amazing gift guide (9:41) for kids for the holiday. So all kinds of things.

We also introduced a line of engineering toys for kids called Ruminate, which we also have exclusively, I believe in Canada and it inspires young kids to do things that are actually engineering like they build things with circuit boards and all kinds of things. So that's pretty exciting for us and doing very well and – oh, yeah. So I am trying to think of what else, just I mean, there is a lot of building toys for kids. I mean there's just lots happening in the kids area for us.

Okay. Great. Can we just talk about the small format stores for a second, because when I look at them, it's hard to put a lot of your – I'll call them your growth general merchandise stuff in there. What are your thoughts about the smaller format stores?

We don't have any really meaningful big growth strategy for small formats. The thing about the small format stores though is we continue to just identify opportunities to expand little areas of our general works. We've expanded paper in some of the stores. There is a couple of stores where we actually put in some toys just because they happen to be in – we're sort of the only game in town in that market, so we have opportunity. It's very opportunistic though for the moment in the small format and we don't have a major transformation strategy going on there. That said, the stores continue to perform for us and they showed some growth this quarter.

Okay. Great.

These are very different than what you would see south of border.

Right, right. Okay. Thank you very much.

Okay. Terrific. I'd like to ask anybody on the line covering retail. Are you seeing this level of growth at other retailers? Anybody want to answer that? Okay.

Okay. Thank you everyone for your time and attention. Today, we appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis on our third quarter. Our third quarter results will be announced on or about February 3, 2015. Thanks again for your support and good morning.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for participating and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.