Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music, Inc. Financial Year 2022 Q1 Analyst Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Friday, August 13, 2021.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Craig Loudon. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's fiscal 2022 first quarter results. My name is Craig Loudon, and I am the Chief Financial Officer. Joining us from Indigo today is the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued a press release yesterday. It can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 20, 2021.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Riesman.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. First quarter sales performance, plus 27% revenue rebound over last year, reflects the beginning of a welcomed recovery in retail and was achieved despite protracted COVID-19 store closures in our largest market, Ontario, as well as sporadic closures and occupancy limitations throughout the country. To expand, over 50% of the company's store locations were impacted until late in the quarter. The double-digit revenue rebound does speak to the continued strength of Indigo's brand, reinforced by advances in digital and physical experience, as well as an outstanding retail team who have continued to drive our retail store experience despite the endlessly difficult demands of operating in this ever-changing environment.

Our print and general merchandise business both delivered solid results. The popularity of reading on TikTok created a whole new level of reading excitement, particularly for teens, adding to already strong performance in books overall.

Our general merchandise business continues to benefit from the successful expansion of our proprietary lifestyle brand, OUI. These results validate our ability to evolve with the dynamic retail landscape. We remain keenly focused on our customer and our commitment to being a leading omnichannel retailer, all toward delivering a return to full-year adjusted EBIT profitability.

I would now like to hand it over to Craig to speak to the financial results.

Thank you, Heather. The results we are discussing are for the 13 weeks ended July 3, 2021. Comparative figures referenced the 13 weeks ended June 27, 2020. In the first quarter, we generated revenue of CAD 172.1 million, an increase of CAD 37 million or 27.4% from the first quarter last year. This double-digit rebound in revenue was experienced across the company's print and general merchandise businesses in both core categories and new product assortments.

The print business experienced strong demand, notably driven by a younger demographic and the popularity of reading on TikTok. This evolution of social commerce in the books space is exciting, not only those market leadership position benefit from the organic, user-generated content on BookTok. It sparked a sales resurgence for many previous release titles. In addition to introducing a new demand life cycle, these backlist titles tend to be less promotional than recent bestsellers delivering strong margin dollars.

As Heather discussed, the company's proprietary lifestyle brand, OUI, drove growth in general merchandise through successful assortment expansion, lifting its category sales above pre-pandemic levels. As a result of temporary store closures from COVID-19, the impact of social distancing and government mandated capacity constraints in reopened stores, we believe that comparable sales are not currently meaningful to evaluate performance. Instead, we focus on total revenue as discussed as well as omnichannel fulfillment trends.

The retail channel, which is inclusive of orders fulfilled through omnichannel store pickup, increased by 114.8% to CAD 90.2 million for the 13 week period ended July 3, 2021. Customers desire to shop in-store drove this triple digit revenue rebound supported by the easement of COVID-19 containment measures in regions. Interior wide closures and other localized rolling closures and capacity constraints proved less disruptive than nationwide closures last year, but delayed an anticipated full recovery.

Now, with meaningfully diminished COVID-19 restrictions across the company's retail network, we are seeing the positive impact of a full retail fleet to the early weeks of the second quarter. Interior store locations featuring an external entrance reopened in the 10th week of the quarter, as mentioned ahead of remaining locations on June 29, 2021. The company was well positioned to handle this adversity with convenient omnichannel store pickup capabilities, a product of investments made over the past 12 months.

Revenues generated through omnichannel store pickup grew nearly five times from the same period last year and will continue to be a pillar of our omnichannel strategy as customer expectations of all post-pandemic.post-pandemic. Online channel revenue decreased by CAD 15.8 million or 17.5% to $74.5 million for the 13-week period ended July 3, 2021. This moderated demand reflects the healthy rebound of retail as discussed. The online channel sustained sales levels over three times pre-COVID fiscal 2020 levels and continues to be a lever of growth and investment focus for the company.

Cost of sales increased by CAD 4.7 million to CAD 101.6 million for the 13-week period ended July 3, 2021 compared to the prior year. Excluding the impact of online shipping costs, costs increased by CAD 9.1 million to CAD 88.9 million for the period, as a percentage of total revenue, represents a decrease of 7.4% to 51.7%, compared to 59.1%. These improvements were driven by the retail channel rebound, which typically has a higher margin profile and merchandise margin improvements in both channels. The strength of this assortment and the success of efforts to be less promotional delivered this stronger margin rate.

Online shipping costs decreased by CAD 4.4 million to CAD 12.7 million for the 13-week period ended July 30, 2021, largely in response to tempered demand in the online channel as discussed. But the company also realized improvements in online shipping unit economics year over year, result of final mile carrier diversification and less disruption from COVID-19 at its distribution centers. Overall, operating, selling and administration costs increased by $23 million to $86.4 million for the period. Operating costs were offset by the recognition of $6.5 million in government rent and payroll subsidies, markedly lower than the CAD 16.8 million the company was eligible for and recognized in the prior year. Operating costs also increased on the return of higher sales volumes in the retail channel.

Adjusted EBITDA improved by CAD 8.8 million to a loss of CAD 14.9 million for the 13-week period ended July 3, 2021. As a percent of total revenue, adjusted EBITDA improved 8.8% to a loss of 8.7% this year, reflecting a strong product assortment and an early retail recovery.

The company recognized a net loss of CAD 21.9 million for the 13-week period ended July 3, 2021, or CAD 0.79 net loss per common share, compared to a net loss of CAD 31.6 million or CAD 1.15 net loss per common share for the same period last year, an improvement of CAD 9.7 million. With no extending debt, a clean inventory position and cash of CAD 81.4 million, the company is well positioned to see through the remaining COVID-19 uncertainty and the execution of our post-pandemic growth strategy.

At this point, we would like to open the call for any questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Okay. And your first question comes from David McFadgen from Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Thank you. So, a couple of questions. So, just wondering how the business is trending so far in this quarter now that, you know, all the stores are open. You know, I'm just kind of wondering how the mix is going to be going forward between online and in-store 00:10:02 providing commentary there.

Hi, David. How are you?

I'm doing well. How are you?

Good. Craig, just within the context of what we are allowed to say, do you want to take that just so I don't...

Sure.

... [indiscernible] 00:10:18 here.

David, we're certainly seeing strength since the stores reopen. It's actually exceeded our expectations overall from an omni-channel revenue perspective. And I would say we don't know if it's going to continue, but we're certainly seeing revenue slightly ahead of two years ago. But again, it's early days. I don't want to speculate that that will continue or not. Obviously, we don't know because the interior reopening is pretty fresh.

But – and as far as your question regarding online. If – with – in the quarter, with the Ontario stores closed, obviously online was still very, very high compared to historical levels and then also – also our expectations. But even – even with the stores reopen, you know, it is still holding ground. And, you know, we really think it's going to be our path to growth in the future.

And as we noted that the order online, pickup in store capability, it's – you know, even though we had it last year, the volumes through that have grown by five times. So we think people have really enjoyed that service and latched on to it and continue to use it. So, yeah, we see – we see online being a very big part of the portfolio going forward.

Okay. I mean, obviously online benefited significantly from COVID

and fiscal 2021. And I was just wondering, do you think – do you think you could hold this line or it's probably going to drop a bit just because you had such a positive benefit from COVID.

Well, certainly, you know, Q1, It's probably a little higher than it will end up being, given that, you know, Ontario was closed. But certainly it will be well beyond historic levels. There's no question. So, I mean, to be honest, I'm not – I can't give you a straight answer because I'd be speculating. And I think everyone's finding their way through this, but it's certainly going to be, you know, well beyond historical levels. No question.

Yeah. If I – if I would just, of course, 100%, agree with everything that Craig is saying here. And we just add it's clear that the consumer – that this protracted COVID experience has changed the consumer. People's comfort with buy online, pick up in-store, be in-store, ship to home. So, what we're seeing is an evolution of the customer, and you're reading this everywhere. You read this in the retail, in the food retail sector everywhere. And we see huge opportunity in the route that we're going in the business we're in to continue for both channels to evolve.

Yeah. Absolutely. And that's...

And that's where we're putting our effort and we're pretty – we're feeling like – yeah.

Yeah. And one final point, Dave, because we did talk about this at year-end, but we have seen a new younger customers in the online channels. So, I think it's important to think about it also that it's not just that retail customer that's going to shift back. You know, we have seen new customers in the online channel that will likely stay there. So, it's important to keep that in mind, too.

Okay. Then just in – just following along your comment, you mentioned earlier, I mean, it's obviously it's early in Q2 and things could change quite a bit.

so no one's going to hold with anything. But you said it was at this point slightly ahead versus 2019. Are you talking total revenue or is...

Yeah. I'm talking total...

Yeah.

...omni channel.

Yeah. Okay. Okay. And then just on margins, obviously, your gross margin improved quite a bit as in-store sales ticked up. And so I'm just wondering, as if the mix tilts more to be in-store, shouldn't we expect to see more improvement in your gross margin?

Yes, you're right. Well, we will benefit from a channel economics when the shipping costs come out of cost of sales. But, you know, also, we've, you know, huge benefit here has been being – being less promotional. And our intent is to continue with that. So but you're right, there will be – there will be that channel effect as well. Yes.

Okay. And then maybe just a question on investment this year. Can you give us an idea what you expect in terms of CapEx this year versus, say, fiscal 2021?

Sure. Our – our planned CapEx this year is in the CAD 15 million to CAD 17 million range. That will really just vary depending on how many projects get executed. But by far, the – the focus of that investment is in our digital capabilities given that's the – the growth engine has been so important in this environment and will be going forward. That's – that's certainly the focus of the investment.

Okay. And then, Heather, where do you stand on your store count? Are you happy with the total number of [indiscernible] 00:15:38?

We have no – right now, we have no plans to expand the store count or to make it smaller. I mean,

the [ph] odd cool 00:15:45 store may close or not, but we see a stable base right now. We have a huge focus, as Craig has just said, in expanding digital capability. And so, we're not – you know, we put a lot of money into the stores where we thought they were – there's real opportunity. For now, we're just focusing all of our effort on digital investment.

Okay. All right. Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

So, we have – you know, we have good coverage here. And at some point, we're going to go back to our original plan, which was to see expansion outside of Canada. But obviously, the whole COVID thing put a bit of a sort of slowdown on any further expansion there. But to the extent that we look at it in the future, that'll be the approach we take.

Well, maybe if I may just follow up on that comment. I thought that the New Jersey store was kind of the performance pre-COVID was just kind of mediocre, but maybe I'm mistaken.

We don't – we obviously don't report by store, but it's taken a little bit of time for it to establish in the market because it was, one, we originally thought we were going to do a cluster. But I would just say that right now, we are seeing wonderful improvement in the performance in that store.

Okay. All right. Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, David.

There are no further questions at this time. Please proceed.

Thank you for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our second quarter results will be announced on or around November 9. Thank you again for your support and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for participating, and I ask that you please disconnect your lines.