Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President-Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Head of Research, Octagon Capital Corporation

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Indigo Books & Music's Second Quarter Investor Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Wednesday, November 4, 2015.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Sorry for the delay. Thank you so much for joining us to review Indigo's second quarter fiscal 2016 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM on November 11, 2015.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I'd like to now turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us. Laura Carr, our CFO, and I will make a few brief comments and then we'll take any questions that you have. Obviously, we're really pleased with the second quarter results. This is our eighth consecutive quarter, so full two years of revenue growth, and it's the sixth consecutive quarter of improved profitability. I think the most exciting thing to note is the 13%-plus comp store growth, which is really significant for us.

All our businesses grew. Our core book business had a meaningful growth in this quarter and all of our other businesses grew as well. We're really happy with the positive impact of the investments we made and we feel that Indigo has positioned itself extremely well to continue on this trend, in that basically every single one of our businesses grew. At the heart of the growth, which is very satisfying our core book business, we believe people are recognizing that reading real books is a part of our lives that we will keep a part of our lives, and that's basically my story. Laura?

Okay. Thanks, Heather, and good morning, everybody. The results that we're discussing for the 13 weeks ended September 26, 2015, and the comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended September 27, 2014. For the second quarter, revenue was CAD 205.7 million, which was CAD 16.7 million more than last year despite of operating two fewer superstores and four fewer small format stores.

On a comparable store basis, the retail revenues were up 13.6% in superstores and up 12.9% in the small format stores. Our online business also continued to perform well, growing by 14.2% compared to last year. As Heather's already mentioned, these improvements were driven by double-digit growth in our general merchandise category and by strong growth in our core book business.

In particular, in small formats, the growth was driven by strong book sales and a growing assortment of paper products. The trend for adult coloring books and related accessories also generated strong sales across both channels, thanks to Indigo's outstanding product assortment.

Second quarter revenues from general merchandise categories grew to 30.3% of the total compared to 26.9% last year as we continue to extend our product assortment beyond our core book offering.

With books growing also.

With books [indiscernible] (4:02). For the quarter, our margin rate improved by 1.4% and margin dollars increased by CAD 10.3 million. This margin rate improvement was achieved in spite absorbing almost CAD 4 million of adverse FX impact due to the weakening Canadian dollar. The rate improvement was also driven by combination of lower seasonal markdowns, reduced discounting and pricing taken to offset the impact of FX.

Operating, selling and administration cost increased by CAD 4.2 million this quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Operating cost for retail and online increased by CAD 1.2 million as a result of higher sales volume. Furthermore, we invested CAD 1.2 million more in marketing and creative initiatives during the quarter as we supported more campaigns in the last year.

Expenditures rates related to strategic project also increased by CAD 1.4 million as Indigo continues to implement transformational changes across the company. Overall, EBITDA has improved by CAD 6.1 million for the quarter, driven by higher revenue and improved margin rate. The second quarter net loss of CAD 1.8 million represents reduction in loss of CAD 6.7 million compared to the same quarter last year and its improvement was driven by the EBITDA improvement...

...of CAD 6.1 million.

...of CAD 6.1 million. On a fiscal year-to-date basis, revenues have increased by CAD 20.8 million or 5.6% to CAD 390.6 million compared to CAD 369.8 million for the same period last year. And our year-to-date comparable store sales have increased by 9.5% for superstores and increased 6.1% in small format stores. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDA was improved by CAD 11.4 million to profit of CAD 1.8 million compared to a loss last year of CAD 9.6 million in the same period.

Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with a CAD 176.2 million in cash, which represents a CAD 26.8 million increase from Q2 last year. The increase is driven by improved business performance and lower working capital.

So, at this point, I'd like to turn the call over for any questions. Thanks.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Bob Gibson from Octagon. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob. How are you?

I'm good. I noticed you're putting some of the expansion in a store in Calgary and in Edmonton.

Yes.

Can you give me some color on that?

Yeah, we took additional space in both, okay.

Yeah.

We took additional space in both. We're expanding our overall kids, our kids business is just been on fire. And in both those markets, we're opening new American Girl stores as well as expanding. Books and toys for kids is expanding and we're putting an American Girl stores in both places. So we've added square footage, and this is a continuation of our commitment to American Girl. And they're going to be really great models, so we know that they're going to be very great investments.

Okay.

Great locations, great customer base, it's a win for us.

Okay. And despite the amazing general merchandise increase, books did well as well, like, kind of surprised me. Was there any color there?

Well, that's a good term, was there any color there. Look, two big things happening. Number one, all of this data shows that e-reading has leveled off and has sustained a level-off position. In Canada, it's actually dropped a couple of percent. So, I think what people are saying is, e-reading is not going away, we continue to participate in that market, it's not going away. But increasingly, people are using it for certain things like maybe when they're flying or situation where they just can't carry books around.

Other than that, people seems to be happy reading their books. So, that's one factor that's driving the growth, hybrid readers or readers who've come back to reading; and the other is we did benefit this quarter from the huge growth in coloring book sale.

Now, there is always some offset. Last year, there were two big hits. So, while I want to reinforce Laura's point that some of the book growth was driven by what we could call a hit of coloring books, there was one of the big John Green and we didn't have John Green this year.

So, it's a combination. There was a strong trend on Little Unicorn on coloring books. But I just think it's that physical books are sustaining their position with the market, and we continue to invest in the experience for people. And as you see, even that little competitor decided that physical book stores were a good idea.

Okay. Little competitor. [indiscernible]

(9:19)

Great. Thank you very much.

Okay. So good. Good news. Thanks, Bob, for continuing to cover us, and your patience is being rewarded.

For sure. Thank you.

Okay. [ph] David. (9:31)

How are you doing?

I'm doing good. How are you doing, man?

I'm doing all right.

Good.

So, a couple of questions. So, was the book performance really [ph] jumped by the ad (9:46) of coloring books or was there [ph] some other (9:49)?

Did you hear my answer to [indiscernible] (9:51) on other previous one?

Yeah.

It's a same answer for you, [ph] David (9:55). To some extent, it is more people buying books and to some extent it is coloring books. And when we – if we offset – if we say how many coloring books did we sell and then we subtract how many John Green books we sold last year, you still have a bit of an up on the coloring books. So, it is a bit of a phenomena, but there is underlying – some underlying commitments to books happening.

Okay. So, I was actually quite surprised – positively surprised obviously by that same store sales growth you recognized in the quarter. Since I've been following the company, I don't believe it's ever been that high, is that a record?

Yeah. It's the most significant second quarter sale, but I don't – there may have been a year when we had the first Kobo, the big Kobo launch, that the price points were so high, there might have been, but that was a bit tangential. So I think I don't want to be quoted, I have go back and check. But I do not remember myself reporting a 13.5% comp in superstore. It's phenomenal. And the good news is this is off a very good Q2 last year. So, it's not just – it was a tough comp and we still managed to hit 13.5%.

Okay. So, then the obvious question is how is business performing so far into your third quarter?

Well, Laura tells me that – Laura, why don't you answer with only way you're allowed to answer?

Yeah. I mean, we don't give forward guidance. I think we're really comfortable with how we end Q3. We feel really good. [ph] We still seems to be out (11:28) coloring books trend, it's not that we just got on the back of a trend, we've almost made that trend as well. We've got an incredible assortment in stores, but they're really well and coloring the accessories that go with that on books, the pencils, the pencil cases. And I think we know that we've got an incredible product lineup for holiday that the retail theme and the online theme is completely ready. So I feel really good about the business. And I can't give you guidance on the actual comps. I'm afraid.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(11:58)

So, when do you expect to have those two additional American Girl stores open? I thought they would be open in time [ph] for the Christmas (12:06)?

This weekend.

This weakened?

Yeah. This weakened.

Okay.

Big openings this weekend.

Okay.

Yeah.

And then can....

Oh, wrong? [indiscernible] (12:15)

The following.

The following weekend. One this weekend, one next week.

One this weekend, one next weekend. Okay. So, when I looked at the merchandizing growth, 23% and obviously a very good number there. What would it be if you exclude American Girl? Can you tell us that or no?

Sorry, [ph] David (12:37). Can you repeat that question?

When I look at the general merchandizing revenue growth...

Yeah.

.... in the quarter, it was up year-over-year by 23%.

Yeah.

I was just wondering what it would be if you exclude American Girl.

Well, we don't break out that number. So, I mean, American Girl was a big sort of comp driver last year as we opened the new stores. So American Girl is not driving [ph] stock comp (12:55). The performance, as Heather said, is across all categories. So the kids business, excluding American Girl, is doing very well. The paper business is doing very, very well. And as I mentioned, we expanded the assortment paper into the small format stores, which has really resonated with our customers. Lifestyle continues to perform double digit. So it isn't just a one area increase. It's across all categories, which I think is the most pleasing thing.

Okay. And then just one last question for Heather. I mean, if you keep putting up numbers like this, what do you think about that the idea of reinstituting a dividend?

I have no – we have no plans to reinstitute a dividend.

Okay. Why is that? Because generally speaking...

Because we want to grow the business. We are finely, after all this time, back in growth mode. We have lot of things we're looking at for growing the business. So, the desire is to grow the business. By the way, when we instituted a dividend, the last time we instituted a dividend, strong view was if we institute a dividend, it would help drive the stock. So create value for the stockholders over and above just depleting the company of cash, it had zero impact on the stock price.

Okay. All right.

So, we want to use the cash to invest in the business. We've earned it, we want to do something with it, that we think will be better for shareholders over the time.

Okay. That was it from me. Thank you.

How's life other than that?

Okay. So, thanks very much, everyone, for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our third quarter results will be announced on or around February 2, 2016. Thanks again for your support and have a good day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for participating. And we ask that you please disconnect your lines.