Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President, Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music Second Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Note that this call is being recorded Tuesday, November 8, 2016.

And I would like to turn the conference over to Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's second quarter fiscal 2017 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today is the Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued a press release after market closed today, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 P.M. Eastern Time on November 15, 2016.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements. And to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and to the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I'd like to now turn the call over to Laura Carr.

Thank you, Janet, and good evening, everybody. I'm just going to make some general comments that normally Heather would make. Unfortunately, Heather couldn't join us this evening. And then, I will go through a more detailed review of the financials.

So we're really pleased to be announcing another quarter of meaningful revenue growth. Indeed, if you look at the comps that we posted this time last year, this is a really good new story. We're now having three years of continuous quarterly revenue growth which is very positive. This quarter, we saw growth in both our retail and our digital channels, in our general merchandise businesses and in our core book business.

Our traffic and conversion rates continue to improve and we are proud to say that our net promoter score, which we think is a key measure of our brand strength, was increased to a best-in-class 71. We have continued to receive fantastic feedback on our new format store at Sherway Gardens in Toronto. The store continues to perform above our expectations and we are looking forward to rolling out this concept further across our network.

There is real momentum and great energy in the business, and we are in a great position moving forward into our critical holiday season but poised for continued future growth. So now I'm going to talk in a bit more detail about the financials and then open the call to any question.

The results that we're discussing tonight are for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2016, and its comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended September 26, 2015. For the second quarter, revenue was CAD 217 million which is CAD 11 million more than last year despite operating three fewer stores. Revenue growth is 5.4% which was meaningful as I mentioned, if you consider the strength of the growth posted in the comparable prior-year period.

Total comparable sales, including online, were up 5.1% for the quarter. Comparable retail store sales for the quarter increased by 3.8% in superstores and 4.9% in small format stores. These improvements were driven by continued double-digit growth in our general merchandise categories and low-single-digit growth in our core book business, driven by the sales of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, partly offset by the declining trends to adult coloring books. The second quarter revenue from general merchandise category grew to 32.6% of the total compared to 30.3% last year.

For the quarter, margin dollars increased by CAD 4.1 million as a result of higher revenues. Margin rates decreased by 0.5% as a result of higher discounts in the current quarter mainly driven by promotional discounting of the Harry Potter hit title and higher markdowns and general merchandise.

Our operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 3.4 million this quarter compared to same quarter last year. Operating costs for retail and online increased by CAD 2.6 million due to increased sales volumes and high wage rates.

Overall, EBITDA has improved by CAD 0.7 million driven by higher revenue. The second quarter net loss of CAD 1.2 million represents a CAD 0.6 million improvement compared to the same quarter last year. This improvement was driven by the EBITDA increase.

On a fiscal year-to-date basis, revenue increased by CAD 19.4 million or 5% to CAD 410 million compared to CAD 391 million for the same period last year. Year-to-date, total comparable sales including online increased by 6.1%. Our comparable retail store sales increased 5.6% in superstores and increased 6.2% in the small format stores.

On a year-to-date basis, EBITDA decreased by CAD 3.2 million to a CAD 1.4 million loss compared to a CAD 1.8 million profit in the same period last year. However, in the same period last year, the company received a one-time net proceed of CAD 4.5 million relating to an exit of a lease without which, last year's EBITDA would've been a loss of CAD 2.7 million. So on an adjusted basis, our EBITDA has improved by CAD 1.3 million.

Just turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with CAD 184 million in cash which represents an CAD 8 million increase from Q2 last year, and the increase was driven by improved working capital.

At this point, I'd like to take any questions.

Thank you, Laura. To ask a question, please press star one. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be from Bob Gibson at PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon.

Hi, Bob. Welcome back.

Thanks. Can you give me just a little color on this declining trend in adult coloring books?

Yeah. I think we told you before that last year we really did get on top of this trend in a big way and I think we're still selling a lot of coloring books. I just think the trend is obviously not as big as it was. So we still sold some but it has declined compared to last year, but those sales were basically replaced by Harry Potter this year.

Okay. The pop-up store that you're making permanent, can I get some color on that one?

The pop-up store, which one is that?

You said you're making – decided to operate a previously opened pop-up store on a permanent basis.

Is that in the press release?

Yeah. In the overview of the first paragraph. Okay. Well, maybe we can look at that offline.

All right. I'll take it offline. Yeah. I'm not sure what that one is.

Okay. Construction was only CAD 3.1 million. I was expecting to see that number would be much bigger than last year. Can we get any color on – is that a couple of stores refurbishing or what is that?

Yeah. That's basically – we've done some small format stores and some minor work. As you know, we talked about it, we are embarking on a much more aggressive renovation program which will commence in January of 2017, so you'll see sort of the capital spend increase as of January onwards.

Okay, great. And I guess lastly, can we talk about reading socks?

Yeah, well we don't talk about the forward guidance but we've – yeah, reading socks is still doing well. They're back in stores for this quarter, our holiday season. A big key item and going well.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. Next question will be from David McFadgen of Cormark Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, Laura. So a couple questions. When are you going to start to really roll out the survey store concept? Is that not until next year, by January 2017 calendar?

Yeah. I think what we're going to do is make sure that we can execute this program with excellence to repeat the rollout in a significant fashion. We are delighted with the Sherway performance that continues to trend around 28% higher than the [ph] tractor (08:54) store that it effectively replaced at Queensway which gives us really positive information for the future model.

So yeah, we've got an aggressive rollout program starting in January, then you should hopefully see the results of that in next year's results.

So there won't be any new store renovations on the Sherway concept in this calendar year then?

In this calendar year, no. As we enter into the holiday season, I mean, we're now in blackout from a construction period because we obviously have high-trading period now and we'll pick back up as soon as we can in January.

Okay. So can you share with us some metrics on the Sherway store? I think that store was doing very large, non-buck revenue as a percentage of its total revenue? Can you give us any metrics there?

Yeah. So the mix in the Sherway store, the general merchandise is about 51% of the total sales and the store that replaced Queensway that was about a 40% general merchandise. So the really positive news that books are growing in Sherway, but the mix is still skewing towards general merchandise because the general merchandise growth is so much higher. And I think what we feel is that when you actually demonstrate the sort of – it's not really a new assortment, but the expanded assortment with the right fixtures, the customers really understand what we're doing and it's showing because the general merchandise growth is really phenomenal.

Okay. So the other question I have is as you look at the SG&A, if you exclude the FX claims, it's down year-over-year, Q2-to-Q2. Is that kind of something we can expect going forward that you keep chipping away at the cost structure there on the SG&A?

Yeah. We will wait and continue to chip the cost structure. Last year we did have some big FX gains because we were holding quite a lot of U.S. cash on the balance sheet as we were going through some tumultuous times with the U.S. dollar. Now we've entered into a bit more of a hedging program so those gains, we don't have much U.S. cash in the balance sheet. And you can see this year, this gain was only 0.8%. I think last year it was 2.4% so that did have an impact. But yeah, we're constantly focused on the cost structure as well as obviously focused on growing the top line.

Okay. Now can you give us any outlook for how the Christmas quarter is setting up, anything at all?

I think the stores are set. They look great. The customers like our product. I think Q3 is our major quarter. It's a great quarter so we feel very confident. There's a lot of energy in the business. Employee engagement is high, the metrics are good, so we feel good but, yeah, I can't give you an outlook.

Okay. Can you – even though some companies don't provide guidance, revenue, EBITDA and net earnings and so on, they will provide a CapEx outlook. Would you be able to give us one for your fiscal 2018 year?

I think the – and Heather's talked about this before. She believes firmly and kind of why we're fairly prudent. So we won't be spending more than our EBITDA but we are obviously entering into a program of much more intense renovations in our physical stores and we're making [indiscernible] (12:22) to our digital platforms. So you will see that capital increase but not beyond EBITDA. But you know, David, that we've got significant cash on the balance sheet so we're in a very strong cash position.

Okay. Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you so much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at this time, we have no further questions.

Very good. Thank you for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling and we look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our third quarter results will be announced on or around February 7, 2017. Thank you again for your support and have a good day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again, thank you for attending. And at this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have yourself a lovely evening.