Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President-Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, Octagon Capital Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music, Inc. Fourth Quarter Investor Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Wednesday, May 27, 2015.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's fiscal 2015 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 PM on June 3, 2015.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Good morning, everybody, and thank you all for joining us today. Laura, our CFO, and I will keep our comments brief, so that we can move on to any Q&A that you might have. We've had a good year and we're pleased that we finished with both sales and EBITDA growth, turning the corner on what we think was the very challenging transition period that we've come through.

We saw growth in our core book business for the first time since the advent of eReading and we saw meaningful growth in our lifestyle and in our Indigo Kids businesses. Our full year results confirm that Indigo is now moving out of this transformation stage and the beginning of moving into a real growth mode.

Our customers are responding very positively to Indigo's transformation, something that we feel is really important to understanding the opportunity moving forward. We continue to improve and expand our stores and our online experience. Employees are motivated and excited with the journey. In total, there's just a good feeling that Indigo is poised for a very interesting stage in our development.

I'd like to hand it over to Laura Carr, who'll make a couple of comments on the financials.

Thanks, Heather, and good morning, everybody. The results we're talking about today are for the 52 weeks ended March 28, 2015 and the comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended March 29, 2014.

So, I think the key highlights of our full year results is the continued strong revenue growth and we delivered almost C$28 million more in revenue despite suffering four fewer large format superstores and four fewer small format stores. We're pleased with our comparative stores sales performance, which showed 6.8% growth in our superstores, and 0.8% growth in our small format stores. In our digital channel, the online business grew strongly, growing by 11.8% versus the prior year.

The biggest growth came from both our newer general merchandise categories, which Heather just mentioned, where we experienced double-digit growth from Lifestyle, Paper and Toys, and also from the growth in our core book business. The Toys business had an additional boost from the successful launch of three American Girls Specialty Boutiques, which both exceeded our performance expectations and delighted our customers.

The full-year revenues from general merchandise categories grew to 30.2% of the total compared to 26.5% last year, reflected our strategy to extend our product assortment beyond our core book offering. For the year, we improved our margin rate by 0.7% and the margin dollars increased by C$18.6 million. Overall operating, selling and admin costs decreased by C$1.8 million this year compared to last year and cost reductions were driven by lower occupancy costs as a result of operating lower stores and improved efficiency at our retail distribution center offset by some increased management bonus costs. Overall, we've improved EBITDA by C$20.4 million this year driven by the high revenues, improved margins and lower costs.

Our full year net loss of C$3.5 million represents a reduction in the loss of C$27.5 million versus the prior year and the improvement is driven by the EBITDA improvement of C$20.4 million, in addition to a reduced tax expense and no store asset impairments this year.

Finally, I just want to highlight that we continue to have a very strong balance sheet. We ended the year with C$203.2 million in cash, which represents a C$45.6 million improvement in our cash position versus the prior year and that cash performance is improved by business performance and lower working capital.

And now, Heather and I'd like to open the call to any questions.

Thank you, Laura. [Operator Instructions] Operator, let's go to the phone.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David McFadgen, Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Hello, everyone. A couple of questions. Heather, so you announced that three new American Girl stores for this fall and like well the Eaton Centre in June. I was wondering if you could comment on the square footage for these stores. Are they going to be similar to what you have right now or will they be bigger?

They are roughly similar to what we do now. We do about 2,000 square feet. I think one of them might be a little bit bigger, but roughly that's the size of the boutiques we put in, and we found it to be extremely successful.

Okay. And so, when you look at assuming these go as planned, you'll have about six – well, you'll have six American Girl stores. What do you see is the potential total footprint for Canada for the American Girl stores?

We definitely can see on the drawing boards, probably growing [ph] it to 10%. (06:23) And then we'll see after that.

Okay. And so do you expect the additional four to be ruled out, and yeah, I guess your fiscal 2017 year?

Is that next year? Is that next year?

Yeah.

Yeah. That's what we would expect. Yes.

Yeah, okay. And then, Laura, just on working capital, there was a nice inflow of cash for 2015. I was just wondering – and that was financed by higher payables. I was just wondering for this current fiscal year, the year that you're in right now, do you expect that to reverse or you could just hold your working capital position from here, and hopefully build cash?

Yeah. I think there's a small element of timing just from the year-end from accounts payable. But there was a genuine improvement in working capital. So I imagine that that's a partial reversal, but not a full reversal.

Okay. Okay. And then just lastly, when I look at your print revenue in the fourth quarter, it looked – it was down about 1.5%, but that was probably due to store closures.

Yeah.

I was just wondering...

There was something else also, because there was – at the end of the fourth quarter last year, there was a couple of very significant Kids hit. So we're always up and down depending on if there is a huge hit in a particular quarter.

Okay. Would you be able to tell us what the performance was in your fourth quarter of the March 2015 quarter adjusting for the store closures on a same-store basis?

What was the comp, yeah?

The comp was – I think it was 4.2%. Sorry, I'm just going to check but it was positive. It was I think it was 4.2% comp.

Yeah. I mean just on the print business, I'm just wondering what...

It was positive. It was up.

It was up a bit. Yeah.

A bit. But the decline is due to closed stores, not to underlying comps. But trade business is positive comps in Q4.

Okay. Good.

Okay. All right. Okay, that's it from me. Thanks.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Bob Gibson, Octagon. Bob, please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob. How are you?

I'm good. Could you give us a CapEx number for this year?

We don't normally give forward guidance on CapEx. So I think you know that we're very conservative, and that we want to make sure that we make the earnings to pay for the capital. So, we should be cash positive on the outlook for FY 2016.

Okay. What about store opening and closings?

So, we have one store closing, which has been announced, our downtown Robson store in Vancouver, and we are in the market looking for a replacement location for that. That was a store that we inherited in the acquisition of Chapters that was way too large for us, 52,000 square feet. So, we're in the market for another store there. We're opening a new store at Sherway in probably January timeframe. And we are actively in the market. Right now, we're negotiating on another space. So, we're now pretty much into the growth mode looking for opportunities to open new stores.

Okay. You had been in a closing down the smaller format stores...

Yeah.

...mode. Has that stopped?

Yeah. Do we have any that we're closing this year?

Yeah, we do have some more small format potential closures. They're small revenue and in terms of profitability, they're minus. But I think we are reviewing our overall small format strategy to make sure that we can have the right stores in the right locations and looking at the balance that we have for those.

Right. We may end up closing two and opening four. So we are actively back in the market although we have nothing to announce at the moment other than the new Sherway store.

Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Looks like there's no more questions. Thanks for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our first quarter results will be announced on or around August 4, 2015. Thanks again for your support and have a great day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for participating and ask that you please disconnect your lines.

Okay. No questions from anybody else.