Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President-Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Wednesday, June 1, 2016.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's fiscal 2016 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call is recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 Eastern Time on June 8, 2016.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and to the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I'd like to turn the call over now to Heather Reisman.

Thanks, Janet. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. It really is wonderful to be here discussing our full-year results. Following several years of operating investments in our business to effect a transformation, we are now clearly demonstrating both growth momentum and improved profitability.

For the full-year, same-store sales grew by 12.5% and our online digital channel sales increased more than 15%. As a result of that revenue growth, we more than doubled our EBITDA for the year. I would say that worth noting is that not only did our financial metrics improve, but actually all the key metrics of the business improved, including traffic, conversion, new customers, omni-channel shoppers, customer affection for the brand and employee engagement.

Our net promoter score, which we think is a key measure of the strength of the brand and tells us how our customers feel about us, has increased again to an impressive 68%. I just want to share that recently we were named top retail employer brand for the second year in a row in a survey by external organization, Randstad.

We were also ranked as the fourth best brand overall in the country. Nice results for us. Laura will take you through the financials in more detail. But before I hand it over, I really do want to take this opportunity to say a thank you to the shareholders who've stayed with us during the challenging times and even more importantly say a huge thank you to all of the Indigo team.

I feel very proud of their efforts, the collective efforts of our entire team to move the company through this transformation period. We have a number of exciting, strategic initiatives underway, which will allow us to capitalize on the growth momentum and continue to build on the success of the year past.

And finally, just a few days ago, we opened our new format store at Sherway Gardens in Toronto, and it is being extremely well-received. So good news for today, and I'm happy to turn it over to Laura.

Thank you, Heather, and good morning everyone. So the results that we're discussing today are for the 53 weeks ended April 2, 2016. Comparative figures have been provided for the 52 weeks ended March 28, 2015. As Heather mentioned, the key highlights of our full-year results is the continued strong revenue growth, delivering CAD 99 million more than last year, despite operating three fewer superstores and four fewer small format stores.

On a comparable 52-week basis, total revenue was 9.5% higher than last year. Specifically, retail revenue was 12.8% up in superstores and 10.9% up in our small format stores. Our online sales also grew by 16.9% on a full-year basis, and that is 15.3% on a comparable 52-week basis.

Both our new and general merchandise categories and our core book business performed well. We experienced double-digit growth in lifestyle, paper and toys. The trend for adult coloring books also generated strong growth in our core book business and we also had good sales in writing instruments, such as coloring pencils. Additionally, the toy business benefited from the successful launch of three more American Girl specialty boutiques this year.

Full-year revenue from general merchandise categories grew to 34% of the total compared to just over 30% last year, as we continue to diversify our product assortments beyond our core book offering.

Our margin rate improved by 0.8% this year and margin dollars increased by almost CAD 51 million. The rate improvement was driven by more effective promotions, greater sell-through of full-priced products, higher vendor support and improved inventory management.

Overall, operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 28 million compared to the same period last year, partly due to the longer 53-week period this year. Higher costs were also driven by increased spend on marketing and creative campaigns, a higher number of strategic projects and higher bonus and incentive costs relating to the improved business performance.

For the year, EBITDA improved by CAD 22.6 million, driven by higher revenue at improved margin rate. Net earnings were CAD 28.6 million, an improvement of CAD 32.1 million compared to the same period last year. The improvement was primarily driven by higher EBITDA and a lower tax expense.

As our shareholders are aware, we continue to maintain a very strong balance sheet. We ended the year with CAD 216.5 million in cash, which represents a CAD 13.3 million increase from last year. The increase was driven by the improved business performance.

Before I close, I would just like to highlight the fourth quarter revenue performance, which continued the same strong trend of the earlier quarters. On a comparable 13-week basis, which excludes the impact of the 53rd week and non-comp stores, our superstore sales grew by 14.7% and the small format stores grew by 15.8%. On a comparable basis, our online channel grew by 9.8%.

We are really pleased with this growth momentum that we have shown this year, and would now like to open the call to any questions. Thank you.

Thank you, Laura. [Operator Instructions] .

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

May I just make one point, it's Heather Reisman here. I actually have to leave a bit early today because I'm receiving an honorary degree. So if there's any questions for me, I would ask that these come first. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David McFadgen, Cormark. David, please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. Thank you. I have a few questions. Heather, so for the last three quarters, we continue to see extremely strong same-store sales growth on the 13% to 15% range, which is pretty incredible. Is this the new norm or is this – we continue to be surprised at how strong these results are.

David, you will know better than most that we will never do a prediction about the future. So, all I would say is I think we have developed a very great relationship with our customers, we're feeling positive about the business; and I can assure you that we are working as hard as we can to do the best we can. But that's as much as I can say about the future.

Okay. And so, you talked about...

Thank you for that wonderful question.

Yeah. So you talked about the new Sherway store, you said it's being extremely well-received. Can you give us any metrics that we could...

Well, the Sherway store replaced a store that we had across the street at Queensway. It's a little bit – not much bigger. I think selling space might be about 1,500 square feet bigger, and we are doing well in the double-digit improvement in that store. So I think there's every indication. But it's early. It's only been open a couple of weeks. But we're feeling quite positive about it, very positive. In fact, anybody in Toronto we invite you to come. We're having an opening party on Thursday night, and I think you'll get a great view of the store.

Okay. And what are the plans to open American Girl stores in your fiscal 2017 year?

We have – no. We just opened a new American Girl store at Sherway.

Yeah.

And right now we don't have any additional. I think, Laura, this brings us to six or seven American Girl?

That's seven in total, including Sherway.

Seven in total. And we think, right now, this is a good number to really optimize the opportunity. What I will say is, we've just completed a transaction with them to allow us to sell American Girl online, which we were not able to do before. So that represents an advance and that will be launched for Christmas this year.

Okay. And then when you look at your online revenue, it's up double-digit. What's driving that? Is it all the categories or are there...

Yeah. I think all of the – well, I know, it is all of the categories and it is the increase in the number of our customers who were shopping omni-channel – I'm sorry, multi-channel.

Okay.

So in-store customers shopping with us, both in-store and online.

Okay. And then just a CapEx question. Laura, can you give us an update on what you think the CapEx might be for your current fiscal year?

David, we don't give out this forward guidance, but generally we've always said that we have not spent more on CapEx than our EBITDA and we obviously intend to continue to grow our EBITDA. So you should expect to see some growth in that capital number then in the forward fiscal.

Now, I know there was some discussion about embarking on a more aggressive store refit or renovation program, anything happening there?

Yes. We do intend to begin a program of investing in our stores across the country and we'll do it in a measured, but fairly determined way over the next two years to three years.

Okay. And then, Laura, just the last question...

David, can I just ask you one favor. I really – this is one day since I am going to this event that I have to be at. Can I just see if we can focus on the questions for me that anybody has and then come back to the ones for Laura? Could I just ask today, Dave?

Sure. Yeah. I'll get back in the queue and wait for everybody else.

Sure, sure, sure. Anybody else...

At this point, there are no additional questions in queue.

That's correct. There are no questions at this time.

Okay. Then I'll leave it to David to have a wonderful time. Thanks, everybody. I'm going to hop off. Thank you so much.

Thank you, Heather.

Bye bye.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

So, David, do you have more questions?

Thank you. Your next question comes from David McFadgen. Please go ahead.

Hi, Laura. Just to start with one additional question. So on the CRA, what's the total potential liability, is it just the CAD 0.70 million?

Yes, that's the total. And we have launched a Notice of Objection. Yeah, but it's been booked in the numbers for prudence only and we will contest it fully.

Okay. But the total potential liabilities only...

There's no further liability.

Okay. All right. Okay, that's it for me. Thanks.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. Please proceed.

Okay. Thank you for your time and attention today. And we appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our first quarter results will be announced on or around August 9, 2016. Thank you again for your support, and have a terrific day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for participating and ask that you please disconnect your lines.