Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Hugues Simard — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music Q3 Investor and Analyst Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session with investors and analysts only. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Tuesday, February 6, 2018.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Hugues Simard. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good evening, everyone. Thank you for joining us to review Indigo's third quarter fiscal 2018 results. My name is Hugues Simard, and I'm the Chief Financial Officer of Indigo. Our Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman is unfortunately unable to join us today.

Regarding the material to this conference call, we issued the press release after market close today. It can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on February 13 of this year.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements and to the extent that it does we refer you to our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year. I will make a few comments and then open the lines to answer your questions. The results we are discussing are for the third quarter, the 13 weeks ended December 30, 2018. Comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended December 31 of the year before.

For the third quarter, we are happy to announce another record quarter of revenue growth, our 17th straight quarter of top line growth and let's remember comping a strong holiday performance last year. Third quarter revenues were CAD 433.3 million which was CAD 33 million more than last year and 8.2% revenue growth fueled by broad growth across all channels and product categories. Total comparable sales including online were up 7.9% for the quarter driven by equally impressive online growth and in-store results.

Comparable retail stores sales for the quarter increased by 4.9% in superstores and by 2.3% in our small format stores. Online sales grew by 26.4%. We continued to see double-digit growth in general merchandise with lifestyle and toys performing remarkably well being close to 20%. The core trade book business remains healthy showing growth over last year due to the release of several popular titles as opposed to last year as you'll remember more of a blockbuster in the Harry Potter that was continuing in Q3.

Margin dollars increased by CAD 11.9 million dollars due to higher sales volumes in retail and online and higher plum breakage. But margin rate experienced a decline of 0.6%. The downward pressure on margin was a result of a higher penetration of our online channel which by nature is slightly lower margin and more promotional during this holiday season.

Operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 6 million, compared to last year, largely driven by higher sales volume as well as investments in our distribution centers to support profitable growth. However, total costs decreased as a percentage of sales.

Overall adjusted EBITDA increased by CAD 6 million for the quarter driven by top-line growth which was partially offset by a lower margin rate as discussed earlier and increased operating cost across the company to support our growth. Our net earnings for the second quarter were CAD 42.6 million up CAD 2.6 million from last year. On a fiscal year-to-date basis, revenue increased by CAD 53.8 million or 6.6%, to CAD 864.1 million compared to CAD 810.3 million for the same period last year.

Year-to-date total comparable sales which include online sales increased 6.2% that's on the year-to-date basis. While comparable retail stores increased 3.8% for superstores and increased 1.5% in small format stores.

Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA improved CAD 7.8 million driven by higher revenue partially offset by higher operating costs and investments to support strategic projects as we discussed previously.

Our balance sheet continues to be very strong. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of CAD 308 million. Our total assets totaled CAD 734.6 million, an increase of CAD 126 million from last year and we still have no debt.

We're very proud of these results and very happy with another strong holiday season a testament to the strength of our brand and to the passion and engagement of our entire team.

Looking ahead, as our reimagined stores continue to perform exceptionally well, we will be accelerating the roll-out of new concept over the coming months reimagined stores continue to perform exceptionally well. We will be accelerating the rollout of the new concept over the coming months, including the renovation of our Bay & Bloor store down here in Toronto and the opening of a new flagship in downtown Vancouver.

We'll also continue to invest in online to keep adding functionalities and improving the digital experience and also we will open a new distribution center in Calgary, so quite a busy plan ahead with many initiatives on the go, which will lead to significant growth and productivity improvements.

At this point, we would like to open the call for any questions that you may have.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Bob Gibson from PI Financial. Bob, please go ahead.

Good afternoon, Hugues.

Hey, Bob. How are you?

I'm good. Accelerated roll-out, can you give us some little color on that? May be how many stores this year?

Well, we are, as you know we kind of put that on hold for Q3, which is our big quarter as we always do because we want to focus on operations. Now we are starting again, so for Q4 of this – so ending this fiscal 2018, we're going to be working on a few stores and then about another 20 stores for the next fiscal year. So they'll be a little bit north of 20 stores being renovated over the next 12 months.

Okay. And any color on U.S. expansion?

And that is still in the plans, as we had announced, I think last time, that we were – that we had signed a lease in New Jersey, this is still in the plans. We are working. This is one of the stores on which we are currently working on design. We are looking at other opportunities and other locations in the U.S. as well, but nothing really to add at this point. I think our plans have not changed. We are – as we've said we are committed to testing the U.S. market and to opening a few stores, three or four stores in the next 24 months or thereabout. So we're still proceeding and going ahead with it.

Okay. And Casper nap pods.

Yeah.

...supposedly you've got 7 – they're in seven locations now. What do you think the potential might be?

Well, right now it's more of more of that commercial agreement until we get more data on this. I think the potential – I mean we think the potential is very strong, is very high. It fits well with our wellness, the development of our wellness area and sleep well and all of other either books or other products that are related. So strategically we think it fits well. We'll see how this goes. I mean, right now it's more of a people get a coupon and then they – when they visit the pods in our largest stores and then they can buy them online. We'll have to see how that evolves. But we're monitoring I should say, see the interest very closely and so far it's been working well.

Okay. And then lastly, can I get an update on the distribution facility in Calgary?

We are – well we had announced, right. We purchased that as part of the [ph] Sears (09:55) process late last year. So we are now – we have occupancies like we have access to it now and we are now adding some equipment in it. And obviously there is significant IT to be added as well. And we're looking in a few months to be testing and so sort of "soft launching it" in the spring to be ready for the fall period.

So you think it will be ready for Christmas?

Well that's the plan. Yep.

Okay, great. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Bob. See you soon.

Thank you. Your next question is from David McFadgen from Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Hi, just following up on some questions on the expansion of the new stores.

Yes.

It seems like there is an echo on the line here. So how many do you think you'll have renovated for your fiscal 2018, given you're going to do 20 in fiscal 2019?

Well we've already – let's see we've already renovated about six right? Am I getting this right, yeah. And we are working on a few more. So I don't know I mean our fiscal year, if that's your question is going to end at the end of March, right? So I don't think we'll deliver any further stores by the end of this fiscal year. But work is starting and we're going to deliver about 20 or thereabouts over the next fiscal year.

Okay. Do you have the team in place, because obviously to go from 6 to 20 is quite a lift right, quite a lot of growth there?

Yes, yes. But we wanted to see the performance of these first few that we had opened in different markets and really refine our designs and our everything that our concept a little bit. And so now we've – now that we're – I mean the results are really outstanding for all those stores that we've renovated. So we're ready to go and we're going to be – we're going to be doing this right. I mean it's not a race. We will do this right. But we are in a position to accelerate now. And we're looking forward to very interesting self because top-line pick up in the months after the opening.

So the 20 stores for fiscal 2019, does that includes the U.S. expansion as well?

Yeah. But the U.S. – well, yes it does. But the U.S. expansion at this point, as I said I mean we are looking at only a few stores maybe two to three stores over the next 24 months. So there's probably only one or two stores in that number that I quoted you for fiscal 2019.

So if you look out into fiscal 2020, I know it's a little ways away, but do you think that you would still be doing this new store concept in Canada for fiscal 2020?

I'm sorry your question – if we you would still be rolling out this new concept in fiscal 2020, is that what you're asking?

Yeah. Would you still have Canadian stores to do in fiscal 2020, possibly?

Oh yes. Yes, for sure. As you know, we have more than 80 large formats and having done let's say 20 some odd after fiscal 2019, I mean we will still have quite a few. And the plan right now is to obviously continue to refine our designs in our concept as we go along, but to certainly – to continue to renovate, because I mean the results are there and we believe that the return on this investment is very high, so we will definitely – it is planned right now, we will definitely continue.

So, is it possible that you could retrofit, renovate every single large format store in Canada?

I mean, right now we are starting with the stores that give us the biggest bang for our buck obviously, but I mean why not? I mean you know this certainly is – the plan is to, really is to reimagine our large format network and it would make sense to apply this concept to most of them certainly.

Okay. So going back to the quarter, if you look at the revenue growth obviously it's quite strong, quite good. I'm just wondering how much of that has been driven by these new store concepts versus just growth across the entire chain of stores?

Well, right now our new renovated stores, there is – as I said, there is six of them, so there is obviously some growth coming from that because it's – every store is performing really, really well. That being said, with only six stores having been done, it's not a huge contribution yet. But as we roll this out, this is going to become very material.

I mean don't forget that as we are rolling it out, I mean there is a period of how would I call it a disturbance as well, right. Because as we renovate stores, there is a negative impact on our sales as we renovate these stores. So at first, we will have some pickup, but the pickup will accelerate as we renovate more stores and the sales pickup start outweighing the disturbance, I'll call them.

So, in the past the EBITDA have covered CapEx.

Yeah.

You're going to do 20 stores next year, do you envision EBITDA covering CapEx?

Not necessarily. I mean we have a very strong balance sheet, we believe very strongly in the renovation and reimagining of these stores. So it has been this company's approach and we will continue to be very prudent in our investments. But it would certainly make sense for us to temporarily maybe over a year or two to invest a little more than our EBITDA in these projects that bring in a very high return on capital.

So when you talk about a high return on capital from these new stores, can you tell us what that return on capital is that you're seeing, is it 15%, 20%? Is it double digit, is it over 20%, any indication there?

It certainly is double digit, high double digits. Well, yeah, I mean double digits in the – not in the very low double digits, but I'd rather not quote. Well, I don't think we've quoted this and I'm not comfortable quoting a specific number. But in the numbers that you've thrown out, depending on the store, because some of our larger stores have maybe a higher return in some cases than some of those smaller stores. But we're definitely talking about very – more than double digits and in certain cases, very high return on capital investment.

Okay. So if you just look at SG&A line in the past, you've always thought that it was possible to lower the SG&A line, look for efficiencies and so on. Is that still your belief that you could maybe reduce your SG&A going forward?

Yeah, well there is – yes, absolutely. It is still our belief and we have – this is something that we have we must continuously work on. They'll be temporary periods of call them investments, but certainly long-term, this is – there's no change in that approach and we will continue to work on that for sure.

And so just my last question is, when do you expect the New Jersey store to open?

Well, we had announced sometime this year. As you know, we tend not to open stores past September. So right now the plan is to – I mean we're looking at sometime late summer I'll call it.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

All right. Thank you, David.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time. Please proceed.

Okay. Thank you very much everybody for accommodating us on this later than usual time. And thank you for your attention today. We appreciate you calling in and discussing our results with us. We will – we look forward to reconnecting next quarter. Our annual results will be announced on or around May 29 of this year. So thank you again for your support. And have a good evening.