Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President, Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Craig Loudon — Chief Financial Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music, Inc. Q4 Analyst Investor Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded on Wednesday, May 31, 2017.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much, Greg. Good morning and thank you for joining us to review Indigo's fiscal 2017 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Craig Loudon, SVP, Business Finance and the Interim Chief Financial Officer. Also with us, is Hugues Simard, who will be taking on the role of Indigo's Chief Financial Officer effective June 1.

Regarding the materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday evening. It can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 11:59 P.M. on June 7, 2017.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements, and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Heather Reisman.

Thanks, Janet. As Janet mentioned, I'm delighted to announce Hugues Simard as our CFO. A graduate of both U of T and Harvard. Hugues comes to Indigo from Quebecor and has a wealth of experience to bring to us. We're delighted to have him. I would like to also thank Craig Loudon, right now, for doing a tremendous job on the Acting CFO role and you'll be happy to go back to your day job. Thank you very much.

Just to discuss the full year end results, while we know this has been a challenging year for many retailers, we're very pleased to report continued earnings growth along with the 14th straight quarter of year-over-year sales growth. We surpassed the $1 billion mark this year, our highest ever annual revenue. Comparable sales grew by an impressive 4.1% this year on top of last year's extremely strong double-digit growth.

We also are continuing to see double-digit growth in online sales, which increased by another 13% this year on a comparative basis. Digital sales channels have been an important area of growth for Indigo, and we think that there are absolutely more opportunities to keep expanding in this area of the business.

General merchandise, a number of general merchandise categories, all performed well. And at the same time, physical books did very well for us as well. So we're feeling good about where the business is and how we performed up to the end of last year.

In addition to business and financial metrics, which keep improving, our employee engagements scores are at an all-time high for the third year in a row. And I announce this because as CEO, I believe this is by far the leading predictive indicator of the organization's ability to do things moving forward. Indigo was recognized as the top retail employer brand to work for by Randstad Canada. And we were also ranked number one providing best-in-class retail customer experience by Forrester Research.

Finally, our Net Promoter Scores, these are all indicators which we track carefully along with typical financial indicators. So our Net Promoter Score, which is a key measure of the strength of our brand, is a customer rating. It has increased to an all-time high of 71, which we feel is clear indication of the customer commitment to Indigo.

Looking forward, we have a number of ongoing initiatives to further support and fuel growth in our digital channels, as well as a major store renovation program that will touch book stores across the country. I should mention, we did open the model new format of Indigo early in the year. We commented on it last quarter. But we are well past the opening blush of the first quarter or two and the store continues to outperform our strongest expectations. So this is the model that we'll taking across the country. It's an exciting period of change for everyone at Indigo, and I want to thank everyone for their hard work.

And I would now like to turn it over to Craig for a little more detail on the financials.

Thank you, Heather, and good morning, everyone. The results we are discussing are for the 52 weeks ended April 1, 2017. Comparative figures have been provided for the 53 weeks ended April 2, 2016.

As Heather mentioned, the key highlight of our full year result is continued revenue growth, increasing CAD 25.6 million from last year. On a comparable 52-week basis, total revenue was 4% higher than last year. Specifically retail revenue was up 2.9% in superstores and up 0.9% in small format stores.

Our online sales grew by 11.2% on a full year basis and 12.8% on a comparative 52-week basis. We continue to see double-digit growth in general merchandise with lifestyle and toys performing particularly well. Our core book business was flat year-over-year on a comparable 52-week basis, a solid outcome as we cycled over last year's coloring book trend. Full year revenue from general merchandise categories grew to 37.7% of the total, compared to 34.5% last year, as we continue to refine our product assortment.

Margin dollars increased by CAD 11.2 million due to higher sales volumes, but margin rate declined by 0.1% this year, as greater sell-through of full priced merchandise during the holiday season only partially offset the promotional discounting of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child and increased summer markdowns. Overall, operating, selling and administration costs increased by CAD 5.9 million compared to last year, driven by higher sales volume and distribution center costs.

For the year, EBITDA improved by CAD 9.1 million, driven by higher revenue and lower head office costs. Last year, the company received one-time net proceeds of CAD 4.5 million related to the exiting of a lease, without which the prior year's EBITDA would have been CAD 38.6 million. Therefore, excluding the one-time lease proceeds from last year, the year-over-year improvement in EBITDA would be CAD 13.6 million.

On a pre-tax basis, net earnings were CAD 29 million this year, compared to CAD 22.1 million last year. The improvement was driven by higher EBITDA and interest revenue. Net earnings of CAD 20.9 million, included CAD 8.1 million of primarily non-cash tax expenses. Last year, the company reversed a previously recorded valuation allowance, which resulted in a CAD 6.5 million net income tax recovery.

Our balance sheet continues to be strong. We ended the year with CAD 230.4 million in cash and short-term investments, which represents a CAD 14 million increase from last year, while having no long-term debt.

At this point, we would like to open the call for any questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bob Gibson, PI Financial. Bob, please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob. How are you.

I'm okay. Can we get a little color on the fourth quarter the same-store sales, kind of what happened? It seems online was very strong. Just some color.

Yeah. Go ahead.

Yeah. I think the thing you need to keep in mind about fourth quarter, even though the reported number I believe is like 0.8, given our 53-week year, the prior year Boxing Week moved and was in Q3 this year, whereas last year would've been in Q4. So if you actually look at it on a comparable basis with Boxing Week adjusted, the comp in Q4 would've been more in the 5% range.

And the 13th week, Bob. It's an unusual year.

All right. So it would've been 5%.

Yeah.

And so, what would the superstores look like, or the small stores look like?

We did on the full year. I don't have that handy. I don't know offhand that adjustment.

Okay.

But that's really the Boxing Week phenomenon within a different quarter this year.

Okay. Easter is in the different quarter this year, would that be an impact at all?

Yeah. So that moved into – there was no Easter in fiscal last year. So that moved into to Q1. So that would've been another small impact, yes.

Okay. So it was small.

Boxing Week, by far, would be the bigger impact.

I can't remember either. I think overall growth this year was like 4 point something percent...

4.1% comparable growth. Yeah.

Okay.

And that's a comparable, and that's on top of – remember, Bob – massive growth last year.

Right.

Well, massive, I mean, big growth for a business like ours.

Okay. Last quarter, you called out you're going to renovate 10 superstores or 11 superstores this year. Is that sort of still on track?

Yes, it is.

Okay. And then any sort of highlights on what's selling, what's not selling, any big authors coming through this year?

I can't remember if there's any giant books like a Harry – there's nothing like a Harry Potter book that we can see on the horizon. Our book business continues to fare well. We're actually picking up market share in the book business in Canada. And without being too predictive, we feel that we're on a good trend. Every single one of our businesses, every single one is showing growth.

Okay. And coloring books, can I kind of assume going forward that won't be a drag?

Yes. Coloring books is – that particular phenomena is just about petered out. So we won't have a comp-to-comp issued yet and something else will come. This is a business that does from time to time have hits, as you know. When they come, they're nice. So that's why we always look at the underlying business. And every one – we have our baby business, our kids business, toys and books for kids, our general merchandise business, our paper business, they are all faring well.

Okay. And lastly, you've done a great job of lowering head office costs, can I get a little color on how that looks going forward?

We believe that there is still opportunity to leverage our resources. So I don't see like – I'm not – I wouldn't expect that there was a giant change, but we have an ongoing continuous improvement program here and it's now part of the culture to continue to look at ways to eliminate work that we feel is not necessary. So it's not a kind of one-time, let's do a downsizing. What we have is a ongoing look at how to eliminate work that just isn't necessary, and that has allowed us to continue to be more productive.

Got you. Thank you very much.

Okay.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from David McFadgen, Cormark Securities. David, please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. Thank you. So a couple of questions. In the MD&A, it talks about the fact that you implemented new systems for an online distribution center and you said that that didn't come through to as expected. And I was just wondering is there any real financial impact from that not living up to expectations?

Yes. There were financial impacts in the third quarter and fourth quarter, in that cost of operating the DC were higher than we had hoped. We are now on a trajectory to get them back in line. We also had part of the investment that we made that we wrote down one aspect of it, but we're adapting it and evolving it. And we feel we're on track now to have it running the way we had anticipated when we initiated the efforts.

So then we should see some costs being removed this year versus last year?

Our cost per unit handled will definitely go down.

Okay. Is there any way to quantify the total magnitude of that or...

No, we do not do projections, but you can keep asking. But it's a good question.

Okay. Okay. So just moving on to the print revenue line then. I noticed in the fourth quarter the print revenue was down a bit. I mean part of that might have just been the lack of the additional week. Was it also just coming off the coloring book craze or is there other factors?

No. We think the fourth quarter was the last unusually strong – like now it can get picked up by sort of other things. So you had everything in this fourth quarter. You had the last sort of real burst of coloring book phenomena. You didn't have Easter, you didn't have Boxing Week in the fourth quarter, although we got the benefit in the third quarter and you had 52 weeks instead of 53 weeks. So that's why Craig said on a normalized basis, you are still seeing the growth trends, but there was nothing that juiced it to be unusually strong.

So have you normalized for all those things? I think you said that the same-store sales growth was probably in the range of 5%, is that correct?

Exactly.

Yes.

If we normalize for everything. And that's about the trajectory that the business has been on for the whole year, 4%, 5%. We were a little stronger in the first quarter, I think, because coloring books were still very high, but that's roughly the trajectory that the business has been on.

Okay. And...

Which I think it compares favorably quite nicely to any other retailers that's out there.

Yeah. No, for sure. I mean, yeah, definitely better than most of them. And is the business – I'm not trying to hold you to a forecast, but is the business kind of continuing along that 4% to 5% trajectory?

Yeah. We feel positive.

Yeah. Okay. And then lastly, last year, you spent about $30 million on CapEx and intangibles. And given the fact that you're renovating about 10 to 11 stores this year, would the CapEx for this year be similar to what you spent last year, just in that range?

Yeah. Probably in that range.

In that range. Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. If there's no more questions, we'd like to thank you very much for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting with you on a quarterly basis. Our first quarter results will be announced on or around August 8, 2017. Thank you and have a great day.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for participating and ask that you please disconnect your lines.