Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Janet Eger — Vice President-Public Affairs, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Heather M. Reisman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Laura Carr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Indigo Books & Music, Inc.
Bob Gibson — Analyst, Octagon Capital Corp.
David McFadgen — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Indigo Books & Music First Quarter Investor Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. But following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note that the conference is recorded on Wednesday, August 5, 2015.

I now would like to turn the conference over to Janet Eger. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you so much for joining us to review Indigo's first quarter fiscal 2016 results. My name is Janet Eger and I'm the Vice President of Public Affairs. Joining us from Indigo today are the Chief Executive Officer, Heather Reisman; and Chief Financial Officer, Laura Carr.

Regarding materials for this conference call, we issued the press release after market close yesterday, which can be found at indigo.ca and on SEDAR. The conference call will be recorded and archived in the Investor Relations section of the Indigo website. A playback of the call will also be available by telephone until 10 AM on August 12, 2015.

This conference call may contain forward-looking statements and to the extent that it does, we refer you to our cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements in the press release and the MD&A related to this quarter and year.

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Reisman.

Thanks, Janet. Good morning and thanks, everybody, for joining us to review Indigo's first quarter results. Laura and I will make some brief comments, and then we'll take any questions that you might have. We've had a strong first quarter and are pleased to see last year's positive trends continuing. This is actually our seventh consecutive quarter of revenue growth, which is a satisfying trend considering the significant changes we've experienced in the book industry in recent years. We continue to see meaningful growth in all our general merchandise categories and we've actually had strong book sales in both retail and online.

It's also our fifth consecutive quarter of earnings improvement. Both top line growth and profitability improvement demonstrate that we are on the right path and we feel we're just beginning to see some of the impact of our work. We are also continuing to receive fantastic feedback from our customers. Net Promoter Score increased again in the quarter to 67%. This is a very strong indicator of the strength of the brand and the fact that it's growing, is again in our view, something that is extremely valuable.

We're currently working on several strategic initiatives, which will advance the customer experience even further while also improving the underlying productivity and the profitability of the business. We continue to review opportunities to expand, we're committed to investing for long-term growth and we're basically feeling extremely optimistic about the business. Laura?

Thank you, Heather, and good morning, everybody. The results that we are discussing today are for the 13 weeks ended June 27, 2015. So comparative figures have been provided for the 13 weeks ended June 28, 2014. For the first quarter, revenue was C$184.9 million, which was C$4.1 million more than last year despite operating two fewer superstores and five fewer small format stores.

On a comparable store basis, retail revenues were 5.3% up in superstores and down 1% in the small format stores. Our online business continue to perform strongly, growing by 18.2% compared to last year. The business growth continue to be driven by our newer general merchandise categories where we again experienced double-digit growth in lifestyle, paper, electronics and toys. And we also continue to see strong performance from our core book business.

Our first quarter revenues in general merchandise categories grew to 30.6% of the total compared to 27.4% last year as we continue to extend our product assortment beyond our core book offering. For the quarter, our margin rate remains essentially flat and margin dollars increased by C$1.4 million. The margin rate in both the retail and online channels were up, but the revenue in the other channels decreased, which led to a slight erosion in margin rate.

Operating, selling and administration cost decreased by C$3.2 million this quarter, compared to the same quarter last year. This cost reduction is driven by the closure of our Robson location. As part of the closure agreement, Indigo received a one-time incentive for the early surrender of the lease, which more than offset its closing cost. The net impact of the lease surrendered to the EBITDA was C$4.5 million.

Furthermore, we invested C$1.1 million more in marketing during the quarter as we supported more campaigns than last year. Overall, EBITDA has improved by C$5.2 million for this quarter, driven by higher revenues, lower costs and the contribution from the Robson store. The first quarter net loss of C$9 million represented reduction in loss of C$5 million compared to the first quarter of last year. This improvement was driven by the EBITDA improvement of C$5.2 million.

Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with C$176.1 million in cash, which represented C$26 million increase from the Q1 last year. The increase is driven by our improved performance and lower working capital.

At this point, we're going to ask whether there are any questions.

Laura, do you want to comment on the – for those from the U.S., the impact of the exchange rate because that had an impact on the business, did it not?

It should. So, we estimate that we had about a C$3 million exchange hit to the business during the quarter, which we've managed to absorb by an improved margin rate through pricing and volume increases.

Good. Thank you, Laura. [Operator Instructions] Operator, please let's go to the phone.

Certainly. Yes. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be coming from the line of Bob Gibson at Octagon. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bob.

So let's just hit that FX comment, the C$3 million, is that top and bottom line or how can I break that out?

Yeah, that's margin.

With bottom line.

Yeah.

That's a bottom line impact.

Okay. Any idea what top line might have been?

I think that – it's the pricing impact so that we basically offset that on the top line.

Okay. And I know it's not part of the quarter, but, Heather, any comments on Go Set a Watchman?

Go Set a Watchman was not as big in Canada as it was in the United States, not surprisingly. It's not such a issue but that notwithstanding, I mean it did drive incremental business for sure.

It will be in Q2, Bob.

Yeah, I know. But just thought I could get some color, and I didn't hear correctly, how much incremental marketing spend did you do in the quarter?

Just over C$1 million.

C$1 million. Okay, so great. And any color on more smaller store closings this year?

I don't think we have any.

We have some coming up for review, and we continue to review our portfolio, but we are actively looking at the ways that we can grow our small format business, but we will continue to obviously look at the stores that contribute significantly on the bottom line because there may be some more small format closures during the year, but they will only be ones that are genuinely underperforming.

Bob, just to provide you some perspective here, I can tell you we are actively in the market looking for new real estate. There's no question that our company is in growth mode now.

Okay. So that would include small format stores?

Yes. There are some markets where we're looking to put slightly larger Indigospirits, but larger than the old small formats, like we're looking at a 4,000 square foot to 5,000 square foot Indigospirit.

Perfect. And then last thing, I'll pass it on, the four American Girl Boutiques you said would be open, any chance that they'll be open before Christmas?

Which one?

American Girl Boutiques, you said you will open some...

Yes, we have one opening in Calgary and one in Edmonton that are both opening in this quarter, and I say we have a couple of other things that you'll hear about in Q2 that will still impact this year. Oh three? There's three American Girl...?

Q3.

Yeah, in Q3. Beginning of Q3? Oh, October, okay, they open at the beginning of October. I'm mistaken.

Okay, great. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Bob.

Any other?

Thank you. Your next question will be coming from the line of David McFadgen from Cormark Security. Please go ahead.

Couple of questions. So you talk about the strength of your core book business. Can you give us any metrics on how it performed in the quarter? Was the revenue up year-over-year on a same-store basis?

On a same-store basis, the revenue was up in the total print business and I think in actual dollar terms, it was relatively flat.

Okay. Can you give us...

But – sorry, what were comp store sales for books, do we know?

Yeah, they were positive.

Positive, what, do we know what it was? Oh, 1.9%, Bob.

Okay. It's actually David.

Oh, David, sorry.

No problem.

David.

Okay, no, that's definitely positive to see. And what was the driver for your online sales? It was up 18%. That's absolutely strong.

Just customers responding to the channel.

Okay. So, it was book, it was merchandise, it was just...

Everything.

It was everything.

Everything, yeah.

Okay.

Yeah.

And so the Eaton Centre, American Girl and Granville, American Girl both opened in...

They just opened. They've been beating our expectations. Our Eaton Centre Store has our full new Kids format, total new Kids format and it's already – it's been open six weeks and it's our number one performing kids store in the chain.

Okay. So better than Yorkdale?

Well, the opening of American Girl at Yorkdale was an unusual event and it was at the time of year when the new doll was announced. So this was in the summer. So American Girl did not outperform the Yorkdale opening, but what I'm saying is that the overall kids plus American Girl have – in the Eaton Centre is now our number one performing store, yes, better than – right now performing just slightly better than Yorkdale.

Okay.

And we're told that our American Girl performance is strong like even relative to how the U.S. is doing, they're very pleased with Indigo's performance in American Girl.

Okay. And Granville, can you give us some anecdotes for Granville, how that American Girl store is doing?

Yeah.

Granville's doing very well and again in total stores, so we renovated the whole store and it's been rebranded as an Indigo and it's outperforming our expectations again. American Girl is performing in line, extremely well, and that the whole store is uplifted and, again, as Heather said, you've got a full Indigo kids experience in Granville and the whole store is performing very well.

Well, I don't know, Bob. I've just come back from vacation so I didn't check, so I don't know about the last 10 days, but the beginning of American Girl at Granville, it actually is outperforming the way American Girl did in Robson.

Okay.

So that's a good sign. And, as you know, we're still actively, actively looking to replace Robson.

All right. Now, Heather, you talked earlier about you're in the market looking for real estate, like how many stores would you like to expand your footprint by [indiscernible] (12:03)?

You know, Bob, that I can never give you – David, sorry, David. You think I wouldn't know, David. You know, David, that I – we never, we never give those numbers out, but we are very active in the market.

Okay. And then for Laura, so you received C$4.5 million in proceeds to walk away from the Robson Street store, is that correct?

The net impact of – when we take up, the closing cost is C$4.5 million.

Okay. So they just sent you a check for surrendering the lease early?

Basically, yeah.

Okay. All right. And that was netted against the SG&A, correct?

Correct.

Right. Okay. Okay, I guess that's it from me. Thanks.

That money will just get reinvested though, right? It will go reinvested in our – in that Robson market.

Right. Okay.

Thank you, David. Are there any more questions? [Operator Instructions]

Okay. Thanks for your time and attention today. We appreciate you calling in and look forward to reconnecting on a quarterly basis. Our second quarter results will be announced on or around November 3, 2015. Thanks again for your support and have a good day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference call for today. We thank you again for participating, and ask that you now please disconnect your lines. Have yourselves a great day.