corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon everyone and thank you for participating in today’s conference call to


discuss Iteris’s financial results for its Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year ended March 31st, 2011.


Joining us today are Iteris’s President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes and the company’s CFO,


Mr. Jim Miele. Following their remarks, we will open the call for your questions. [Operator


Instructions] I would also like to remind everyone that a webcast replay of today’s call will be


available via the Investors section of the company’s website at www.iteris.com until of June 9th,


2011.


Now, I turn the call over to Mr. Mohaddes. Sir, please proceed.


Abbas Mohaddes, President, Chief Executive Officer and Assistant Secretary


Thank you Shaun and good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss our


recent results. As you saw at the close of the market today, we issued a press release announcing


our financial results for our fiscal fourth quarter and year 2011.


Both the Roadway and Vehicle Sensors segments continued to drive growth in revenues for the


year, increasing 11% and 19% respectively. And for the fourth quarter, our Roadway Sensors


segment and revenues generated from our acquisition of Meridian Environmental Technology


helped to drive growth.


Although our Transportation Systems revenue decreased 15% for the year, it’s grown sequentially


for two straight quarters. We have certainly seen positive signs of growth in this segment through


healthier requests for proposal activities. In response to this added demand, we have started to add


the staff in this segment. Our overall performance helped us generate another sequential quarter of


positive cash flow from operations and maintain a strong balance sheet. Our results also reflect


actions taken to expand our market share through our investments in sales and marketing and


R&D.


During the quarter, we successfully integrated our acquisition of Meridian Environmental


Technology or MET. MET has proven to be an ideal match in terms of both culture and


complementary capabilities as well as being immediately accretive financially. This acquisition is


aligned with our accelerated growth strategy to target synergistic companies that enhance our


intellectual property. The addition of MET has strengthened our offerings in key niche markets,


which include traveler information, weather and decision support systems.


As we begin fiscal 2012, we’re seeing increased traction of our products in the marketplace, both


domestically and internationally. This traction is attributed to our prudent investments in sales and


marketing and R&D as well as further expansion of our market share. We’re also seeing


strengthening indications from federal and regional agencies through an expanded number of


requests for proposals in the traffic management space. We expect these multiple positive factors


to drive increasing demand for our products and services throughout fiscal 2012 and beyond.


Now, before I comment further, I would like to turn the call over to our CFO, Jim Miele, who will take


us through the details of our financial results for the quarter and fiscal year. Afterwards I’ll return to


discuss some more of the highlights of the quarter and year and how we plan to build shareholder


value in 2012. Finally, we will open up to calls – the call for your questions. Jim?
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


James S. Miele, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Vice President


Thank you Abbas and good afternoon everyone, and thank you again for joining us. For the fourth


quarter ended March 31st, 2011 our net sales and contract revenues increased 4% compared to


the same year ago quarter to $15.7 million. The overall increase was mainly the result of the


acquisition of MET which we completed in January 2011, and that contributed an additional $1.5


million to contract revenues during the quarter. That was offset by a 10% decline in our traditional


Transportation Systems contract revenues.


For fiscal year 2011, net sales and contract revenues increased 2.4% over the prior-year to $59.4


million. The increase was a result of a 13% increase in net sales of our sensors products, the


acquisition that I just spoke of, of MET in January and again was offset by a 15% decline in


traditional systems contract revenues.


As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams and different attributes


affecting our financial results, Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract


revenues later in his comments.


Our gross margins for the fourth quarter were 44% versus 43% reported in the year ago quarter.


For the year, the gross margins were 44% versus 42%. The increase in margins was mainly a


result of a sales mix more weighted towards product sales in both the quarter and the full-year.


Operating expenses were $6.2 million for the fourth quarter, mainly related to increased sales and


marketing expenditures and the inclusion of MET operating expenses. For the year, operating


expenses were $30.7 million and included an $8 million goodwill impairment charge we took in the


third quarter.


GAAP net income was $479,000 or $0.01 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011,


versus $807,000 or $0.02 per diluted share in the same year ago quarter. Excluding non-cash


charges for goodwill impairment and other non-cash expenses, non-GAAP net income was


$555,000 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. That compares to $911,000 or $0.03


per diluted share in the same year-ago quarter. Please refer to our press release issued today. It’s


available on our website, for a reconciliation of non-GAAP net income to GAAP net income as well


as other important details about our use of non-GAAP financial information.


For the year, our GAAP net loss was $5.2 million or $0.15 per diluted share versus GAAP net


income of $2.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share. The loss in fiscal 2011 is also attributable to the


same non-cash charge for goodwill impairment taken in the third quarter. Excluding this non-cash


charge and other non-cash expenses, our non-GAAP net income was $2.6 million for fiscal 2011 or


$0.07 per diluted share, and this was virtually unchanged from the prior-year.


We ended the quarter with $11.8 million in cash, which is up from $10.4 million at the end of fiscal


2010. Additionally, we generated another year of positive free cash flow and approximately $5.3


million in positive cash from our operations. The increase in accounts payable and other liabilities


for the fiscal 2011 is mainly the result of an additional $2.5 million in deferred payment and earn out


liabilities recorded in connection with the Meridian acquisition.


At the end of our fourth quarter, we maintained $13.8 million in remaining deferred tax assets and


those can be used to offset future taxes payable. We’ve not yet drawn on our $12 million line of


credit with our senior lender, and we continue to reduce our long-term debt which is now $3 million.


This concludes my comments on the financials. Now, I’d like to turn the call back over to Abbas


who’ll discuss the quarter and our year as well as our strategy in greater detail. Abbas?