corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Iteris Incorporated


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kamisha and I will be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Jim Miele, Chief Financial Officer. Please


proceed, sir.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to the Iteris fourth quarter 2009 conference


call. I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes,


the company’s President and CEO.


First, I’ll recap the financial results of our fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments, we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may


make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the


company. The forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information


currently available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current


perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company and its products, we’re not


undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results may differ substantially


from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that at a later date our comments from


today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the company files from time to time with


the SEC, specifically the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain


and identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that


are contained in any forward-looking statements.


For the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2009, our net sales and contract revenues decreased


approximately 4% to 16.4 million compared to 17.1 million in the same quarter of the prior year. Our


transportation systems contract revenues increased 24.3% to 8.6 million compared to 7 million in


the prior year quarter, which was offset by an 18% decrease in roadway sensors net sales to 5.9


million compared to 7.2 in the prior year quarter and a 36% decrease in vehicle sensors net sales


to 1.9 million compared to 2.9 million in the prior year quarter.


Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the fourth quarter declined to 35.3% from 43.6% in the prior year quarter. The


decrease in gross margins was primarily a result of the larger percentage of total net sales and


contract revenues derived from our contract revenues, which provide lower gross margins.


Additionally, our fourth quarter contract revenues also included a higher sub-consulting content,


which also impacts our gross margins.


The company reported operating income of 1.1 million for the current quarter compared to


operating income of 2.3 million in the prior year quarter. Current quarter operating expenses


decreased by approximately 8% to 4.7 million compared to 5.2 million reported in the year ago


quarter and were down sequentially from 5.3 million reported in our December 31, 2008, quarter.


The decrease in SG&A expense was a result of our efforts to maximize efficiencies through


operational excellence initiatives that included prudent cost-cutting measures and organizational


consolidations.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net income for the fourth quarter was 8 million or $0.23 per fully diluted share compared to net


income of 7.9 million or $0.23 per fully diluted share in the prior year quarter. In both the current


and prior year quarters, our net income was positively affected by tax benefits generated through


the release of valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets. These valuations


were released due to the company’s expectation it will generate enough future taxable income to


be able to utilize these tax assets. This resulted in a $7 million net tax benefit recorded in the


current quarter and a $5.7 million benefit recorded in the prior year quarter.


The company has now fully realized all of its tax benefits and as a result has reported a $15.7


million deferred tax asset on its March 31, 2009, balance sheet, which can be utilized to offset


future taxes payable. We analyze our tax positions quarterly and should this analysis result in a


significant change in future estimated taxable income, we may record a new valuation allowance


against any remaining unrealized deferred tax assets in part or in whole.


The company’s financial position is strong. We ended the quarter with 6.4 million in cash and


continue to generate positive cash from our operations on a quarterly and annual basis. In May –


on May 18, 2009, the company retired the remaining 750,000 in convertible debentures outstanding


using a $7.5 million credit facility provided by our senior lender specifically designed for this


purpose. Additionally, we have not borrowed against our $12 million working capital line of credit


and the entire amount is available to us.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. This was not the easiest quarter for us. But considering the economic conditions all of


us faced, I’m pleased that we were able to maintain our profitability despite the drop in product


revenues.


Due to the slow economy with which everyone is familiar, we saw a slowdown in sales of our


products, and this impacted our overall revenue as well as profitability when compared to the prior


quarter. Conversely, we saw a strength in our systems revenues, which grew 24% year-over-year.


Our systems backlog grew to $34.5 million, a 40% increase year-over-year.


All of our leading indicators, including our RFP pipeline, deal activity, and most importantly our


growing backlog, provide us with significant optimism about the health of our long-term business


prospects. We are increasingly confident and believe that our investment in sales and marketing


over the last year is benefiting the company. And our global presence along with the breadth and


depth of our offerings will continue to provide us with opportunities for top-line growth and


increasing profitability.


During the quarter, we introduced new products to the market, and we completed an important


acquisition which will further enhance our competitive position. We are pleased with our success in


research and development during the fourth quarter. Our ability to provide attractive and new


products to market is a hallmark of Iteris. And in the coming weeks, we will be announcing


additional new and innovative products that continue to effectively leverage our strong sales


channels to our customer base.


We continue to receive positive feedback from our customers and new product orders validate our


strategy. Because of our strong R&D pipeline and our reputation as a market leader, I believe we


are well positioned to resume our growth as the economy begins to stabilize.