corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter Fiscal 2009 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Nakita, and it would be my pleasure to assist


you today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will facilitate a question-and-


answer session towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to introduce your host for today’s call, Mr. Jim Miele, CFO. Please proceed, sir.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator, and welcome to the Iteris first quarter 2009 conference call. I’m Jim Miele, the


Chief Financial Officer of Iteris, and I am joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the company’s CEO.


First, I’d like to recap the financial results of our fiscal 2009 first quarter, and then Abbas will


provide further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’s comments, we’ll open


the call for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon the information we currently


have available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current perceptions


of the market and the future performance of the company and its products, we are not undertaking


an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results may differ substantially than what we


discuss with you today, and no one should assume that at a later date our comments from today


will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the


SEC; specifically, the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and


identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are


contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


For the first quarter ended June 30, 2008, our net sales and contract revenues increased


approximately 11%, to 17.4 million compared to 15.8 million in the same quarter of the prior year.


The increase in net sales and contract revenues was mainly a result of a 25.5% increase in


Transportation Systems contract revenues to 6.9 million compared to 5.5 million in the prior year


quarter.


Also, in the current quarter, Vehicle Sensors net sales increased 2.6% to 3.1 million, while


Roadway Sensors net sales increased 2.8% to 7.4 million. Abbas will provide more detail regarding


net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the first quarter decreased 60 basis points, to 44.4% from 45% in the year ago


quarter. The slight decrease in gross margins was primarily a result of an increasing contract


revenues as a percentage of total net sales and contract revenues.


Our contract revenue gross margins are lower than our product margins and are typically in the


mid-30% range. This decrease, however, was partially offset by a 50-basis-point improvement in


gross margins derived from our product sales. Product sale gross margin were 50% for the quarter


compared to 49.5% in the year ago period.


The company reported operating income of 1.4 million for the current quarter, compared to


operating income of 1.6 million in the prior year quarter. Included in the current quarter results were


focused investments in R&D and sales and marketing aimed at bringing new Roadway Sensors


products to market and winning additional business mainly in our Transportation Systems


consulting segment.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


R&D expense increased 216,000, or 21.7%, compared to the prior year period, while SG&A


increased 596,000, or 13.4%. Additionally, the company’s 2008 SOX compliance efforts were


successfully completed during the current quarter. As a result of the investments in R&D, sales and


marketing, and SOX costs, current quarter operating expenses increased by 16% to 6.4 million


compared to 5.5 million reported in the year ago quarter.


Net income for the first quarter was 666,000, or $0.02 per share, compared to net income of 1.1


million, or $0.03 per share, in the prior year quarter. In the prior year quarter and for the entire year,


our net income was positively affected by tax benefits generated through the release of valuation


allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets. This resulted in an effective tax rate of less


than 40%.


Going forward, we expect to experience an effective tax rate in the low 40% range. With that said,


there are approximately 6 to 8 million of additional unrealized deferred tax assets in addition to the


10.3 million that we currently have booked on the current June 30 balance sheet.


We will continue to analyze our tax positions quarterly. And should this analysis result in a change


of future estimated taxable income, the valuation allowance recorded against the remaining


unrealized deferred tax assets will be evaluated and, if released in part or in whole, would be


expected to reduce the company’s effective tax rate to less than 40%.


The company’s balance sheet remained strong. As of June 30, 2008, the company had no


borrowings on its 10.10-million line of credit, with approximately 9.9 million of availability. We are


also looking into various alternatives to further improve the balance sheet in terms of refinancing


the remaining 7.8 million in convertible debentures and would expect to have an arrangement in


place, before the debentures become due and payable in May of 2009.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. I’m pleased with the results of our first quarter. Iteris continued to execute on its


strategic and operational plans to deliver record sales of 17.4 million, as well as achieving 1.4


million in operating income. We continue offering new products and services to the market, and I’m


delighted Iteris has achieved the record backlog of 28.5 million, an excellent leading indicator of


future growth.


Despite the weakness in the overall economy, our plans to accelerate our growth are providing


tangible results. As indicated before, we are increasing our sales and marketing efforts to further


penetrate existing markets, while tapping into new geographic regions.


In addition, we have increased our R&D efforts to continue bringing new products to market. Our


VersiCam product, which was introduced at the beginning of the quarter, is being well received by


the market. We expect to release several new and innovative products to market over the next few


quarters.


We also have captured $11 million of new contracts that represent some clients that will continue to


raise the visibility and awareness of Iteris. We envision improving our operating income as a


percentage of sales, going forward, as our sales and marketing and R&D investments moderate.


We have also made progress in partnering with other companies as well as establishing and


expanding new offices and our international distribution channels. I will expand on these points later


in my comments.