Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Abbas Mohaddes — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Iteris, Inc.
Craig Christensen — Controller, Iteris, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Chris John Biles — Managing Member, CJB Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Iteris' financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2013. Joining us today are Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes; and the company's Controller, Mr. Craig Christensen. Following their remarks, we'll open the call up for your questions.

Before we continue, we would like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company, which are based on current information and subject to change, are not guarantees of future performance. Iteris is not undertaking an obligation to provide updates to these forward-looking statements in the future.

Actual results may differ substantially from what's discussed today and no one should assume that at a later date, the company's comments from today will still be valid. Iteris refers you to the documents that the company files from time to time with section (sic) [SEC] (01:10), specifically the company's most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, which contains the identity of important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements. I would like to remind everyone that the webcast replay of today's call will be available via the Investors section of the company's website at www.iteris.com.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes. Sir, please proceed.

Thank you, Colt, and good afternoon, everyone. As you saw at the close of the market today, we issued a press release announcing the financial results of our fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2013.

During the quarter, we experienced consolidated revenue growth, record Roadway Sensors revenue, and increased margins, which demonstrates the successful execution of our business plan and continued expansion into the intelligent traffic management market. Supported by healthy performance in our Roadway Sensors segment, we also saw an improvement in operating income, which included accelerated investments in iPerform.

iPerform continues to gain momentum through key IP development, customer and staff expansion, and the achievements of multiple milestones. Such milestones included the release of a new graphical user interface and integrated weather data and traffic incident information. These advancements were necessary to lay the groundwork for the development of our predictive weather and traffic platforms.

But before going into further detail about the quarter and our outlook, I would like to turn the call over to our Controller, Craig Christensen, who will talk us through the details of our financial results. Afterwards, I'll return to discuss more of the highlights for the quarter and how we plan to build shareholder value as we move through our second half of fiscal 2014 and beyond. Finally, we will open the call for your questions. Craig?

Thanks, Abbas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks again for joining us today. For the fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2013, total revenues increased 10% to $17 million compared to $15.5 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase in revenues was primarily attributed to a 22% increase in Roadway Sensors revenues to a record $8.8 million and, to a lesser extent, a 20% increase in iPerform revenues to $1.4 million.

The increase in Roadway Sensors revenues was primarily due to the success of various growth initiatives developed earlier in the year, strong demand in the traffic video detection market, and improved traction in key products such as the Vantage Vector hybrid video and radar detection system. These increases were partially offset by a 4% decrease in Transportation Systems revenues, primarily due to scheduling on certain contract awards.

As you may recall, during the first quarter, we underwent an internal reorganization, where we reassigned the weather-related Management Decision Support Services, which were historically included in the Transportation Systems segment, into the iPerform segment to better align our predictive weather and traffic capabilities, resources, and initiatives.

Therefore, prior-year segment information provided in today's press release is restated to reflect the reassignment of approximately $326,000 in revenues from Transportation Systems to iPerform in the year-ago quarter. As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams and various attributes affecting our financial results, Abbas will provide more detail regarding our total revenues later in his comments.

Gross margin in the second quarter was 40.6% compared to 39.2% in the year-ago quarter. 140 basis point increase was primarily the result of the shift in sales mix weighted more towards sales of Roadway Sensors products and better absorption of certain manufacturing overhead costs achieved from the significant increase in Roadway Sensors revenue.

Roadway Sensors margins were approximately 51%, which represents an increase of 150 basis points from 49.5% reported in the year-ago quarter. Although healthy at approximately 33%, iPerform gross margins were down from 39% in the year-ago quarter. iPerform gross margins is impacted by the factors similar to those in Transportation Systems.

Transportation Systems margins were flat at 28.9%. As you may recall, we recognized a portion of our Transportation Systems revenues and related gross margins using percentage of completion contract accounting and the underlying mix of contract activity affects the related gross profit recognized in any given period.

Operating expenses increased 13% during the second quarter to $5.9 million compared to $5.2 million in the same year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses in Roadway Sensors and iPerform, as well as an increase in research and development expenses associated with iPerform. We invested approximately $485,000 in research, development, sales and marketing for iPerform compared to $342,000 in the same year-ago quarter.

Including the planned increase in R&D investment, total operating income increased 20% to $1 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to operating income of $837,000 in the year-ago quarter. Net income in the second quarter of 2014 increased 20% to $661,000 or $0.02 per diluted share compared to $550,000 or $0.02 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.

Cash at September 30, 2013, was $21.8 million compared to $19.1 million at March 31, 2013, and we continue to carry no debt. During the second quarter, we repurchased approximately 21,000 shares of our common stock for $37,000, bringing the total to approximately 2.3 million shares since we initiated a series of share repurchase programs in August 2011. As of September 30, 2013, we have repurchased approximately $3.6 million worth of shares under these programs and have approximately $747,000 in funds remaining under the current program.

Total backlog at the end of the second quarter was $40 million compared to $34.2 million in the prior quarter and $41.2 million in the same year-ago quarter. Backlog was comprised of $31.1 million from Transportation Systems, $5.5 million from iPerform, and $3.4 million from Roadway Sensors.

This concludes my prepared comments on the financials. Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter, as well as our strategy as we move through the second half of fiscal year 2014. Abbas?

Thank you very much, Craig. As I indicated in my opening remarks, we are very pleased with our sales growth and record Roadway Sensors revenue, as well as our expanded gross margins, which are up over 100 basis points for the second quarter in a row. Our core Transportation Systems and Roadway Sensors segments remain on track with our internal growth plan and generated the operating income and cash flow necessarily to fuel our continued investment in iPerform.

With this planned increase in iPerform development, we still enjoyed a 20% increase in operating income for the quarter. We continued to be confident in our market and believe the overall application of technology in transportation is gaining traction, particularly in the area of traffic management information.

Before I speak more about our outlook, I would love to discuss our operating segments in more detail. As I've indicated, Roadway Sensors sales were up 22% to a record $8.8 million over the same quarter last year and 17% sequentially due to the success of various growth initiatives developed earlier, traction in some of our key products such as our Vector video and radar hybrids, as well as healthier market conditions, primarily in the Western United States.

Additionally, our innovative SmartCycle and SmartSpan products continue to gain traction, addressing and solving the overall customer needs. We are the leader in this strong, growing market. And we believe we are continuing to take market share. We have kept our investment in international markets and made several new distribution agreements during the quarter in South America and Middle East. Roadway Sensors backlog was $3.4 million at the end of the second quarter compared to $3.2 million in the previous quarter.

Our Transportation Systems sales were down 4% during the quarter, largely due to a scheduling of certain contract awards. However, year-to-date, this segment has met our internal plan. We continue to believe our Transportation Systems business is well-positioned to capitalize on the federal highway bill. The request for proposals from various agencies due to the bill continued to expand. And, as we've indicated before, we believe we will be direct beneficiary of the bill.

During the quarter, we signed a six-year contract with Serco to operate Virginia's transportation operation centers. Specifically, Iteris will provide general engineering and traffic operations services at two of the VDOT's regional traffic centers. The centers monitor traffic conditions via cameras and other technology, allowing them to provide travel information on road conditions, manage congestion and coordinate incident response. The operational component is valued at $6.6 million with general engineering services to potentially provide an additional $6 million to $8 million.

Our VDOT award expands our strong support for Virginia's transportation network since we currently operate and maintain the Commonwealth's award-winning 511 Traveler Information System. This project has already kicked off and we have added several staff to provide on-site traffic operation assistance. There are several other opportunities where we are either in the process of submitting our bids or tracking the RFPs to be published, which we expect in the upcoming quarters.

Transportation Systems added $12 million in backlog during the quarter, far exceeding the burn rate of $6.9 million and bringing the total to $31.1 million. This compares to $26.1 million in the previous quarter.

Moving on to our performance management segment or iPerform, we continued to make solid progress in the quarter, achieving two major milestones and bolstering our team of professionals. During the quarter, we hired nine new employees, bringing our iPerform Group to 62 total professionals. One of the notable additions was [ph] Bob Stern (13:02), an executive with extensive Software as a Service and vertical market domain experience. He will serve as the VP of Marketing and Alliances and be focused on channel sales and strategic relationship development, as well as on product launch plan development.

As we have discussed, iPerform was established in 2011 and provides a new generation of intelligent traffic and weather-related information solutions. These solutions bring the power of big data to predicting traffic and weather conditions and delivering actionable information to both the public and commercial marketplace. The segment's initial product, IterisPeMS or iPeMS, is a state-of-the-art information management software suite that utilizes a wide range of data resources and analytical techniques to determine current and future traffic patterns, permitting the effective performance analysis and management of traffic infrastructure resources.

Late in fiscal 2013, we announced the beginning of an 18-month period of increased investment in iPerform. And we are currently six months into this investment phase. Our commitment to this business is due to our belief that the market for traffic analytics is expanding dramatically. We plan to fund these investments through internal generated cash flow from our Roadway Sensors and Transportation Systems operating segments, as well as revenues from iPerform.

It is also important to note that we have been and expect to remain profitable during this 18-month period of investment. Our deep knowledge of traffic engineering and weather forecasting, our experience managing traffic measurements on a massive scale, and our state-of-the-art analytical capabilities should position us to put complex big data to work, enabling our customers to predict and solve real-time traffic management problems.

The expansion of iPerform reflects our broadening focus beyond the public sector to a wider market that should benefit from our information-based products and services. iPerform's recurring revenue model is expected to supplement our consulting and product businesses and augment the overall profitability of our organization. We currently offer iPeMS as both license and Software as a Service offering.

By increasing investment in both technical and market development, we are focused on expanding the scope of iPerform's public sector solutions into the commercial marketplace. We continue to experience significant customer demand and have identified a number of commercial opportunities in the media, automotive and mobile application markets.

In fact, during the quarter, our team was able to secure an additional commercial partner and we have expanded discussions with several others. Although the contracts we have today with these two commercial customers are small, they are with reputable companies and have the potential to be very profitable anchor clients.

During our first fiscal quarter, we released a significant upgrade to iPeMS, which allows users to seamlessly ingest and analyze traffic data from multiple third-party data providers on a plug-and-play basis, alleviating the need for costly and time-consuming custom integration. This new product release also provides the ability to ingest historic third-party data, which were analytics and visualization product combined with real-time sensor information and other real-time data to allow traffic management agencies to efficiently and effectively manage the road networks. These are just a few of the reasons we believe this product has a unique, competitive advantage.

While software such as Google Maps can provide travel information and routing in real-time, our iPeMS solutions allows agencies and customers to analyze both historic and real-time information via dynamic visualization tools and reports using data from multiple sources. This includes fixed road sensors, third-party data, historic data sets, and real-time traffic information.

Today's transportation markets require innovative technological solutions like iPeMS, which go beyond monitoring travel time and the traditional red, yellow, green light paradigm to provide operators with the information they need to make actionable decisions for the traffic networks. To this end, we have several additional innovations under development that would help drive iPerform's market-leading position and accelerate the growth of this segment.

As you may recall, during the first quarter earnings call, we also laid out other key product milestones that investors should track as it relates to our progress in iPerform. They include a robust graphical user interface, the integration of current and historic road and weather conditions, arterial performance measurement capabilities, and a statistical predictive analytics for traffic, road and weather conditions.

During the second quarter, we released new, innovative visualization products, MAP-21 performance measurement tools, integrated additional types of information, including real-time traffic incidents, road and weather conditions, as well as traffic and weather prediction systems. We also continue to file patents around the software's predictive analysis applications.

As the market demand for better informational and analytics tools continues to expand, we believe the investments we are making today will highlight Iteris as the go-to-market leader. We expect our iPerform's recurring revenue model to supplement our core consulting and product segments, while enhancing the overall profitability of our business.

Now, before I provide my closing remarks, we will be delighted to respond to your questions and comments. Operator?

Thank you, sir. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Van Sinderen from B. Riley & Company. Please go ahead, sir.

First, let me say congratulations to your team on the year-over-year improvement. Abbas, maybe you could talk a little bit more about what's driving the Roadway Sensors growth and what the outlook is there? Is that rate of growth, you think, sustainable for the next few quarters? And then maybe you can also speak to how we should think about the rate of growth for iPerform as well.

Thanks for the question, Mr. Van Sinderen. So, Roadway Sensors, at the beginning of the year, we developed about a dozen specific initiatives ranging from product enhancements to distribution channel expansion. And that is domestically, internationally, specifically in South America and Middle East, offering new products to market, strategic alliances with key system integrators. And we see that those initiatives are now actually helping us to expand our overall sales. Of course, we are getting a little bit of a help from the overall health of the market as well.

We believe, collectively, we are expanding our market share. I believe and expect that year-over-year, at least, for some foreseeable future, specifically next quarter, to sustain growth. I say that with the caveat that our next quarter seasonally is weaker than all other quarters. But I do believe that we are headed for material growth in our Roadway Sensors. All of these initiatives are kicking in gradually. And I would be very surprised if it would be otherwise.

As far as iPerform, that 20% growth that we are showing, just for clarification purposes, that is really 100% legacy activities, in fact, specifically regarding the weather legacy components. As I indicated and as you know, we are into the 18 months development of the predicted software for the weather and traffic information. And it will take us some time to really crank up the sales in all the new activities. But we are quite fortunate that we have already secured a couple of commercial customers during the quarter. We actually had a pretty healthy legacy backlog. I'm absolutely bullish about the progress we are making technologically and achieving the milestones that we have had in these last two quarters. And I expect those milestone achievements to continue.

We added about nine or 10 professionals during the quarter. And that was the most that we have done in any quarter so far. And we continue to invest in bringing in sales and marketing, product management staff, as well as software developers and algorithm individuals. So, I would envision that iPerform will take a few quarters before it really cranks in the types of numbers that we expect to gradually get into the steady state situation for them.

Okay. So, I mean, it's great to hear that you picked up two commercial customers there. And I know you've been working toward various partnerships with iPerform, or I'd say, partnerships and alliances. Is there anything else on the horizon there that you think is imminent? Maybe you can just give us kind of your thoughts on the whole picture for partnerships and alliances for iPerform and other customers as well.

Sure. So, we have two groups of customers and alliances, those that primarily focus on the public agency opportunities. And we have several alliances and some in the works. And we also – as we have begun penetrating into the commercial market, we have had discussion with no less than a dozen prospective customers. I'm happy to report and repeat the fact that we have relationship and contracts with two of them. These are rather large notable customers that I'm not privy to announce their names. But, to your point, we are also in discussion with, at least, half a dozen others. And I would expect in the coming one or two quarters that we add some more. And at some point – I can't wait actually to be able to announce some of these, particularly the ones that would provide some material revenue opportunities.

But one thing that we have noticed in the marketplace is a significant interest and significant demand for the kind of software features that we are adding to iPeMS. Specifically the predictive nature of the traffic and weather is something that many organizations feel it is extremely valuable to be able to provide, let's say, to a fleet of a commercial vehicle that, hey, in the afternoon, during certain periods of times, we may be experiencing the half-an-hour delay on some major corridors, so that they could arrange their trip in advance or to be able to inform their customers.

That has a significant economic value. And we believe that ultimately, we are positioned to tap on that value and be the beneficiary of that. So, in summary, we are just expanding and adding in-depth revenue stream in various fronts, in – essentially expanding our workforce in the market and business development and sales, as well as bringing the professional that could help us really expand on the technological aspects of this.

Okay. Good to hear. And I understand that the systems business can be subject to scheduling of various contracts and so forth. And it sounds like that was an element of your quarter. Just wondering how we should think about that going forward, when do you expect revenues to start growing again based on kind of the scheduling you're looking at now?

We would expect the revenues to continue grow in the upcoming quarters. And I just go back to that scheduling and I make a reference to a specific contract. We had this large contract that we announced – and I alluded to earlier in my remarks – with Serco that we thought would kickoff sometime in the second quarter. It moved to the right. We have now kicked it off a couple of weeks ago. We are well into the context of that contract. And what I see is a significant expansion in the RFPs. And these are larger RFPs actually. In fact, the other day, I was looking at about 20 opportunities over $1 million.

So, these gradually should kick in. We still have about a year worth of highway bill in this current state. So, I would envision the upcoming quarters be – it would resume growth. We have added, by the way, or in the process of adding two or three senior executives in sales and marketing to really be able to capture those RFPs at a better rate. So, I feel pretty positive as far as the overall outlook in Transportation Systems. And, so far, in the year, the two quarters combined, we are aligned with our internal top line and bottom line performance for that group.

Okay. And the RFPs that you're seeing, are a lot of those derivative from the federal highway bill or...?

A good portions of them are, for sure, whether directly from federal highway or secondarily through the state and local agencies. Those funds are being distributed and that is happening. By the way, I may mention that some of the growth attributed to the Roadway Sensors is also from the highway bill. You'll realize that that bill is really for the overall, not only design but also construction and product as well. So, the bill is definitely kicking in. We are seeing it in various ways. And I believe that we are the direct beneficiary of the results of that.

Okay. And then I know, obviously, there's some seasonal elements to Q3, but how should we think about gross margin going forward based on your anticipated mix of business? Do you think it's going to stay around this level or do you think it will expand or bounce around a little bit? How should we think about that?

At the moment, when I look at the third quarter, I would be surprised if we would experience any erosion in the margins. We haven't really done a detailed calculation to determine whether or not at this time we would experience any expansions. So, that's what I could share with you on that. But I'm pretty confident that the Roadway Sensors year-over-year should actually put out some expansion on the revenue portion.

Okay. Great to hear. Thanks very much. I'll let someone else jump in.

Thank you for your questions, Mr. Van Sinderen.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of [ph] William Meyers with Miller Asset Management (32:04). Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. I'd like to ask a little bit more about the Vantage Vector product. And the first thing is, is this a radio plus video product? Is it the only radar, I should say, radar plus video product that's on the American market at this point or is there competition for that kind of thing?

Thank you, Mr. Meyer, for the question. When we first introduced this product about a year ago, at that time, it was the first hybrid detection in our industry in the traffic management that combine the top line proven video detection with that of a radar for the distance.

Since then, we have seen, at least, one other product to the market, although their strategy is a little bit different, and I'll expand on it briefly. To my knowledge, their strategy of the video and radar are both at the top line. The way we do ours is – you have I'm sure many times driven through an intersection. And the light is green and you're driving and all of a sudden the light turns yellow. And you wonder, should I stay or should I go. And the traffic engineers refer to that as the dilemma zone. When a driver is in the dilemma, he or she should stop or should go through.

This particular product focuses on that safety connotation that we start tracking the vehicle at about 600, 700 feet from the intersection as they enter into that dilemma zone. And then as they get a little bit closer, let's say, to about 400 or 300 feet, then we track via video. That combination is really the important attribute of this specific product that traffic engineers really love because of the safety connotation of this, as you appreciate. And so, it has got quite a bit of traction and we are selling that quite a bit. I hope that answers the question.

Yeah. Just a little bit further. Do you have any idea how large the size of the market for the Vantage Vector could be going forward?

It would be hard to get that, Mr. Meyers, to a very specific magnitude. But I would just perhaps provide a range that maybe in the next calendar year that range would be several million dollars of that product specifically. And it may even be, let's say, up to $5 million, $6 million, $7 million worth of traction. That is just an estimate at this point.

Okay. I understand and I appreciate your thoughts. Thank you so much.

And thank you for the question, sir.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Chris Biles with CJB Capital Management. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Abbas, you may have touched on this earlier, but have you given personnel numbers within sales and marketing in the iPerform division as far as the head count or personnel?

I might have not, but I could just provide you perhaps with a little bit more detail. At the moment, we have about six, seven individuals in the sales and marketing that either do that on full-time basis or on part-time basis, while they are working on specific activities. This particular quarter, we actually added two personnel in that area and we plan to yet expand as we basically line up some of our products and get through the launch planning which require additional salespeople, not only in the public sector, but quite a bit also in the commercial sector.

Okay. Cash was up nicely in the quarter. Can you point or attribute that to any one or a combination of issues?

As far as the cash?

Yes.

Nothing specific. Of course, we made some profit. We have no debts. At the same time, really to accounting the credit, they did a very nice job of collection. The other key element that I should say that in the prior quarters, we were spending a little bit more funds, was the stock buyback. This last quarter, our expenditure was significantly reduced. So, that might have been also a contributor to that higher cash level.

Right. So can you touch on the buyback? I mean, it seems to me that, obviously, at lower levels, you had a little more success, but the repurchase of a whopping 21,000 shares during the quarter, what are your thoughts on that? Has the board discussed that? I know there's certainly $0.75 million or more or less remaining on the current buyback.

Yes, sir. So, we discuss that, in fact, at every board meeting. And we tend to be subscribing perhaps to an opportunistic strategy, if you will, because the stock price has gained a bit of a momentum. That's a strategy that have been directed by the board and we are executing. At the same time going forward, we would be using that cash as the opportunity presents itself on daily basis or on block basis. We intend to exercise it and continue having that buyback posture. And that posture has not been changed by the board at this time, sir.

Okay. And my remaining question is – well, actually, two, one regarding M&A. Anything on the horizon? Are there opportunities out there from – an IP or what are you seeing?

Yes. We have been looking at several organizations for a potential transaction. I cannot say at this moment there is one imminent. But we are in various stages of discussion with a handful of organizations that either are focused on providing IP that would help us or located at places that we may not have a strong presence. And we continue to carefully review that. And we would certainly brief the investors as we get closer to an opportunity that is announceable at that time.

Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Biles.

At this time, this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Mohaddes for his closing remarks.

For the second half of fiscal 2014, we plan to stay focused on developing and delivering solutions to the areas of the intelligent traffic management market that are growing faster than the overall market. While our fiscal third quarter is typically the weakest of the year, we still expect year-over-year revenue growth. As the market demand for technology-focused traffic management solutions continues to expand, we believe the strategic investments we are making will build shareholder value and highlight Iteris as the go-to-market leader in our target markets. We appreciate everyone's support and thoughtful questions. And we look forward to updating you again on our continued progress.

This concludes today's call. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us today for our presentation. You may now disconnect.