corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter 2008 Iteris


Incorporated earnings call. My name is Melanie, and I’ll be your coordinator today. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of


this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded for replay


purposes. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Miele, CFO. Please proceed.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator and welcome to the Iteris fourth quarter 2008 conference call. I’m Jim Miele,


the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris, and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the Company’s CEO.


First, I’d like to recap the financial results of our fiscal 2008 fourth quarter, and then Abbas will


provide further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments, we’ll open


the call for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the Company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon the information we currently


have available. This information will likely change overtime.


By discussing our current perceptions of the market and the future performance of the Company


and its products, we are not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual


results may differ substantially from what we discuss with you today, and no one should assume


that at a later date our comments from today will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the Company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically


the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


For the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2008, our net sales and contract revenues increased by


approximately 10%, to 17.1 million, compared to 15.5 million in the same quarter of the prior year.


The increase in net sales and contract revenues was a result of a 20.4% increase in transportation


systems revenues, which grew to 7 million, and an 18.9% increase in vehicle sensors revenues


which grew to 2.9 million. Roadway sensors net sales were flat year-over-year at 7.2 million. Abbas


will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


The Company reported operating income of 2.3 million for the current quarter compared to


operating income of 1.2 million in the same quarter of the prior year, or an increase of 90.6%.


Gross margins for the fourth quarter increased 70 basis points to 43.6% from 42.9% in the year-ago


quarter. The increase in gross margins was a result of margin improvements in both transportation


systems and vehicle sensors. The increase in transportation systems gross margins was


attributable to a favorable contract mix while the increase in vehicle sensors gross margins was


primarily the result of increased sales volumes and production efficiencies. Operating expenses


decreased by 5.6% to 5.2 million compared to 5.5 million reported in the year ago quarter. Included


in the current quarter operating expenses was a $278,000 non-cash credit related to the decrease


in value of Iteris stock held in the Company’s Non-qualified Differed Compensation Plan. The


majority of Iteris stock held in the plan is owned by Company’s former CEO and is scheduled to be


distributed early next week. Thereafter, we intend to dissolve the plan.


Net income for the fourth quarter was 7.9 million, or $0.23 per share, compared to net income of


1.6 million, or $0.05 per share, in the same quarter of the prior year. Included in current quarter net


income is a $5.7 million tax benefit. The Company analyzed its overall tax position as of March 31,
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


2008, and determined it was appropriate to increase the value of its differed tax assets to almost 9


million from 3 million in the prior year. This determination was made based on the Company’s


estimate of future taxable income and the Company’s recent history of generating taxable income.


In the future, the Company may continue to record similar adjustments to our net deferred tax


assets as the Company updates its estimates. During fiscal ‘09, 2000 -- the Company expects to


record quarterly tax expense with an effective rate of 40%.


Fiscal year-end 2008 net sales and contract revenues were 65.2 million, compared to 58.3 million


in the prior, or an increase of 11.8%. Operating income for our year ended March 31, 2008, was 7.3


million, or an 11.2% -- or 11.2% of total net sales and contract revenues compared to operating


income of 3.8 million in the prior year. While net income for the year was 12.2 million, or $0.35 per


share, compared to net income of 2.9 million or 0.09 per share in the prior year.


Turning to the balance sheet. In February, the Company retired 2.1 million in convertible


debentures for 1.8 million, reducing the total debenture obligation to 7.8 million. Funds borrowed on


the line of credit to repay these debts were repaid by the end of -- the March quarter leaving no


borrowings on the line of credit at the end of the quarter. Additionally, there are currently no


borrowings on the line. Repayments on our line have been facilitated through internally generated


cash flows. On that note, our operations provided positive cash flow of approximately 2 million for


the current quarter and were approximately 7.5 million for our year ended March 31, 2008. The


Company’s financial position continues to get stronger as we increase profitability and pay down


outstanding debts.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jim. I’m please with the results of our fourth quarter as well as the fiscal year. Iteris


continued to execute on its strategic and operational plans to deliver improved earnings and gross


margin expectation, as well as offering new products and services to market. I’m delighted Iteris


has achieved the record operating income of 7.3 million representing 91% increase year-over-year.


Execution of our strategic plan initiatives to accelerate the business, drive efficiencies, and


generate more earnings are paying off and providing tangible results thanks to the progress we


made in the business and the profits generated over the last four quarters. We have also been able


to significantly reduce our debts, which has improved our financial strength and gives us more


flexibility in our business. We currently have no borrowing against our line of credit and have retired


$2.1 million of long-term debt during the quarter.


Now, here is more detailed commentary on our performance. Revenues derived from


Transportation System services grew over 12% year-over-year. We received several significant


awards during the quarter and entered the new fiscal year with $24.6 million of backlog, which is


22% higher when compared to our backlog a year ago. This level of increase in backlog provides


us with a stability and better visibility regarding our future performance.


In the news, we hear about softness in the economy impacting much of the consumer-based


industries. However, at Iteris, we have been fortunate to date with the public works projects as by


and large continue deployments and are, in some cases, expanding, which we believe will directly


benefit us in future quarters. We have also completed our hiring for new staff that will help us to


meet the expected demand in the current fiscal year. During the last fiscal year, we have added net


26 associates to the Iteris team in the areas of engineering, planning, as well as sales and


marketing. This is a significant achievement for us as having the right people in this space is a key


enabler for revenue delivery and we are right on plan in this area.