corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 20, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Stacy and I’ll be your conference moderator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today, Mr. Jim Miele, Chief Financial


Officer. Please proceed.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Stacy. Good afternoon, and welcome to the Iteris fourth quarter 2010 conference call.


I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the


company’s President and CEO.


First, I’ll recap the financial results of our fiscal 2010 fourth quarter and then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments, we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may


make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the


company. The forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information


currently available. This information will likely change over time.


By discussing our current perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company


and its products, we’re not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results


may differ substantially from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that at a later date


our comments from today will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically


the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


For the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2010, our net sales and contract revenues decreased 8.6%


to 15 million, compared to 16.4 million in the same quarter of the prior year. The decrease was


mainly as a result of a 29% decline in Transportation Systems contract revenues, offset by a 17%


increase in Vehicle Sensors’ net sales and a 13% increase in Roadway Sensors’ net sales.


The decline in systems contract revenues was due to the acceleration and timing of certain contract


awards in the prior year period. As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue


streams, Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his


comments.


Gross margins for the fourth quarter increased to 43.2% compared to 35.3% in the prior year. The


increase in gross margins was primarily a result of sales mix more weighted towards product sales,


which produced higher gross margins, as well as better overall gross margins in our systems


consulting segment due to contract mix.


Current quarter operating expenses increased 11.8% to 5.3 million, compared to 4.7 million


reported in the year ago quarter, primarily as a result of additional sales and marketing expenses in
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 20, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our Roadway and Vehicle Sensors segments. The company reported operating income of 1.2


million for the current quarter, compared to operating income of 1.1 million in the prior year quarter.


Net income for the fourth quarter was 807,000 or $0.02 per fully diluted share, compared to net


income of 8 million or $0.23 per fully diluted share in the prior year quarter. The prior year quarter


included a $7 million tax benefit, as the result of release of all of our remaining reserves on our


deferred tax assets. No such benefit was recorded in the current quarter, because all reserves were


released from our tax assets in the prior year.


We ended the quarter with approximately 10.4 million in cash and generated 1.5 million in positive


cash flow from our operations and 6.5 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Additionally,


we have roughly 15 million in deferred tax assets, which can be used to offset future taxes payable.


We have not yet drawn upon our $12 million line of credit with our senior lender and we have


reduced our long-term debt by approximately 2 million since March 2009. We plan to focus on


aggressive cash collections and asset management in an effort to further improve our cash position


and the overall financial strength of the company.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. In general, this was a year of Iteris maintaining profitability, while investing prudently


in sales and marketing and R&D in a very challenging environment. And with that backdrop, I am


proud of our achievements. We produced another profitable quarter with sequential revenue and


operating income growth.


In addition, our sensor products experienced double-digit year-over-year growth. These results


indicate to us that the demand for our products is improving, although we continue to face tight


state and municipal budgets. With that in mind, we continued reducing cost of goods, enabling us to


improve our gross profit margin with the goal of not just maintaining, but also expanding our


profitability.


Additionally, to bolster our competitive position we have executed several strategic initiatives.


These include a strategic marketing agreement with Meritor WABCO to expand our North American


active safety sales channels, a strategic technical and marketing agreement with Siemens focused


on enhanced video detection and traffic controller interface, and the execution of 2 key European


OEM contract extensions providing Lane Departure Warning products to expand our international


presence.


We also continued to strengthen our balance sheet, expanding our cash position to over 10 million.


I would like to comment on each revenue stream and address key drivers that support our expected


growth.


Roadway Sensors net sales grew by 13% year-over-year and 16% sequentially. In addition, gross


margin expanded as a result of product mix and reduction in cost of goods.


We are happy to see the take-up rate on new products. Nearly 30% of the products we sold during


the quarter were introduced to market over the last 24 months, and we expect our products to


continue attract existing and new customers.


We are now offering our newly designed detection product called Pico, which is specifically


targeted for the international market. This product is in response to the standards and functional


requirements of that market. We believe Pico represents a great value and we are experiencing a