raw transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Iteris, Inc. Fiscal Year 2007 Second


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Cammie [ph] and it will be my pleasure to be your


operator today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-


and-session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this


conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the call over to the Chief


Financial Officer, Mr. Jim Miele. Please proceed sir.


James Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Cammie and welcome to the Iteris second quarter conference call. I am Jim Miele, the


Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I am joined today by Jack Johnson, the company’s CEO.


First I would like to recap the results of the fiscal 2007 second quarter and then Jack will provide


some further comments about our business. At the conclusion of Jack’s comments, we will open


the call for questions.


Before proceeding, I would like to remind all the participants that during the course of this call, we


may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the


company. The forward-looking statements that we discuss during the call are based upon the


information that we currently have available, this information will likely change over time. By


discussing our current perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company and its


products, we are not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results may


differ substantially from what we discuss with you today and no one should assume that at a later


date, our comments from today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the company


files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the company’s most recent Form 10-K. These


documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


Iteris, Inc. is a leading provider of traffic vision systems and vehicle sensors that enhance driver


safety and optimize the flow of traffic. Our solutions leverage proprietary, object-recognition


software and transportation engineering expertise to provide innovative solutions for the Intelligent


Transportation Systems market.


For the second quarter, Iteris reported record net sales in contract revenues of 14.5 million


compared to 12.7 million in the same quarter of the prior year or an increase of 13.8%. The


increase from the year ago period was primarily a result of a 20% increase in Roadway Sensor


revenues and a 8.5% increase in Transportation Systems consulting revenues and 8.5% increase


in Automotive Sensor revenues. Roadway Sensor revenues were a record 7 million for the quarter


compared to 5.8 million in the year ago period, while Transportation Systems consulting revenues


were 5.1 million, which is up from the 4.7 recorded in the year ago period. And finally, Automotive


Sensor revenues were 2.4 million in the current quarter compared to 2.2 million in the year ago


period.


Gross profits for all three of our business activities for the current quarter were 41.2% of net sales,


which is relatively consistent with margins reported in the previous two quarters, and down slightly


from 42.8% in the year ago period. Operating expenses for the second quarter decreased by


approximately 12.4% to 4.8 million from the 5.5 million reported in the year ago period and


decreased as a percentage of sales from 43.3% to 33.4% mainly as a result of decreased research


and development expenses.


R&D expenses decreased by 43.7%, largely as a result of higher than anticipated cost in the year


ago period, when the company’s Automotive Sensor business unit expanded significant
raw transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


development resources and qualify in the next generation Lane Departure Warning unit with


Mercedes, which continued from the first quarter of last year as well as R&D activities and


Roadway Sensors systems related to new product launches and improvements. Additionally, in the


current year, some R&D resources have been shifted to product support activity, which is reported


as a cost of goods sold rather than an R&D expense.


We reported operating income of 1.1 million for the current quarter compared to an operating loss


of 66,000 in the second quarter of the previous fiscal year. Operating income for the six months


September 30th, 2006 was 1.9 million compared to a loss of 384,000 in the prior year. This marks


the third consecutive quarter that company has reported positive operating income.


We reported net income for the second quarter of 732,000 or $0.03 a share compared to a net loss


of 155,000 or 1 penny per share for the second quarter of the prior year. The income for the six


month period was a 1 million or $0.04 a share compared to a net loss of 881,000 or $0.03 a share


in the prior year. Year-to-date net income positively affected in the current fiscal year by a tax


benefit of 591,000 reported in connection with the recognition of the deferred tax assets related to


our federal and state NOL carryforwards which totaled approximately 50 million.


I would like to turn my attention now to the balance sheet to discuss recent improvements. At the


end of the second quarter, the company raised an additional 2 million in cash to the early exercise


of existing warrants granted to a shareholder in 2001. The funds were immediately used to pay


down the company’s line of credit, resulting in a balance of 577,000 at September 30th. This loan


has freed up 2 million of immediate availability underlying for working capital purposes. Subsequent


to year-end, the company entered into a new two-year $8 million credit facility with Silicon Valley


bank, which replaces the existing $5 million facility with Wells Fargo and the $2.2 million terminal


also payable to Wells. Borrowings in our new line are based on the eligible, receivables and


inventory and we will be reduced by the amount ought on the terminal which was assumed by


Silicon Valley Bank. I expect both the 2 million in cash and under new credit facility provide the


company with the necessary working capital to continue to fund our overall growth plans and


ensure the company can meet its existing financial commitments.


Now, I would like to turn the call back over to Jack, who will discuss our strategy and the quarter in


greater detail.


Jack Johnson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jim. I am very happy with the results of the second quarter. We broke the 14 million


sales levels for the first time and we did so with a lot of room to spare. Revenues were up notably in


each business units for a combined growth rate of nearly 14% over a year ago quarter, and


operating income grew markedly from a small loss a year ago to $1.1 million this quarter. So, we


now have three successive quarters of strong revenue growth coupled with four successive


quarters of increased operating income.


At the six month point in the year, we are well on our way to meeting or exceeding the guidance we


set for the year of 11 to 14% growth and substantial profitability. And, as Jim talked about a few


minutes ago, we have also taken some important steps to strengthen our balance sheet and


increase our borrowing capacity. So, in summary it was a very solid quarter. Sales were up, profits


were up, we have got more capital for growth and we are making progress on all fronts.


In automotive sensors this quarter, overall revenues were up 8.5 year-over-year and product


revenues were up 15%. This was driven by 176% increase in North American sales, which is up to


$1 million mark for the first time and were 70% of all of our product sales.