corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Great day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2008 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Katina [ph] and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for


todays call Mr. James Miele, Chief Financial Officer, please proceed.


James Miele, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Katina and welcome to the Iteris first quarter 2008 conference call. I’m Jim Miele the


Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the Company’s CEO.


First I’d like to recap the financial results for the fiscal 2008 first quarter and then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments we’ll open the call


for questions. Before proceeding I’d like to remind all the participants that during the course of this


call we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of


the company. The forward-looking statements that we discuss during the call are based upon the


information we currently have available. This information will likely change over time.


By discussing our current perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company


and its products we’re not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results


may differ substantially from what we discuss with you today. And no one should assume that at a


later date our comments from today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the


company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the company’s most recent Form 10-K


and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


For the first quarter ended June 2007, Iteris reported net sales and contract revenues of 15.8


million, compared to 13.8 million in the same quarter of the prior year or an increase of 14%. Net


sales and contract revenues were up in all three of our segments. Our Roadway Sensor segment


grew 10.9% to 7.2 million compared to 6.5 million in the prior year period mainly as a result of the


continued adoption of our Vantage Video Detection products and expanded sales and marketing


efforts throughout North America.


Our Transportation Systems Consulting segment grew 5.7% to 5.5 million from 5.2 million when


compared to the prior period. While our automotive sensor segment greatly contributed to our net


sales and contract net sales and contract revenue growth for the quarter by positing net sales


growth of 44.9% to 3.0 million, compared to 2.1 million in the prior year period.


This is a result of a 93.1% increase in Lane Departure Warning unit sales from Q1 of the prior year,


fueled by expanding sales through our European OEMs, our new Japanese OEM FUSO and the


North American heavy truck market. Gross profit for the first quarter increased to 45% from 41.4%


in the year ago period. While operating expenses in the quarter increased by approximately 11% to


5.5 million from the 5 million in – reported in the year ago period, but decreased as a percentage of


net sales and contract revenues to 35% from 36%.


The increase in gross profits is primarily result of an increase in gross profit from both Roadway


and Automative sensors. In Roadway sensors this was mainly due to production efficiencies and


the shift of engineering resources for manufacturing and support products to R&D activities.


Additionally Roadway sensors margins are positively affected by our sales mix in terms of both


geography and product mix. The increase in Automative sensor margin was primarily a result of


higher sales volumes, which covered a greater amount of our fixed manufacturing overhead cost.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Furthermore our customer base has expanded and overall unit volumes have increased which as


reduced the gross margin impact of contractual pricing to our largest European customer. I feel


good about our margin performance for the quarter, however I’d like to reiterate that we still expect


margins to be in line or slightly better than the FY 2008 margin guidance we provided on our last


call.


The company reported operating income of 1.6 million for the current quarter, compared to


operating income of 745,000 in the first quarter of the pervious fiscal year. This is an increase of


111.3% from the prior year period. Net income for the first quarter was 1.1 million or $0.03 per


share compared to net income of 279,000 or one penny per share for the first quarter of the prior


year.


From a balance sheet perspective our current assets continue to expand and our current ratio


remains solid at 1.5 to 1. Total inventory decreased by approximately 500,000 from last quarter


mainly as a result of decreases in both Roadway sensors and Automotive Sensors inventory. We


continue to focus on inventory reduction opportunities to the extent possible. At March 31st, 2007 –


excuse me – at June 30th, 2007 we had 4.4 million borrowed against our 8 million line of credit with


2.4 million available. Availability is of course reduced by both borrowings on the line of credit and


our term note with Silicon Valley Bank.


We owed 1.3 million on the term note at June 30th and expect it will be paid in full by May 2008. On


another note we made our final payment to our current landlord, only 1.2 million note payable


inherited from our 2005 merger with our former parent. Because of our growth in operating profits


over the last seven quarters we’ve been able to pay off this note and make timely payments on our


bank term note. As we continue to grow and make solid profits we expect the term note to be paid


off so that funds can be directed toward reducing our line of credit, thereby strengthening the


company’s overall financial position. Now I’d like to turn the call over Abbas who will further discuss


the core and our strategy in greater detail. Abbas.


Abbas Mohaddes, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Jim. First of all I am pleased with the results of our first quarter. We had growth in each of


our revenue streams. I’m particularly pleased with our continued and strong earnings momentum


and impressive growth margin expansion. Equally I’m delighted to announce that for the first time in


Iteris’ history, our automotive sensor business has now crossed into profitability. Our success in this


quarter was made possible in each revenue stream for various reasons. Roadway sensors which


supplies video detection systems should stay on local jurisdiction enjoy the good quarter expanding


the gross margin by 500 basis points due to production efficiency and product mix.


We believe the adoption of video detection will continue to be a strong through the remainder of the


year and beyond. And Iteris should be a primary beneficiary of this trend. We are strengthening our


workforce in roadway sensors by adding key executives in business development and sales areas.


Transit station systems, which provides a specialized consulting services, as this is primarily the


same client base as the roadway system – roadway sensors business. Also had a solid quarter. We


signed 6.7 million of new contracts. Our total backlog grew to $20.8 million, which is 25% increase


year over year.


Backlog is – one is not the key metric for measuring the performance of the business like


transportation systems. And the 25% uplift positions us nicely for continued growth in our current


fiscal year and beyond. I’m also happy to say that we’re achieving our internal hiring plans for new


consultants that will allow us to meet the demand created by our expanding backlog. I mentioned


before our automotive sensors also performed very well with a 45% revenue increase year over


year and 23% increase over just the last quarter. As I indicated earlier, automotive sensors