corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 21, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2009 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Stacy and I will be your conference moderator


for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-


and-answer session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the presentation over to


your host for today’s call, Mr. Jim Miele, CFO. Please proceed.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator. And welcome to the Iteris second quarter 2009 conference call. I’m Jim Miele,


the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris, and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the company’s CEO.


First, I’d like to recap the financial results of our fiscal 2009 second quarter and then Abbas will


provide further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments, we will


open the call for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon the information we currently


have available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current perceptions


of the market and the future performance of the company and its products, we are not undertaking


an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual results may differ substantially than what we


discuss with you today. And no one should assume that at a later date our comments from today


will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically


the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


For the second quarter ended September 30th, 2008, our net sales and contract revenues


increased approximately by 12% to 19.1 million compared to 17 million in the same quarter of the


prior year. The increase in net sales and contract revenues was mainly a result of a 29.2% increase


in Transportation Systems contract revenues to $8 million compared to 6.2 in the prior-year quarter.


Also in the current year quarter, Vehicle Sensors net sales increased by 8.9% to 3.5 million, while


Roadway Sensors net sales were flat at 7.6 million. Abbas will provide more detail regarding net


sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the second quarter declined slightly to 41.3% from 42.8% in the year-ago


quarter. The decrease in gross margins was primarily a result of product mix, which was driven by,


one, an increase in contract revenues as a percentage of our total revenues, noting that contract


revenue gross margins are lower than our product gross margins; and two, the overall product and


sales mix in Roadway and Vehicle Sensors in terms of both customers and geography. Currently, I


expect this mix to remain relatively the same for the remainder of the fiscal year.


The company reported operating income of 2.1 million for the current quarter compared to


operating income of 2.3 million in the prior-year quarter. The company continued to invest in sales


and marketing and R&D activities and expenditures in both areas increased compared to the prior-


year period. Both cost areas, however, were down sequentially from our last fiscal quarter. As a


result, current quarter operating expenses increased by 17% to 5.8 million compared to 5 million


reported in the year-ago quarter, but were down sequentially from 6.4 million reported in our first


fiscal quarter.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 21, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net income for the second quarter was 1.1 million, or $0.03 per share, compared to net income of


2.2 million, or $0.06 per share, in the year-ago quarter. In the prior-year quarter, our net income


was positively affected by tax benefits generated through the release of valuation allowance against


certain of our deferred tax assets. This resulted in a $214,000 net tax benefit booked in Q2 of last


year. There was no such benefit in the current quarter and we expect to experience an effective tax


rate in the low 40% range going forward. With that said, there are approximately 6 to 8 million of


unrealized deferred tax assets in addition to the 9.3 million that are currently recorded on the


company’s September 30, 2008 balance sheet.


We analyze our tax positions quarterly and should this analysis result in a change in future


estimated taxable income, the valuation allowance recorded against the remaining unrealized


deferred tax assets will be evaluated, and if released in part or in whole are expected to reduce the


company’s effective tax rate to something less than 40%.


The company’s balance sheet and financial condition greatly improved last week when the


company entered into a new $19.5 million credit facility with California Bank and Trust. This facility


will entirely replace the company’s $10 million line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank, which expired


on October 15. The new facility provides the company with a two-year, $12 million revolving line of


credit to be used for working capital and growth needs and a $7.5 million term note to be used to


retire all outstanding convertible debentures due in May 2009.


As of September 30th, 2008, the company had no borrowings on its line of credit and entered the


new facility on October 16th with no amounts borrowed and in excess of 4 million in cash. The


company has significantly improved its access to working capital. It has the ability to repay its


debenture obligations in full without a material disruption to our overall financial condition.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. I am very pleased with the results of our second quarter. Iteris continued to execute


on its strategic and operational plans to deliver record sales of 19.1 million, while achieving 2.1


million in operating income. We continued to offer new products and services to the market and I’m


delighted Iteris has achieved the record backlog of 35.7 million in our Transportation System


segment, representing a year-over-year increase of 37%, showing a solid backlog in this economic


environment and an excellent leading indicator of future growth.


Our sales and marketing as well as R&D has slightly decreased from Q1 as planned, and we


achieved an 11% operating margin. The sales and marketing efforts have allowed us to further


penetrate existing markets and expand the backlog while tapping into new geographical region.


The R&D effort to continue bring the new products to market is paying off as well. Our VersiCam


product, which was introduced during our first fiscal quarter, is being well received by the market. In


August, we announced yet another product to market called EdgeConnect, which is a new remote


communication module providing both local and remote management of data and video over


Ethernet, enabling system operators and traffic engineers to manage their Vantage video detection


system more effectively by allowing the user to view real-time video.


We expect to release several new and innovative products to market over the next few quarters


and expect to continue achieving favorable operating income going forward. We have also made


progress in partnering with other companies. In August, we forged a partnership with Delphi to


distribute key active safety products into our channels and to integrate Delphi’s radar-based


technology into our product portfolio for heavy truck customers.