Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Todd Kehrli — President, MKR Group, Inc.
Joe Bergera — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Iteris, Inc.
Andrew C. Schmidt — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Iteris, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Michael Latimore — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone and welcome to the Iteris 2017 Fiscal Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Todd Kehrli of the MKR Group. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Iteris' financial results for its 2017 fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2016. Joining us today are Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Joe Bergera and the company's CFO, Mr. Andy Schmidt. Following their remarks, we'll open the call for your questions.

Before we continue, we'd like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company, which statements are based on current information, are subject to change and are not guarantees of future performance. Iteris is not undertaking an obligation to provide updates to these forward-looking statements in the future.

Actual results may differ substantially from what is discussed today and no one should assume that at a later date, the company's comments from today will still be valid. Iteris refers you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the company's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any of the forward-looking statements.

I'd like to remind everyone that a webcast replay of today's call will be available after 7:30 PM Eastern Standard Time today, November 9, through November 23, 2016 via the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.iteris.com.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Joe Bergera. Please go ahead.

Great. Thank you, Todd, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. As you saw at the close of market, we issued our press release announcing the financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2016. In Q2, Iteris reported $24.1 million in total revenue. This constitutes 17% year-over-year growth and represents a new quarterly record for the company. During the quarter we saw particularly strong acceleration in both our Transportation Systems and our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segments.

Our Transportation Systems segment recognized $12.3 million in revenue versus $8.5 million in the prior year quarter, representing 46% year-over-year growth. In addition, this segment continue to win significant new business, securing approximately $12.9 million in new orders and exiting the quarter with another quarterly increase in our 12-month backlog.

We saw a particularly strong demand in Southern California. Orange County awarded Iteris a $2.6 million Integrated Corridor Management project. This project comes on the heels of the $2.1 million Orange County Traffic Synchronization project announced in July. We also secured large new contracts with the City of Anaheim and the County of Los Angeles.

On a composite basis, the new backlog continue to represent an overall increase in average project size and a healthy mix of task-based project work, software-related services and business process outsourcing. This segment's focus on project mix over the past 12 months has produced significant segment-level operating income expansion. The higher portion of software-related consulting services and business process outsourcing backlog, as well as the larger average project size continues to improve revenue predictability and other internal efficiencies.

In Q2, this segment's operating income was approximately $2.5 million or 21% of revenue versus $1.2 million or 14% of revenue a year ago. The 650 basis point improvement in the segment's operating income margin demonstrates our approach is creating significant operating leverage.

In Q2, the Roadway Sensors segment recorded $10.9 million in sales. This represents a 6% year-over-year decline in revenue. The decline in year-over-year revenue was due to the timing of new product shipments that pushed into October, delaying revenue recognition.

Notwithstanding the approximate four-week shipment delay, this segment continued to execute well and demand met expectations. In fact, we've been very pleased with the response to both our new pedestrian measurement technology launched in August, and our new dual core processor released in October.

PedTrax is a first of its kind innovation that applies computer vision technology to measure the count, the direction and the speed of pedestrians in crosswalks and also to provide insight on levels of streetlight. Like PedTrax, our new dual core processor is state-of-the-art and provides the technical underpinning for a variety of planned future product innovations.

During the period, this segment's ending backlog increased 18%, ahead of prior year. California, the Southeast, and the Northeast produced the strongest results. We benefited from a favorable product mix, and as a result segment operating income dollars increased 8%, as segment operating income margins expanded 300 basis points.

In Q2, our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segment recognized over $800,000 in revenue. This represents a 51% year-over-year increase in revenue, but an 18% sequential decrease. The sequential decrease was expected and due entirely to our ClearPath Weather product, which experienced typical seasonality.

Our digital agriculture platform ClearAg realized both year-over-year and sequential growth. You may remember that we launched ClearAg just over a year ago. And as you'd expect, we've been very focused on customer renewals and we are pleased to report a 100% customer renewal rate for the first half of FY 2017. The product line's revenue growth was a function of both the strong renewal rate and several noteworthy new deals.

For example, in July, we announced that Syngenta selected ClearAg Mobile to assist its biologics research teams worldwide. Subsequently, we secured additional business with Syngenta, further demonstrating the effectiveness of our account management model. In September, Proagrica, part of Reed Business Information committed to a global subscription deal that enables Proagrica to integrate ClearAg Weather, phytoecology and soil data into the Proagrica data analytics platform. With the addition of Proagrica agreement, we will have over 330 million wholesale acres under management across 16 different countries. We remain very enthusiastic about the opportunity in front of our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segment. We continue to see strong pipeline growth and improved opportunity conversion for both ClearAg and ClearPath Weather. In H1, bookings reached a record, helping to drive a 38% increase from the beginning of our fiscal year in our annualized revenue run rate for this segment. Our annual run rate is now $4.7 million.

In addition to solid commercial performance, the team continued to make significant progress against our product roadmap. In July, we launched ClearAg WeatherPlot which is a precision weather and soil analytics mobile application for seed and crop protection companies. In August, we announced availability of new harvest timing and storage analytics capabilities for ClearAg Mobile and only three weeks ago we announced the addition of crop growth models for two economically important crops, sunflower and sorghum. We have made significant progress with this segment in the first half of fiscal 2017.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Andy to walk through our financial results.

Thank you, Joe, and good afternoon, everyone. As Joe's introduction showcases, we had a great quarter. But more than that, this has truly been a breakout year for Iteris. While the company has spent the last several years investing and building our digital agriculture business, we've also created a great future for our transportation businesses. We're in the path of yet another year of record revenue results, record revenue results for all of our business units and we have moved the company back to EBITDA positive performance, the first time in two years.

In addition, we're reporting positive cash flow from operations and have used only $316,000 in cash overall in the first half of fiscal 2017, driven by minor CapEx requirements. We continue to make many changes to our business to create better visibility and to streamline operations. For example, this year, we realigned our reporting segments to provide better visibility into our Ag and Weather Analytics business. We will continue to make appropriate structural changes as we move forward.

Another interesting indicator of our transition is our cover of our required disclosure of our past reporting of non-GAAP results, results that adjust for atypical expenses such as our CEO transition, audit fee overruns of the past and financial consulting fees to support previous audits. These pro forma adjustments only apply to our fiscal 2016 results, not our current fiscal 2017 results. We have moved past this transitional aspect of our business.

Specifically, in terms of our comparative non-GAAP results, we previously reported $63,000 for executive management severance as a non-GAAP adjustment, atypical expense in Q2 of fiscal 2016. There were no such costs in Q2 of fiscal 2017. As such our GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted net loss for Q2 fiscal 2017 was approximately $40,000 or $0.00 per share, as compared to a GAAP net loss of $395,000 or $0.01 per share and a non-GAAP net loss of $356,000 or $0.01 per share for the previous year period.

From a year-to-date perspective, we had no non-GAAP adjustments related to atypical expenses to report for fiscal 2017 as compared to the following six month totals for the period ending September 30 fiscal 2016. $150,000 related to audit fee overruns, $161,000 for financial consulting services and $149,000 for executive management severance costs.

Accordingly, our GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted net loss for our six-month ending September 30 fiscal 2017 was approximately $79,000 or $0.00 per share as compared to a GAAP net loss of $587,000 or $0.02 per share and a non-GAAP net loss of $302,000 or $0.01 per share the same period last year.

Today's earnings release and related current report on Form 8-K describe how we calculate these non-GAAP financial measures and provide a detailed explanation of our atypical expenses as well as a reconciliation between our non-GAAP financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP measures.

Okay, looking more closely at our Q2 results. Joe has provided some great color commentary regarding our record Q2 revenue performance. We are certainly pleased with our revenue performance of $24.1 million. That said, we had equally impressive gross margin performance, which is a testament to the quality of our revenues. Q2 2017 gross margins for Iteris were 39.3% as compared to 38.3% for the previous year period.

By business, we saw gross margins of 47% for Sensors, 32.2% for Systems and 43.6% for Ag and Weather Analytics business.

Our strong gross margins led the way to solid operating margin results for our Transportation business [ph] views (13:34) of $2.65 million for Sensors and $2.55 million for Systems. Our Ag and Weather business reported an operating loss of $2.1 million similar with the same period last year, which was as expected due to the slow buildup of revenue recognition aspect of being in a SaaS revenue model.

In terms of our corporate expenses which include corporate IT, HR, accounting and executive expenses, we saw expenses of $3.2 million for Q2 of 2017, which is up approximately $171,000 sequentially from our first quarter. This is due largely to legal fees associated with our extended proxy process which is currently coming to a conclusion.

In essence, we've completed our buildout of our shared services forward capabilities required to support the significant revenue growth of the business. Year-over-year, operating expenses have increased $1.2 million. This is primarily head count-related to support three growing businesses, as well as building our sales force and sales support of our digital ag business.

All said, we feel that we are at the leverage point of our operating expense element of our business. We do not foresee a need to invest additionally in this area over the balance of the year. Year-to-date performance shows Iteris record revenues of $48 million as compared to $38.9 million in the same period last year, gross margins of 39.3% as compared to 39.9%, and total operating expenses of $19.1 million as compared to $16.5 million in the prior year period.

Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2017 was $15.7 million as compared to $16 million at March 31, 2016. Cash produced by operations for our six-month ending September 30 was approximately $279,000. Capital expenditures, capitalization uses approximated $774,000 and cash proceeds or uses from stock options and [ph] issues (15:37) provided approximately $179,000.

Total company backlog at the end of fiscal Q2 2017 was $65.8 million compared to $63.3 million at the end of fiscal 2016. Backlog at September 30, 2016 was comprised of $52.1 million from Transportation Systems, $7.3 million from Roadway Sensors, and $6.4 million from Agriculture and Weather Analytics. In terms of housekeeping, we expect to file our 10-Q within the next week.

And this concludes my prepared remarks and the financials. I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.

Great. Thank you, Andy. So, Iteris continues to capitalize on transformational trends in both transportation and agriculture. Indeed the team is advancing several innovation initiatives for our transportation segments, while also developing a highly meaningful high-margin subscription model in the agricultural market. We expect the progress we made over the past 12 months to provide a strong platform for growth through FY 2017. As mentioned last quarter, our Transportation Systems business is experiencing an increasing demand for programs related to smart cities, taxable traveler information, data analytics and enhanced safety and mobility.

We continue to see an increase in the number of RFPs in each of these areas, an increased demand in general activity, for example conferences, client questions and press coverage in these areas, and an increase in the amount of funding against these areas from federal and local sources. We expect this segment to benefit from this shift in transportation infrastructure spending through the end of FY 2017. Given the strength of our backlog and the favorable impact of project mix on this segment's operating margins, we will remain highly strategic about the new business we pursue.

We'll continue to focus on opportunities that, one, enhance our franchise as the leading provider of applied informatics for the transportation infrastructure market; two, enable us to leverage existing platforms and other toolsets; and three, represent sizeable multi-year programs with a meaningful level of recurring revenue.

In Q3, we will continue to pursue a number of strategic opportunities. Therefore, the segment's business development investment should remain similar to our Q2 investment level. As we enter the second half of FY 2017, the Roadway Sensors segment is executing against our growth strategy per plan. We continue to develop select geographic markets focusing on select territories in North America and Latin America, where we are currently underpenetrated. We will continue to enhance our data collection capability, which is already a strong point of product differentiation. And we will continue to develop new market categories that Iteris does not address today.

We remain on schedule to introduce several new products and major features before fiscal year-end. For example, we intend to introduce a new cloud service for data aggregation and analysis. We will extend our lineup of sensors with expanded video and radar capabilities, and we will add features to our industry-leading web and mobile application for intersection detection. While we recognize it will take a couple of quarters to develop and convert our new product sales pipeline, we remain confident about the increased growth opportunities these new products present. With the availability of these new products, we expect adoption to drive this segment's rate of revenue growth for the second half of fiscal 2017 above the historical average market growth rate of about 7%.

Now, let's discuss our Agriculture and Weather Analytics business. [audio gap] (20:00-20:23) vary among the sector's constituent groups. As we stated before, ClearAg addresses three different constituencies or end markets. First, crop science companies; second, all Ag providers; and third, growers and agronomists.

We define crop science companies to include crop protection, crop nutrition, and genetics and biologics companies. The top 100 crop science entities are large multinational enterprises, most of which report more than $1 billion in annual revenue. Given the various profound market dynamics, digital agriculture is now a competitive necessity for crop science companies. It drives supply chain optimization, accelerates new product development and product registration cycles, and enhances sales and marketing effectiveness.

We believe ClearAg is the leading digital agriculture platform for crop science. And we're experiencing an increase in our penetration rate within strategic accounts.

At the end of FY 2016, we averaged just over one deployment per crop science customer. Whereas at the end of this fiscal year, we expect to average between three and five deployments in each of our five largest crop science customers. As a frame of reference, one deployment at a large crop science account involves dozens, if not hundreds of users. Our established leadership position in the crop science market continues to create a virtuous cycle for Iteris. For example, ClearAg's visibility in this end market and its strong customer [ph] reference ability (22:06) continues to produce an increase in inbound leads. At this time, we believe ClearAg is in consideration for every competitive digital ag procurement taking place in the seed and crop protection market, which is the largest portion of the crop science segment.

While market dynamics are favorable in crop sciences, we do see softening demand from row crop growers and from allied providers who are vulnerable to grower cycles. The current environment could be problematic for some ag tech startups that are solely focused on the U.S. row crop market. But we believe ClearAg has several paths to navigate the cycle. In fact, we believe the current environment represents a window of opportunity for Iteris. Given the extensibility and the global reach of the ClearAg platform, we'll continue to concentrate on the crop science segment, as well as selectively pursue opportunities in the specialty crop market, which is outperforming the row crop segment.

Although we will continue to make – although we will make some adjustments to our go-to-market plan, we remain very confident about the long-term opportunity for Iteris in the agricultural market. We anticipate continued bookings growth in the second half of FY 2017 and plan to continue to develop our ClearAg business. We believe our scientific and engineering capacity is sufficient to sustain current requirements to expect to prioritize investment against sales and marketing activities.

To conclude, in Q2, Iteris realized excellent positive momentum in our Transportation Systems and Agriculture and Weather Analytics segments. Our Systems segment successfully converted its sizeable prior period backlog growth into nearly 46% revenue growth in Q2, while continuing to secure new business and further increase its backlog. Although we anticipate typical seasonality, we believe this segment's half over half growth will be similar in the second half of our fiscal year to what we realized in the first half. Our Sensors business maintained a significant market share leadership with a solid 18% increase in ending backlog. Although we did see a single-digit decline in recognized revenue due to a few weeks' delay in shipments of our new dual-core processors.

We subsequently started product shipments and we remain confident in the BU's growth opportunity. We not only expect growth from our H1 product introductions, but we also expect over time to develop a meaningful revenue stream in new adjacent product categories, such as the data analytics service I referenced earlier.

Lastly, we're very excited about the growth opportunity in digital agriculture. We expect to realize continued acceleration in ClearAg revenue, which should drive further growth in our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segment. Given our expectation of continuing acceleration in both Agriculture and Transportation, we expect to continue to realize sufficient net margin dollar growth to more fully offset our annualized agriculture investment going forward. In other words, we continue to anticipate our full year net investment level to decline relative to FY 2016.

On a consolidated basis, operating results are expected to continue to vary somewhat from quarter-to-quarter due to the timing of investments and due to typical seasonality in our Transportation segment. However, again, we expect our full year operating losses to decline as they have in H1 even as we continue to develop our digital agriculture business to its full potential.

Now we'd be delighted to respond to your questions and comments. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jeff Van Sinderen with B. Riley.

Hi, good afternoon. First let me say congratulations on your improving metrics. Maybe you can just touch a little bit more, I know you went through a lot in your prepared comments. But in terms of Ag, what do you believe is the most noteworthy in terms of the developments in the most recent quarter? And then I guess what sort of strategic milestones should we be looking for over the next few quarters in Ag?

Yeah, hi. Jeff, this is Joe. Thank you. I'll make a couple of comments and then Andy may want to chime in. So, as I mentioned, there are some major structural trends going on in the Ag sector and a number of them are beneficial to ClearAg and a number of them are kind of favorable in the crop science segment. On the other hand, there is some other trends in the short term anyway were creating some negative impacts on the row crop segment. So we are making some minor adjustments to our go-to-market plan and that has resulted in a shift in some of the capacity that we're putting against different activities. Right now, we're very focused on trying to maximize our penetration in existing accounts, while we start to focus more heavily on specialty crops.

So at this point in time for the next quarter or two, my primary focus is going to be on existing customer penetration. And in that regard, I've been seeing very, very positive trends. As I mentioned, when we ended our last fiscal year, as I know you know our fiscal year begins on April 1, we had just slightly over one deployment per major crop science customer. Because of the increase in account penetration, I now feel very confident that we will be averaging between 3 and 5 deployments per customer. That's going to create tremendous leverage for us, because we're already inside those accounts, we found that the level of effort to secure the follow-on work is substantially less than obviously to secure a new customer.

And also as a reminder, our primary focus in the crop science market is only a small set of the very largest 15 crop science companies. So to the extent that we're able to secure – further secure our position, embed ourselves with a strategic partner and five of the largest crop science companies and that will be a tremendous success. So that's what I'd recommend that you guys focus on for the next couple of quarters, and that's what I'm focused on right now.

Sure. And Jeff, this is Andy. Just echoing what Joe said, from a modeling perspective and decision perspective, as we've mentioned, we've been out now about a year. So we're seeing our first cycle of renewals. As you all know, we pursued an OEM model first versus let's say a retail model. And we can get to all these different markets use different verticals as it comes, but we chose the OEM model first, and it's really working.

We have 100% renewal, which is the whole point as far as repeatable revenue and so on. But of all of our renewals, we're upselling everyone. And Joe had mentioned in his prepared remarks that we signed Syngenta, and before we even get to the one-year mark they're already upsizing. So that's been a validation of our model, again very sticky, very strategic, and now at this point, we're at that first point where we can actually say that, well, it's working.

Okay. That's helpful. And is there anything else we should be aware of in terms of lumpiness of revenues? I mean, obviously you do have some seasonality, and I know on the Systems business, there can be sort of lumpiness of contracts. Is there anything we should be aware of there as we're thinking about second half?

Sure. This is Andy. I'll start. Again on the Ag side, as I just described, as a SaaS model, we're not lumpy. We just need probably another five or six quarters before everything that we've signed starts showing up in full strength if you will from a GAAP revenue perspective.

So we'll continue building and catching up with all these deals we've signed over the next five, six quarters. And then, in the transportation side, our Q3 always is our seasonal quarter. And again, it's primarily weather-related. And so, when you look at all the work that both our transportation businesses do, it slows down in the cold weather states just basically due to accessibility.

Right, okay. And then if we can turn to gross margin for a minute. Just wondering if there is anything we should look at there. You're starting to – you're getting some leverage points in your business, which is great to see. So I'm just wondering if there is anything we should think about for gross margin?

Yeah, sure. Again, if you take it business-by-business, I think what's really been impressive is, we've built our Systems business, obviously significant increase in revenue, the margins are holding strong. And so, we're not buying the business, we're basically taking on very smart work for that business.

In the center side, we're very strong in this period, which is a combination of our product sales associated with our distribution, anywhere from 10% to 15% of their revenue is distribution-related and we are seeing on both sides, the product and the distribution side very strong performance in terms of increased margin performance.

And then on the Ag side, as we've said before, that's going to be a business that builds into a software working model and the 70 points, maybe up to 80 points in gross margin. But right now, the GAAP revenue where the way it is, it's going to be hard to see that. Again, right now, we're in the 40s, we've been as high as $50,000, but $30,000 in the cost of goods line right now, we'll move it five points. So we need to get the GAAP revenue perhaps at the right level, let's call that again at five or six quarters and then you'll see that margin showing how it should show.

Okay, great. That's helpful. Continued success, I'll let someone else jump in. Thanks.

All right. Thank you.

We'll go next to Mike Latimore with Northland Capital Market.

Great. Yeah, great quarter there. So I guess just to be clear on the Ag side, Weather side, a lot of the new bookings in growth would come from five key customers, is that kind of the bottom line here?

Well, you know that's a starting point where approximately 20 plus – Yeah, so right now let's kind of put the ball, thumb in the air, and to say we're right around, let's say 25 customers, there are five right now that are the monsters, again the Bayers, the Syngentas, the Valeants and so on, that we continue pursuing longer sales cycle. And so you're going to end up with a bit of a portfolio look where the very, very large ones are – again as we always say they started six figures. We look to build them up into the seven figures. And then we have medium size and then perhaps some smaller ones that are very strategic that everyone upsells, everyone grows but again our high focus will be, as Joe had mentioned, on the very large strategic players because that's where we're going to get the lowest leverage.

So, Mike, just to give you some additional color, Proagrica is a sizeable transaction and it's a subscription deal where Proagrica is subscribing to ClearAg in order to embed it into their information solution they provide to the agriculture market, so that is not a crop science customer, but that's a sizeable customer.

What I was trying to say, I wasn't – I didn't mean to suggest that all of our bookings growth will come from crop science, but more of what I was saying is at this point in time given what we're seeing in the marketplace, that is where we are squarely focused. We think that those companies have the strongest sort of economic wherewithal and the competitive pressure to make investments in digital agriculture right now. And we really want to capitalize on that window of opportunity, so that's our primary focus. We will continue to pursue opportunities in other segments and that will impact our bookings, but that'll help us grow bookings, so those are the opportunities.

Yeah, that makes sense. And then in terms of just kind of where you see the Ag business, I assume you still view it as getting to about the size of the transportation business in five years? Is that still a go?

Yes, yes absolutely.

Good. And then in your backlog commentary, you said Ag was $6.4 million of the backlog I believe. Is that backlog that you recognize over the next 12 months or what timeframe is that?

Yes. That's a 12-month backlog.

Okay. Got it. And then did you say that you expect total company OpEx to roughly be the same going forward in a couple of quarters, is that what I heard or what kind of OpEx guidance did you have there?

Yes. And so, again, we are right around 3.2%, and that's up a little bit due to, as I've commented on a non-recurring item, but period to period, we will have any type of business opportunity to have a couple of hundred thousand dollar non-recurring, but 3.2% is where we're level-setting based on head count and based on normal run rate of business. So, we feel that we're in the right spot and right spot now to actually leverage those capabilities.

Got it. And then just back I guess a little bit on seasonality, you mentioned there was some seasonality on the, I think it was the ClearPath side you said, but then you also said that there is less seasonality on the Ag side. So can you just sort of help clarify that a little bit in terms of seasonality both from a revenue standpoint in the Weather segment as well as potentially booking side as well, if there is any.

Yes. So, ClearAg is our platform for digital agriculture. And we provide weather, soil and crop health information and analytics to the agro business sector. ClearPath Weather is essentially the same underlying weather platform as we're providing to the agriculture sector. But ClearPath is targeted at transportation customers. And as a result, ClearPath tends to have more seasonality or tends to have seasonality which we don't see on the ClearAg side.

Sure. And just structurally, as Joe described, our digital ag side subscription business, it's basically at the renewal rates we're experiencing and it just basically goes up and up and up. On the other – on the ClearPath Weather, it's more of a PO business, where we're seeing that business grow in a nice manner. But it's seasonal in terms of summer, our customers are going to be focused on winter weather conditions.

And so, that's seasonal in terms of it might be a specific contract that we see year in, year out, but we earn revenue if you will during the winter months because that's when it's being highly utilized. So that's where we get into seasonality. It's almost the offset of the transportation business, where we are limited in the amount of work we can do during the cold season. ClearPath Weather, we're actually increasing revenue during the cold months because that's when it's in high use.

Yeah. And then, just on the ClearAg platform, I guess, so it doesn't sound like there isn't any sort of natural seasonality just from a booking standpoint on the ClearAg side, I think?

Well, only to the extent that we – we tend to see customers that want to deploy ClearAg in order to utilize it during cropping seasons and so that tends to be in the spring and in the fall. Now to the extent that we see broad-based geographic adoption where we're in both the Northern and the Southern hemisphere on somewhat of a balanced basis, interestingly that should kind of balance things out.

But anyway, as far as the revenue recognition goes, because it's a subscription model, we don't anticipate seeing the same seasonality in terms of recognized revenue. But at least now in the short-term, now we do tend to see again bookings having some limited seasonality, again, because people want to make sure they have the product deployed in time to use it during a cropping season.

Right. Okay. Thanks a lot. Congratulations.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

With no further questions in the queue, I would like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.

All right. So, thank you, operator. We appreciate everyone's support and thoughtful questions. On the Investor Relations front, we'll be presenting at the Benchmark Investor Conference in Chicago on December 1 and the Needham Annual Growth Conference in New York from January 10 through 12. So, if you're attending these conferences, we hope to see, we'd encourage you to come see our presentation. In the meantime, we look forward to updating you again on our continued progress when we report our results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.

So, with that this concludes today's call. Thank you.

And again, this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.