corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 21, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon everyone and thank you for participating in today’s conference call to


discuss Iteris’s financial results for its Second Fiscal Quarter ended September 30, 2010. Joining


us today are Iteris’s President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes and the company’s CFO, Mr. Jim


Miele. Following their remarks we will open the call for your questions. [Operator Instructions]. I


would also like to remind everyone that a webcast replay of today’s call will be available via the


Investors section of the company’s website at www.iteris.com until November 4, 2010.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Mohaddes. Sir please proceed.


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Melanie and good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss our


recent results. As you saw at the close of the market today, we issued a press release announcing


our financial results for the second fiscal quarter of 2011. We have continued to execute upon the


plan I had broadcasted on past calls of investing in our products and marketing while maintaining


profitability and growing cash flow. While sales from our sensors products are continuing to gain


momentum, we are disappointed by the decrease in revenues reported by transportation systems


and I will discuss our plan to address this later in the call.


Both roadway and vehicle sensors continue to grow year-over-year primarily due to the expansion


of our R&D efforts and increased sales and marketing activities. We have also experienced more


orders from truck OEMs for our vehicle safety products. Earlier this week, we attended the


American Trucking Association annual meeting and exhibit and launched our Safety Direct software


product jointly with our partner Meritor WABCO. I am happy to report this product was well received


by the industry.


While the second quarter’s transportation systems revenue decreased. We expect this segment to


contribute to our growth over the coming periods. This market is showing signs of increasing


traction, as evidenced by new allocated federal and local funds for transportation projects resulting


in expanded requests for proposals. We plan to improve Transportation Systems revenue by


expanding our sales and marketing efforts, as well as the execution of new strategic initiatives.


Our balance sheet remains healthy and provides us with the stability we need to execute on our


broader strategic objectives.


Now before I comment further I would like to turn the call over to our CFO, Jim Miele who will take


us through the details of our financial results for the period. Afterwards I’ll return to discuss some


more of the highlights of the quarter and how we plan to continue to build shareholder’s value in


2011. Finally we will open the call for your questions.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Abbas and good afternoon everyone and thank you again for joining us. For the second


quarter ended September 30, 2010 our net sales and contract revenues decreased approximately


5% to 14.1 million compared to 14.9 million in the same quarter of the prior year. The overall


decrease was mainly due to a decline in transportation systems contract revenues as Abbas


discussed partially offset by a slight increase in sales of our sensor products.


As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams and different attributes


affecting our quarterly results Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract


revenues later in his comments. Gross margins for the quarter remained healthy at 44.7% primarily
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 21, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


due to a sales mix weighted more towards higher gross margin products as well as lower


manufacturing costs in our vehicle sensor segment. Second quarter operating expenses were


comparable to the year ago quarter and slightly down from the prior quarter. The decrease from the


prior quarter was mainly a result of the access of audit and other related fees recorded in the first


quarter. The company reported Q2 operating income of 953,000 and net income of 542,000 or


$0.02 per fully diluted share.


We ended the quarter with approximately 12.3 million in cash up from 10.4 million at the end of


fiscal 2010 and generated over 3 million in positive cash flow from operations for the six months


period ended September 30, 2010. Additionally we have roughly 13.9 million in remaining differed


tax assets which can be used to offset future taxes payable. We have not yet drawn on our $12


million line of credit with our senior lender and we continue to reduce our long-term debt, which now


stands at 4.4 million. This concludes my comments on the financials. Now I’d like to turn the call


back over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Jim, thank you very much. We are -- tenaciously executing several initiatives including a strategic


marketing agreement, key product developments and expanding market penetration in these


specific geographic areas. In addition we continue to review possible acquisitions of key IP and


company’s we believe can help us accelerate our growth. I would like to comment on each revenue


stream and address key drivers that support our expected growth.


In transportation systems, our most challenging segment presently, sales decreased 18% year-


over-year as it relies largely on projects funded by a state and municipalities and across the country


these entities continue to face tight budgets. We believe that demand has not gone away, traffic


continues to get worse and ultimately I believe this period of economic uncertainty and reduced


spending is creating pent-up demand and our technology remains at the forefront of the industry.


We plan to focus on expanding our leadership position through niche product and service


development so that as the spending expands, and I believe it will, we should be able to maximize


our market potential.


I should add that we believe the market is gaining traction in key niche areas such as design build,


system integration, and transit projects. We expect to directly benefit from this traction by


expanding our sales and marketing directed into these specific areas. In summary, I feel optimistic


about our revenue growth in this segment in the coming quarters. At the end of the quarter we had


$26.3 million in total backlog including $5.2 million of new signed contracts during the quarter


versus $5 million of new signed contracts in the previous quarter. Our pipeline remains as strong, in


particular, as I already mentioned, we believe larger designed build and integration as well as


transit contract leads are expanding.


Key drivers in this revenue stream are expected to include our focus on large opportunities, design


build contracts, which were typically several million dollars. We are tracking several such projects


and expect to expand the revenues in this area as a result. We anticipate progress in the


development of new niche technical markets. We are developing a specific transit signal priority


tool, which we are now marketing nationwide and expect a favorable market reaction.


In addition we are developing key software tools for arterial data collection and performance


measurement. Our initial trials with key customers have been positive and we are expanding


additional demonstration sites, and expanded investments in sales and market domestically and


internationally. We expect this investment to help us in the expansion of our offerings going


forward. We believe the overall transportation funding week will continue to increase and believe


that Iteris is strategically positioned with best in class technology to benefit. There are a variety of


transportation related funds flowing to our market including the federal highway bill expected to be