Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Abbas Mohaddes — President & CEO, Iteris, Inc.
Craig A. Christensen — Interim Chief Financial Officer, Iteris, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Kyle Krueger — Analyst, Apollo Capital Limited

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Iteris' Financial Results for its Fiscal First Quarter ended June 30, 2014.

Joining us today are Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes; and the company's Interim CFO, Mr. Craig Christensen. Following their remarks, we'll open the call for your questions.

Before we continue, we would like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company, which statements are based on current information are subject to change and are not guarantees of future performance. Iteris is not undertaking an obligation to provide updates to these forward-looking statements in the future.

Actual results may differ substantially from what is discussed today and no one should assume that at a later date, the company's comments from today will still be valid. Iteris refers you to the documents the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the company's most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, which contains and identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of these forward-looking statements.

I would like to remind everyone that a webcast replay of today's call will be available until October 30, 2014, via the Investors section of the company's website at www.iteris.com.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Iteris' President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes. Sir, please proceed.

Thank you, Shanelle and good afternoon, everyone. As you saw at the close of the market today, we issued a press release announcing the financial results of our fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2014. We previously reported an estimated Q1 range of results on August 20, 2014 and we are pleased to report that our actual results are close to the upper range of our estimates in each category.

Our first quarter results are encouraging with double-digit growth in our Roadway Sensors business. The record first quarter in Roadway Sensors was primarily due to a strong demand from key products including Vector, Velocity and SmartCycle and the increase in sales of our third-party OEM distributed products, which I will discuss in further detail over the course of this call. While our Transportation Systems segment was down this quarter, we believe there are significant opportunities to improve this business. In fact, we entered into $10.1 million of new Transportation System contracts in the first quarter alone.

Mostly importantly, these core segments continue to generate the necessary cash flow to drive our ongoing investment in iPerform. As we have stated in the past, we believe iPerform represents a great growth opportunity in both the traffic and weather information marketplace, and we continue to make a strides with new product lines and initiatives. But before I comment further, I would like to turn the call over to Craig, our Interim CFO, who will take us through the details of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Craig?

Thank you, Abbas. Good afternoon, everyone. Total revenues in the first quarter of 2015 increased 6% to $18.1 million compared to $17 million in the same quarter a year ago. This was primarily driven by a 20% increase in Roadway Sensors as well as a 15% increase in iPerform revenues, while Transportation System revenues were down 7%.

The increase in Roadway Sensors revenues was largely attributable to the success of various growth initiatives including increases in the distribution of certain OEM products for the intersection market and higher unit sales of key Roadway Sensors products. iPerform revenues were primarily driven by increases in iPeMS performance measurement sales and ClearPath Weather services, which are legacy offerings from iPerform.

The decline in Transportation Systems revenue was primarily attributed to timing delays of backlog fulfillment on certain projects as well as lower sub-consultant activity on certain Transportation Systems project. Gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased to 190 basis point to 37.6% compared to 39.5% in the same quarter a year ago.

The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to the increase in OEM product sales in the Roadway Sensors segment, which generally yield lower gross margins in the company's core products. Operating expenses in the first quarter increased to $6.9 million compared to $6.1 million in the same quarter a year ago. As previously announced, we delayed our fiscal year 2014 earnings release and 10-K filing until September 3, 2014 due to additional procedures by our auditors in connection with contract revenue testing.

As a result of these additional procedures and related delays, we incurred an approximate 420,000 increase in audit fees, which drove the majority of the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in the current period. Though we expect higher related expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 as a result of the 2014 audit, we've taken the necessary steps to strengthen internal controls and mitigate the root cause of the incremental audit work, and expect these costs to decline for future annual audits. Operating expenses in the first quarter also increased as a result of planned increases in head count, and sales and marketing expenses in Roadway Sensors and iPerform, as well as accelerated research and development expenses in iPerform.

Operating loss in the first quarter was $95,000, compared to operating income of $669,000 in the year-ago quarter. Net loss in the first quarter was $19,000 or $0.00 per share, compared to $460,000 or $0.01 per share in the same quarter a year ago. The decrease was primarily due to significant investment in iPerform, and an increase in audit fees for our fiscal year 2014 audit. Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2014 increased to $21.5 million, compared to $20.4 million in the previous quarter and we continue to carry no debt.

Total backlog at the end of the first quarter increased to $38.8 million, compared to $35.6 million in the prior quarter and $34.2 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase in backlog was primarily due to Transportation Systems entering into $10.1 million in new contracts during the quarter. Backlog was comprised of $29.9 million from Transportation Systems, $5.3 million from Roadway Sensors, and $3.6 million from iPerform.

This concludes my prepared comments on the financials. Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Abbas. Abbas?

Thank you, Craig. As I indicated in my opening remarks, we reported overall good results in our fiscal first quarter, most notably in our Roadway Sensors business segment. Although we are disappointed with the first quarter results in our Transportation Systems business, we remain enthused about our recent success in capturing new contracts in this segment. We are pleased about the recent developments that have taken place in our iPerform segment both in development and partnership milestones, and expect to achieve an accelerated customer acquisition and development milestones to be planned for fiscal 2015.

But before I speak more about our outlook, I would like to discuss our operating segments in more detail. Several of our key products in the Roadway Sensors segment continue to gain market traction including Vector, which is our first-to-market hybrid video and radar detection, as well as Velocity, the market-leading travel time data collection product, and a SmartCycle, which combines video vehicle detection and bicycle detection in one.

Finally, our OEM distribution revenue in Texas is growing, which we believe enhances our overall growth strategy in this business. This reseller agreement with Siemens includes the distribution of key traffic management and intersection equipment, such as controllers and other electronics in the controller cabinet.

Because we already have an established sales team and product support group in Texas, this distribution arrangement fits well with our video detection direct sales strategy in Texas without significant added infrastructure. We believe our investment strategy in product development and sales and marketing is working well and further believe the overall market demand for traffic management products and services should continue to improve.

Our Transportation Systems sales were down 7% during the quarter. There are several key initiatives, we are pursuing and we are focused on capturing new major contracts to expand our backlog. As we have announced recently, we have been awarded several systems contracts and our backlog had expanded in recent months, and we continue to expand existing relationships with key clients, such as the Virginia Department of Transportation and Orange County Transportation Authority. Furthermore, we are looking to expand our presence in certain markets in the U.S., where transportation business is experiencing more traction, such as Texas and Florida.

Our Performance Management segment or iPerform has carried over the momentum from last fiscal year with significant progress in the first quarter. As you may have seen in our latest series of announcements, we have won several new contracts and are currently engaged on another series of projects, which I will preview shortly. We have also completed major technical developments to our platform of products for both the public and commercial sectors.

As a reminder, the iPerform business model is transitioning from primarily a consulting business to further expand into Software-as-a-Service in the commercial market. Our current suite of products can be broken down into three primary categories. First, iPeMS is an ITS industry-leading performance measurement and traffic analytics application for both public and commercial markets.

Second, ClearPath Weather is a hyper-local road weather maintenance solution for state and local transportation agencies that provides winter road maintenance strategies, which are expected to optimize the deployment of personnel, material and equipment. And finally, our most exciting near-term development is ClearPath Ag, our big data and analytics platform for AgTech, which is the latest solution in the iPerform suit of products.

The ClearPath Ag product line provides high-resolution, field-level precision weather, soil and climate information for the agriculture market. The ClearPath Ag product line is designed to aid in better crop management, chemical application and risk mitigation to improve bottom line performance for growers and agri businesses.

ClearPath Ag targets agri businesses in the genetics and crop protection, fertilizer and crop nutrition, crop risk and retail sectors. To help you gauge the opportunity in this exciting new market, IBISWorld estimated the U.S. precision agriculture market yielded approximately $1.4 billion in 2012 and is expected to grow at a 6.9% annual rate through 2018.

Precision Ag, a special market report, suggests that growth to be at 13%. While the U.S. represents the largest market for agriculture, several other countries around the globe represents substantial ag markets as well. Beyond this, agriculture exists in almost every country and civilization around the world. And as such, opportunities are tremendous for climate and soil condition information provided by ClearPath Ag.

In our view, these statistics and market drivers, along with recent market trends, the strategic alliances and M&A transactions such as Monsanto's acquisition of The Climate Corp and Precision Planting, as well as capital inflows such as Granular funded by Google, Andreessen and Khosla collectively present a significant growth opportunity in ag technology.

Now moving on to some specific project wins and developments across all three iPerform categories. In April, we were awarded a $1.2 million contract from the Virginia Department of Transportation to utilize our iPeMS software, our largest iPeMS software license deal to-date. We also recently announced the key iPeMS contract opportunity with the I-95 Corridor Coalition, which spans the entire Eastern Seaboard from Maine to Florida. The I-95 coalition has selected Iteris in partnership with HERE, formally Nokia, to compete with a small group of other companies to provide traffic data and analytics support on a state-by-state basis.

In May 2014, we introduced our next generation ClearPath Weather solution with new expanded cloud-based support for large state agencies and corporate facilities managers, as well as support for smaller customers, including contractors and municipalities. This updated solution provides winter maintenance strategies for optimizing personnel, equipment and chemical purchases. It also provides actionable pavement information for effective maintenance response.

We continue to enhance this industry-leading solution releasing several improvements and updates including a storm playback capabilities, a storm motion display and traffic data layer integration that should allow agencies and maintenance managers to better understand the effect of traffic on weather operations.

In the quarter, we signed three contracts in our ClearPath Weather segment, including a renewal with Minnesota DOT, forecasting services with Arkansas DOT and an additional contract with Michigan DOT. As you may have seen in June, we launched our ClearPath Ag API platform, and announced the first partnership agreement for our ag technology with Agrian, a leading provider of agriculture data tracking and information systems. We have continued this momentum with several prospective customers and are in various stages of engagement that for competitive purposes, we cannot elaborate on, but we expect to announce over the coming quarters.

Just last month, we also released the ClearPath Ag Select product line, which is a set of software services that provides customers with access to the information essential to making informed cropping decisions. ClearPath Ag Select provides high-resolution map visualizations of field-specific weather data up to a one-by-one kilometer, with location-specific weather information derived from a targeted array of ag weather observation and forecasting platforms.

Over the next quarter, we expect to release our next product, ClearPath Ag Prime, a state-of-the-art software service that provides soil moisture models and climate information, as well as the first of our field-level advisory services, including planting and crop growth modeling.

Finally, in our fourth quarter, we planned to further enhance our ClearPath Ag product line with the launch of a set of premium API and mobile component services. In addition to ClearAg's technical developments and our Agrian agreement, we have signed several new partnerships, meeting our customer acquisition milestone for the quarter with better-than-expected customer demand.

Also, five of the eight leading crop protection manufacturers and three of the top five ag retailers in the U.S. have been customers of Iteris first-generation precision weather data product, WeatherPlot. We are in the process of transitioning these long-term customers to our next-generation AgTech platform, ClearPath Ag.

To provide you with a rough idea on the economics of this business, the ClearPath Ag subscription services are currently price based upon the acreage on their management, the number of users for the partner application and how much geography the customer will deploy the product in.

These subscription services should range up to enterprise class arrangements that are realizing subscription revenue from $5,000 per month to more than $100,000 per month per customer. These enhanced customer relationships should provide Iteris an immediate channel to sell subscription-based services from our ClearPath Ag Select precision weather product line to our upcoming soil and climate products, ClearPath Ag Prime and ClearPath [ph] mobile (19:53).

Now before I provide my closing remarks, we would be delighted to respond to your questions and comments. Operator?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Jeff Van Sinder (sic) [Van Sinderen] (20:24) with B. Riley.

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Abbas, let me ask you this. Systems business was still negative but you've got a nice increase in backlog. I guess I'm wondering when you think we'll see that business turn positive year-over-year. Is that something that we should expect for the September quarter? Now that that's over, I would think you'd have a pretty good idea where that fell. Maybe you can just touch on that.

Sure. Jeff, what happens is that, that backlog or new contracts that we signed typically has a particular schedule. Some of the contracts are shorter term; some of them are maybe taken over a few quarters or so. But I would expect that much of that impact is going to be third and fourth quarters of this fiscal year.

Okay. And then also, maybe you can just touch on or talk a little bit more about the sensor OEM business and just the growth that you're experiencing in the sensor segment appear to be sustainable, is it going to be driven more by OEM business going forward? And then, I guess how should we think about that in terms of your overall plan for the sensor business if you got more OEM?

Sure. So, in this last quarter that we just reported, the growth was roughly half from the U.S. legacy business and then the other half was from this OEM. And then, going forward, I would expect that they both would contribute plus we are doing sales and marketing and various initiatives internationally that I would expect that that would also contribute. So, we would like to see this as a continued growth opportunity for us. We continue developing new products, offering it to market. We are expanding our sales and marketing and the geographic presence. At the same time, the market has been good to us as well, the market itself is expanding as well.

Okay. And then, in iPerform, it seems like you're getting more traction there. You've got more partners, new products to migrate to and such. But it's still relatively small revenues and I guess, I'm wondering at this point what you see is being sort of the key things that need to happen. And, I guess, what the timeframe is for those things to happen to sort of get that business to critical mass. As we look out to next year, I mean I know you don't give guidance, but what do you think revenues in iPerform could be next year?

Sure. So just to be clear, Jeff, almost all the revenues that we generate in iPerform now is from our legacy business. In other words, it is not from this new – the results of this new R&D activities that we are doing.

Right.

So, as you know, the business model for these new activities that we are doing is subscription based, and as we get these new partners, we are beginning to generate backlog, and it will take some time before it turns into revenue in a significant way.

Further, we have launched two products so far, a key product that we need to launch scheduled for December as I indicated is the soil content, and then subsequent to that in March, the mobile APIs. These are two significant products that we expect generating a much larger magnitude in a way of subscription.

So, our current development plan is to – over the next two quarters, developing at this rate that you have seen at about $1.5 million or so of investment R&D in that business. And then, I would envision within the next few quarters, we would see gradually this revenue coming in from subscription. But it'll take us a few quarters before it becomes immaterial. And obviously, since we are now doing segment reporting, you would see that in our numbers and we would be announcing those as we make these larger material relationships for the investors to know.

So, I would say that, how does one monitor this progress? Really twofold. One, making sure that we have the product in a timely manner out. And B, simply forging relationship acquisition of the customers, which our team is really doing really a good job lining up with the pipeline at the moment.

Okay. Good.

I hope that helps.

Yeah. That helps a lot. And then finally, I guess as you look at everything comprehensively, how should we think about gross margins for the September and December quarter? I mean, do you think we're still down year-over-year just because of the business mix concentration? How should we think about it maybe sequentially? Anything you could help us with there? And also, operating expenses going forward, just anything that would help us model. Thanks.

Sure. Sure. So, let me start by the operating costs. This audit that we've been through, the cost of that cascaded into Q1, as we announced about a little bit over 400 [indiscernible] (26:32) that was in Q1. That is going to continue in Q2 and in fact, even expand it because we did much of the activities. We did our announcement in September 3, so we have quite a bit of expenses coming in from that into Q2. We also had a team of consultants helping us with a lot of the contracts. So that cost is going to get into Q2.

Now, we would expect that Q3 to reduce because we won't have really annual cost in Q3. We would be a normal quarterly cost and then, we have some added cost. For example, we just hired a director of revenue recognition, so we have some internal costs. So, we would have some cascading costs entering into Q3, but we would expect as we finish the year, the annual audit fee to drop significantly. At the same time from a margin standpoint, we really haven't closed the books yet on Q2, so I want to be cautious not providing anything specific. But generally, I don't expect really material change of margins from Q1 to Q2 and that is based on the assumption that let's say the businesses are doing somewhat similar generation of activities. And as far as the Roadway Sensors, we have OEM impact quite a bit, I think it is going to be about the same, which is a good thing in a way that we are expanding on that OEM revenue generation.

Got it.

Did it help, Jeff?

Yeah. That's helpful. Thanks very much and good luck.

You're welcome. Thank you.

Our next question will come from [ph] William Myers with Miller Asset Management (28:36).

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I'd like to – a little bit more detail on the Transportation Systems and the backlog. Was there any particular reason that seemed to be pervasive for the project delays like perhaps lack of funding or can you characterize the nature of the project delays?

Yes. Yes, [ph] Mr. Miller (29:03). Thanks for your question. So, there were three or four specific activities that took place. We have couple of projects that we had in the pipeline that actually moved to the right. In fact, one of them didn't even materialize in Q2. We are about to sign a contract on that one in a week or so, so it was really a contract delay.

The business didn't go away. It just shifted to the right. We also had about several hundred-thousand-dollars worth of sub-consultant content. We make these estimates as to any given project, how much content do they have, when do they send us the invoice so that we could recognize that. It just didn't happen; it moved to the right a little bit. So the combination of those two came about to, I think $600,000 $700,000 or so, that was 7% down year-over-year.

Okay. And when this sort of thing happens, that means that effectively, you have some under-utilization of your employees, would that be correct?

At times, one could expect that, but one of the things that we do Mr. Miller, we don't have those folks idle. We put them on primarily writing proposals, doing sales and marketing activities. So, that's sometimes why we are fortunate to expand our backlog at that time. Also at times when we see that the revenue isn't quite there, we always have on quarterly basis additional heads. This business is about generating revenue per head. So, we have slowed down that hiring and that's what we did in that Q1, we added a few more in Q2, we are now adding some more in Q3. So that's kind of how we grow, but we monitor that very closely to make sure that we are as efficient as possible. In fact, overall, the utilization during the Q1 was about 74%, 75%, which in our business is a pretty good utilization overall.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question will come from Kyle Krueger with Apollo Capital. Please proceed.

Thanks for taking my question. The first question I've got is, before you encountered this accounting issue, you were buying back stock with some regularity. Now that you're passed the accounting issue, do you intend to resume that purchase program?

We have the buyback as part of our program overall and we have resumed the buyback and so that is part of our current plan. We are running pretty much out of the cash in that program. So we'll be discussing with our board of directors the possibility of continuing that program.

Yeah.

Okay.

We did buy back 178,000 shares in Q1 for about $350,000.

Okay. Okay, good. I hadn't seen the Q yet. So, if that was in the press release, I apologize. But okay, and Abbas, what is your expectation with respect to iPerform getting to – I heard your explanation as it's related to revenue development. What's your expectation with respect to that business getting to cash or earnings breakeven? What's the timeframe associated with that?

Mr. Krueger, it is difficult to provide any guidance, if you will, at this point. All we are focused right now is execution of development, execution of getting customers lined up. But I would envision that in the next fiscal year, we got to see really expansion of these revenues. It is really difficult to anticipate a specific timeframe for breakeven. But I would say that just in general, if we were to spend at the current rate, one should expect within a year to two years that we get to that breakeven and then begin really seeing the benefits of significant revenue.

Okay. Okay. So, you're thinking that this...

But it's really...

A year to two year.

Yes, it's really honestly a speculation, I don't want this to be taken as a guidance. We have not completed our next year fiscal year plan yet, so we have to prepare that, we have to present it to the board and get their confirmation. So, this is just based on if we were spending at this rate, that's what we would anticipate.

I would add one other thing, though. So, we see tremendous amount of opportunity in this group and our vision and goal is that in a few years, this group really rival the other two businesses, really getting to that level of revenue and operation and really contribute significantly to our overall operating income.

Right. Okay. As a shareholder, I am definitely looking forward to that. Thank you. And then, my final answer – or my final question rather is you talked about a recurring monthly revenue range from [indiscernible] (35:21) Ag is being $5,000 to $100,000 a month, which is pretty significant. What were revenues in the quarter from those products if you had any?

None in this quarter. We just announced our products, so we are now just acquiring these customers. So very little, really non-material. I would envision that by the end of the third quarter, we begin seeing some of that revenue, and then it gradually would expand. As I indicated, a key to additional products that would help us to be on the upper range of those subscriptions is the soil moisture and then the mobile content. Those are two significant products that we are developing that the customers are demanding at the moment and we are lining them up for those types of products.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome. So, revenue that we generated just to be clear, the $1.4 million or so in the quarter of iPerform, those were from the legacy. They are not this new software, those were the weather information systems that we have been providing to public agencies and the iPeMS sales that we have been providing to public agencies. And thank you for your questions.

Yeah.

We'll take our next question from [ph] Chris Biles with CJB Capital (36:53). Please proceed.

Thanks for taking my questions. Craig, I just want to clarify on the stock buyback during the quarter, you said there was 178,000 shares purchased for $350,000.

That's correct.

Okay. So, roughly $2 a share just under. Abbas, I have a few questions for you. If we can go to the ClearPath Ag and the AgriData announcement that was made. Can you give us a little better context of how you're working with AgriData, how that relationship works, is it the customer or is this is a joint venture, are they funding part of this and then how are they distributing to their customers?

I presume, you're referring to the Agrian at this point? Yeah. So...

Correct. Yes.

Yeah. Yeah. So, the relationship that we have with them, they have a software and they manage significant amount of acreages. So what we're doing is that we are providing them with the API, that they would take this application programmable information and they include it in their software regarding our weather forecasting and then they sell that to their constituencies primarily crop insurance companies, it could be some of them large farming organizations, crop protection agencies, so that's kind of the relationship. And then, we get to basically enjoy a portion of that revenue. There is no joint venture or any other relationship at this time with them, so that's the current arrangement with them.

Okay. And can we expect to see similar arrangements or similar customer wins in the near-future?

Yes. We are looking, we are discussing as a matter of fact with more than half a dozen firms with those types of capabilities. We are also discussing with crop protection firms themselves that would be interested in this type of product. So, when you look at the types of customers that we have, I would put them in probably three, four different buckets. Part of them are the software providers themselves, part of them are large retailers that could help them, some of them are genetics organizations that they want to have this information to help them with the type of, let's say, fertilizers and crop protection products that they sell. So we've got three, four different specific markets that we work with and the types of arrangements could be some direct and some of them going through distribution channels since they have the direct access to the end customers.

Okay. And you referenced earlier The Climate Corp. and the roughly $1 billion acquisition that Monsanto made. Would that mean that Climate Corp. would potentially be a customer rather than a competitor?

Could be. Could be. We see them both as a potential customer and a competitor. You got to realize that some of our products very much are similar to what they provide. At the same time, that doesn't mean that for certain types of products, we could be collaborating with each other.

Okay. And then, just one last that I was trying to clarify what you said earlier regarding ClearPath and under iPerform. It sounds like Michigan, Arkansas and Minnesota are all new customers?

Yes. I think one of them is an added, they just renewed. The others are new. And this is, of course at...

Great.

...ClearPath Weather, where we provide decision support system help for them.

Yes, exactly. Thank you.

And thank you, Chris.

At this time, this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mohaddes for his closing remarks.

Thank you again, operator. While our focus in iPerform continues to be on the commercialization of traffic and weather information technologies, we believe there is a great near-term opportunity within the precision agriculture technology marketplace as I discussed. We expect our core businesses to continue funding the ongoing investment in this exciting new marketplace, along with our iPerform segment in general. Leading to growth in new target markets that we expect, we generate a great return for our shareholders in the future. We appreciate everyone's support and thoughtful questions and look forward to updating you again on our continued progress.

This concludes today's call. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us today for our presentation. You may now disconnect.