corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2010 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Wayne and I’ll be your coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn this presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Jim Miele, Chief


Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


James S. Miele, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President – Finance, Secretary


Thank you, Wayne. Good afternoon and welcome to the Iteris first quarter 2010 conference call.


I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the


Company’s President and CEO.


First, I’ll recap the financial results of the fiscal first quarter and then Abbas will provide further


commentary about our business. And at the conclusion of Abbas’s comments, we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may


make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the


company. The forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information


currently available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current


perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company and its products, we’re not


undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future.


Actual results may differ substantially from what we discuss today and no one should assume that


at a later date our comments from today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the


company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the company’s most recent Form 10-K


and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


For the first quarter ended June 30, 2009, our net sales and contract revenues decreased by


approximately 16% to 14.6 million, compared to 17.4 million in the same quarter of the prior year.


Our Transportation Systems contract revenues increased 11.4% to 7.7 million, which was offset by


a 20.9% decrease in Roadway Sensors net sales to 5.9 million and a 65.9% decrease in Vehicle


Sensors net sales to one million. As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue


streams, Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his


comments.


Gross margins for the first quarter declined to 38.1% from 44.4% in the prior year quarter, but


increased from 35.3% reported in our previous quarter. Similar to the previous quarter, the


decrease in gross margins was primarily a result of a larger percentage of total net sales and


contract revenues derived from our systems contract revenues, which provide lower gross margins


than product sales. Additionally, our first quarter contract revenues included a higher sub-


consulting content than the prior year quarter, which adversely impacts the gross margin.


The company reported operating income of 321,000 for the current quarter, compared to operating


income of 1.4 million in the prior year quarter. Current quarter operating expenses decreased by


approximately 18% to 5.3 million, compared to 6.4 million reported in the year ago period, primarily


as a result of our continued efforts to maximize efficiencies through operational excellence


initiatives that included prudent cost-cutting measures and the reduction of certain general and


administrative expenses.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net income for the first quarter was 144,000 or $0.00 per fully diluted share, compared to net


income of 666,000 or $0.02 per fully diluted share in the prior year quarter. We again ended the


quarter with slightly more than six million in cash, and managed to generate positive cash from our


operations this quarter. We plan to aggressively focus on cash collections and inventory


management in an effort to further improve our cash position and the overall financial strength of


the company. We have yet to experience abnormal delinquencies in our receivable accounts, and


our cash collection efforts to-date have been largely successful.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Jim. During the last conference call, we discussed some of the short-term challenges we


were facing, and indicated that the challenges of the fourth quarter would continue into the first.


Jim discussed the financial results and I’ll touch on some of the specific business challenges we


are experiencing, but I’m also going focus on the future. I will discuss what we are seeing thus far


in the second quarter, as well as the initiatives we have put in place during the last year, and how


they are expected to positively impact Iteris.


We were able to maintain our profitability despite the decline in revenue and our expectation is that


our profits will increase in the coming quarters. Additionally, we expanded our gross profit margin


compared sequentially to the fourth quarter through geographic and product mix, and in part higher


margins on new products.


It’s clear we have built a lean, efficient organization, and a strong competitive position, which


coupled with our improved balance sheet should be able to use this economic downturn as an


opportunity to become a stronger company. We have adjusted to the current economic dynamics


over the last 12 months as part of an operational excellence initiative, and have restructured our


product development and operations. Companywide, we have reduced our overall G&A by


approximately 18% year-over-year.


We plan to remain focused on profitable growth. It is our #1 mission as we weather what we hope


is the tail-end of very turbulent market conditions. In the last year, we have added several staff to


expand our sales and marketing efforts and presence in the marketplace and more firmly establish


Iteris as a leader in traffic management. We are now in several new markets, both domestically


and internationally.


In addition, we have invested in research and development, and plan to continue challenging our


team to increase their rate of innovation to provide us with more products, technologies and


services to sell through our global distribution network. The goal is to sell more products to our


customer base, which should provide us with increased operational leverage and enabling us to


increase the long-term earnings power of the company. Much of this effort is already showing


signs of success that we believe will be more evident in quarters to come.


The economic slowdown may affect new truck sales, but we believe that there may be a


corresponding opportunity. Current trucks on the road will continue to age and wear down and


expect to create a pent-up demand for new vehicles in not-too-distant future. Also, because we


expect, and on many of the new trucks, we believe Iteris stands to benefit when the orders will start


to flow at normalized levels.


Similarly, in spite of this stimulus, many municipalities are facing a budgetary crisis and have to put


off but the most essential expenditures. Their spending for new roadways and systems to address