corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter Iteris Incorporated


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kamisha and I will be your Operator for today. At this time


all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the


end of this conference. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call Mr. Jim Miele, Chief Financial


Officer. Please proceed, sir.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Operator and good afternoon. Welcome to the Iteris third quarter 2009 conference call.


I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the


Company’s CEO.


First, I’ll recap the financial results of our fiscal 2009 third quarter and then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the Company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information currently


available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current perceptions of the


market and the future performance of the Company and its products, we are not undertaking an


obligation to provide updates in the future.


Actual results may differ substantially from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that


at a later date our comments from today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the


Company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically the Company’s most recent Form 10-K


and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


For the third quarter ended December 31, 2008 our net sales in contract revenues increased by


approximately 7% to 16.5 million compared to 15.4 million in the same quarter of the prior year. The


increase in net sales and contract revenues was mainly a result of a 19.3% increase in


Transportations Systems contract revenues to 7.4 million compared to 6.2 million in the prior year


quarter. Also in the current quarter Vehicle Sensors net sales slightly increased to 2.8 million


compared to 2.7 million in the prior year quarter while Roadway Sensor net sales slightly decreased


to 6.3 million compared to 6.4.


Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the third quarter declined to 39.5% from 42.3% in the year ago quarter. The


decrease in gross margins was primarily a result of the overall product and sales mix in Roadway


Sensors, in terms of those customers and geography and partially due to an increase in contract


revenues as a percentage of our total revenues noting that contract revenue gross margins are


lower than product gross margins.


The Company reported operating income of 1.2 million for the current quarter compared to


operating income of 1.1 million in the prior year quarter, third quarter operating expenses


decreased by 1.9% to 5.3 million compared to 5.4 million and were down sequentially from 5.8


million reported in our second fiscal quarter.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Net income for the third quarter was 741,000 or $0.02 a share compared to net income of 954,000


or $0.03 a share, in the prior year quarter. In the prior year quarter our net income was positively


affected by tax benefits generated through the release of valuation allowance against certain of our


deferred tax assets. This resulted in a $141,000 net tax benefit booked in Q3. There was no such


benefit in the current quarter and we expect to experience an effective tax rate of approximately


40% going forward.


With that said, there are approximately 6 to 8 million of unrealized deferred tax assets in addition to


the 8.6 million currently recorded on the Company’s books. We analyze our tax positions quarterly


and should this analysis result in a change in future estimated taxable income, the valuation


allowance recorded against the remaining unrealized deferred tax assets will be evaluated and if


released in part or in whole, are expected to reduce the Company’s effective tax rate to less than


40%.


The Company’s financial position continues to get stronger each quarter. During the quarter we


entered into a $19.5 million credit facility with California Bank & Trust, which consist of a $12 million


working capital line and $7.5 million facility specifically designed for the repayment of our


convertible debentures.


We’ve already taken advantage of the 7.5 million facility and just recently retired an additional 1.5


million of the debentures for $0.98 on the dollar. To date we’ve saved approximately 500,000 in


principal as a result of this and other early retirements and currently there are only 750,000 in


debentures remaining outstanding which we expect to repay in May of this year. Additionally, as of


December 31, 2008 the Company had no borrowing on its $12 million working capital line and


approximately six million in cash.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas who will discuss the quarter further and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. I’m pleased with the results of our third quarter. Despite the current global economic


conditions, Iteris continues to execute on its strategic and operational plans to deliver growth and


profitability. We grew our revenue by 7% and operating income by 10% year-over-year. We have


offered new products and services to the market, and I’m delighted that our transportation systems


revenue grew 19% year-over-year and the backlog remains strong at $34 million, which represents


a year-over-year increase of 41%. It is also gratifying to have a strong balance sheet which is the


best it has been in an economy where there is so much bad news. A solid backlog in this economic


environment is an excellent leading indicator of sustainable future growth.


Our sales and marketing efforts have allowed us to further penetrate existing markets, while


tapping into new geographic regions. Our R&D effort to bring new products to market timely is


paying off as well. Both our VersiCam and EdgeConnect products have been well received by the


market. We expect to release several new and innovative products to market over the next few


quarters and expect to continue achieving favorable operating income going forward.


Thanks to the progress we have – we are making and the profit generated over the recent quarters,


we have significantly reduced amounts due to our convertible debentures holders. We recently


announced further retirements of $1.5 million of debentures, which brought our total remaining


amount due, $750,000, which we expect to retire in May.


We used the $7.5 million term note provided by our senior lender to retire the majority of these


debentures. And in doing so, we have reclassified the portion of the debt back to long-term, which