corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 22, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2010 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Dwayne and I’ll be your coordinator for today.


At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We’ll be facilitating a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this call. [Operator Instructions]


I’d now like to turn this presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Jim Miele, Chief Financial


Officer. Please proceed, sir.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Dwayne. Good afternoon and welcome to the Iteris second quarter 2010 conference


call. I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris. And I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes,


the Company’s President and CEO.


First, I’ll recap the financial results of our fiscal 2010 second quarter. And then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments, we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may


make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the


Company.


The forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information currently


available. This information will likely change over time. By discussing our current perceptions of the


market and the future performance of the Company and its products, we’re not undertaking an


obligation to provide updates in the future.


Actual results may differ substantially from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that


at a later day, our comments from today will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the Company files from time-to-time with the SEC, specifically


the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


For the second quarter ended September 30, 2009, our net sales and contract revenues decreased


approximately 22% to 14.9 million compared to 19.1 million in the same quarter of the prior year.


Despite the year-over-year decrease, both our Roadway and Vehicle Sensors segments’ net sales


grew sequentially from the prior quarter. Roadway Sensors net sales grew approximately 20.5% to


7.1 million while Vehicle Sensors net sales increased by approximately 30.5% to 1.4 million.


These increases were partially offset, however, by a sequential decrease in Transportation


Systems contract revenues of approximately 17% to 6.4 million. As there are different


characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams, Abbas will provide more detail regarding net


sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the second quarter increased to 44.2% from 41.3% in the prior year quarter and


increased from 37.4% reported in the preceding quarter. The increase in gross margins was


primarily a result of a larger percentage of total net sales and contract revenues derived from


product sales, which historically provide higher gross margins than contract revenues. Additionally,


our second quarter contract revenues included lower sub-consultant content than the prior year
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 22, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter and sequential quarter. This in addition to a higher concentration of internal Iteris labor


resulted in a Transportation Systems group gross margin of 39.4%. Transportation Systems gross


margins are typically in the mid 30% range.


The Company reported operating income of 1.1 million for the current quarter, compared to


operating income of 2.1 million in the prior year quarter. Current quarter operating expenses


decreased by approximately 6.2% to 5.5 million, compared to 5.8 million reported in the year ago


quarter.


This was primarily result of our continued efforts to maximize efficiencies through operational


excellence initiatives that include prudent cost cutting measures and the reduction of certain


general and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses due to a higher


degree of efficiency and refinement of our engineering skill set. Net income for the second quarter


was 543,000, or $0.02 per fully diluted share, compared to net income of 1.1 million or $0.03 per


fully diluted share, in the prior year quarter.


I’m pleased to announce, we ended the quarter with approximately 9.2 million in cash and


generated approximately 3.6 million positive cash from our operations this quarter. We’ve not yet


drawn on our $12 million line of credit with our senior lender and have reduced our long-term debt


by almost 600,000 since March ‘09. We plan to continue to focus on aggressive cash collections


and inventory management in an effort to further improve our cash position and the overall financial


strength of the Company.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. I’m pleased to say that, as we expected, we were able to expand our product sales


significantly when compared to the last quarter. Roadway Sensors net sales grew by 20%, while


the Vehicle Sensors net sales increased by 30%. In the Roadway Sensors market, we had an


increase in sales in key states such as California, and more revenues due to increase in the


stimulus package funded projects.


In the Vehicle Sensors market, we received increased orders; primarily from the food haulers fleets.


In addition, some of our European OEM orders expanded as the truck production rate began to


stabilize.


This sequential growth combined with continued management of our operating expenses and our


ability to expand our gross profit margins, enabled us to increase our operating income to 1.1


million. In addition, despite the sequential decline in Transportation Systems contract revenues due


to reduction in sub consultant content, our contract backlog increased to 31 million. We believe this


is an excellent leading indicator of future growth. We expanded our gross profit margin compared


sequentially to the first quarter as well as year-over-year through geographic and product mix, and


in part higher margins on new products and system contracts with reduced sub-consultant content.


Further, our continued implementation of operational excellence led to a decline in operating


expenses year-over-year.


I believe a leaner and more efficient organization combined with our solid balance sheet and a


strong cash position is affording us the opportunity to use this economically challenging time to


become a stronger company and is allowing us to execute our strategic plan.


Two big elements of the plan include innovative R&D and sales and marketing. First, I will further


discuss our current R&D efforts. Our new products have received a very positive market response.