corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter Iteris, Inc. Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Kiana, and I will be your operator for today’s call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Jim Miele. You may


proceed.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to the Iteris first quarter 2011 conference call.


I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the


company’s President and CEO.


First, I will recap the financial results of our fiscal 2011 first quarter and then Abbas will provide


further commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments we’ll open the call


for questions.


Before proceeding I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information currently


available. This information will likely change overtime. By discussing our current perceptions of the


market and the future performance of the company and its products, we are not undertaking an


obligation to provide updates in the future.


Actual results may differ substantially from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that


at a later date our comments from today will still be valid. We refer you to the documents that the


company files from time to time with the SEC. Specifically the company’s most recent Form 10-K


and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.


For the first quarter ended March 31, 2011, our net sales and contract revenues increased a little


more than 7% to 15.7 million compared to 14.6 million in the same quarter of the prior year. The


overall increase was mainly a result of a 31% increase in Roadway Sensors net sales and a 67%


increase in Vehicle Sensors net sales. These increases were offset by a 19% decline in


Transportation Systems contract revenues. The decline was mainly due to the acceleration in


timing of certain contracts in the prior year period which resulted in an unusually high amount of


sub-consulting revenues.


As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams, Abbas, will provide


more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his comments. Gross margins for the


first quarter increased to 44.7% compared to 38.1% in the prior year quarter. The increase in


margins was primarily a result of sales mix more weighted towards the Roadway and Vehicle


Sensors product sales which produced higher gross margins as well as lower manufacturing and


material costs.


Current quarter operating expenses increased 6.8% to 5.6 million compared to 5.3 million reported


in the year ago quarter primarily as a result of additional sales and marketing expenses in our


Roadway and Vehicle Sensor segments. The company reported operating income of 1.4 million for


the quarter compared to operating income of 321,000 in the prior year quarter. Net income for the


first quarter was 797,000 or $0.02 per fully diluted share compared to net income of 144,000 or
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


$0.00 per fully diluted share in the prior year quarter. We ended this quarter with approximately


11.7 million in cash and generated 1.9 million in positive cash from our operations.


Additionally, we have roughly 14.3 million remaining in deferred tax assets which can be used to


offset future taxes payable. We have not yet drawn our $12 million line of credit with our senior


lender and we continue to reduce our long-term debt.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. We had a good quarter and I’m particularly encouraged by the year-over-year growth


of our products, revenue and operating income. These results indicate to us that the demand for


our products should be improving and we’re beginning to see growth in key markets despite the


continued tightness of the state and municipal budgets.


Many states and local agencies are relying on various sources of funds such as the specific


infrastructure bond measures and tax hikes dedicated to transportation projects to use for overall


traffic management improvement projects.


We reduced cost of goods and deployed various other efficiency measures enabling us to improve


our gross profit margin as well as our overall profitability. Additionally, we’re tenaciously executing


several initiatives including strategic marketing agreements, key product developments, and


expanding market penetration in specific geographic areas.


Our balance sheet also remains strong with our cash position increasing to over 11 million. I would


like to comment on each revenue stream and address key drivers that support our expected


growth.


Roadway Sensors net sales grew by 31% year-over-year, in addition gross margin expanded as a


result of product mix and reduction in cost of goods. I should point out; the cost of goods reduction


is one of our key innovative and comprehensive initiatives. We look at a variety of variables from


our approach to product development and design, to our material costs and to contract


manufacturing. And we have experienced a positive impact of our efforts on all of our product costs.


Additionally, we are happy to see the positive take-up rate on our new products. Nearly 25% of the


products we sold during the quarter were introduced to market over the last two years and we


expect our product portfolio to attract existing and new customers.


Some of the most recent new product offerings have been well received by the market, specifically


Pico, VersiCam Wireless and Abacus. If you recall Pico is designed to respond to the standards


and functional requirements of international market. VersiCam Wireless helps the agencies looking


for efficient and alternative communication and in some cases temporary detection such as


construction zones. And Abacus helps both domestic and international agencies to leverage their


current surveillance camera systems and turn them into detection and incident management


systems.


We have four several agreements to expand the strength of our offering with various partners,


including Siemens, ATS and McCain. In addition for international markets, we are in partnership


discussions with key system integrators and distribution channels, which we believe will allow us to


better market access.