corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Quarter Three 2008 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Nikita, and I will be your coordinator for today.


At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Jim Miele, Chief


Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


James Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator, and welcome to the Iteris third quarter 2008 conference call. I am Jim Miele,


the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris, and I am joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the company’s


CEO.


First, I’d like to recap the results of our fiscal 2008 third quarter, and then Abbas will provide further


commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’s comments, we will open the call for


questions.


Before proceeding, I’d like to remind all participants that during the course of this call we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company. The


forward-looking statements we discussed during the call are based upon the information we


currently have available. This information will likely change overtime.


By discussing our current perceptions of the market then the future performance of the company


and its products, we are not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual


results may differ substantially from what we discuss with you today, and no one should assume


that at a later date our comments from today will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the company files from time-to-time with the SEC, specifically


the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


With the third quarter ended at December 31, 2007, our net sales and contract revenues increased


6% to 15.4 million compared to 14.5 million in the same quarter of the prior year. The increase in


net sales and contract revenues was a result of a 32.2% increase in Vehicle Sensors revenues,


which grew to 2.7 million compared to 2.1 million, primarily driven by a 50.7% increase in LDW unit


sales to the heavy truck market, as well as a 4% -- 4.6% increase in Transportation Systems


contract revenues, which grew 6.2 million to -- from 5.9 million.


Roadway Sensors net sales for the current quarter was 6.4 million compared to 6.5 million in the


prior year quarter. Abbas will provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in


his comments.


The company reported operating income of 1.1 million for the current quarter compared to


operating income of 751,000 in the same quarter of the prior year, or an increase of 50.5%.


Operating income for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2007 exceeded 5 million. This is


an increase of almost 91% from the 2.6 million we reported in the same period in the prior year.


Gross margins for the third quarter increased 310 basis points to 42.3% from 39.2% in the year ago


quarter. The increase in gross margins was primarily a result of improvements in both Roadway
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and Vehicle Sensors. The increase in Roadway Sensor gross margins was attributable to a


favorable sales mix in terms of both geography and products, while the increase in Vehicle Sensor


gross margins was again primarily a result of increased sales volumes and production efficiencies.


Operating expenses increased by 9% to 5.4 million compared to 4.9 million reported in the year ago


quarter. Included in operating expenses was a $290,000 non-cash charge related to the increase in


value of Iteris stock held in the company’s non-qualified deferred compensation plan. The majority


of Iteris stock held by the plan is owned by the company’s former CEO, and is scheduled to be


distributed to him in May 2009. Thereafter, we intend to dissolve the plan.


Net income for the third quarter was 954,000 or $0.03 per share compared to net income of


310,000 or $0.01 per share in the same quarter of the prior year. Our net income for the nine-month


period ended December 31 was 4.2 million or $0.12 per share compared to 1.3 million or $0.04 per


share for the same period in the prior year, which represents an increase of approximately 319%.


Over the past several quarters, the company’s financial position has continued to get stronger. Our


current ratio has now expanded to over 2:1, and our line of credit balance at the end of Q3 was


approximately 199,000, leading roughly 9.1 million in available credit. We believe our efforts to


focus on receivables, payables, and inventory management have been paying off.


Our operations provided positive cash flow of approximately 3.3 million for the current quarter and it


is an excess of over 5 million for the nine-month period, ended December 31, 2007. Additionally,


the company continued to benefit from Federal and State net operating loss carry-forwards, which


are expected to offset approximately 2 to 3 million in taxable income every year for the foreseeable


future.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy


in greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. Once again, I am pleased with the results of our third quarter. Iteris continued to


improve its execution, delivering improved earnings and expanded gross margins. The company is


also executing well against the strategic plan I developed with the Board when accepting the CEO


role last year. Our initiatives to accelerate the business, derive efficiencies and generate more


earnings are paying off and providing tangible results.


As Jim mentioned earlier, thanks to the progress we made in the business and the profits


generated over the last few quarters, we have also been able to significantly reduce Iteris’ level of


borrowing, which has improved our financial strength and gives us much more flexibility in our


business.


As we speak, we have our entire $10 million line of credit available to us, as we have been out of


line for a couple of weeks now.


Let me first say a few words about the quarter completed. As I said, Q3 was another good quarter.


The progress Iteris has made, especially compared to last year, was significant. I am delighted to


say that the increase in operating income and improvement in gross margin, my primary areas of


focus for this search year, were again very good. For the first time since inception of Iteris, we


delivered $5 million in operating income for the first nine months of the year.


Now here is more detailed commentary on our performance. Revenues derived from transportation


system services were the strongest this quarter and has grown 10% for the nine months ended


December 31, 2007, as compared to the prior nine months period.