Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Abbas Mohaddes — President & Chief Executive Officer, Iteris, Inc.
Jim Miele — Chief Financial Officer, Iteris, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start] information are subject to change and are not guarantees of future performance. Iteris is not undertaking an obligation to provide updates to these forward-looking statements in the future. Actual results may differ substantially from what is discussed today and no one should assume that at a later date, the company's comments from today will still be valid.

Iteris refers you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically, the company's most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, which contain and identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any of the forward-looking statements.

I would like to remind everyone that a webcast replay of today's call will be available via the Investors sections of the company's website at www.iteris.com.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Iteris's President and CEO, Mr. Abbas Mohaddes. Please proceed.

Okay. Thank you, Mikayla, and good afternoon, everyone. As you saw at the close of the market today, we issued a press release announcing financial results of our fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2012. In our third quarter, we experienced a decline in Roadway Sensors revenues primarily due to the delay of certain orders and East Coast shipping disturbances resulting from Superstorm Sandy.

While I'm disappointed with the financial results of this segment, we remain encouraged by a $3.2 million Roadway Sensors backlog and we received a strong booking in the early part of our fourth quarter. We continue to believe there is a strong demand for our core Roadway Sensors products as well as our innovative solutions like Vantage Vector and the recently announced SmartCycle and the SmartSpan.

Transportation Systems contract revenues were flat year-over-year primarily due to the timing of a key contract in the prior year period. However, this segment is well-positioned to capitalize on the recently passed Federal Highway Bill as demonstrated by our selection by the Federal Highway Administration.

As we have discussed previously, the government and commercial markets for real-time, actionable traffic and weather information analytics are expanding rapidly. We are participating in this emerging market by investing into people, products and services within our iPerform segment, and are encouraged by the $3.3 million of backlog.

And in spite of the challenging third quarter, our overall business outlook remains strong as we continued to strengthen our foundation with software-based traffic management solutions. We are committed to further expanding our sales, marketing and research and development teams, particularly within iPerform, and anticipate announcing further development in the coming quarters.

But before going into further details about quarter as well as our outlook, I would like to turn the call over to our COO, Jim Miele, who will take us through the details of our financial results for the quarter. Afterwards, I'll return to discuss some more of the highlights for the quarter and how we plan to build shareholder value as we continue to move through fiscal 2013 and beyond. Finally, we will open the call for your questions. Jim?

Okay. Thanks, Abbas, and good afternoon, each and everyone, and thank you for joining us today. For the fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2012, total revenues decreased 6% to $14 million, compared to $14.9 million in the year-ago quarter. Please note that our prior year results have been restated to reflect the divestiture of our Vehicle Sensors segment in July 2011. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to a 23% year-over-year decrease in Roadway Sensors net sales for the reasons Abbas noted. As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams and various [indiscernible] (03:57) affecting our financial results, Abbas will provide more detail regarding our net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.

Gross margin in the third quarter was 36.8% compared to 36.7% in the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was impacted in both the third quarter and year-ago quarter by a shift in mix toward Transportation Systems and iPerform contract revenues, which typically provide a lower margin than the company's product revenues. And to a lesser extent, a slight decline in Roadway Sensors gross margins as a result of lower sales volume. Even with the lower sales volume, our Roadway Sensors segment still provided a gross margin of 50%.

Operating expenses increased 9% to $5.6 million compared to $5.1 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily driven to $133,000 charge associated with the change in fair value of contingent acquisition consideration. Whereas in the year-ago quarter, we reported a $281,000 benefit. SG&A expenses, as well as R&D investments in the third quarter, were flat when compared to the prior year period.

Our net loss from continuing operations was $294,000 or $0.01 per share in the third quarter, compared to operating income from continuing ops of $618,000 or $0.02 per share in the year-ago quarter.

Net income was $1.1 million or $0.03 per diluted share in the third quarter, compared to $747,000 or $0.02 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. Net income in our third quarter of 2013 included an after-tax gain of $1.4 million related to deferred payments and earn-outs earned from the sale of our Vehicle Sensors segment in July 2011. This equated to gross proceeds of $1.8 million in cash. Earn-out payments in the Vehicle Sensors sale are meeting our expectations thus far.

Cash at December 31, 2012 was $19.7 million compared to $18.7 million at March 2012 and we continue to pay our [ph] net debt (05:51). We repurchased approximately 388,000 shares of our common stock in the third fiscal quarter of 2013, bringing the total to approximately 1.4 million shares since our repurchase program was initiated in August 2012. That program has since expired and a new $3 million share repurchase program was initiated in August 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we spent approximately $2.1 million through the stock buyback program.

Finally, total backlog at the end of the third quarter was $38 million, which included Transportation Systems backlog of $31.5 million, iPerform backlog of $3.3 million and Roadway Sensors backlog of $3.2 million. This compares to total backlog of $32.9 million in the year ago quarter and $41.2 million in the previous quarter.

This concludes my prepared remarks on the financials. And now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Abbas who will further discuss the quarter as well as our strategy as we wrap up our fiscal 2013. Abbas?

Thanks, Jim. As I [ph] alluded to (06:50) in my opening remarks, softness in our Roadway Sensors business was the primary reason for our decline in total revenues during the quarter. We experienced a delay of certain orders, especially on the East Coast due to Superstorm Sandy. The key orders were also delayed in California due to construction interruption and certain [indiscernible] (07:08). However, our outlook for this segment remains strong as our products continue to be in high demand. For example, we are experiencing [indiscernible] (07:19) Vantage Vector products and we are receiving [indiscernible] (07:21) feedback from our early adapter customer.

We believe the introduction of new products should help sustain our market leadership. An example of [indiscernible] (07:31) the two new products I mentioned in my opening remarks, the SmartCycle and the SmartSpan. Both bolster to our Vantage product suite, address unmet needs in the marketplace and further support our market leading position with more than 100,000 video detection sensors in operation worldwide. So far in January, Roadway Sensors bookings are up 41% year-over-year. We expect the Roadway Sensors business to resume growth as we continue channel building and product development and launch efforts.

Our Transportation Systems sales were flat during the quarter primarily due to a key positive experience in high subcontract work in the prior year. We signed $4.9 million in new contracts during the quarter, bringing our contract backlog to $31.5 million compared to $29.7 million in the year-ago quarter.

We continue to believe this business is well-positioned to capitalize on the recently passed Federal Highway Bill. For example, during the quarter, the Federal Highway Administration selected Iteris to provide on-call transporter based services for two five-year contracts valued at up to $80 million. [indiscernible] (08:51) with a small group of other selected providers and expect several task orders to be awarded over the next few quarters.

This selection is a testament toward a strong relationship with Federal Highway Administration, the expertise our team and the impact to intelligent traffic technology can have on improving congestion. We are beginning to see more requests for proposals on various agencies due to the Highway Bill. As I've indicated before, we believe to be a direct beneficiary of the bill and it should impact our revenues in the upcoming quarter.

We continue to make substantial progress in Traveler Information 511. This provides real-time traffic information system that help commuters take optimal routes. Subsequent to the quarter's end, we were selected by South Carolina to develop, implement and operate this 511 Traveler Information system. The three-year contract, valued at approximately $2.5 million, includes two one-year options for ongoing operations and maintenance. We believe Iteris remains a market leader in 511 as we now operate 12 [indiscernible] (10:06) agencies and 5 metro areas. We are pursuing several other similar programs in various states and remain optimistic about the prospects of expanding our presence.

Our performance management segment or iPerform continued to make significant progress during the quarter. As you may recall, the iPerform group is focused on performance management solutions that provide customers with world-class traffic information services that include our data service products, analytics and visualization applications, as well as our productive service offerings.

Our market leading product IterisPeMS or iPeMS offers analytic application that provides real-time, actionable traffic information that allow traffic analysts, engineers and media producers to manage the traffic information demand.

During the third quarter, we experienced significant customer interests and explored various commercial opportunities in the media, automotive and mobile application market. We have held discussions with several companies that are particularly interested in our software, predictive weather and traffic data functionality and plan to announce further details in the upcoming months.

Also during the quarter, we continued our investment in iPerform research, development and cloud capabilities for new market expansion. We also hired three data scientists and software engineers to augment our existing development capability. We made and we continue to make these investments as we anticipate significant growth from this business.

As the market for data services and analytics applications continues to increase at a rapid pace, we believe both public and commercial opportunities will expand significantly over the next five years. We also believe we can capitalize on our technological investments, experience and market leadership to leverage Iteris into a unique leadership position. Our bullish view is stemmed from, A, the government's increased emphasis on accountability in transportation infrastructure expenditures as substantiated by the new Highway Bill; and B, increasing commercial market demand for real-time suggested traffic and weather information services.

While our near-term focus remains on delivering our software to public agencies, we plan to capitalize on our existing intellectual property and application infrastructure to provide new data and application services for traffic information services in the media, automotive and consumer application markets. We plan to provide us items as both license and Software-as-a-Service offering and expect software revenues from this initiative to maintain a higher margin structure as compared to our base business.

Now, before I provide my closing remarks, we will be delighted to respond to your questions and comments. Operator?

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Van Sinderen from B. Riley. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. Abbas, maybe you can talk a little bit more about Roadway Sensors in terms of whether the standard related business will simply push out in terms of timing. Do you see that starting to come back now? I mean, that's the way that business could comeback, right? And then, also maybe you can talk about the funding issues in California and when you see those starting to prevail?

Yeah. Thanks, Mr. Van Sinderen. As far as the orders related to Sandy, yes, we do believe that those would come back. It is a matter of time. Our sales force believe that some of those may come back, in fact, in this quarter fairly quickly. So, I don't believe that the business overall is lost or rather moved to the rise.

Regarding California funding issues, you may recall that not too long ago, the State of California relinquished a distance of the redevelopment agencies who we used to provide a significant funding for capital improvement projects for local agencies.

Now, many of the agencies are identifying new funds. We now know that the state, the funding overall is improving, so we envisioned that that business could be recaptured, in fact, we had one larger order that has been lengthened for a few quarters. We just recently learned that that for a magnitude of $0.5 million or so is lined up to be shipped this quarter. So although we remain cautious about the financial health of the State of California, our outlook is such that it should be stable in the upcoming quarters.

Okay. That's good to hear. And then, maybe you can update us on the latest you're seeing in iPerform and what the outlook is to that segment. Just one of the things I'm wondering is how fast do you expect that to grow? And then, you mentioned some new developments, I think, related to iPerform and some of the software and maybe you can elaborate on that a little bit, too.

Sure. So, we have been extending the tremendous amount of time and energy investing, exploring the market, particularly the commercial market as of late. While we believe there is a significant demand in the public agency customers that we have and expanding those, we also feel that the IT and the services that we provide are also in very much high demand in the commercial market, in particular, media, automotive, and we have been testing and having the discussions with many of the agencies and organizations in those markets and believe that that market is expanding tremendously. So, that would come in the way of data services, in the way of analytics applications that we would be providing.

And we're presenting, as a matter of fact, in a couple of weeks to our board of directors, our next fiscal year plan, and I would envision that there are some significant activities and growth that we envision going through that also requires investments going forward that we more likely would have a special test and a special announcement on that in the upcoming weeks of next few months to really share that with the investor community.

Overall, we feel quite excited about it for several reasons, not just that we see a growth in our core public agency business that we already have and as I indicated, have over $2 million worth of backlog, expanding on that, but also pursuing [indiscernible] (18:10) into commercial market could be – we truly believe that it's a significant growth for us going forward as we envision offering various features, specific products and services along those lines, but permit me to expand on it on a separate announcement and be delighted to discuss it more at that time.

Okay. Great. And then, also I'm just looking the backlog and it's fairly sizeable. When do you think that we'll start to really see a ramp in the Systems revenue from this new Federal Highway Bill? I know there is somewhat of a lag there and sometimes contracts are subject to push outs and so forth, but any sense you can give us on what you think the timing is in terms of when we'll see that in revenue?

I would be disappointed if we didn't begin seeing a ramp-up on that, let's say, starting the next quarter and the quarter after. More likely during the summer quarter, we should really see those as material impact on our revenue. It has been a bit slower than expected but that is not a total surprise to us in a way that that particular funding has been working over the years.

Okay. And then, you also mentioned, I think, [ph] two (19:36) $80 million – or a total of by this $80 million contract win, I think, is a five-year contract? Just wondering if we can talk more about that and I'm wondering how much of that $80 million – would it be feasible or do you think is feasible for you to have a shot at winning?

Sure. Well, we have a shot of winning, hopefully, all of it, although we have to compete with a handful of others. We're already seeing past quarters coming in, and so, I would envision that begin in the upcoming quarters, we see the impact of that revenue. We put together a very strong team and competed for that work that many other entities and feel very good about our chances of getting the significant amount of that work.

Okay. Good. So overall, let me ask you, so when you think about your business, instead of a consolidated basis over the next 12 to 18 months, what do you think is a reasonable revenue growth rate to contemplate at this point? And then, also maybe you can just touch on how you would progress margins as the next few quarters progress, and then, expense levels, as well?

Sure. So, we typically don't provide a guidance but I could share this with you that with everything that is going on and things ramping up, with the influence of iPerform, I would envision that as we move forward, our annual growth should certainly be in the double-digits and even get healthier as we go forward. In the way of margins, as we present more of our software-based activities, the margins should improve.

As far as the cost basis, one of the good things that is happening, this program that we have had, the operational excellence at Iteris is that we are able to leverage quite a bit of infrastructure. So, I don't see at all, for example, the G&A as a percentage of sales ramping up to the extent that the sales growth we would be experiencing year-over-year, if you know what I mean.

Sure.

So, we could leverage that quite a bit. This means that we would be expecting expanded operating income as a percentage of sales. Of course, we would be discussing our investments, expanded investments in iPerform, but I would envision that much of these expansions would not have a significant adverse impact on our overall operating income and if I would expect our overall operating income, certainly not going into negative in the foreseeable future but rather as we go forward in, let's say, year two and beyond significantly expanding.

Okay. That's great to hear. Thanks very much. I'll let someone else jump in.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of [ph] William Meyers from Miller Asset Management (23:07). Please go ahead.

Hi, thank you. Do you believe that there is any impact from the fiscal cliff fiasco of the last quarter or did you not see anything from that? [ph]

Mr. Meyers (23:23), I have a tough time really speculating and quantifying the kind of impact. It is conceivable that some of the orders, contractors or perhaps agencies are wondering about the budgets we issued. Whenever we have those financial crises, if you will, I personally got to believe that there is some impact, although, like I said, would be very hard to quantify.

The good news is that we are seeing a significant ramp up, I mentioned 41% in January year-over-year bookings. I mean, that's quite encouraging. This tells me that more likely was an anomaly and as we are – be able to resume our shipments that they really expected.

Okay. Good. And the only other question I had was on labor cost. Did you see any increase in your labor cost in 2012 and would you anticipate any increases in 2013?

Nominal increase. The cost of living, raises that we get, plus some hirings that we have done, so going forward, I would envision that by and large the majority of the labor additional costs would be attributed to the software engineers, scientists and elites that we would be hiring. I would envision minimal in the G&A, but perhaps also some in terms of marketing, so that would be the extra cost. And we haven't really finalized the annual plan. It will be done in couple of weeks and I'll be happy to share some more on that at the next call as we go forward, but I don't see that as a significant increase.

Okay. Just what I expect. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of [ph] Chris Biles from CJB Capital Management (25:59). Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, guys. I have a couple of questions, the first of which, on the $20 million in cash, could we talk about potential acquisition targets or investments or sort of use of that current balance as it relates to the growth or opportunities you might be seeing?

Yes, [ph] Mr. Biles (26:22). Of course, as far as the acquisition, and we have been mentioning this in the previous call as well, we are in the acquisition mode, identifying targets, looking at companies and firms that specifically could enhance our technology. We're looking at the terms that have an IT that could be very helpful for us, particularly in the software-based activity that we are doing. So, absolutely, that's one of our key strategic opportunity that we are pursuing.

Okay. Since we have opportunities or acquisitions, I noted that on December 28, FLIR Systems acquired Traficon out of Belgium for what appear to be $46 million. Do you have any idea what revenue or multiple to revenue they paid and do you consider or did you consider Traficon a direct competitor or were you seeing them in markets in Europe or anywhere else?

Yes. So, I'll respond to the latter part. Yes, we see Traficon as a competitor and they not only have been strong in Europe but also here in the U.S. They have been selling quite a bit of their products and we certainly took a note of that acquisition. I would speculate that it was probably in round numbers, two times sales, although we don't have any direct access to their revenues. This is just our pure speculation, if you will, and we see that as a positive sense in our industry. I think it stems from [indiscernible] (28:17) commitment to the traffic management market and they have been and will be a strong player in this market and we, of course, compete with them.

Okay. Another day from the past that I'd like to sort of catch up on, on May 22, you announced collaboration with INRIX, and INRIX who's been in the news quite a bit of late. Can you elaborate on the nature of that collaboration or how things are going?

Sure. So, we work together on certain agencies that require data from INRIX. We work with them to make sure that their data and analytics, that applications that we provide could be well-integrated and work. Example of that collaboration is State of Virginia where we are providing the traveler information and they have purchased data from INRIX.

We also not only collaborate with INRIX but do envision also to compete with them as INRIX has been very strong in data, and with the data proving data, we see them now because like some of the announcements that they have had is that they are moving into analytics and applications. And we are condensely, our experience has always been in analytics and its application, the data price is coming down. And so, we are planning to penetrate into that market. So, I would envision that at times, we would be competing, at times that we would be collaborating. And then, this all stems from the health and anticipated significant growth in this particular market.

Okay. You also announced earlier in the call or in the press release that your buyback is approximately 390,000 shares. Can you give me a number on what might be remaining dollar-wise on the $3 million buybacks announced back in the year at fall?

Yes. I'll let Jim to expand upon that.

Yeah. So, the number in the release and the number that I commented on was $2.1 million. That was accumulative number on both plans.

Right.

So without having the number in front of me for the second plan, that's probably roughly in the neighborhood of $2 million.

$2 million remaining.

second plan – in the neighborhood. Yeah.

Okay.

Subsequent to the December quarter, we have continued to repurchase through a 10b5-1 plan as well.

Okay. My last question and I'll hop out of the way, I just – I'm curious how the board and how management is discussing valuation of the company when you've got a company like Traficon being acquired for what appears to be, in your words, approximately two times revenues and you traded 65% on the sales basis. This is the [indiscernible] (31:37) disconnect in the marketplace. Can you comment on that?

Sure. We all very much [ph] confer (31:44) with you with that observation and it is quite obvious that we are doing everything we can in various fronts to really accelerate our growth and doing all the right things. So that the market would know this to be able to give us the proper validation. I know it is easier said than done but that has been an area that we focus and we start, of course, [indiscernible] (32:14).

Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Mr. Biles (32:17).

Thank you. And at this time, I'm showing no further questions in the queue. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Mohaddes for closing comments.

In closing, we continue to believe Iteris is solidly positioned to go after the intelligent traffic management market due to our focus on a specific shipment the [indiscernible] (32:40) market, we believe are growing much faster than the traffic industry as a whole. This include Traveler Information 511 and iPerform, both subjects involves execution of technology to deliver intelligent actionable traffic information to traffic management operators and the travelling public.

As we continue to deliver technology-based products and software solutions to the marketplace like Abacus and iPeMS, we would expect our overall gross margins to gradually improve. We will also remain optimistic in our acquisitions of strategy and plan to continue to look to acquire companies that either enhance our IT or position us in a new geographical place. We appreciate everyone's support and thoughtful questions and we look forward to updating you again on our continued progress. Thank you and Mikayla.

Thank you. This concludes today's call. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us for our presentation. You may now [Abrupt End]