corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2010 Iteris


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Stephanie and I’ll be your operator for today.


At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Jim Miele, Chief Financial


Officer. You may proceed.


James S. Miele, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you operator. Good afternoon and welcome to the Iteris third quarter 2010 conference call.


I’m Jim Miele, the Chief Financial Officer of Iteris and I’m joined today by Abbas Mohaddes, the


company’s President and CEO.


First I’ll recap the financial results of our fiscal 2010 third quarter and then Abbas will provide further


commentary about our business. At the conclusion of Abbas’ comments we’ll open the call for


questions.


Before proceeding, I like to remind all participants that during the course of this call, we may make


forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of the company. The


forward-looking statements we discuss during the call are based upon information currently


available. This information will likely change over time.


By discussing our current perceptions of the market and the future performance of the company


and its products, we are not undertaking an obligation to provide updates in the future. Actual


results may differ substantially from what we discuss today. And no one should assume that at a


later date our comments from today will still be valid.


We refer you to the documents that the company files from time to time with the SEC, specifically


the company’s most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important


risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those that are contained in any


of the forward-looking statements.


For the third quarter ended December 31, 2009, our net sales and contract revenues decreased


17.5% to 13.6 million, compared to 16.5 million in the same quarter of the prior year. Vehicle


Sensors net sales decreased roughly 40% to 1.7 million when compared to the prior year period,


however, grew sequentially for the second straight quarter by approximately 21%.


Roadway Sensors net sales declined by approximately 9% to 5.7 million, compared to the prior-


year period, while Transportation Systems contract revenues decreased by approximately 15% to


6.2 million. As there are different characteristics affecting each of our revenue streams, Abbas, will


provide more detail regarding net sales and contract revenues later in his comments.


Gross margins for the third quarter increased to 40.8% from 39.5% in the prior year quarter. The


increase in gross margins was primarily a result of a more favorable sales mix of our Roadway


Sensors products in terms of geography and to a lesser extent, better margins in our Systems


consulting segment due to contract mix.


Current quarter operating expenses decreased by approximately 8% to 4.8 million, compared to 5.3


million reported in the year ago quarter, primarily as a result of our efforts to maximize efficiencies


through operational excellence initiatives that include prudent cost cutting measures and the


reduction of certain Systems consulting and corporate general and administrative expenses.
corrected transcript


Iteris, Inc.
 
ITI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The company reported income of 694,000 for the current quarter, compared to operating income of


1.2 million for the prior year quarter. Net income for the third quarter was 709,000 or $0.02 per fully


diluted share, compared to net income of 741,000 or $0.02 per fully diluted share in the prior year


quarter.


We ended the quarter with approximately 9.4 million in cash and generated roughly 1.2 million in


positive cash from our operations and 4.9 million for the nine-month period ending December 31.


We have not yet drawn upon our $12 million line of credit with our senior lender and have reduced


our long-term debt by almost 800,000 since March of ‘09.


We plan to continue to focus aggressively on cash collections and asset management in an effort to


further improve our cash position and the overall financial strength of the company.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Abbas, who will further discuss the quarter and our strategy in


greater detail. Abbas?


Abbas Mohaddes, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jim. I’m pleased to announce another profitable quarter despite the decline in sales, which


was primarily due to seasonal nature of our business as well as poor and macroeconomic


conditions. Consistent with our operational excellence initiative, we continued reducing operating


expenses as well as cost of goods enabling us to improve our gross profit margin.


Further, we made progress in various strategic initiatives including introduction of a new detection


product, new sales channels, international expansion, and strategic partnerships. We also continue


to strengthen our balance sheet.


I would like to comment on each revenue stream and address key drivers contributing to our


expected growth. Roadway Sensors net sales declined by 9% sequentially. Our third quarter has


been typically soft due to weather conditions and decreased in construction during these months.


However, gross margin expanded as a result of product mix as well as reduction in cost of goods.


Over 20% of the products we sold during the quarter were introduced to market over the last five


quarters and we expect our products to continue attract existing and new customers.


We introduced a new product to market, Pico, which is specifically targeted for the international


market responding to the standards and functional requirements of that market. In addition, we are


offering Pico as a great value on price and expect a favorable market reaction. We plan to continue


expanding our sales and marketing activities in key international markets to better prepare for the


expected demand. We are also in partnership discussions with key system integrators and


distribution channels, which we believe will allow us to better access key international markets not


currently available to us.


Two key drivers for this revenue stream in the upcoming quarters are expected to be, A, increasing


traction in domestic markets and, B, traction in international sales and forging partnerships to


expand the distribution channels internationally. Of course, we plan to keep our commitment to


continue innovating and offer new products to market.


In the Vehicle Sensors market, we received increased orders and grew 21% sequentially. Two key


drivers are expected to help this revenue stream grow in the future. First, as I indicated during the


last earnings call, the European Union is planning to mandate key active safety features, which we


believe will include lane departure warning for all new commercial trucks beginning year 2013. And


we are preparing to respond to this demand in several aspects, which for competitive purposes I


cannot elaborate upon.