corrected transcript


Kaman Corp.
 
KAMN
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2008 Kaman


Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Erica, and I will be your coordinator for today.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]


I will now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Eric Remington, VP,


Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


Eric B. Remington, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Erica, and good morning, everyone. This is Eric Remington of Kaman Corporation and I


would like to welcome you to the company’s 2008 second quarter conference call. This call is also


being webcast over the Internet at www.kaman.com and an online archive of this broadcast will be


available within one hour of the conclusion of the call and will be available until August 8 at this site.


Conducting the call today are Neal Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and


Bob Garneau, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, let me take a moment to reference the Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This conference call may contain certain forward-looking


statements that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties including the future operating and


financial performance of the company.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are


reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations or any of these forward-looking


statements will prove to be correct. Important risk factors that can cause actual results to differ


materially from those reflected in the company’s forward-looking statements, are included in our


earnings release filed yesterday and in the filings with the Securities & Exchange Commission. In


addition, information contained in this conference call is accurate only on the date discussed.


Investors should not assume that the statements made in this conference call remain operative at a


later time. The company undertakes no obligation to update any information discussed on the call.


Finally, our discussion today will include certain non-GAAP measures related to the company’s


performance. Reconciliation of this information is provided in the exhibits to this conference call and


is available through the webcast section on our website.


With that, please turn to exhibit one and I will turn the call over to Neal Keating. Neal?


Neal J. Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Eric, and good morning, everybody. Before discussing the specifics of our quarterly


results, I wanted to provide an overview of several of the significant milestones achieved in the


second quarter that will improve our competitive position in the near term and provide a foundation


for continued future growth and profitability.


During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of Industrial Supply Corporation, our first


acquisition in industrial distributions since 2003, which provides a stronger presence in Virginia and


North Carolina, expands our product offering, and brings a very experienced management team.


In addition, we opened our newest distribution center in Savannah to service our growing business


in the Southeast. On June 12, we acquired UK-based Brookhouse Holdings, our first acquisition in
corrected transcript


Kaman Corp.
 
KAMN
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


aerospace since 2002. Brookhouse brings us expanded composites capability, proprietary


technology, diversifies our customer and platform base, and again a key factor in our decision to


pursue Brookhouse was the proven capability of their management team. And finally, we further


strengthened our leadership team with the addition of Greg Steiner, who joined us as President of


our Aerospace Group.


Greg brings a wealth of experience in the aerospace industry and has run large global businesses


for Rockwell Collins, Smith’s, and most recently GE Aerospace. We are very please to do have


Greg on board and look forward to his contribution.


These efforts combined with our success earlier this the year in reaching a settlement with the


Australian Ministry of Defense on the Super Seasprite Program gives us confidence that we enter


the second half of the year better positioned for the future. As we look at the second quarter, a


quick review of results shows that our overall growth trends accelerated during the quarter.


Net sales rose 16% to $316 million, driven by sales growth across our businesses. While diluted


earnings per share were $0.24 versus $0.36 a year ago, the current year period includes a non-


cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.8 million or $0.31 per diluted share related to issues at our


Wichita facility, which we will discuss in more did detail. And as you’ll note, our second quarter


2007 results included a $2.4 million charge related to the Australian helicopter program which did


not recur in the current period.


With that, let’s get to the reporting segments. I will start with our most challenging business


currently, Aerostructures. The business demonstrated strong top line growth with sales rising about


30% over year ago levels, driven by our BLACK HAWK program and continued contribution from


the C-17 program. Unfortunately, while we succeeded in returning the segment to profitability,


generating 1.5 million of operating income excluding the impairment charge, this was still


significantly below the 3.7 million of operating income in the year earlier period.


While we made progress in Wichita during the quarter including filling key operations, quality and


supply chain management positions, and implementation of corrective measures to enhance


operating and quality procedures, the progress was slower than either we or our customers wanted


to see. And we continued to experience production inefficiencies.


Specifically, as reported earlier the facility’s AS9100 certification was suspended late in the first


quarter and significant additional costs have been incurred to support inspection prior to shipment


as well as additional administrative costs required to prepare for recertification. Currently our audit


is scheduled for the third quarter and we would expect to regain our AS9100 certification during the


fourth quarter of this year.


In addition, we experienced additional costs in shipment delays due to the probationary status


imposed by a major customer in the first quarter. This probation dramatically reduced our


shipments throughout the second quarter and these delays and attendant costs are reflected in our


results. We did pass the customer’s verification audit in mid-July, resolving the issue to their


satisfaction. And the customer has now allowed production to resume on all continuing programs, a


concrete indication that progress is being made.


However, the combination of these issues has affected our ability to deliver product to our


customers during the second quarter. And this, together with issues specific to each program, has


resulted in the termination of our contracts with Spirit AeroSystems, Shenyang and two other


smaller contracts. Currently these contracts were projected to generate total sales of about 14


million from the third quarter of 2008 through the end of 2010.