Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James G. Coogan — Vice President-Investor Relations, Kaman Corp.
Neal J. Keating — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Kaman Corp.
Robert D. Starr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Kaman Corp.
Edward Marshall — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Christopher Moore — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Ryan Cieslak — Analyst, Northcoast Research Partners LLC
Steve Barger — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Chris Dankert — Analyst, Longbow Research LLC
Peter John Skibitski — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2017 Kaman Corporation Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jamie Coogan, Vice President, Investor relations. Sir, you may begin.

Good morning. I'd like to welcome everyone to Kaman's second quarter 2017 earnings call. Conducting the call today are Neal Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Starr, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to note that some of the information discussed during the call will consist of forward-looking statements setting forth our current expectations with respect to the future of our business, the economy, and other future events. These include projections of revenue, earnings, and other financial items, statements on the plans and objectives of the company or its management, statements of future economic performance and assumptions underlying these statements regarding the company and its business.

The company's actual results could differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statements due to many factors, the most important of which are described in the company's latest filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the current report on Form 8-K filed yesterday evening together with our earnings release.

In addition, we expect to discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP measures, as defined in applicable SEC rules and regulations. Reconciliation to the company's GAAP measures are included in the earnings release filed with yesterday's 8-K.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Neal Keating. Neal?

Thank you, Jamie. Good morning, and thank you for joining us on today's call. I'd like to begin today with a review of the second quarter results and provide an update on important programs and drivers for the balance of the year.

Second quarter results came in slightly stronger than expected, primarily due to the margin benefits resulting from Distribution's productivity initiatives, which bolstered year-over-year performance. While it's still very early, we are pleased to see the improvement in profitability at Distribution for the quarter.

At a consolidated level, our net earnings were $13.5 million or $0.48 per diluted share and marked a strong sequential improvement over our first quarter results.

As a reminder, our volume and mix forecast in 2017 for Aerospace will lead to earnings that are back-half weighted with some sequential improvement in the third quarter, but still heavily weighted to our fourth quarter.

On a comparative basis, in the second quarter of 2016, consolidated net earnings were $16.5 million or $0.59 per diluted share, or $0.64 per diluted share when excluding $0.05 of acquisition-related costs.

Lower earnings per share compared to the prior year was largely attributable to a decrease in operating profit at Aerospace due to JPF customer mix for the quarter, offset by increased operating profit for our bearing products, structures programs and Distribution.

Turning to Aerospace, sales were $170.3 million for the quarter, down 7.7% compared to the prior year. Contributing to the lower sales was the shift in mix of JPF sales from DCS in the prior year to USG Option 12 in the current period, as well as lower overall JPF shipments during the quarter. Aerospace operating income for the period was $26.3 million or 15.4% of sales, compared to $30.5 million or 16.5% of sales in the prior-year period.

Year-over-year profit headwinds related to the JPF program were partially offset by an increase in sales for our bearing products, leading to margin improvement in our self-lubricating bearing products and our high-precision miniature bearing products, which we acquired with the GRW transaction. Additionally, we continue to gain traction on our efforts to improve the performance of our structures programs, which delivered strong year-over-year improvement.

Before turning to Distribution, I'd like to highlight some positive developments at Aerospace for the balance of 2017 and beyond, beginning with K-MAX. In July, Lectern Aviation of China accepted the first two K-MAX aircraft off our reopened production line, which marks an important milestone for our Aerospace group.

Additionally, due to the increased interest and demand for these aircraft, we announced that we are extending the production of the K-MAX into 2019. Our team continues to identify potential customers and is working to secure additional orders for the aircraft.

Turning to our JPF outlook, in the balance of the year, we expect increased profitability as our mix shifts to DCS shipments. This includes $93 million in orders that we had discussed last quarter for which we are awaiting an export license.

During the second quarter, the congressional notification period concluded with no formal objection. And shortly thereafter, we submitted all of the necessary documentation for an export license, which is progressing through the normal approval process. We anticipate receipt of the export license shortly and will begin deliveries in the second half of the year. Longer term, there continues to be a strong level of interest for the JPF.

Currently, we are in negotiations on Options 13 and 14 of our U.S. government contract, as well as a DSC order with a foreign customer, which will give us backlog into 2020. In addition, during July, the U.S. government issued a solicitation for production for Options 15 and 16 of the JPF contract with quantities as high as 25,000 units per option, and we continue to see strong demand signals from additional international customers.

Lastly, as we look into 2018 and 2019, we are encouraged by the anticipated growth of a number of platforms that will enable continued growth in our bearing product lines such as the Airbus A350, Bombardier C Series, G7000, and the Joint Strike Fighter.

Turning to Distribution, organic sales per day improved 2.6% sequentially but were down 2.6% when compared to the prior year. As expected, the productivity initiatives we have implemented have put modest pressure on our top line performance. However, the offsetting benefits of these programs were clearly demonstrated in the quarter as we were able to grow operating profit by 15.4% compared to the prior year despite lower volume and expand operating margin by 90 basis points to 5.7%.

The effort was broad based across our locations and includes a shift in our approach to focus on the most value-added and profitable product categories, coupled with enhancements in our analytics to help better identify opportunities that can provide value to both Kaman and to our customers. In the prior year, we reported $2.1 million of cost associated with the implementation of these initiatives. And when we adjust for these costs in the prior-year results, we see similar operating margins to those achieved in the second quarter of 2017 despite the lower year-over-year sales volume. This speaks to the impact of these initiatives and demonstrates our ability to sustain the performance improvement.

And now, I'll turn the call over to Rob. Rob?

Thank you, Neal, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin by providing financial details and adding some additional context to our results before discussing our outlook for the remainder of 2017. Our GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.48 compared with the prior-year level where we achieved $0.59 on a GAAP basis and $0.64 on an adjusted basis. This year-over-year decline was anticipated due to the change in the quarterly pattern and mix of deliveries in 2017 relative to 2016, most notably in our JPF program.

Gross profit in the quarter was $135 million or 30.1% of sales compared to $143.8 million or 30.5% of sales in the prior year. Our continued strong gross profit performance was led by Distribution, partially offset by an unfavorable mix in Aerospace, particularly the mix of joint programmable fuze, USD volume relative to the prior year.

Operating income in the second quarter was $27.4 million or 6.1% of sales compared to $29.8 million or 6.3% of sales in the prior-year period. The lower operating margin and profit was the result of lower sales compared to the prior year and effects to gross profit discussed, partially offset by lower SG&A.

SG&A in the second quarter was $107.6 million or 24.0% compared to $113.9 million or 24.2% in the prior year. Lower SG&A relative to the prior year stem from the absence of a significant portion of the cost associated with our distribution productivity initiatives in the prior year and improved operating efficiencies across the company.

Before handing the call back over to Neal, I'd like to take a moment to talk to our outlook for the rest of the year. Based upon our first-half results as well as the issuance of our convertible notes this past May, we have made a few modest revisions to our full-year outlook. Beginning with Distribution, we are raising the low end of our operating margin range to 5.0% to 5.3% from 4.9% to 5.2% previously while modestly tightening our revenue range to $1.1 billion to $1.125 billion from the prior range of $1.1 billion to $1.15 billion. The midpoint of our operating income outlook for Distribution remains on track from our prior outlook as we've been able to offset the impact of slightly lower sales growth with improved margin performance. We continue to expect Distribution's year-over-year daily sales rate to turn positive in the second half of the year.

Our Aerospace guidance remains unchanged with the sales in the range of $730 million to $760 million and operating margins of 16.5% to 17%. As we have detailed on this call, higher profit contribution in the second half is expected to come from a shift to shipments of higher-margin DCS fuze orders combined with continued strong execution in our bearing product lines.

A highlight in the quarter was the execution of our seven-year 3.25% convertible notes due 2024. This is an important capital raise that will help us meet our long-term strategic goals. Following the completion of our convertible debt offering in May, our full-year interest expense for 2017 will now approximate $19 million from our previous guide calling for $16 million. The majority of the increase is the result of the timing of the transaction, and while this led to modest headwind to our reported interest cost, we were able to secure an after-tax, long-term cash rate of approximately 2.4% over the life of the notes when you include the cost of the capped call while extending the weighted average duration of our debt portfolio to about five years. Excluding the cost of the capped call instrument, the annual after-tax cash rate of the notes is approximately 1.6%, largely in line with the after-tax interest rate of the 2017 convertible notes and the amount we paid down on our credit facility. Our full-year consolidated tax guidance is unchanged at 34.5%, and our weighted average diluted share count remains unchanged at 28.5 million shares.

Turning to cash flow, we generated $10 million of cash in the quarter, in line with our expectations. This pattern is not unusual as we will typically use cash during the first half with incremental improvement as the year progresses. We continue to expect free cash flow between $70 million and $100 million, approaching or exceeding 100% of net income once again this year. Our 2017 year-end leverage is expected to approximate 2 times debt to EBITDA, the low end of our targeted range.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Neal for his closing comments.

Thanks, Rob. Halfway through the year, we are executing well and are well positioned to deliver on our full-year outlook. We're excited about the opportunities at both segments and are pleased to be in line with our expectations as we enter into the back half of the year.

And in closing, I would like to thank our investors for their interest and support and each of our more than 5,300 employees around the world for their dedication and commitment to delivering world-class products and services to our customers every day.

Now, I'll turn it back over to Jamie for questions. Jamie?

Operator, may we have the first question, please? [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. And our first question comes from the line of Edward Marshall with Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys. How are you?

Good, Ed. How are you doing?

Good morning, Ed.

I'm okay. Listen, I'm curious. The low end of the Aerospace guidance you're showing about $30 million of sales growth year-over-year, but yet you're flattish, actually down $1 million on the income at the low end. I'm curious. I know of the mix in JPF, but is there anything else there that's some pressure to that operating line for Aerospace?

Yeah. Ed, this is Rob. It's a good question. I think what we'd say structures has improved as we've talked about year-over-year, but there's still a reasonable level of volatility in that as we go through the balance of the year in terms of establishing our range. So, that certainly plays into it, and certainly, this far, there are a number of discrete items on the Aerospace side that can still move the margin. That's why the range is – we decided to leave it where it is.

Got it. And then when we look at the $93 million JPF order, I'm curious how fast can you ship that? I mean, how many quarters would it be for you to exhaust that backlog?

Yeah. Ed, I mean, that backlog, if it all goes according to plan can likely be done within a quarter, if needed. It really comes down to the shipping capacity, but we do have plans in place to certainly shift that over to the second half of the year.

Okay. And just a question on – it survived the congressional vote, and I'm curious about your thoughts on why the attention this time around, was it the customer, was it the size? Do you think the opposition gets stronger or weaker going forward? Any kind of color that you could add there. Thanks.

Ed, as you know, it's a very politically charged environment in Washington right now. And I think that it was a combination of just simply that in combination with the end customer.

Got it. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Ed.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Robert Majek with CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning. It's actually Chris Moore for Robert. Yeah, maybe could you just talk...

Hi. Good morning, Chris.

Good morning. Talk a little bit more – it looks like you had a great quarter in terms of the operating margins on the Distribution side. Just trying to get a sense as to what's possible two or three years out from an operating margin standpoint. Is 6% or 7% the ceiling? What do you think is realistic?

Chris, what we've talked about is our medium-term goal is to get to that 7% operating margin. So that's clearly what we remain focused on. And when we cross over 7%, we'll decide what the next target is.

Got you. Are there one or two kind of key milestones to get to that 7% level or...

I'd tell you, Chris, right now, I think the biggest driver will be a combination of return to organic growth with the demonstrated ability to sustain the discipline around the productivity initiatives that we've been working on for a little bit over the last year.

Got it. Got it. And just kind of staying with the Distribution. From a channel partner perspective, kind of what are you hearing there in terms of strengths and weaknesses? And just trying to get a feel for how things are looking coming into Q3.

From a supplier perspective, everybody is looking for some continued growth in the second half of the year. We've been up sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first quarter; and then again, from the first quarter to the second quarter. So we see from our key suppliers a belief that there will be continued growth, although it will be at a relatively muted level.

Got you. And last question, just from an M&A standpoint, just from a kind of overall perspective, is it active or is it just kind of a slow time for you guys in terms of what the pipeline looks like?

Chris, I would say that it remains active. As I think we've demonstrated, we've taken advantage of opportunities when they arise. For example, the last two acquisitions that we did in Aerospace were both within, I think, about six weeks of each other. So we have trouble with when the companies end up coming out for sale, so that's kind of outside of our control. What is within our control, of course, is the level of rigor and discipline we put around how the capabilities that that company would offer will supplement what we have today. So we continue to be active, but we just haven't been able to get one across the finish line here in the last several quarters.

Got you. I appreciate it much, guys.

Okay. Thank you, Chris.

Thank you, Chris.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Ryan Cieslak with Northcoast Research. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Ryan.

Good morning, Ryan.

Nice to hear from you.

Yes. Thanks. I guess, my first question, I just wanted to go back to the Distribution sales trends and just maybe if you could give some color, Neal or Rob, on how the quarter progressed by month. I know last conference call that you'd mentioned July was positive year-over-year. It looks like it slowed down a little bit at least in the months of May and June. And just some maybe color of what was driving that. I know obviously some internal initiatives you guys are working on, but any color on that would be helpful.

Yeah. No, Ryan. Good question. So as we've touched on in our first quarter call, we did see a year-over-year improvement in April. We did fall back a bit, most notably in the month of May. May was certainly a weaker result relative to the prior year, as well was June, leading to that 2.5% year-over-year decline.

In terms of the drivers there, what I can tell you, in the quarter, we've got to look at some of the broad product lines. As part of the productivity initiative, we are certainly both in terms of product categories and other sets of demographics looking at opportunities where we can be most relevant and most competitive, and where we feel that we were not well suited, in that we have certainly as part of this elected to not compete in certain low-margin unprofitable circumstances.

So in terms of the product categories, bearings and power transmission was down year-over-year for the quarter. Fluid power was actually up, so that's encouraging. Where we saw the most in terms of product categories decline were MRO supplies in some of the electrical products where, as you can imagine, some of those are very generic items where pricing is really the key competitive differentiator.

So, overall, we're very pleased with the performance, sequential growth in the quarter over the first quarter and expect continued sequential growth as we go through the balance of the year.

Okay. Great. And then any color on July, just where that ended up at this point...

Yeah.

...either on a year-over-year basis or...

Yeah. July was essentially flat year-over-year.

Okay. So, then if I look at the guidance, it implies at least Distribution on the top line a decent bump-up in terms of the year-over-year trends improving for you, guys. What should be maybe the main drivers there? How should I think about what drives that improvement following what's been maybe a more subdued first half for you relative to maybe what you're expecting here in the back half?

Yeah. I mean, Ryan, keep in mind the back half of 2016, we did see a pretty meaningful step-down in our volume from a daily sales rate of almost $4.5 million in Q2 to $4.2 million in Q4 of last year. So, the comps get significantly easier as we move to the balance of 2017. That combined with sequential growth consistent with what we've delivered over the past couple quarters is really what drives that. There isn't a specific product category or customer base that's really that we can identify other than based on the information we have with the field and the leads and opportunities that we have in front of us. We're very comfortable that we would continue to see sequential growth as we move through the balance of the year.

Okay. Great. And then lastly on Distribution, how should I think about where you're at with the productivity initiatives at this point? Is it are pretty much in the late innings or is there more to do where you can see incremental benefit at the margin level into the back half of the year?

Ryan, we don't think we're in the late innings when we look across the product categories that we've worked so far, and there is certainly platforms and product categories that are still ahead of us. So, we wouldn't say that we're in the late innings at all. We're very pleased with the performance improvement, the team has been able to deliver, the decision-making process that they have in place around the opportunities that they pursue, and how we work with our customers to reduce our combined costs in the cost-to-serve area. So, we feel pretty good that there is additional opportunities available to us in the future.

Okay. Great. And then the last one for me, Neal, just on Aerospace, not really looking obviously for guidance for next year but maybe just maybe how should we think about starting to frame up Aerospace into 2018, and maybe some of the puts and takes at least at a very high level with regard to the various platforms that maybe are rolling off a little bit, but obviously, there's ones that seem like there is some positive momentum continuing to build with JPF and certainly K-MAX as well. Just some color on that might be helpful in thinking about 2018 right now.

Okay. So, you don't want me to give guidance for 2018, but you're asking about it. I'd tell you. I'm going to refer back to the script in large part, Ryan, because it's really why we talked about some of the longer-term opportunities that we see in the Aerospace business. In particular, I'll highlight just a couple. There's been a lot of discussion and talk around the JPF. And I think when we look at the combination of being in the final negotiations on Options 13 and 14 with the U.S. government right now with the solicitation that came out just within the last 30 days for Options 15 and 16 with unit demand up to as many as 25,000 in each of those two and the level of continued opportunity and negotiation that we are in with foreign military highlights the longer-term strength of the JPF product line for us.

The second is that you're right. We were really pleased to deliver the first two of the new K-MAX aircraft to Lectern just last month, and we know that we will have the opportunity to continue that production now into 2019. So, we're pleased not only with the new aircraft production and deliveries but clearly what that means for us longer term for the ongoing service and support for those. And while we've had some transition in commercial aerospace with Boeing 777 rates coming down somewhat, what we're really excited about is the combination of the increase in the narrow-body product lines at both Boeing and Airbus where our content is relatively low. But when you're talking about increases of 10 or 12 aircraft a month, that adds up very quickly for products that were very efficient at making and also the strength of the Airbus A350, the new C series beginning to be delivered. And again, while it's relatively small for us, it's nice to see the Joint Strike Fighter take up because that helps us a little bit in the structures area and certainly in the bearings area as well.

So, as we look out to 2018, we have a number of positives, and we've got some planning to go through in the second half of the year as to how we can be structured to take best advantage of those opportunities.

Okay. Great. Thanks for the color, guys. Best of luck.

Great. Thank you, Ryan.

Thanks, Ryan.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Morning, Steve.

Just to make sure I heard correctly in terms of the cadence in the back half, do you expect to drive sequential growth in 4Q versus 3Q? So a shift from the normal seasonal pattern, it ramps through the back half?

Yeah, Steve. Clearly, it's a little difficult to predict given the short cycle nature of the business what will eventually unfold, but we are not anticipating as a pronounced decline that we saw last year and this year's fourth quarter. Those year-over-year comparisons certainly are looking favorable at this point as we gather information out of the field.

The way you're modeling it internally though, would you expect revenue to be up in 4Q versus 3Q or you just won't make that...

Based on current expectations, we don't think there will be a material difference.

Okay. If Distribution revenue growth remains weak, how much margin expansion can you drive from your productivity initiatives? For instance, if revenue comes at the low end, could you be at the midpoint or higher on operating margin this year or would that be a stretch?

Yeah, I mean...

I think that would be a stretch.

I think that would be a little bit of a stretch there, Steve. I mean, certainly, we're very focused on operating expenses. I mean, the team has done a really great job at managing their G&A. So, certainly, if market conditions don't materialize as we anticipate, we will certainly not be sitting back. We'll be looking at how do we just manage our discretionary expenses to really deliver on the bottom line.

Understood. And I know you expect sequential growth in 3Q. If that is a fairly modest increase, you would not expect to see the same year-over-year increase that you got in 2Q?

In terms of the year-over-year, you got to keep in mind and last year, we saw a sequential 2.5% daily sales decline of 4.35% in last year's third quarter, Steve. So, even if we were to hold flat with where we were in the second quarter, that will be flat year-over-year.

Right.

Right. So, we certainly are – based on all indications, we would anticipate sequential growth. So, that's really what's driving the year-over-year favorability.

Understood. And just one question on JPF, you've talked about it going through the normal approval process. We've heard the news reports about a lot of deputy level jobs having not been filled in Washington so far six months in. Does that have an impact on your confidence around the process and making that 4Q shipping time line or is that kind of a separate issue?

I think that at this point we would believe it would be a separate issue. I think that that would have had more impact earlier in the process than in the export licensing itself.

Got it. Thanks for the time, gentlemen.

Okay.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Chris Dankert with Longbow Research. Your line is now open.

Morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question.

Sure. Good morning, Chris.

I guess, the first thing I'm looking at here just in reference to the A-10 program I think the materials are released, and it said there's about five in backlog right now. I think your production capability is a little bit more than that in the quarter. So, does current guidance imply that program rolling off in the back half of the year right now?

Yes, it does.

Okay. Okay. Just one sort of point on that. And I guess...

No. And you're exactly right, Chris. It does reflect it rolling off in the second half of the year and there being a line gap before we would restart.

Okay. Got it. Got it. And I think the total number of chip sets in the potential run is, what, 242, something like that, if I am remembering right?

Yeah. That's exactly right. Good number. We've got that seared in our memory and you do, too. That's good.

Right. And then I guess, just moving back to KIT, I guess, any comment on price impact in the quarter, kind of what you're expecting in the back half of the year? I think there has been some expectation for a bit more inflation now as demand is starting to come back. Are you seeing that expectation right now?

Chris, for the first time in a long time we're beginning to see some price inflation in the channel. So, obviously, we're pleased to see that because we can benefit from it. We also want to highlight that we may have some near-term margin squeeze as we get price increases and, because of the contract period with our customers, would not be able to pass all of those price increases on. But we certainly would intend to be able to take full advantage of those price increases going forward. So it's nice actually after a long period of time of no pricing inflation to see at least a little bit of it beginning to show up.

Got it, got it. And I guess just to circle back on EBIT margin at KIT. I guess, typically, you see kind of a seasonal step-down into the back half of the year just given the way volumes move. But I guess if we've got a fairly flattish total sales number through to 4Q, does that mean we can see a pretty stable EBIT margin in that business or is it going to be a bit of a seasonal move to that?

Yeah. Chris, I think what we're expecting right now is a fairly stable operating margin profile. The implied back half of the year is roughly around 5.2% or so. So, certainly, through the first two quarters, on a year-to-date basis, we're at 5%. We had a very strong second quarter, as we just published. But we certainly feel much better about the resiliency of the business just given the team's efforts on whether it be the productivity initiatives or the types of business they're pursuing. So we feel really good about where the business is headed.

Understood. And then, I guess, the last one from me. It looks that you were able to ship on a couple of DCS JPFs in the quarter? I guess, is that a catch-up from a prior contract or where were those headed that you didn't need the export license?

Oh, no. We would need an export license in any case. But that was an export license that was granted earlier. And you're right, that was a good catch. Normally, we have some DCS shipments in a quarter, or many times we do. The first quarter was atypical. In fact, the second quarter as well was atypical with a higher percentage of USG sales. I think it was like 96% or 98% of our sales in the first half of the year were U.S. government as opposed to a slightly higher mix of DCS sales. But that would've been covered with a prior export license granted either earlier this year or more likely during 2016.

Got it. Thanks again, guys. And congrats on a nice quarter.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you, Chris.

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from the line of Ryan Cieslak with Northcoast Research. Your line is now open.

Great. Yeah. Thanks for taking my follow-up. Just really quick, Neal, in your prepared remarks you mentioned some of the MRO products being still slow on the Distribution side and pricing being competitive. Where exactly are you seeing the most competition right now? Is it from some of the non-traditionals coming into the space or is it still maybe some of the smaller mom and pop local guys that are maybe being most competitive at this point?

Ryan, it varies. So, as you know, it varies so much by local market that I wouldn't want to characterize that in one way or another, because I think it could be proven to be wrong if you went to Chicago versus Boston versus Dallas. So I think it's a combination of things. I think what's interesting though is that when we look at – we've talked a lot about our productivity initiatives and what we're trying to accomplish through those. And I think our results in the second quarter demonstrated how we were able to do it or that we were able to do it.

We know that whether it's in our automation control and energy platform where we've been historically had a presence in commercial construction for things likes panel boards, switch boards, even lighting, we're not going to be as competitive nor, quite frankly, do we want to be than a lot of the electrical distributors that focus in specializing that area. We've really de-emphasized that over the last year. It's impacting our top line, but we're seeing much better results at the bottom line.

And then, in some of the MRO supply areas that were down, they're areas, in many cases, Ryan, that are classified for us as MRO supplies. But there are specific products that we source for customers, and that is a service that we've historically provided. It's very important. But it's also a service that we want to get compensated for. And if there are personal protective devices, et cetera, that historically we've sourced that they can buy more effectively from another source than Kaman and have us put that work in, we're happy to have some of our customers do that.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that color. And then just really quick, the last one I had for Rob. Last quarter, I think, you gave some color around the earnings cadence with roughly 50% in the full year potentially coming into the fourth quarter. I know it seems like maybe the second quarter was a little bit ahead of expectations. But any update there or how should we think about maybe the cadence by earnings in the third and the fourth quarter?

Yeah. Ryan, that cadence remains largely unchanged, which is why we didn't really provide an update; plus, minus a couple of percentage points which is common levels of noise in any given quarter, it remains unchanged. So we still are expecting roughly 70-plus percent in the back half of the year, largely weighted to the fourth quarter with approximately 50% in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from the line of Edward Marshall with Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Piggybacking on that question just a bit, I mean, the $93 million order is unusually large DCS order for you. It's coming in the fourth quarter, and it's really a big contributor to the earnings power of the business. Knowing that it's kind of unusual in size, as we look out to 2018, is there something that you guys see that makes up kind of that shortfall on the profit line that can help earnings within Aerospace for 2018 and beyond?

Ed, we'll start on a couple of things. A, it's a larger-than-normal DCS order historically. There is no question. As you know, we've seen some significant increases in demand in JPF from the U.S. military and our foreign allied military. So, the first question will be whether or not we continue to see relatively larger DCS orders than we have historically, simply because the demand for both current usage as well as building inventory levels is higher than it has historically been.

The second thing is that it's interesting because it's a larger single order for us, but it just so happens that we intend to ship all of it in the second half of the year. Normally, we would have it be more spread out during the year simply because of the way that the cadence fell this year and having to fulfill our requirements for Option 12 for the U.S. Government as well as the initial delay in the licensing – or the approval and now licensing process.

So, we will talk obviously in our first quarter call about what our expectations are, but as we've tried to highlight in every way that we can, we feel very good about the near-term and medium-term future for JPF. And it will be a mix of both U.S. Government and foreign military orders.

And when you say foreign military, you mean FMS or DCS?

Combination of both. There will be FMS and there will be also DCS orders simply because the timeframe in which FMS orders can be served through the current DoD contracting process.

Okay. As we move through say Option 15 and 16, you talked about maybe the size that talks more about the length, but when I think about the size, I think about room for say DCS shipments in a particular given year given the government's order parameters. Would you have enough room to kind of – in orders of 25,000-plus fuzes have room to ship something of this magnitude DCS order in the future in a particular quarter or year?

We're very pleased with the rate at which the team has been able to increase production and the continuation of the very high reliability levels that we're delivering in the field, and we feel that we can continue to increase production rates certainly above where we are today to support demand from both U.S. and foreign customers.

And what's the rate amount now?

We did about 16,000 in the first half of the year, about flat with last year, and our outlook is 34,000 to 37,000 units for the year.

Ed, we've been able to flex as high as nearly 1,000 JPFs in a week in terms of stress testing the supply chain. So, just to echo Neal's comment, we have more than sufficient production capacity at this point based upon our demand outlook.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Yeah.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And we have a question from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys.

Hi, Pete.

Hi, guys. I apologize I got on late.

Okay.

So, if I repeat, sorry about that. Neal, on the A-10, it looks like there is a decent amount of support for funding additional A-10 orders. I'm wondering depending on when we – I'm guessing the 2018 budget won't get approved for a while. So, I'm just wondering, can you keep the line open until late this year, early next year until we make another order or kind of how much fiscal pressure this kind of will put you through if you don't get another order until next year?

Pete, we've anticipated and planned for a line gap in the A-10. We will complete the delivery of the existing order commitment later this year and then have a plan for line gap and we feel very comfortable, and that's incorporated into our outlook.

Okay. Okay. Got it. And then on the H-60 contracts, it looks to me like the original Sikorsky order was kind of averaging around 50 helicopters a year, and I think there was something there for Saudi Arabia and then there was talk of options as well. I wasn't sure if you guys would take part in the Saudi deliveries or not, but can you give us a sense of what this order implies? Does it imply kind of 50 units a year for you guys with a potential for upside or should we think about it differently?

No, I think you've got it about right. The base demand would be about 50 a year. We could flex up with an additional 20, so to about 70 a year, and I don't know that we could make any statements at this point in the process really as to whether or not any of that incremental demand would be for Saudi.

Okay. Okay. Got it. Got it. The margin distribution was outstanding this quarter. I think it might be an all-time high if my model is right. Is there any reason you can't replicate that again especially if volumes get better?

If volumes get better, yes, given our outlook for the balance of the year nudged up the lower end of our outlook, but we were very pleased with the performance in the second quarter. And certainly, we would like to see a return to organic growth and know that the team can convert that at a disproportionately high rate to profit.

Got it. Got it. Okay. Next, I'll give Robert one. Hey, Rob. Anything with regard to the changes in revenue recognition that are kind of coming down the pipe? I don't know if you guys are planning that in 2018 or are you expecting any kind of meaningful changes to the income statement when that comes through?

Yeah. Pete, good question. We are certainly very focused on the new revenue standards. We have certainly set up a group here that has been very focused on the implementation because, as you had expected, impact at number of areas including our IT systems.

In terms of the overall impact, we're still assessing what that impact is for 2018. Once we have a more definitive handle on that, we will certainly, as required, disclose that in our financials, but certainly, this is a high-level effort and has significant resources on this. So, we feel really good about where we are relative to the implementation because looks like if this will go live in 2018, the current indications are that FASB will not provide another extension as they did earlier this year.

Okay. Okay. And, Rob, on the cash flow guidance, obviously, you've got a bit of a hill in the second half of the year. I'm guessing that the DCS fuze order in the fourth quarter is potentially a big pacing item there. And I'm just wondering how confident you are in collecting that receivable in the fourth quarter to meet the cash guidance?

Yeah. There are a couple of things, Pete, that are impacting our cash flow guide. As you mentioned, we certainly have, as most years, a pretty significant hill in the back half of the year. But really, what's going to drive that certainly, the DCS orders to a point. But the orders that would ship later in the year, we're largely going to likely collect those in 2018 in any event.

Really, what's going to also drive it is the increase in bearing sales as well as improving sales and execution on collections and distribution. So, there are a number of things. And then also, we did have some impact on timing around K-MAX this quarter. We had roughly about $10 million of cash flow move into the third quarter just based on the timing of the delivery of the first two K-MAX. So, K-MAX is going to also impact the timing here.

Got it. Okay. Very helpful. Thanks, guys.

Great. Thank you very much, Pete.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back to Mr. Jamie Coogan, for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining us on today's conference call. We look forward to speaking with you again when we report our third quarter results.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.