Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Eric B. Remington — Vice President-Investor Relations, Kaman Corp.
Neal J. Keating — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Kaman Corp.
Robert D. Starr — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kaman Corp.
Arnie Ursaner — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matt Duncan — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Edward Marshall — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Jeffrey D. Hammond — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Stephen E. Levenson — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Eli S. Lustgarten — Analyst, Longbow Research LLC
Bhupender Bohra — Analyst, Jefferies LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Starting Abruptly] Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a remainder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Eric Remington, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed.

Good morning. Welcome to the Kaman Corporation third quarter 2013 conference call to discuss our earnings results. Conducting the call today are Neal Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Starr, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin this morning, please note that some of the information discussed during today's call will consist of forward-looking statements setting forth our current expectations with respect to the future of our business, the economy and other future events. These include projections of revenue, earnings and other financial items, statements on the plans and objectives of the company or its management, statements of future economic performance and assumptions underlying these statements regarding the company and its business.

The company's actual results could differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statements due to many factors, the most important of which are described in the company's latest filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the current report on Form 8-K filed yesterday evening together with our earnings release.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Neal Keating. Neal?

Thank you, Eric. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Overall, we are pleased with the results achieved by our operations during the third quarter resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.70 and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.68. Aerospace delivered strong results with improved contributions across many of our product lines while Distribution operating margins increased over the prior year and sequentially as we continue to drive improved profitability despite lower-than-expected organic sales levels.

Starting with Aerospace, sales in the quarter were slightly below our expectations primarily as a result of delayed initial AH-1Z deliveries. This deferral was partially offset by a number of customer [ph] requested pull-ins (02:27) to meet their scheduled demands. Operating margin in the quarter was 18.3%, 220 basis points higher than the prior year, driven by higher fuzing margins, higher bearing sales and increased profit across other product lines.

The segment benefited particularly from our SH-2 helicopter programs including the New Zealand SH-2G(I), legacy New Zealand SH-2G spares and Egyptian SH-2 maintenance and upgrade programs, all of which delivered outstanding performance. Sequentially, the Aerospace operating margins improved by 50 basis points, highlighting the strength and diversity of our programs across the segment. We started the year with strong first half performance in Aerospace led by Specialty Bearings product lines, which benefited from several one-time retrofit and upgrade programs that are not related to current aircraft production.

As a result of this spike in sales in the first half of the year, bearing revenues declined as expected by approximately 10% sequentially in the third quarter. However, the core bearings revenues continue to grow and we remain confident in the performance of the business. In addition, the higher Aerospace operating margin performance during the quarter reflects meaningful improvement across our other product lines.

During the quarter, we delivered approximately 4,200 JPF Fuzes, a majority of which were direct commercial sales to a foreign government. While third quarter shipments were in line with our plans, this compares to deliveries of more than 10,000 fuzes in the third quarter of 2012. The Black Hawk program continues its steady performance and we were pleased to recently achieve the milestone 1000th cockpit delivery to Sikorsky. We're about one year into our latest multi-year Black Hawk contract and expected to remain one of our largest programs. And our newest program, the SH-2G(I) for New Zealand is ramping up nicely and is on time and on budget at this stage.

As highlighted in past calls, our aerospace group has many programs that are in various stages of development. The scope of new programs is unprecedented in our history. Programs of note include the AH-1Z for Bell, Learjet 85 and the Gulfstream G280.

I am pleased to report that we successfully finalized delivery of the first AH-1Z cabin earlier this month and anticipate completing the delivery of two additional aircrafts before the end of the year. As we reach rate production on this and other programs, we expect them to contribute towards our increased profit and improved cash flow. Overall, Aerospace is firmly positioned to continue to improve operational performance, ramp up new programs and win additional work to provide steady long-term growth.

Distribution sales were at quarterly record of $273 million, up 5.7% over 2012. Organic sales per day were down 1.2% in the quarter, driven by lower sales from our bearing and power transmission customers.

Our OEM customers continued to be negatively impacted by difficult global market conditions. And in addition, several of our MRO end markets have not rebounded as strongly as we had anticipated at the time of our last call.

As we highlighted during our second quarter call, we expected year-over-year sales growth to get positive during the third quarter and despite the challenging conditions, we did achieve positive sales growth in September, which represents our first month of positive year-over-year growth in 13 months and our highest month of year-over-year growth since January of 2012. And remember, this performance was against a difficult comp, as sales in the third quarter of 2012 were up 10.1% over 2011.

We experienced strong MRO demand in transportation equipment, non-metallic mineral manufacturing and chemical manufacturing with flat sales in mining, which was an improvement over recent quarters. This strong demand was offset by weakness in the paper manufacturing and OEM markets. And during the quarter, we also experienced sharply lower sales in Mexico, due to a drop in project-related volume from certain mining customers, which negatively impacted profitability. However, our electrical and automation platform has performed well and our acquisition sales in this area have exceeded our expectations.

Distribution sales growth has been slower than we anticipated, but as we move in to the final quarter of the year, we expect additional growth from acquisitions and modestly positive organic sales growth trends as the economy continues its slow recovery. Overall, we are well positioned to benefit from a sales recovery in distribution by capitalizing on our three-platform strategy, which enables us to provide exceptional value proposition to our customers.

Now, I would like to turn it over to Rob Starr to provide you with some additional details and color. Rob?

Thank you, Neal, and good morning, everyone. As Neal indicated, we are pleased with our results for the third quarter, which produced a 26% increase in consolidated operating profit on 3.5% higher sales as compared with the third quarter of 2012. These results demonstrate our discipline on expenses, the operating leverage inherent in our businesses and the benefits of our diversified product portfolio.

Now, I'd like to provide you with some additional color on the numbers and our expectations. Within Aerospace, we delivered solid execution across the segment. While we expect our operational performance to remain strong, we anticipate our future product mix will change somewhat. As we move forward, our expectation is for sales of Aerospace build-to-print work to ramp up as we enter into full rate production on a number of our start-up programs Neal had referenced earlier. These programs which tend to generate a lower return on sales than segment average, will place some downward pressure on our overall Aerospace operating margin percentage. These programs, despite having the lower margins, provide earnings accretion, cash generation, and a solid return on investment.

In Aerospace, our backlog remained solid, ending the quarter at $656 million, an increase of 23% since year end. Recent significant bookings include the SH-2G(I) contract and several JPF awards. We have also booked awards of numerous smaller programs such as [ph] bearing (9:38) programs, the P8 and CH-47 for Boeing.

Distribution recorded an operating margin of 5.4% in the third quarter, representing improvement sequentially and over the prior year. Profit improvement was broad-based as a result of leverage from our higher sales, which were a record in September, and continued operating leverage as a result of our Q1 restructuring efforts.

We're also achieving early benefits from our diversification efforts and our three platform strategy, as evidenced by a strong performance in the quarter from our electrical and automation product lines. Margin also benefited from the reduction of certain incentive accruals. Offsetting some of this improvement were issues with Mexican mining projects and pressure on vendor volume incentives.

Our free cash flow generation has been strong, generating $41 million in the last two quarters even after spending $18 million in capital expenditures. The organization is focused on improving cash flow and we've taken a number of actions to ensure we meet our objectives.

Moving on to our outlook, we are revising estimates to reflect our current view of the business environment. At Distribution, while growth rates are improving, they are not achieving the levels we expected when we last spoke. This has caused us to temper our full-year sales outlook. Lower projected sales levels will negatively impact our operating leverage and will lower volume incentives from our suppliers.

At Aerospace, we have slightly lowered and narrowed our sales estimates to reflect our current view of the business environment. This reflects our routine shifts and the timing of deliveries and revenue recognition. The operating margin outlook has been raised to a range of 16.8% to 17%, reflecting stronger than expected year-to-date margin performance which we anticipate will be sustained.

As we refine our estimates for the full year, we now expect corporate expenses to come in below our original estimates. We are projecting our full-year tax rate will also be lower than previously anticipated at 34.5%, reflecting a lower statutory rate in the UK and favorable items from our filing of our 2012 return this past September.

We are maintaining our full year of free cash flow outlook at $16 million to $20 million. This reflects our expectations for continued investment and capital expenditures across the company and working capital for new Aerospace programs.

Overall, we are pleased with our results to date and we are focused on delivering strong results.

With that, I will turn it back over to, Neal. Neal?

Thanks, Rob. Overall, we delivered strong results from the third quarter. We have benefited from the successful execution of our strategies across our segments and remain confident that we will continue to deliver improved operational performance. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all of Kaman's employees for their hard work and dedication. Their efforts have enabled Kaman to reach this new level of performance.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Eric. Eric?

Thanks, Neal. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your question-and-answer session will now begin. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Arnie Ursaner from TJS (sic) [CJS] (12:59) Securities. Arnie, your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Thank you. My question relates to the impact of the SH-2G program on your margin and revenue in the quarter. You did indicate it was somewhat a key contributor. Can you quantify the impact of that for us and remind us if it will have an impact in Q4?

Sure. Hi, Arnie, it's Rob. The SH-2G did have a slightly above segment average impact. As we mentioned, we are expected to deliver on $20 million of revenue on that program for the year. And we remain on track to deliver that. So I think it's about roughly – about four points or five points higher than our segment average.

And how much was the revenue contribution in Q3?

In Q3, it was approximately...

Of the $20 million?

Sure, it was approximately $5 million for the quarter.

So we should expect – so you expect a similar amount in Q4?

Similar. Maybe slightly more in Q4, but not much. It's in the [indiscernible] (14:01)...

In the similar margin?

Yes.

Okay. And Rob I know when you spend some time with me, you tried to highlight some of the working capital impacts when you start up new programs and you did mention the AH-1Z is about to begin – actually had its first delivery early this month. So as we think about Q4, can you just remind us of the capital investment you make you when you have a new program running forward and how that may change now that this is moving into a full program?

Sure. I would highlight a couple of things here Arnie. You're absolutely right, in particular with AH-1Z we have invested significantly in start-up working capital and with the delivery of our first cabin in the fourth quarter, we would expect to see some relief in our working capital related specifically to that program. But it's not going to be all that material in the fourth quarter and largely because we are ramping up a number of other production units. We expect to deliver hopefully another two units in the fourth quarter, but as we enter full rate production, as we consistently generate cash flow relating to the sales, we would expect over the course of the next, let's call, it six months to 12 months to see some meaningful reduction in our AH-1Z inventory.

Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Next question is from the line of Matt Duncan from Stephens Incorporated. Please go head Matt.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Matt.

Good morning, Matt.

First question I've got with regard to the trends you're seeing at KIT and Neal you touched on this. You said that those sales split into positive territory on an organic basis in September. Can you maybe walk us through the month-to-month growth rates that you saw there? How much was September up and what are you seeing in October?

Sure. Matt, it's actually a really good question because as you remember during our last call, we were actually seeing some positive trends in July. However, after the call that turned it down and August was bad as well. In fact, we were a little bit more than 5% negative organic growth in both July and in August. That turned around where we were positive 5% in September which we were really pleased with and we don't have final numbers yet for October, but to-date we're running between 3% and 4% positive.

Okay. And did the comp get easier there in September Neal or was that your actual demand and volume improvement or was it a little bit of both?

I think it was a little bit of both.

Yeah. Matt, it was a bit of both in September.

Okay. Rob, on the SG&A cost, they were down about $3 million sequentially, you mentioned that there was some benefit in the quarter on variable comp accruals. Did you actually reverse some accruals from earlier in the year or did the amount of the comp accrual just go down?

As we adjust our full-year outlook, we did make some downward estimates in terms of our overall incentive comp numbers.

So how much did that reversal lower your SG&A expense volume in the quarter?

I would say that was a portion of the reduction, I mean there are other expense control initiatives in place as well, Matt.

Sure. But just on that one item, do you know off the top of your head, how much it was?

Yeah, I mean, I would say it was not all of it but it's certainly a meaningful percentage of that reduction.

Okay. So call it $2 million or so of the sequential drop in SG&A. Is that fair?

It's not unfair, but I think it's one of those estimates that's going to change as we go through the rest of the year, as we look at through the full year number. But yeah, in the third quarter that's not an unfair estimate.

Okay. One more and I'll hop back in queue. In terms of the operating margin at your Aerospace segment, it's obviously been balancing around a lot. And if I look at your guidance for the full year, it implies it's going to be probably 15.5% give or take in the fourth quarter. It's going to be 16.8% to 17% for the full year. Can you give us some help as we look out to next year once these programs ramp up and the mix sort of settles in for that segment, where you think it's going to be, what type of operating margin should we be using for that segment? I know you haven't given guidance for next year yet, but given how much the margin has been moving around there, I think there is a lot of questions about sort of where that margin is headed in the future.

You know Matt, we've – I guess I'd start by saying, we've set an objective for the Aerospace segment of upper teens operating margins, and overtime that's a range that we're comfortable with. You're exactly right, we've had some bouncing around this year driven by a couple factors. It's primarily been deferrals or later shipments in the year than we'd anticipated on AH-1Z and some of the other start-up programs that are – as Rob said in his prepared comments, our built-to-print work with lower margins. So as those have moved out into the fourth quarter now and also we've had some pull-ins by other customers for our specialty bearing product lines and actually some of the Egyptian helicopter upgrade program as well which are a higher margins, that's really exacerbated that switch from quarter-to-quarter in margins that you see especially from the third quarter going into the fourth quarter, but I think we're comfortable with the high-teens operating margin in that operating segment.

So 17% to 19% would be how you would define high-teens then?

You know sometimes we go 16.5%, but that's probably not a bad range, Matt.

Okay. Thanks for the help. I appreciate it.

I'll go check your model. Thanks, Matt.

Thank you. Next question is from the line of Edward Marshall from Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Just two quick questions...

Good morning, Ed.

...just two quick questions. One, I wanted to kind of get your opinion and maybe in your outlook on how any kind of defense sequestration, et cetera, and not necessarily on the programs, because I think you've covered that before, but more importantly on what – how the cash flow outlook kind of works with that. I'm assuming your turns will slow just a bit and just kind of maybe how you guys might be preparing for any kind of slowdown there?

You know, Ed, I'll let Rob chime in. I don't think that sequestration is going to impact us as much from a cash flow perspective where we were more concerned about that actually, Ed, was with the furloughs of government workers where the people weren't at work to actually pay the bills, and that was – that turned out not to be a problem for us, because it was a relatively short timeframe, but we had DCMA Inspectors that were not coming into the plant to sign off, the final deliveries for example for either a Z if we were doing a Z or for UH-60 and then DFAS, which is the funding source out of the government. The office that actually pays the bills they were on furlough as well. So I don't think sequestration will be as much an impact from a cash flow other than the program impacts that we've talked about.

Yeah, I would concur with that, Ed. I mean a couple of things. We're taking a number of very specific actions across our Aerospace units in particular at managing our inventory levels relative to the demand. And part of the reason we've generated quite a bit of cash on the back year is a number those initiatives are beginning to take effect. And in terms of sequestration, in terms of some of the start-up programs, that's really where our cash flow challenges has been is really more on the start-up programs than specifically related to sequestration.

Did the furloughs have any type of impact or push out – push to the right in the third quarter?

They did not in the third quarter, because that really happened, Ed, on October 1.

Yeah.

Sure.

We did have some slowdowns in the first couple of weeks of October. Right now we're hoping to be able to make that up in the quarter, but a lot will depend on our end customers as to whether or not they're able to receive equipment from us because we just don't know how much their lives have been backed up since they didn't have DCMA in for inspections.

And then as we look kind of at the pension rolling into 2014, obviously there is going to be some adjustments there with the change in rates. Any – would you like – care to take a stab at it as to what kind of benefit or tailwind you may receive from the pension?

Sure, we're certainly benefiting from the higher discount rates, Ed, but what I would also point out is our investment strategy on our pension does incorporate what's known as a liability driven investment strategy. So relative to some of your traditional investment strategies, your normal 60/40, we're not going to see as much benefit as a traditional 60/40, but I would expect to see our pension expense come down next year, probably somewhere in the range of 20% to 25%.

And what's that expense number this year?

Approximately $8 million.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Yeah. Thank you, Ed.

Next question from the line of Jeff Hammond from KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeff.

Good morning, Jeff.

Hey. Just, I know you are not giving 2014 guidance, but you tend to have better visibility into the Aerospace business. Can you just talk about what you see is some key puts and takes, whether it'd be programs or just trends in commercial, military, as you look into 2014? And then coming back to the margin comment, I just want to be clear if these ramp issues are a 4Q issue or a 2014 issue as well?

Okay. I'll start with that one, Jeff. We'll break it down into maybe three component parts from the Aerospace side, on the aircraft side to begin with. Commercial, we still see as strong through next year. Now, I think that we've seen the first couple steps of the 787 ramp up. So I would expect that we're not going to see within our specialty bearings business a big tick up from 787 next year. I think with the rate level now – now late in 2014, we might, or in 2015 as they ramp up to now what they're saying is going to be 12 aircraft a month, but I think we see 787 is relatively consistent from year-to-year.

Tick up hopefully with A350 later in the year, but that would be later in the year. And I think that, that kind of sums up another strong – slight growth in the commercial aircraft until A350 kind of hits its stride into 2015. Business aircraft, we frankly still see is depressed and we would love to see that tick back, but we don't see that yet.

And then on the military aircraft side, without getting too program specific, I think we all know C-17 is going to come to an end. We have deliveries that will take us through mid-to-late 2014. So we do not see much impact from that on 2014. We might be flattish on UH-60, probably no growth there, but AH-60 ticking up and maybe slight growth in A-10. But that's really how we see the markets kind of sizing up for next year.

And then on the ramp – I guess the one other thing, we'll see SH-2G(I) tick up for us next year. And we'll tell you what's that going to be in our next call, but we'll obviously see that tick up.

And then finally, on your question about the ramp rate. Obviously, fourth quarter, we're going to have early deliveries lower than segment margins. We'd expect that that those early deliveries probably through 2014 are going to continue at those lower margin contribution rates until we get to full rate production probably in 2015. But we'll talk more about that at the next call.

And then just one more. Maybe just touch on how you're thinking about JPF and visibility and – on the same lines in the 2014 and maybe customer mix?

Yeah. Right now, we have more than a year of backlog, so we feel good about that. I think it's just over $130 million. So we're good there. We would expect that we will have a much higher mix of USG sales next year. As you know, we've had a high percentage of direct commercial sales that are very profitable for us this year, that's what's enabled us to stay constant or approximately constant on profit contribution from that product line despite much lower unit volume from year-to-year. But we'll probably go back towards a more normalized trend of much higher percentage of USG sales.

Thanks, guys. I'll get back in queue.

Okay.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thanks, Jeff.

Next question from the line of Steve Levenson from Stifel. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Steve.

Good morning, Steve.

Neal, you mentioned that some new Aerospace programs, you are hitting unprecedented levels. I know one of your press releases was about the Scorpion. And I was just going to ask you to comment on what you think the opportunity is there and what the risks are given that it's a new plane and there basically aren't any orders for it. And how you decided to go into that and if there were any other comparable ones or the other ones are different?

Yeah. Steve...

Sorry, multi-part question. Thanks.

Yeah. No, that's okay. First of all, I give enormous credit to Textron for going off and taking this on. I think we all know that there is other than this aircraft, which people didn't know about, there was really no manned fighter aircraft or manned aircraft under development by the U.S. Department of Defense since the first time since it was established. So I give Textron an enormous amount of credit and stepping out and taking on this development.

And I think that the way that they've done it has been very thoughtful as well. And I think that's what really drove us to team with them. We think Scott Donley and his team are very smart guys, frankly. And they saw an opportunity to put an aircraft out in the market that meets the needs for a broad range of missions, and is going to be very cost effective. So certainly there is risk. We've teamed with them on this program. We feel that it provides an opportunity and we are going to do everything we can to help them be successful.

And are other programs that you didn't – that are haven't named yet, maybe you can't name them, are they similar to this, are they more along the line of say an AH-1Z where there is demand for the products?

Steve, I'm afraid, I'm not clear on that part of the question.

No. Are the other programs that you are involved in among the unprecedented number of new programs you're working on more similar to Scorpion or more similar to other aircraft?

No, more similar to – I'm sorry more similar to the named aircraft that are out in the domain today. The big ones for us are – the biggest by far is the AH-1Z for Bell, and another Textron company. And we have – I'll be down there again on Thursday of this week, but we've got about eight aircraft in process right now. And certainly in our detailed fab shop, well past probably, aircraft 12. So that's the buildup of inventory there. And then also on Lear 85 and the G280, those are the main new start-up programs that we're on that are really – that we are investing on, but are going to do very well for us through 2014 and 2015.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Steve.

Thanks, Steve.

Next question is from the line of Eli Lustgarten from Longbow Securities.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Good morning, Eli.

I have – want to just follow up on Aerospace. During your commentary, you talked about first half of this year having some specialty bearings business, I believe that helped profitability, and then you also talked about some direct sales on – in the Aerospace programs, it also helped profitability. So I mean these – the two factors suggested at least we could have some difficult comps in 2014 versus 2013 in the Aerospace profitability, at least in the first half versus first half if not for the whole year, can you give us some color of how we should think about if we go through – if we look out into 2014?

Well, I think that, Eli, you're right. We will have some tough comparative periods. The mix that we've talked about there is that in 2013, we've had lower USG demand and therefore much higher – and much higher direct commercial sales of our JPF product line and we do sell at higher prices for direct commercial sales. So yes, that will provide some headwind as we look at 2014 versus 2013. And also we did have a number of retrofit and other programs in our specialty bearing product lines for the things like helicopter drive shafts and other things that happened to land in the first half of the year as well. So we will have some tough comps. We have a business that's growing. We continue to make operational improvements. So we'll deal with those tougher comps.

So I mean your expectation is that you still have improved profitability in 2014 versus 2013 even despite these headwinds.

Well, I think we're still refining our 2014 numbers Eli, so we'll certainly address that on our next call.

Okay. And can we talk a little bit about what's going in the Distribution business? OEM, you say are very weak. Can you give us some idea of whether inventory destocking or restocking, and what's going on across the board by your customers? Are they finally starting to normalize their holdings? And can you give us some insight into what you're seeing the fourth quarter? I mean after the shock we got out of Timken's numbers in the bearing and power transmission numbers, [indiscernible] (34:02) nobody is quite sure of what's going on in the marketplace.

Sure. I think what we're seeing with our OEM customer base is certainly a reevaluation of global market conditions. I mean, if you look at Caterpillar's numbers, certainly Timken is being affected by that, and so we're seeing that in our direct OEM customer base, a softening. There is no question. In terms of – could you repeat your second part of your question, Eli?

So I was just trying to get an idea of what you're seeing as you go towards the end of the year across the end markets, as I said because the implication of the Timken numbers where the things are getting much softer across almost all bearing and power transmission markets. So I'm not – you show us a little bit different characteristic with the strength of your non-OEM business. So I'm just trying to get a sense of what you're seeing in the fourth quarter from your end markets in the bearing business?

Actually, specific to the Timken comment, our – if you look at our bearing product line sales they are down, but they're down low single digits, so not as much as a number of the OEMs have talked about. And actually as we look at our markets sequentially, Eli, of our top 10 markets, six were up and four was down – were down, so that was actually an improvement for us from that – from our first to second quarter mix. So we're getting a little bit of underlying improvement. Actually mining for us was up fractionally. So that was a nice change for us. Primary metals were up. Transportations were up. The areas that were down for us were OEM machinery and more so in our traditional power transmission and motion control product lines. We had a very strong performance for OEMs in our electrical and automation platform. Paper is down for us quite a bit. Fabricated metals are down for us as well.

But the other thing that we highlighted in our prepared remarks, Eli, is that we've had a significant amount of weakness in our Mexican operations and also we entered into a number of fixed price mining contracts and quite frankly we were not as experienced as we are today in those. And from either how we bid them or from a project management perspective. So we are in the learning curve if I can be kind there and that's impacting us as well in the third quarter and we expect some negative impact in the fourth quarter.

Yeah. And Eli, just one other point I would like to make in terms of the overall reduction in our sales guidance for Distribution, and that really does reflect the softer economy than we had anticipated during our second quarter call, which is consistent with what you're seeing whether it would be from Timken or others that have announced.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Next question is from the line of Bhupender Bohra from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

For Scott Graham here. The first question on industrial distribution. We are seeing like you mentioned, September was up kind of mid single digit and then if I look at the guidance actually it kind of tells me the operating margin guidance was taken down so that it kind of implies like 4Q guidance was on the margin side for Distribution business is low. Could you tell us like what is driving that?

Hope, you're well Bhupender. Certainly. There are a few key items that are driving our reduced outlook for margin in the four quarter in particular to what Neal just commented on the challenges that we're having in Mexico that will have an impact on the fourth quarter as we're looking to close out those mining contracts.

There was also increased pressure on vendor rebates as we are managing our cash flow correctly and lower sales volumes that will put additional pressure relating to that and we're also just being a bit cautious just given the economic shutdown – I'm sorry, the government shutdown, excuse me, during October and what impact it may have on the broader economy. So a combination of those factors is really what's driving our margin guidance down.

Okay. How big is the Mexico mining thing? I mean, is it like a big factor in terms of like sales or margin wise?

The impact is more on the margin side. As Neal mentioned, we were somewhat inexperienced in bidding out these contracts. So I'm really not at liberty to say how much the impact is, but it's certainly enough to make comment here on the call.

Okay. And the next question on the same line basically. You guys talk about the three [ph] tiered (38:56) structure on the three platforms basically in KIT. Could you just elaborate like how those three platforms did actually perform during the quarter? If you can just give us some color on that?

Sure. At a very top level Bhupender, the primary weakness that we had was in our legacy power transmission/motion control product lines. And I think that's very consistent with what you would have seen both from other comparable distribution companies or certainly from the bearing and power transmission manufacturers that have reported as well. And I think we're very pleased with the progress we've made both in our fluid power product lines, as well as our electrical and automation product lines. That's really what enabled us to flip over to positive growth in September.

Okay, okay. And just a follow on actually on the M&A pipeline. If you can just give us some color on that M&A pipeline with respect to like your Distribution business? Which of these platforms still remains a priority going forward?

Bhupender, it's a really good question. We – I hope what you've seen from the acquisitions that we've completed, is that we have a primary focus in building out our fluid power relationship and geographic footprint with Parker. We certainly are very keenly interested in continuing to grow our electrical and automation platform really with the foundation of Minarik and Zeller, we have a great capability there and a great management team that we know can effectively integrate acquisitions and grow. Yet at the same time when you look at an acquisition like Ohio Gear & Transmission, we still want to invest in areas where we have not had a strong geographic presence before, be able to establish that footprint with a power transmission/motion control acquisition and then augment it with additional fluid power and electrical and automation capabilities to get that synergy sale.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you. Next question is from the line of Matt Duncan from Stephens, Inc. Please go ahead, Matt.

Neal, just as a follow-up to that last question on the M&A side, it looks like based on the corporate expense guidance for the year that those cost are going to jump a couple million dollars in the fourth quarter. Does that suggest maybe you guys are getting a little bit more active on the M&A front here in the short run?

That's typically one of the expense items that ebbs and flows by quarter. So that's not an unfair conclusion to draw.

Yeah. Matt, I would also point out unlike – not unlike other companies, we are seeing year-over-year increases in our medical expense...

Okay.

...and that will also be reflected in corporate.

Yeah.

Neal, on the size of M&A opportunities that are out there, are you seeing any larger ones or they're still kind of in that smaller range or is most of what's coming across the transom?

Matt, we've seen a couple larger ones. We would like to do a larger one in Distribution than certainly what we've seen characterized, at least since we did Zeller last year. It just comes down to the fact that, when you look simply at a number of the ones that are out there, they are typically smaller. The ones that we've done recently are a little bit smaller than we would typically do. However, it really has helped us dramatically increase the number of Parker stores that we have in our lineup today, which is obviously very important to us strategically. We're going to be very cautious on the larger ones, given the – just frankly the uncertainty that we see out in the marketplace, but we also feel that the management team that we have in place has done a pretty good job in assessing those acquisitions.

Okay. And then a couple of questions on the outlook here for KIT. So look, I guess October is up 3% to 4%. I'm trying to remember did Sandy hurt you guys last year, just given where you're located?

It – I don't think it really hurt us in many – in any meaningful way. We were able to automatically reroute calls and serve customers from other locations. We obviously had some shutdown of customers, but we actually assessed that and it really didn't move the needle very much for us.

Okay. So then if I look at the guidance for the year, it implies that you probably need about a 5% to 10% organic growth rate at KIT in the fourth quarter to get to the guidance. And I think you've got an extra selling day. So that's probably part of how you get from 3% to 4% in October up to that 5% to 10% range, but are you counting on some underlying demand improvement going forward, or is it just the easier comp that gets you to that growth level?

Matt, it's really a bit of both, but I would say that the comps in Q4 do get easier relative to last year, because as you recall, we had a very challenging fourth quarter in 2012. But we are looking for a continued, granted, slow improvement in underlying economic growth that should translate into improved sales.

Okay. And then last thing on the KIT margin, if – it sounds like the reversal of variable comp accruals helped a couple million dollars in the quarter. So if I adjust your operating margin for that, you were kind of in the 4.6%, 4.7% range. And that's pretty close to what you're guiding to for the fourth quarter. And again, I know it's a little early to be talking about next year, but I know a couple of years ago, when you laid out 2014 goals, the operating margin hope was certainly above where you're at right now − I think it was 7% − that you were trying to get to. How quickly do you now think you can get up to that level from where you are?

You know Matt, we'll – what I prefer to do is that we'll talk about that when we do our fourth quarter call because you're right, we had a 7% target for 2014 and given lower GDP growth since 2009, we came out of the recovery. We and I think others felt that we would have a stronger underlying level of organic or excuse me, of GDP growth than we have encountered. We also expected that we would have more acquisition contribution as well.

So we're going to fall short on the top line. We're going to fall short on the margin. We're confident we're going to be able to make a significant improvement from 2013 to 2014, but we also understand that we need to invest in this business to drive some improvement in that top line growth so those are some of the discussions and analysis that we're going through right now that we'll talk more about after the year is complete.

Yeah. Obviously, look, I get that you need a better economy to get the sort of margin improvement that you want there and maybe another way to think about this is what level of organic revenue growth do you need to drive sort of 50 basis points to 100 basis points of operating margin expansion in a year, because a big part of it is you just got to grow that business organically to get leverage?

No, no, we would agree. I mean organic growth is very critical to achieving our margin targets. Matt, I just want to address your comment regarding the incentive comp in the quarter for Distribution. The $2 million we were talking to which was an estimate really was overall incentive comp and keep in mind our incentive comp numbers did come down at corporate as well. So I just want to be clear [indiscernible] (47:08).

Okay, that helps, Rob.

Yeah. That we have a number of give and takes in the quarter within Distribution, of which incentive comp is one of them.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you for that clarification.

Sure. No, I just want to make sure that we're all on the same page. Thank you.

Thank you. Our last question comes from the line of Jeff Hammond from KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead, Jeff.

Hey, guys. Just in your key, you mentioned a couple of dynamics in a few of your acquired businesses over the last few years. Can you just expound on what's going on there and how we should think about goodwill impacts, et cetera?

Sure. I'll start, Jeff. I think that we're in the early stages of our goodwill analysis, which we do each year. I think, in fact, if you're to look at our third quarter Q from last year, you would have seen some similar language for both our UK acquisition and our Vermont acquisition. I think what's probably new this year is the language around going to the Global Aerosystems acquisition. And quite frankly, the reductions in Boeing's external engineering resources over the course of the last year have been pretty dramatic on a percentage of almost 50%. So that's been a significant impact for us from year-to-year.

Boeing – as we work with Boeing, we continue to feel encouraged that as they announce and begin development of the 777X that there is going to be significant demand for our engineering services. And in fact, we expect to be able to effectively leverage our selection as Supplier of the Year for that business at Boeing last year, but that's really the new one and the one where we've had the most significant change from year-to-year.

In some of our other businesses, obviously, as we've experienced push-outs on things like everything from Joint Strike Fighter where – when we acquired the UK business some five years ago, we thought that we'd be at much higher production rates for JP – for the JSF that impacts us, also P-8 and V-22 were at lower levels than had been anticipated either by Textron or by Boeing when we made those acquisitions a number of years ago. So those are the things that go – all go into the analysis, but I would say the one thing that's really different from year-to-year is the engineering systems one.

Okay. And then just a quick follow-up on Distribution. Given that we've kind of had this persistently sluggish environment, can you just talk about what you're seeing on a competitive front? How you're seeing price cost or point-of-sale pricing and how that's impacting or not impacting kind of the margin trajectory?

Jeff, I think that we've seen margin pressure. I think one of our larger competitors actually commented about that recently. Obviously, everybody is trying to grow their business. And at times, part of that comes with – at the expense of margin. We're trying really very hard to manage that, because that's a very slippery slope as you know. But I think certainly there has been margin pressure from year-to-year that's impacted the industry overall.

Thanks, guys.

Right. Thank you, Jeff.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. We have no questions in the queue. Should we conclude the call?

Yes. Thank you, Bhupender (sic) [Jeff] (50:56), and thank you everybody for joining us today. And we look forward to speaking to you again when we report fourth quarter and full-year results in February.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes your call for today. Thank you for joining. You may now disconnect.