Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James G. Coogan — Vice President-Investor Relations, Kaman Corp.
Neal J. Keating — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Kaman Corp.
Robert D. Starr — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Kaman Corp.
Michael S. Rednor — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Pete Skibitski — Analyst, Alembic Global Advisors
Ryan Mills — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Edward Marshall — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Chris Dankert — Analyst, Longbow Research LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2019 Kaman Corp. Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce Vice President, Investor Relations, James Coogan.

Good morning. I'd like to welcome everyone to Kaman's second quarter 2019 earnings call. Conducting the call today are Neal Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Starr, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to note that some of the information discussed during today's call will consist of forward-looking statements, setting forth our current expectations with respect to the future of our business, the economy and other future events. These include projections of revenue, earnings and other financial items; statements on plans and objectives of the company or its management; statements of future economic performance; and assumptions underlying these statements regarding the company and its business.

The company's actual results could differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statements due to many factors, the most important of which are described in the company's latest filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's second quarter 2019 results included on Form 10-Q and the current report on Form 8-K filed yesterday evening together with our earnings release.

Please note that in the second quarter, we announced the sale of our Distribution segment which qualified for treatment as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP. And as a result, the focus of today's call will be on the results of the continuing operations of the company. In addition, we expect to discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP measures as defined in applicable SEC rules and regulations. Reconciliations to the company's GAAP measures are included in the earnings release filed with yesterday's 8-K.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Neal Keating.

Thank you, Jamie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our second quarter 2019 earnings call. I will begin today's call with a brief overview of the quarterly results from continuing operations and recent events, before passing the call over to Rob for a more detailed discussion of our financial results and expectations for the remainder of the year.

Before I begin the discussion of our results, I would like to note that we have made significant progress towards completing the sale of our Distribution segment in the third quarter. After the close of the transaction, we will be highly focused in Aerospace and engineered products company with substantial financial flexibility. We plan to increase our internal investment in innovative new technologies and solutions for our customers while pursuing complementary acquisitions of businesses that will enhance our leading market position. We will remain disciplined in our approach to these investments and will seek opportunities to return capital to shareholders as appropriate.

Now, I will turn to a discussion of our results for the quarter. Second quarter results continued the strong start we experienced in the first quarter. Sales from continuing operations increased 5% over the first quarter of 2019 to $175 million, but were down slightly when compared to the prior year. During the quarter, we delivered our 10th K-MAX aircraft, had increase sales on our JPF U.S. government contract, and saw increased sales in a number of new programs including the Sikorsky S-70i and Bell Helicopter composite blade programs. We continue to see positive momentum across our specialty bearing and engineered products offerings, and achieved record order intake during the first six months of the year. And July's order rate remained at high levels. Specifically, first half orders for our self-lube bearings and engine aftermarket components are up 9% and 4% respectively, over last year.

During the past few years, we have made considerable investments in our specialty bearings and engineered products facilities to position us to support this growth. And, just earlier this week, we announced the planned expansion of GRW, our precision bearings operation in Rimpar, Germany. Our team has successfully grown that business since we acquired the operations in 2015. And due to the forecasted continued growth, we have entered into an agreement to purchase land where we will build a state-of-the-art facility to further increase capacity and improve operational efficiency. This investment is representative of the many we've made over the past few years and we will continue to prioritize investments in our specialty bearings and engineered products operations to drive sustained organic growth.

Moving to our Joint Programmable Fuze program, during the quarter, we delivered over 5,700 fuzes, bringing the total deliveries for the year to approximately 14,600 fuzes. In July, we received export approval from the U.S. Government for our $324 million JPF DCS contract and expect to begin delivering product in September, which will help us meet our record delivery expectations of between 40,000 and 45,000 units for the year.

We are also pleased with the improved financial and operational performance of our aerostructures programs and have recently received recognition from several of our customers, including being named the 2018 Black Hawk Supplier of the Year by Sikorsky and Best New Supplier of 2018 by Rolls-Royce. As I noted earlier, we delivered our 10th K-MAX aircraft in April to Mountain Blade Runner. This completes delivery under Lot 1 of our new build K-MAX aircraft program, which saw the addition of five new operators to the K-MAX fleet and raised the total number of aircraft in the active fleet to 33.

In July, we opened our new customer service and delivery center, which will support both our K-MAX and SH-2 Super Seasprite customers. This facility not only consolidates a number of customer support functions under one roof but also includes a new state-of-the-art K-MAX flight simulator. As the commercial K-MAX fleet continues to grow, our new simulator will provide enhanced training capabilities for both our new and existing operators.

As we look to the remainder of the year, the significant order activity for our specialty bearings and engineered products and the receipt of our U.S. Government approvals for our JPF DCS contract provide us confidence in the sales ramp we expect in the second half. With the shift in sales mix to these higher margin products and the improved performance from our aerostructures business, we are anticipating higher operating margin performance in the back half of the year as well. Our teams are well positioned to execute on these customer requirements and we have made the investments in our people and operations to support this growth.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Rob for a closer look at the numbers. Rob?

Thank you, Neal, and good morning, everyone. I will begin today by discussing our performance from continuing operations for the quarter and finish with an update on our revised 2019 outlook.

Net sales for the second quarter decreased 2.2% to $174.7 million when compared to the prior year, resulting from the absence of $2.5 million in sales from the businesses sold in 2018 and a $1.9 million impact from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates.

Gross margin of 30.1% increased 20 basis points over the prior year period, largely benefiting from the improved margin performance on our aerostructures programs. Operating income increased $2.3 million or 46% over the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in operating income was driven by a $3 million reduction in corporate expense from continuing operations as we benefited from lower expenses in a number of areas.

Aerospace operating margin improved by 140 basis points over the prior year. However, the prior year period had approximately $1.6 million more in restructuring expenses than those incurred in the current quarter. On an adjusted basis, Aerospace operating margin was 14.2% or 50 basis points higher than the comparable period in 2018, which speaks to the underlying improvement we have seen in the operating results of the business.

During the quarter, changes in Connecticut state tax law allowed us to reverse tax reserves related to the net operating losses, which we were previously unable to utilize. The benefit in the quarter from this reversal was approximately $2.1 million and led to a negative 8% tax rate for that period for our continuing operations.

Diluted earnings per share of $0.23 increased $0.06 over the corresponding period in the prior year. In the quarter, we received a $0.08 benefit from the change in state tax law and had a $0.01 impact from restructuring activities at Aerospace. Adjusting for these items, diluted earnings per share was $0.16, $0.02 lower than the prior year period. The lower adjusted diluted earnings per share was primarily due to the $2.9 million decrease in net periodic pension benefit and a higher tax rate when adjusted for the changes in state tax law offset by the $2.3 million increase in adjusted operating income.

During the second quarter, our use of cash was a result of a build in inventory for a JPF DCS and specialty bearing product lines as we prepare for the expected ramp in sales in the second half of the year, which will contribute a strong cash flow generation for the full year. With the build in inventories in the quarter, our debt to cap ratio ticked up 20 basis points at 31.9%. However, with the anticipated proceeds from the sale of Distribution, we expect to be in a net cash position and have significant financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives.

Finally, as we discussed in our June announcement of the sale of Distribution, we are suspending our guidance for all aspects of our outlook with the exception of our sales and operating income for Aerospace segment for the balance of the year and we expect to provide a consolidated outlook beginning in 2020. Based on the performance through the first half of the year, we are increasing the low end of our sales range by $10 million and now expect sales in the range of $740 million to $760 million with operating margins at Aerospace in the range of 16.7% to 17.2%.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Neal.

Thanks, Rob. As we look to the remainder of the year, we're focused on successfully completing the sale of Distribution and beginning the next chapter as the new command, focused on opportunities across our Aerospace and engineered products businesses. Before we open the line for questions, I want to thank all of our employees for their efforts every day to meet the needs of our customers and to our investors for their continued support.

Now, I'll turn the call back over to Jamie.

Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Seth Seifman with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning. It's Mike Rednor, on for Seth.

Good morning, Mike.

Hey, Mike.

Just a few quick ones here. Can you – with the proceeds that are expected in Q3, can you talk through the M&A pipeline and kind of what you're seeing on that front? And the size of these proceeds is larger than acquisitions you've done in the past and so, maybe if you can give some commentary on what you're looking at in sizing that?

Sure, Mike. We're happy to. I'd start with – I think we've demonstrated command and ability to drive value through acquisitions. Certainly, building out in the Distribution business, both the fluid power and automation platforms positioned that business for growth, and I think it helped to underscore what we thought was a very good sale price to Littlejohn for a very strong business.

Our focus, to be honest, in recent months has been on the sale of the distribution products – the Distribution segment, Mike. So, it slowed our efforts on the Aerospace side, but we're now very active there and quite frankly, we're excited about some of the opportunities that we see out there in the market.

As Rob said in his prepared comments, we're going to remain disciplined, I think disciplined in a couple of areas. One, in sticking to the technologies that we know today in Aerospace and engineered products, but leveraging the acquisitions to enter new or adjacent markets. I think the last two acquisitions that we did, both GRW and EXTEX are excellent examples of that.

The GRW acquisition introduced us really into the medical and more so industrial markets in addition to Aerospace. And EXTEX really expanded our PMA aftermarket business into the engine and APU business. So, we've been really pleased with the performance of those two acquisitions, but they enabled us to get into newer markets. So, I think that those are important.

The second part of the discipline is we'll maintain the financial discipline in making sure that we can get the appropriate returns for those investments. And I think your last question is a good one. For the opportunities that meet these kind of criterias, we're well positioned with the strong balance sheet to take a step up in the traditional size of acquisitions that we've done.

If you go back to the fourth quarter of 2015, the combined purchase price for both EXTEX and GRW was about $200 million. And I think that we would certainly feel comfortable going in the 1.5 to 2 times that level.

Okay. Great. And then the second one, can you give an update on the 737 impacts? And how you're thinking about any risk contingency into 2020?

Yeah. Another good question, Mike. As you can expect, we've spent a significant amount of time reviewing this from both an operational performance in the last few quarters and then certainly in preparation for today's call after some of the recent commentary from Boeing. Currently, have we have not seen any lull in our orders for 737. So, we're pleased with that. We don't have a single customer for 737. As you can expect, we've got more than 50 different customers that we supply to on the 737. And so far, we haven't seen any lull in orders from them.

We did try to size the impact. We would say the low end for 2019. We would say the low end is zero because we're within – we're kind of within lead time already for our third quarter. And maybe at the top end, we could be at a $3 million impact for the year. But, again, we haven't seen that lull yet. And so, we can't have a lot of visibility there.

I think what – the other thing that's important to us is that – on the next gen, we were very pleased with content in the low 30,000s, so – 30,000 to 35,000 for shipset. And actually on the MAX, we're going to take that up to 40,000 to 45,000. So, longer term, the MAX is going to be really important for us. So, the transition there will happen. And I think the one thing I wanted to be clear on is that the $0 to $3 million impact was on top-line revenue, not operating profit.

Got you. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line Pete Skibitski with Alembic Global. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Pete.

Good morning, Pete.

Congrats on the export license.

Yeah. Thank you.

Yeah. So, yeah, two questions on fuzes. I feel like normally – maybe in the queue – maybe I missed it, but normally there's a split on the deliveries between kind of domestic versus international. You had 5,700 roughly deliveries this quarter. But was that all U.S. or could you give us a sense of the split?

Yeah. No – Pete, good question. Those deliveries were predominantly USG.

Okay. Okay.

And we'd talked earlier in the year, Pete, if you recall that from a delivery perspective, we expected about a 60/40 split; 60% USG, 40% DCS.

Yeah.

That number may change a little bit in the back half of the year depending on production and shipment requirements. But just in terms of – and I'll preempt the question you may have, but certainly as we think about the profitability ramp that we're looking at in the back half, that is going to be driven by a good part in our DCS shipments. Because if you recall, DCS is really recorded at point in time when we ship and our USG contract for JPF is really done over time. So, we expect the predominant amount of the revenue in the back half of the year for this product line to come from DCS.

Got it. Okay. Yeah. Couple other questions related to that, just to drill down. Post the export approval of the big contract, is it fair to think over the next two to three years that the mix of JPF is going to skew to DCS now?

Yeah. That's another good question, Pete. I would say, certainly we would expect to see a more consistent cadence of DCS shipments as we look to fulfill that order over the next few years. A couple of things. The order activity or the solicitation activity in a lot of our customers remains very high. But also, we're currently in discussions with the U.S. Government on Options 15 and 16. And the volume range – the indicative range is between 10,000 and 40,000 units. And so, once again, we are seeing considerable demand out of the U.S. Government as well. So, we felt really encouraged about the visibility and the outlook for JPF.

That's great. Thanks, Rob. I'll get back in queue.

Thanks, Pete.

Thanks, Pete.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Good morning, guys. This is Ryan Mills, on for Steve.

Hey, Ryan.

Hi, Ryan.

Yeah. I just wanted to talk about our free cash flow. I know you suspended guidance for some other metrics given the divestiture of Distribution, but I was just hoping maybe you could provide a little bit more color on the magnitude of the free cash flow improvement you expect in the second half and I was also wondering if you could provide that free cash generation profile of the standalone business and maybe talk about historical free cash flow as a percent of sales or net income.

Yeah, Ryan. All good questions. As we stated earlier, we have suspended our guidance just given the volatility and we want to kind of reassess the outlook just given the change in the business. So, what I can tell you is Aerospace is a very strong cash generator, we certainly expect a significant improvement in cash on the back half of the year as we continue to ramp up our bearings and collect on the number of the sales that we've made in the first half. So, we do expect a considerable improvement in our cash flow performance in the back of the year, but that's really all that we're going to state at this point.

Okay. And then, could you provide color on your end market breakout for Kamatics and maybe talk about the trends you're seeing across the different end markets there?

Sure. I'll start, Ryan, and Rob can chime in as well. First, we wanted to underscore that we were really pleased that we had record incoming order rates for the first six months of the year. It's been actually strong both across commercial and military. So, I think that the diversity of the platforms in markets that we serve in that business is really helping us. And I think the other thing is that if you take a step back just over the last four or five years, in 2015 about, we opened a new facility for RWG for our traditional rolling element bearings in Germany. And that was predominantly for Airbus production but now Boeing as well. So, we're seeing benefits at that facility.

We've gone through the expansions that you're well aware up here for our Kamatics self-lube bearing and flexible drive shaft businesses. And that's been ongoing, continues to be ongoing today. Last year, both the facility of our – expansion of our Czech facility with GRW and our EXTEX facility down in Arizona, and now the expansion of GRW that we announced just earlier this week. So, it's across all of our businesses, whether it's miniature bearings in Germany, whether it's our PMA business out of Arizona or our self-lube and flexible drive shaft business here. So, we're really encouraged with the incoming order rates that we're seeing there, and the production capacity that we've put in place to be able to expand that business.

Okay. One more from me and I'll hop back in the queue. How should we think about corporate costs going forward? If I assume the $15 million to $20 million of annual savings following the divestiture, I get a quarterly run rate of about $9 million to $10 million. Is that a good assumption? And lastly, when do you expect the normal run rate to kick in?

Yeah, Ryan. So, as it relates to corporate, I'm sure you can appreciate we remain very focused on managing our discretionary expenses. In terms of the run rates, what I'll say is we've benefited this quarter across a number of different areas. There really wasn't one specific area. Whether it be group health insurance, consulting, legal fees, we saw improvements year-over-year.

In terms of the $15 million to $20 million, I just want to be clear that that is an estimate that is really across the broader organization. So, I just want to be clear what that $15 million to $20 million represents, and we're continuing to work to refine that estimate. So, I would expect that as we get on to our 2020 guidance, we'll be able to provide a much better view as it relates to kind of a normalized corporate expense going forward.

Thanks for taking my questions.

Yeah. No, thank you, Ryan.

Thank you, Ryan.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Edward Marshall with Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Hey, Neal, Rob, Jamie, how are you?

Good.

Good.

Good.

Good morning, Ed.

So...

Power back, Ed?

It's – I'm lit. I'm lit.

It's a good thing to say first thing in the morning.

Yeah. Right. I might be in trouble. Hey. So, I wanted to ask that you talked about, Rob, and this is just a follow-up to that previous question, the $3 million of savings that you had in corporate. You mentioned a few things group health, legal, et cetera. Could you talk about maybe what's temporary versus what might be permanent kind of cost savings as we move forward from that $3 million number?

Yeah. So, I would say, Ed, the changes that we saw this quarter was kind of a combination of just kind of reduced structural cost and some really just one-time benefits relative to what we experienced last year. We are continuing to evaluate as we appreciate our structure. And as we touched on our June call, we've preliminarily identified $15 million to $20 million of savings across the organization that we expect to be able to deliver and we're continuing to look at that and refine that and we'll be providing updates as appropriate. But, certainly, for the balance of this year, we're not going to be providing a specific guidance towards corporate expense. We are very vigilant right now even more so just in terms of managing discretionary expenses as you would anticipate. So, really a combination of something that we view is structural and something that we view as kind of just fluctuations that you normally see quarter-to-quarter, year-over-year.

Got it. Excuse me for trying again, but is that $3 million included in that $15 million to $20 million savings that you're – [ph] which you're working to (00:26:55).

Ed, no. I mean what you're seeing there is really just a focus on expenses, but nothing that's out of the ordinary in terms of what we do.

Okay.

So, no, there's nothing there that you can kind of try to assimilate to the $15 to $20 million.

Got it. On another question earlier, you talked about the 737 MAX and the impact it might have to you. Can you talk or can you tell us what rate you're producing at today? Is it the 42 or the 52 rate on the MAX.

Ed, I think that that was one of the things that I was trying to get at by outlining the number of different customers that we have on the 737 MAX program. So, we would anticipate that the customers that we're supplying to across the supply chain are probably somewhere between the 42 rate that they're at today, and the 52 rate that Boeing moved from because clearly, a number of suppliers had used this as an opportunity to be able to catch up from where they were. So, for us to say that we're at 42, 52, or 45 really is hard given the place we are at in the supply chain and the number of end customers we supply to.

Yeah. Ed, just one other comment, I would add is, Neal is absolutely right. It's hard to [indiscernible] (00:28:21) exactly a specific rate given to the customer base that we serve. But we feel really good relative to our earlier expectations on 737 MAX. We're in line with a minimal risk towards the back half of the year because we're within the lead time for those orders, for the balance of the year.

Got it, got it. And then if I look at the comments made about record order intake, and I understand they're in engineered products and bearings and then I compare that to what happened in backlog. It looks like it dropped 13% year-over-year. Can you just give me a sense as to maybe some of those orders were quicker book and ship versus maybe weakness in other parts of the business, maybe structures? I appreciate that.

Actually, we had pretty good incoming order rates in structures, and I think that what we saw was actually we're up in backlog for the second quarter. So...

Yeah. Just to add, I think really what you're seeing if you're kind of looking year-over-year, that the largest driver in terms of the change of the backlog would be around JPF. [indiscernible]

(00:29:34)

Okay. So there's...

Yeah. Right. If you're looking from the end of the year, I mean really the – there are two large drivers in terms of the slight reduction in backlog that's going to be our JPF product as well as [ph] AH-1Z (00:29:48) that is offset by commercial orders from Boeing for both the wing-to-body fairings 777, 767. And then it's really kind of a lots of – I hate to use the term cats and dogs, but there's a lot of other accounts that are kind of offsetting each other. So, that's why you're seeing roughly about a 1% reduction year-to-date in backlogs.

Right. I was comparing it to 2Q last year, but that's okay. We could follow up.

But [ph] that will be obviously really going (00:30:16) to be your largest...

Yes.

...because we got that $324 million order in the first quarter last year.

Right. Got it. Got it. Okay, guys, thanks very much. Appreciate it.

Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Ed.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Chris Dankert with Longbow Research. Your line is now open.

Hey. Morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question.

Morning.

I guess just can we get any update on the SH-2? Just kind of remind us again what's the operating fleet look like? Any new update as far as customers or contracts there to talk about?

Chris, we as you know, we're just completing the SH-2 upgrade for Peru. We anticipate shipping the last of those aircraft likely in the third quarter of this year and earlier – and in earlier call, we talked about a significant upgrade program that we're currently working on with Egypt. So, we don't have that contract yet, but we continue to work towards it. They have 10 or 11 aircraft in their fleet. Last time we did an upgrade for them, it was $85 million program. So we see some good opportunities with Egypt in the near-term for the SH-2. And then clearly, adding four into the flying fleet with Peru is going to help from a longer term service and support annuity as well.

Got it. Yeah. That's helpful. And then just any update as far as A350? No changes there, everything is still ramping exactly as planned?

Yeah. We feel pretty good about A350. We feel very good about our Airbus business overall. And A350 has certainly been a nice platform for us. We've talked a lot about the strong content that we have on that aircraft. So, now as they've gotten to higher rates of production, it's been certainly helpful for us.

Got it. I mean commercial aero for the whole quarter, I assume was up fairly nicely?

Yeah. No. We had a pretty good quarter on the commercial side just given the timing of shipments.

Yeah. Yeah. Just last one for me. I mean obviously very exciting news on the new helicopter facility. Just any news as far as bidding interest on commercial K-MAX? Any color there would be helpful.

Yeah. We – thanks for that question. We have a very active pipeline of commercial customers for the K-MAX right now. And what's interesting is that, we were really happy that of the first 10 aircraft from the Lot 1 production, five went to new customers. So, we were really excited about that. We've got a lot of activity within that group right now, and also we actually have another follow-up visit from the Marine Corps scheduled for early next week. [indiscernible]

(00:33:22) stuff. Thanks, guys.

All right. Thank you, Chris.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Alembic Global. Your line is now open.

Hey. Just one follow-up guys, on question on seasonality. Last year, you had a pretty big dip, I believe in revenue in the third quarter before it came back up pretty sharply in the fourth quarter. I want to ask do you expect that same seasonality this year or with the export approval are we going to see more of a linear ramp sequentially the balance of the year?

Yeah. Pete, really good question. I think from a sales cadence perspective, we do expect the third quarter to continue the sequential improvement that we had seen between Q1 and Q2, and really a pretty significant ramp in Q4. And that's really going to be driven largely by bearings and our engineered products. We're expecting to see also some relative ramp as well in our precision products most notably JPF in the fourth quarter. But certainly, we expect to see sequential improvement as we move through the balance of the year.

Got it. Very helpful. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Steve Barger (sic) [Ryan Mills] (00:34:41) with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Just a couple more follow-ups. I want to talk about the level of inflation you're seeing in the standalone business and maybe provide your COGS exposure to China. And I'm also kind of curious, contracts you have with the government, does it allow you to pass-through rising costs?

Yeah. A couple of things there, Ryan, I'll start with your last question. The majority of our contracts are from fixed pricing. So what we typically do to offset that risk because we enter into long-term agreements with our suppliers so that we have a very good sense. And as you would appreciate, we typically build in a level of escalation into our contracts to protect us. But, certainly, if there is tariffs and other things, our provisions typically and our contract for unusual or extraordinary costs that we typically can negotiate with our customers. So, we do have some exposure clearly. But we've taken contractual measures to mitigate that as best possible.

As it relates to COGS coming out of China, certainly, like many other manufacturers, we evaluate opportunities, but I don't think we have any real significant risk as it relates to the trade issues that we're seeing with China and how that would impact. A lot of our materials especially in our bearings side are very prescribed alloys and other special materials that really are not going to be impacted by what you're seeing in the press.

Okay. And can you maybe talk a little bit more about your decision to expand in Germany and maybe talk about demand trends in Europe given weaker macro data and Brexit concerns?

Certainly, we've all seen some of the impacts of the slowdown in Europe overall, whether it's Brexit, whether it's their – the correlation that they have to the ongoing issues with China. But, what I would say it two ways. One is that, we've had very good strong growth in recent years in GRW, and we are investing for and preparing for the expected continued growth there. We may have a little bit of a lull in the industrial part of their business, but certainly, when you look at the diversity of their business across aerospace, medical, and industrial, we feel really good about the ongoing opportunity to grow that business, and that's why we continue to invest.

Appreciate the color there. And then my last question just around M&A, have you seen multiples come down and what appears to be a slower demand environment and can you maybe talk about where margin accretive or free cash flow accretion ranks in your priorities? And then is there any business units or service offerings you want to complement more so than others?

Yeah. Couple of things, Ryan. I mean, depending on the asset and the unique nature of an asset, purchased multiple still remain very competitive and certainly, we have not seen any notable decrease in purchase multiples because the types of assets, the engineered product asset that we're looking for are certainly very desired across a number of different potential bidders, so we are definitely seeing a competitive landscape.

In terms of financial metrics, as Neal mentioned, we're going to be very disciplined in terms of how we look at deploying that capital towards acquisitions. I mean there is clearly a strategic aspect to it. But, on the financial side, certainly, as we look at internal rates of return that will be a primary metric for us. GAAP EPS accretion while important is really dictated largely by accounting measures and it doesn't really reflect the underlying economics and the strategic reason why you do a transaction.

But we're still going to be very cash cushion. We would certainly expect given the state of our balance sheet that virtually any transaction that we look at is going to be cash accretive to the company. So, that's great. But we're going to be very disciplined as we deploy the capital.

And then you ask one other question in terms of the what markets might we look at in terms of complimentary. I think as Neal alluded to, GRW and EXTEX, the most recent acquisitions we've done on our engineered product side really provide a terrific roadmap and those transactions have been extremely successful for us and really provide a great roadmap for us as we're continuing to look at opportunities on how to deploy the proceeds.

Appreciate all the color, and thanks again for taking my follow-up.

No, thank you very much, Ryan. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. So, with that said, I'll turn the call back over to Vice President of Investor Relations, James Coogan for closing remarks.

Thank you everyone for joining us on today's call, and we look forward to speaking with you again when we report our results for the third quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.