Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Eric B. Remington — Vice President-Investor Relations, Kaman Corp.
Neal J. Keating — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Kaman Corp.
Robert D. Starr — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kaman Corp.
Arnie Ursaner — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matt Duncan — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Edward Marshall, Jr. — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Jeffrey D. Hammond — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
R. Scott Graham — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Stephen E. Levenson — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Robert B. Kirkpatrick — Analyst, Cardinal Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[audio gap] (0:01) earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Eric Remington, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please proceed.

Good morning. Welcome to the Kaman Corporation First Quarter 2014 Conference Call to discuss our earnings results. Conducting the call today are Neal Keating, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Starr, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin this morning, please note that some of the information discussed during today's call will consist of forward-looking statements setting forth our current expectations with respect to the future of our business, the economy and other future events. These include projections of revenue, earnings and other financial items, statements on the plans and objectives of the company or its management, statements of future economic performance and assumptions underlying these statements regarding the company and its business. The company's actual results could differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statements due to many factors, the most important of which are described in the company's latest filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the current report on Form 8-K filed yesterday evening together with our earnings release.

In addition, in our press release and on this teleconference, we'll discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release, which has been filed with the SEC and posted to the Investor Relations section of our website, which can be accessed at www.kaman.com.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Neal Keating. Neal?

Thank you, Eric. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We were pleased to have opened 2014 on a strong note, with solid performance across both our Aerospace and Distribution businesses. In line with our expectations, sales were up in both segments in about 6.7% overall. We also delivered a significant improvement in consolidated operating profit, registering a 52% increase over the prior year. Net earnings per share were up 62% to $0.42 per share from $0.26 in the prior period.

Next, I would like to provide additional color on the performance of each of our segments. Beginning with Aerospace, sales were up approximately 14%, driven by sales from our New Zealand SH-2 program, higher volume of Joint Programmable Fuze deliveries and increased sales from various composite structure programs. We continued our strong execution on the New Zealand SH-2 program and earlier this month achieved a significant milestone with the successful first flight of the aircraft.

The JPF program had a strong performance as well with deliveries of approximately 5,200 fuzes, 600 fuzes more than last year. As expected, our mix of JPF sales shifted from last year with 95% of the fuzes delivered in the quarter going to the U.S. Government. We received $52 million in contract awards during the quarter, including the first order under Option 11 of our Air Force contract and a direct commercial sale. These increased program backlog to $131 million.

Turning to other Aerospace highlights, our bearing product lines performed well, driven by strong sales in orders and Boeing and Airbus programs. The Boeing 747-8 wing-to-body fairing program is moving forward and the tooling recently arrived in Jacksonville from Boeing's Winnipeg facility and we remain on track to begin deliveries to Everett by the end of the year.

Our Engineering Services group began work for Boeing at our new Charleston office and continues to actively pursue opportunities with other Aerospace customers. And we continue to make progress in a number of other new structure programs, including the Learjet 85 passenger and over-wing exit doors, the Fixed Leading Edge for the Bombardier G7000 and G8000, and the Gulf Stream G280 winglet program.

The last few months also saw the successful relocation of two facilities. During April, we completed the move to our new specialty bearing facility in Germany and we have already begun shipping product. This new plant significantly expands our capacity to meet the growing demand of our European customer base, and we also opened our new U.K. tooling facility, which will significantly expand our capabilities and enable us to compete for a broader array of tooling programs.

Most importantly, through the hard work and dedication of our employees, we were able to maintain a high-level of customer service during these two relocations. Today, Aerospace is firmly positioned to continue to improve operational performance, successfully execute new programs and win additional work to provide steady, long-term growth.

Moving on to Distribution, consolidated sales per day were up 4.7% over the prior year, with organic sales per day up about 2%. Sales in the quarter accelerated sharply in March as demand improved and weather-related disruptions we experienced in January and February receded.

Operating margin improved 240 basis points to 4.2%. Overall, we were pleased to see the second consecutive quarter of organic growth, which gives us increased confidence that the industrial economy continues to gain traction.

Looking at the quarter's performance by end market, we achieved higher sales growth in the MRO portion of our business, with solid growth from customers in the cement and aggregate industries, which have benefited from improvement in construction and housing starts. We also saw strong demand in food processing and on several infrastructure projects. Our OEM business delivered positive growth in the quarter as well, albeit at a slower pace relative to our MRO performance.

We remain keenly focused on increasing organic growth and year-to-date, we have made good progress on our efforts to hire an additional 50 account managers to 60 account managers. And last Friday, we closed the acquisition of B.W. Rogers, a critical transaction that will significantly strengthen our relationship with Parker Hannifin in the United States. With the addition of B.W. Rogers, we now have more than 40 locations authorized to distribute Parker product directly as well as an additional 200 locations through our national reseller agreement. This acquisition increases our exposure to end markets where we have previously been underrepresented, including steel, shale gas and automotive.

In addition to fluid power, B.W. Rogers brings machine control and integration operations that align well with our automation, control and energy product platform. Today, we have the opportunity to welcome all the members of the B.W. Rogers team to Kaman, and we look forward to the contributions you will make to our collective success going forward.

In summary, we're off to a good start in 2014, driven by strong performance at Aerospace and are encouraged by the improving trends at Distribution. Given our current momentum, coupled with the acquisition of B.W. Rogers, we are well-positioned to execute on our long-term strategy.

Now, I'd like to turn it over to Rob to provide you with some additional details and color. Rob?

Thank you, Neal, and good morning, everyone. As Neal highlighted, 2014 has begun well with both segments delivering year-over-year revenue and earnings growth. Our continued focus on operational performance led to a 160 basis point improvement in our consolidated operating margins, 80 basis points after adjusting for the impact of the 2013 distribution restructuring charge.

At Aerospace, revenues increased 13.9% to $149 million and operating income increased 5% to $22 million. As expected, operating margins at Aerospace were modestly lower than the prior year. The primary factors impacting the year-over-year margin comparisons were, an increased sales mix of lower margin aerostructure programs, lower levels of non-recurring retrofit bearing projects and expenses associated with the opening of our new facilities in Germany and the U.K. We expect Aerospace margin to improve through the course of the year, driven by higher specialty bearing product line sales and more favorable mix of JPF sales and improving margins for our aerostructure programs.

Distribution posted a solid quarter, with sales increasing 3% over the prior year to $265 million. Contributing to our margin improvement was continued organic growth and the absence of last year's $3 million restructuring charge.

I would like to address our balance sheet and liquidity position in light of the B.W. Rogers acquisition. At the end of the first quarter, our debt to capitalization ratio stood at 35.9%, relatively flat with our year end position, as we saw improved year-over-year cash flow and earnings. We funded the acquisition with proceeds from our revolving credit facility and post the transaction continued to maintain a conservative financial profile.

Free cash flow in the quarter improved by $22.8 million over the prior year, driven by higher earnings and lower working capital requirements. This improvement was partially offset by higher pension contributions of $5 million, as we completed our full year funding of $10 million during the quarter. Capital expenditure levels were in line with [ph] ex limitations (10:40), as we continue our infrastructure and ERP investments during 2014.

I would like to turn to our outlook, which has been updated to reflect the B.W. Rogers transaction. Starting with revenues, we expect B.W. Rogers to contribute between $65 million and $70 million in 2014. On a GAAP basis, we anticipate B.W. Rogers' operating profit margin to be neutral to our base business; however, built into this assumption are $1.5 million of one-time acquisition-related items and $1.7 million in non-cash intangible amortization expense we expect to incur in 2014.

Our increased interest expense projection reflects increased debt levels associated with the transaction and lastly we expect B.W. Rogers to contribute approximately $3 million of free cash flow during the year.

The transaction is expected to be modestly accretive on a GAAP basis and highly accretive after excluding one-time and future non-cash expenses. Pro forma for the acquisition, we continue to maintain our view that approximately 60% of our full year consolidated net earnings will be recorded in the second half of the year with earnings building sequentially throughout the year. Overall, we're pleased with the start to the year and are confident we will deliver on our outlook.

With that, I will turn it back over to Neal. Neal?

Thanks, Rob. In closing, I'd like to say that we are pleased with our first quarter results and believe they provide the foundation for improved performance as we move through the balance of the year.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Eric. Eric?

Thanks, Neal. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Arnie Ursaner at CJS Securities. Go ahead please.

Hi. Good morning. The obvious question is, you mentioned that March saw a dramatic acceleration. Can you comment on April?

Sure, Arnie. Good morning, it's Neal. We did have a significant acceleration in March as we commented. We haven't finished April yet, we finished our month on Monday. We don't have the final results, but we're up in the 2% to 3% organic growth range. Again, not final results, but we were pleased with continued strength that we saw through April.

Okay. And my second question or follow-up is, you, on the last call, mentioned the build out of your sales force, targeting 50 account managers to 60 account managers during the course of the year. How many have we added so far and maybe give us your best sense of how this will build during the year?

Arnie, good question. We finished – in mid-April, we had added about 15 people to 17 people, so we were about on track, we would expect it to be linear through the year, probably completing in early fourth quarter, just so that we can bring people on in a staged basis and bring them through the on-boarding process, the training process effectively and get them out and get them effective. That may vary a little bit obviously based on, if we find somebody that's clearly very talented and can add to our expertise in the field, we will go out and get those people right now.

Quick follow-up, if I can, Neal, what margin impact or negative impact from this build is embedded in your guidance for this year?

Hi, Arnie, this is Rob. In terms of our guidance, as we talked about on our year end call, we expect to hopefully hit about a breakeven run rate on this initiative, as we exit 2014, so we'll have a negative drag, we haven't quantified how much, but there will certainly be a negative drag on margins in 2014 and we're hoping to turn that in late 2014 or 2015 to breakeven and obviously positive going on beyond that.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. The next question is from the line of Matt Duncan at Stephens, Inc. Go ahead please.

Good morning, guys.

Hey, Matt, how are you?

Good morning, Matt.

I'm good. Thanks. So, Neal...

Tough day yesterday?

Yes. Yes, it was a little rough here. Thank...

Yes.

Thankfully everybody seems to be okay. So...

Good.

Neal, just looking at the organic growth at KIT, I know you guys had commented on the last call that it was tracking, I believe, negative in January and February. You said you're up 2% to 3% so far in April. Couple of things to dig in here. How much was March up and do you think there's any kind of drag in the month of April due to the timing of the Good Friday and Easter holiday falling in April this year versus March last year?

I'll start with how we saw trend through the first quarter. We were down slightly in January. We were down mid-single digits in February on an organic basis year-to-year mainly in the South, Southeast and Northeast. So again, we attribute a lot of that to the harsh weather conditions. We were up strong single digits in the month of March and that's what brought us to that 2% positive organic growth for the quarter. And actually this morning, I was thinking about whether or not the Good Friday, Easter holiday may have impacted us. It may have a little, but I don't know that we can really attribute much to that in the month of April.

Okay. Fair enough. Rob, just a couple of things on the guidance. It sounds like you're still expecting a pretty good ramp as we move through the year and really in both segments, especially in Aerospace because I know at Distribution typically just organic sales will be down a little bit in 4Q from a 3Q. Can you help us maybe on the Aerospace side, looking at the ramp in your operating margin especially from the 14.8% you had this quarter, how should we think about how quickly you get into the guidance range for the full year? And I am assuming then that the fourth quarter is probably going to be above that full year guidance of 16.5% to 17%. I am just trying to get a little bit of help if I can on sort of how that ramp is going to look?

Sure. No, that's a very good question. To your point, we have maintained the guidance for the full year for Aerospace between $640 million and $660 million revenue and 16.5% and 17% margin. So clearly the math, it's fairly clear that we have to average about 17.5% over the remainder of the year to achieve our outlook or the mid-range of the outlook. And we do anticipate in Aerospace based upon anticipated increased sales of bearing products as we go through the year as well as timing on JPF DCS sales that we will see the margins increase sequentially over the remainder of the year. There will certainly be higher margins in the second half of the year, which is why we're estimating 60% of our consolidated net revenues will be earned in the second half – of consolidated earnings.

Okay. Thanks, Rob.

Sure.

Next question comes from the line of Ed Marshall at Sidoti & Company. Go ahead, please.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Ed.

Good morning, Ed.

So, I wanted to ask about the Jacksonville facility and the construction that's going on in the wing-to-body program in Jacksonville. I'm just curious where we are on that, what the drag is potentially on the margin and when that will subside?

Okay. Ed, we just received the tooling from Boeing Winnipeg into our Jacksonville facility during the month of April. So we will begin placing it, et cetera, in the second quarter. We don't anticipate making our initial deliveries until the fourth quarter of 2014. So we will have some operational drag and some overhead impacts, but very little revenue that would be realized in 2014. I think what we can anticipate is as we begin to ramp that up through 2015, it would likely have somewhat of a negative impact on Aerospace margins in the first half, perhaps in 2015 as is typical when we have lower margins as we start up new programs, but I wouldn't really expect any significant impact from either a revenue or an earnings headwind in 2014, simply because of the timing of when we'll be starting up.

And the AH-1Z, that's running through that program as well?

The AH-1Z is actually in the same facility in Jacksonville as well, that has begun to ramp up pretty nicely. I think actually we're in subassembly of aircraft number 10. So we should begin hitting some fairly consistent delivery rates of about one a month going in towards the tail end of 2014.

So the guidance here, just to, kind of, clarify; you expect gradual improvement throughout the year. One is based on mix but also as you start to get down the learning curve on some of these particular programs that you've signed on over the last few years and that we should gain some good momentum heading into 2015, albeit you'll be carrying in some of that 747-8...

Yes, I think that that's right. And we should think about it, Ed, in two ways. We'll have certainly some continued acceleration in our underlying structures programs, AH-1Z, Lear 85, the G280 winglet, but also a big contributor to the increased margins in the third quarter and fourth quarter in Aerospace will be the mix change as well, as we have stronger bearing sales and also a higher percentage of our JPF product going to direct commercial customers at a higher margin.

What exactly is creating the seasonality in 1Q in Aerospace that we've seen play out maybe over the last two years to three years? Is it mix and is it just timing of shipments and was there a shift in customer demand or rather a customer that you had that pulls demand a little bit differently? What's causing the first quarter to kind of shift on mix?

In Rob's comments, Ed, he tried to highlight a couple of those, but if we were to look year-to-year, the biggest change probably impacting are, well there were three that Rob identified, but the biggest one was probably the non-recurring specialty bearing retrofits that we had in the first quarter and second quarter of last year. I think we commented last year that we had something on the order of $10 million to $12 million of non-production retrofits that went through the facilities in the first half of last year, and while we get some of that each year, Ed, without question, that was a very high number for us. And also one of the risks that we had coming into 2014 clearly was the relocation of the two facilities, our new specialty bearing facility in Germany as well as our new tooling facility in the U.K. We moved into each of those in the first quarter. We're ramping up production now during the second quarter. So, again, that naturally causes us some headwind in the first quarter of this year as well.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you, Ed.

Thank you. Your next question is from the line of Jeff Hammond at KeyBanc. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeff.

Good morning, Jeff.

So just to be clear on the margin in Aero, it's going to be much – you'll have some improvement in the 2Q, but it's going to be much more second half weighted?

Yes. Jeff, I think that's a fair assessment. We will see some improvement, we expect, in the second quarter, but certainly the bulk of the uptick in margin will be seen in the second half.

And then the growth rate you had in the first quarter obviously very good in Aero relative to your full year guidance. Is that just kind of timing around the SH-2G or how should we think about kind of cadence of growth rates in Aero for the balance of the year?

Yes. I think the way to think about it is we will see some slight improvement quarter-over-quarter in Aerospace top line. But certainly, the larger acceleration will be on margins due to product mix.

Okay, okay. And then on Distribution, I think you said March was high single digits and April was low single digits?

That's right.

I mean, do you think there was some catch-up in March from January, February and the underlying growth rate trend is kind of in that low single digits or how should we think about that?

I think you're right, Jeff. I think there had to be some catch-up in March, and our return to a low single digits is probably right. If you think about our outlook for the year, it's between 3% and 6% organic growth, so that's kind of – that's clearly our expectation.

Okay, okay. Great. And then any other, kind of, puts or takes within your Aero forecast or is it all kind of falling in line with how you thought the year would shape up?

Yes. Jeff, I would say, given the number of programs that we are involved, there is always some puts and takes during the course of the year, especially as it relates to timing, because sometimes it's difficult to tell when something will ship due to unforeseen circumstances. But, I would say overall the year is progressing so far as we had anticipated.

Okay. Great, thanks guys.

Thank you.

Thanks. The next question is from Scott Graham at Jefferies. Go ahead, please.

Hey, guys, good morning.

Good morning, Scott.

Good morning, Scott.

I was hoping you would be able to kind of give us that typical walkthrough you give us on sort of updating you on programs that you're working on and things that you're hoping can potentially book in 2014 or 2015, both on the commercial and defense sides?

Well, you know, Scott, it's a good question. The key things for us are, one, as we've talked about the Boeing 747-8 wing-to-body fairing bid that we've recently been awarded is probably the best example of our effort to bring together the combined capabilities of our engineering, our composites and metallic, detailed parts manufacturing as well as complex assemblies. So, for us to be able to work more effectively with Boeing and win additional outsource work from them is probably our highest priority right now. We've also, as you know, opened a new engineering facility in Charleston, so we were very pleased to be able to win additional work with our Engineering Services business with Boeing as well.

And clearly, within our Specialty Bearings business, we continue to work across a broad range of platforms, in particular our work with Airbus, continuing to grow content on A350 and actually a number of their helicopter programs now both in the U.S. and Europe. And then as we kind of tick through some of the programs that we've won, but we expect to see ramping up, they would include the Boeing P-8, we've commented on the success of the Gulfstream G280 and that continues. And then we also have recently worked with Boeing to extend our Boeing 767 and Boeing 777 content. So, those are the kinds of programs and then of course the K-MAX, both unmanned and potentially manned as well, we've targeted likely a range of 10 new orders to 15 new orders to restart the line, we continue to work to see if there is sufficient market demand for us to do that and work with our partner, Lockheed Martin, on the unmanned program as well. So, a pretty broad list of programs, I think that that's probably the strength of our portfolio of capabilities.

That's all I had. Thank you.

Great. Thanks, Scott.

Thank you, Scott.

Thanks. The next question is from the line of Steve Levenson at Stifel. Please, proceed.

Thanks. Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Steve.

Good morning, Steve.

Just to follow-up on K-MAX, so I guess, there was a demo recently, an unmanned demo with at least one other helicopter. Can you give us an update on that and where you think that might lead?

Sure. There was – it was the [indiscernible] (28:16) program. In fact, we are very pleased with our performance on that program. We've got the aircraft back, a couple of weeks ago, we're actually bringing it down for maintenance and refitting it for additional demonstrations in the future.

Obviously, there's been some recent press about competition. Competition is a good thing. It proves to us that there's a market for it and we think that the unique capabilities from a cost, both acquisition cost and operating cost, clearly from a performance perspective, in terms of heavy lift and finally its proven track record in Afghanistan, puts us in a pretty good position in those competitions.

Okay. Thank you. Can you give us a little update too on the outlook for BLACK HAWK, is that sort of a volatile program these days?

You're right, Steve. It's an interesting one, because over the past few years, while our Aerospace business overall has grown pretty nicely, the unit output of BLACK HAWK has gone from about 177 back a couple years ago to probably on the order of 100 this year, and that business continues to grow. So, I think it underscores the strength of the diversity of capabilities in that business again.

We think we're going to be in the 100ish range and probably will be for 2014. It might gradually go down over the course of the next couple years, but we feel very good about that program. We've recently, in the last couple quarters or last quarter – end of last year, shipped our thousandth unit. I think that it proves that we are a really strong partner for Sikorsky and clearly that remains the aircraft of choice for the U.S. Services.

Steve, if I could...

Got it. Go ahead.

Yes, Steve, just another – one other point that I'd like to make there is, we certainly pay close attention to what's happening in a lot of these end markets, which is why we've invested in our regional sales director model that we had talked about on prior calls, that we have a very active pipeline to basically, absolutely replenish those areas where we see potential declines in future demand.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have another question from Arnie Ursaner at CJS Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Going back to the JPF for a second, you mentioned 95% of the sales in Q1 were to the U.S. Government, which is your lowest margin business. As you look to the balance of the year, do you have any better feel for how the mix will likely shape up for the next couple of quarters?

Sure. Arnie, this is Rob. Going forward, we do have a number of expected shipments later in the year on DCS, so we would expect that mix to obviously come down from 95%. It won't be as high as last year, I mean, based on our current outlook. But certainly, the mix in the forward quarters will be perhaps more similar to what we saw in some of the quarters last year.

Okay. And Sikorsky recently demonstrated an unmanned BLACK HAWK, how do you see that perhaps playing out as an opportunity for you?

Yes. You know, Arnie, that's interesting. We obviously were – also very interestingly we read that release. There's two parts to that. One, I'd go back to my earlier comment that I think it demonstrates that there is a number of companies, Sikorsky is one of them, that realizes there's opportunity for unmanned cargo resupply. The BLACK HAWK is unique because for us, we also build that aircraft in Jacksonville. So as they're successful with the U.S. Government for either manned or unmanned programs, that hopefully will be good for us as well. And also as they continue to effectively market that aircraft internationally, if some of that demand is met by U.S. production, that's a positive for Kaman as well.

I don't know if you mentioned it or not. Did you discuss the actual revenue from the SH-2G in the quarter?

No. We didn't.

No.

...we shipped 21 sets in the first quarter, Arnie. Oh, SH-2, I apologize, I thought you mentioned [indiscernible] (33:04).

So we have an annual revenue goal, what was the revenue in the quarter?

It was fairly in line with the guidance that we've provided, Arnie, of about roughly $10 million a quarter.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thanks. Your next question is from the line of Robert Kirkpatrick at Cardinal Capital. Go ahead please.

Good morning.

Good morning, Rob.

What are you going to do with the C-17 assets now that it looks like production is going to ramp completely down?

You know, Rob, another obviously good question. Two parts to it. One, we've got some really good mechanics that work on the C-17 line today and the good news for us is that with the ramp-up of the AH-1Z, we're able to transition a number of them over to the AH-1Z line which is clearly a positive. We're trying to determine how we can best utilize the floor space that will become available in the facility as we ramp down the C-17. It's not an enormous amount of floor space as you can imagine because we've been doing that for a long time and have really leaned out the area, but again we're working really hard to win new work to put into the Jacksonville facility and we feel pretty confident about the pipeline that we have there.

So it's not a lot of floor space. We've got really talented folks that we can use on other programs. We may be able to utilize the equipments in another area, but overall we've anticipated that going away for a while, Rob, and while we had hoped originally for 10 ship sets as a fact that it comes in at seven ship sets for us for the year, it's not something that we're going to lose a lot of sleep over.

Great. Thank you so much.

Gentlemen, there are no further questions, so I would now like to turn the call back to Mr. Eric Remington for closing remarks.

Hey, thank you, Dave, and thank you all for joining us for today's conference call. We look forward to speaking with you again when we report second quarter earnings in July.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.