Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
John Moran — Non-Independent Director & Chief Medical Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Neil Maruoka — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences Inc.'s Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. John Moran, Chief Medical Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:32-01:05)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Thank you very much, and good morning, everyone. Apologies for our folks on the West Coast, this call is usually – is an hour earlier than usual, but we're very busy right now. John and I, attending the American Society of Nephrology Conference. And that's the only way we could actually hold that webcast. So, welcome everyone.

I'll remind everyone on slide two that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involve risks and uncertainties. And on that note, I'll move on to slide three which cover the agenda that we intend to discuss this morning at the webcast. I will start with the highlights in the quarter. Guidance again for the second half of this year, or call it Q4. Bruce will then step in and discuss the financials on the quarter, and we'll come back with some corporate update and special focus on the Vanderbilt Study, and move on to discuss the milestones for year-end that we still have in the making and outlook for 2015.

So busy year, busy quarter. I mean, Fibrinogen commercial launch is on target for this quarter. We have had multiple development program with the affinity resin, and we've announced some on that front, the CAD 20 million follow-on investment from Thomvest also provided additional working capital for the company to expand its activity and perform and advance products in the clinics.

We're very happy for Bruce's promotion as a Chief Operating Officer, which signaled the inevitable transiting from R&D, predominantly R&D company to a manufacturing and commercial activities, related to the biopharmaceuticals, Laval facility and the expended capacity that is forthcoming.

Very successful development and regulatory milestone throughout the quarter. Successful pre-IND meeting for PBI-4050 and just like recently as well, Health Canada giving green light for PBI-4050 for the trial in the renal patients. So, exciting time. And again, on slide five, we provided just weeks ago, some guidance on the second half of 2014. I'm highlighting in green here two that were promised and we ticked those box, and intend to tick all the other boxes before year-end.

We'd a very strong Q4 in terms of revenue. And as Bruce will expand, there's always this issue of quarter-to-quarter variance. So this is no exception this year, very strong Q4 as a result of having some of those deals that we're finalizing, closing in this side of the quarter.

Perhaps, Bruce, you would like to go on and discuss the financial results for Q3.

Great. Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask you to move to slide number seven in the webcast. And as usual, I'll remind listeners that this part of today's webcast is based on the financial statements for the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and September 30, 2013, which have been reviewed by Ernst & Young, the corporation's auditor, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013.

All of these statements were prepared under IFRS. The full annual financial statements for the group can be found online at sedar.com. And finally, all sums in the presentation today are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or if otherwise indicated.

If we move on to slide number eight, which is my regular analysis of the revenue for the year-to-date, which for 2014 is CAD 12.5 million. The split of revenue is somewhat different to the previous year. Product sales have continued to grow with year-to-date product sales standing at CAD 7.3 million, an increase of CAD 0.5 million on the same nine months of 2013.

At the same time, however, service and license revenues are only CAD 5.1 million compared to the CAD 8.8 million reported in the first three quarters of 2013. This reflects both the change in NantPro becoming a subsidiary earlier in the year, and therefore eliminating any service revenues from that entity, but also reflecting the fact that we're slowing the amount of external services provided to licensees, so as to retain more value for our own shareholders and our own pipeline.

If I move to slide nine and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the third quarter, I think it's fair to say that there is a fairly significant loss and everyone will have noticed that in the financial statements. But 50% of that loss is a non-cash accounting adjustment, which rather perversely is based on the success of the stock price in the quarter. I'll come on and talk about that in a second, but if we go through this line-by-line.

Revenues for the quarter were CAD 2.3 million compared to CAD 6 million for the third quarter of 2013. This year-to-date revenues of CAD 12.5 million compared to CAD 15.6 million in the first three quarters of 2013. As I mentioned on the previous slide, within this, there's been a modest increase in product sales revenue. That increase is related mainly to currency exchange, and therefore there was little impact on cost of goods, which remain consistent year-over-year at CAD 4.7 million for the three quarters.

Total research and development costs have increased over the same period of 2013. However, significant progress has been made towards delivering our stated milestones for both plasma derived and small molecule therapeutics. In addition, with NantPro now being part of the group, the R&D costs for that new subsidiary also reflected as costs for ProMetic.

With that context then, the research and development costs were CAD 7.8 million in the quarter compared to CAD 4.6 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total research and development costs to around CAD 23.4 million for the year-to-date compared to CAD 12.4 million for the year-to-date 2013.

Administration costs in the third quarter of 2014 were CAD 3 million compared to CAD 2 million in the same quarter of 2013, with that increase reflecting the increase in head count and associated share-based compensation costs required to support our growing business.

Finance costs are higher year-on-year reflecting the interest on the two Thomvest loans that we now have. And in this quarter, the fair value adjustment of the warrant that I mentioned earlier significantly impacted the quarter to the tune of CAD 10.4 million due to the substantial increase in the share price from 30th of June 2014 to 30th of September 2014. Again, remind everyone that this is an accounting transaction rather than a cash cost to the business.

And finally, just in the year-to-date column, we have the two gains, which we mentioned in the Q2 webcast, resulting from the change in the NantPro relationship from that of associate to becoming a subsidiary. As I mentioned in the second quarter that those figures were based on a preliminary allocation of the purchase price, we expect to finalize that valuation exercise this year and expect the result to remain similar or perhaps even to increase the gain slightly in our favor. But no adjustments have been booked in the third quarter in relation to that transaction.

So year-to-date EBITDA shows a loss of CAD 19.7 million versus a loss of CAD 5 million for year-to-date 2013. And that difference is clearly made up of the additional costs associated with advancing and our R&D product pipeline to the clinic and gearing up the business for commercial launch.

So overall then, the group returned a net loss of CAD 20.7 million or CAD 0.04 per share in the quarter, compared to a loss of CAD 5.3 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2013. And looking at the net loss then overall for the year-to-date, CAD 5.9 million year-to-date 2014 versus CAD 9.9 million year-to-date 2013.

If I move then on to slide 10 and analyzing the key figures from the balance sheet. Cash at the end of the quarter stood at CAD 10.4 million compared to CAD 17.4 million at the end of the year. Accounts receivable were CAD 4.9 million compared to CAD 14.2 million at year-end. Within that CAD 4.9 million figure, trade receivables have reduced quite significantly as a result of converting CAD 6 million of the NantPro receivable into an equity investment, but also as a result of the lower product sales in the quarter. Also since the year-end, the loan that we had with InvHealth has been repaid in full.

Capital assets have risen by CAD 3.2 million, representing mainly the investment that we continue to make in the production facility in Laval and also on the production plant in the Isle of Man. Trade and other payables are down to CAD 6.1 million compared to CAD 7.9 million at year-end, reflecting payments made in the year-to-date. Deferred revenues are at CAD 1.5 million, which reflects the recent upfront payment from Octapharma on their latest – the PO that was announced a while back, and deliveries on that order have not yet commenced and that's at their request.

The warrant liability stood at CAD 21.8 million at the end of the quarter. And again, reminding everyone that this is a non-cash accounting entry, so not really a payable in our books. Long-term debt, provided by Thomvest, shown here at CAD 22.3 million will also likely be repaid by the exercise of the warrants and that were accruing this liability on. The increase in the figure since year-end is due to the accretion of interest as well as the addition of loan taken early in the quarter.

Finally, as a result of the gains made on obtaining control of NantPro, the balance sheet has strengthened since year-end with total equity standing at CAD 42.4 million, up from CAD 18.6 million at year-end; and total assets up from CAD 49.9 million to CAD 137.9 million.

So wrapping up then on the financials, results for the quarter are continuing to demonstrate our investment in product development and the value created by taking control of NantPro. Clearly, we've had an impact this month – this quarter of the share price movement affecting the warrant liability, but I think all of the above are positive indicators of the potential returns to come.

So, I hand over now back to Pierre for the technical update.

Well, thank you. And anyone having questions related to the financials, as you know, during the Q&A, Bruce is there. And let's move on to slide 12, if you want, and expand a little bit more on the Vanderbilt Study.

This study was performed by Dr. Ray Harris, who is a Chief Nephrology at Vanderbilt, and President Elect of the American Society of Nephrology, and his colleague, Ming‐Zhi Zhang. This study was performed under a total arm's length material transfer agreement, where, under material transfer agreement, ProMetic provide the University with a certain amount of PBI-4050 for them to perform a study without us controlling at all the study. And in fact, it's a model that they have perfected at Vanderbilt, called the db/db eNOS‐/‐ mice, which is, if you go on slide 13, not good prognostic for those type of mouse that have a genetic makeup that create a combination of severe hypertension and diabetes.

And you can see here, Dr. Harris had listed for us, a list of things that go wrong in those animal and impacting dramatically, the kidney, most organs, in fact, kidney. But the focus of the poster presentation during the ASN, which is only 10%, 15% of the entire results. There's more to come from that study, and stay tuned. But so far what's been disclosed is the impact on the kidney and the pancreas. And I'll let also John comment later in this presentation.

On slide 14 just to highlight certain aspect of this terrible condition. That is, the red bar here that shows the dramatic loss of protein by the kidney. So we have published before data in the db/db animal model. This is just diabetic mouse. And to these mice, we removed one kidney, so it's a uninephrectomized mice model to accelerate the condition. But this one is actually even more dramatic, and you have this massive loss of protein in the urine which is one of the tool by which biomarker, let's call it that way, that the physician, nephrologists will use to determine the prognostic of the patient.

On slide 15, there is this nice calculation of data that simply shows that the animal on the dark, the black line, the animal that are not treated simply progress dramatically, they keep on having more and more protein shed in urine, showing that the kidney further deteriorate, and PBI-4050 protects that from happening. So there is a preservation of the glomerular filtration rate, and kind of a protection of the kidney in those animals that are treated, which is quite spectacular. And what you can do in animal that you cannot do in human is reflected on slide 16 and some follow on slides, where you have beautiful pictures of what's going on in the kidney.

So on slide 16, on the left, you have some different staining technique to show that in the first two pictures, on the upper left on the, dark red and some blue that is indicative of nephrons totally being destroyed, compromised and replaced by fibrotic material. And Dr. Harris and his team have been able to elegantly illustrate the pathway and the mechanism of action of PBI-4050 and to clearly confirm our data but in a very dramatic model. So on slide 17 again, you have images of kidneys, recovered from animal that are treated with PBI-4050, and you look at those kidney despite the fact that these animals are still hypertensive because PBI-4050 has no effect on hypertension.

Despite the fact that they're diabetic and hypertensive, the kidney is protected unlike those that are not on the drug and you see all the blue on the left on the slide 17, that is indicative of the presence of collagen. Few more slides here before I pass the line to John. Other type of approach that Vanderbilt have at their disposition here on slide 18, clearly using a staining technique that selectively color the collagen. And you can see here the massive amount of collagen that you have in the non-treated animal or little filtration unit called the glomerulus, and again preventing that little unit of filtration to function. It's replaced by fibrous material unlike the animal treated with PBI-4050.

Same thing on slide 19. You have that now, a staining technique that colors the collagen IV. So clear indication that PBI-4050 reduces the fibrosis. Another very important marker on slide 20 is the myofibroblast that actually are activated, and they are the culprit that actually secrete and lay out the collagen. Again, the little red arrow shows clear areas where the myofibroblasts are really activated in the non-treated animal compared to PBI-4050. And one thing that we'll come back later as well to explain the superb effect on glucose, and I'll let John explain this to you, but you have here again an evidence on slide 21, where there is less infiltration of macrophage in the animal kidney treated with PBI-4050. And again, that infiltration leads to inflammation, leads to the collagen deposition, and again from all angle, this study confirmed the anti-fibrotic activity of the PBI-4050.

Finally, you have few more nice slides, and I have some that are so impressive I enlarged and make posters for my office, it's quite inspiring, but again, the dark spot on the left here on slide 22 indicating some significant oxidative stress. Again, not a good sign when you have that [ph] litten (19:40) up. That means that your organ is in distress, it's inflamed, and it's not performing well, PBI-4050 significantly reduce that feature. And finally, one of the major culprit in the pathway of fibrosis is CTGF, which is a marker that we'll use as well in human studies. And you can see again, heavily expressed in the non-treated animal versus the one on PBI-4050 on the right.

Let me pass on now for John Moran, for slide 24, of the study with Vanderbilt.

Good morning, everyone. I think this is one of the most important slides in this presentation. You note in this case it's animals treated with PBI-4050, where things light up and that's a good thing. Autophagy is the process by which the kidney repairs itself from damage. And what we're showing here is that PBI-4050 by preventing ongoing damage is allowing the kidney to regenerate itself. It's a very important finding. It confirms what we've seen in our own work.

And if we go to slide 25, this gives perhaps even more exiting. If you look at graph A at the top left-hand corner, this is showing serum insulin levels in these mice, if they are untreated and just left to carry on. You can see between eight weeks of age to 24 weeks of age is the progressive for in the serum insulin levels. In other words, this is diabetes. If you look at graph B underneath that, you can see in red, if we start treating the animals at eight weeks of age, that we preserve the serum insulin levels, you don't get that fall.

And graph C shows you very clearly that even if you start later from that 16 weeks, which is pretty advanced age for mouse, you can see that we take the insulin levels back to the eight-week level before they started to get severe diabetes. And what is shown very nicely in the picture on the right hand side, PBI-4050, you can see dark areas, that insulin preserved in the islets. Very, very important finding. So we have not only this anti-fibrotic, anti-inflammatory effect in the kidney, but we're also preserving function of the pancreas in these animals.

And then, slide 26 shows you the outcome of these effects. You can see the animals in red treated with PBI-4050 live on, whereas all the animals untreated are dead by 26 weeks of age when we start treatment late in the course of 16 weeks. Very, very important finding. Obviously, it's a hard, very definite endpoint. And this is really very strong confirmation of the effect of PBI-4050 in this very difficult model.

I think there is a number of things to talk about regarding this work. First of all it's independent validation of lots of work done at ProMetic. Secondly, as I've said, it's a very, very difficult model as Pierre emphasized. We don't just have some natural effect of diabetes, we've added severe hypertension to it as well. And that is getting very close to what happens in humans with diabetes. Secondly, the treatment is started late in the course, yet it still has a substantial improvement in outcome. And then this finding, finally, that we have also protected the pancreas as well as the kidney is very, very important.

I'll hand it back to Monsieur Laurin.

Thank you, John. Let's move on maybe to slide 28, as some may have picked up already that we were also presenting at the American Society of Nephrology Meeting in Philadelphia, a new data with – for PBI-4547. So, yeah, PBI-4050 is definitely a lead compound in clinical trial, but this is not a product as a standalone. We clearly, with this paper, which I will not expand on on this call, but you can see that we have a very good handle on the receptors involved in creating this rather spectacular effect and that we have other drug candidates that we are advancing.

This one in particular has a very, very profound effect on glucose, and the IBDs, therefore, as well as reduction of the complication in the kidney, but this is being achieved at one-tenth of the dose that PBI-4050 is requiring in the same model. So very promising, you'll see therefore the creation of a pipeline of products that will enable ProMetic to actually position its drug candidates in various fibrotic conditions, and that's our objective is over time to have different compounds targeting different organs, different indication so that it provides for superior return for our shareholders.

On slide 29, perhaps, John, you want to comment on the fact that we just got the healthcare approval – Health Canada approval to commence the study, and I believe you started dosing the patients.

Yes, we're moving right along in the most important animal to study, the human. We have already commenced a study of multiple doses of PBI-4050 in patients with advanced diabetic nephropathy, that will be a multi-dose study, as it said, and therefore, very important. We believe that we will not see any significant changes in the pharmacokinetics in these patients based on how animal work. And then, we are getting busier and busier in 2015. We will be continuing to look at patients with advanced diabetic nephropathy both in Canada and in the United States. We have approval from Health Canada to move ahead with that study. And we have, as Pierre said, discussed this with the Food & Drug Administration, and we'll be submitting an IND to extend that study to the United States in Q1 2015.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, another very difficult disease, we are going to start an open-label study in that we have extremely good results in our animal models for that condition. And it's crying out for some more effective therapy, and then we will also be starting another study in a condition, an orphan condition, which is rare, but involves intense fibrosis and severe type 2 diabetes. And based on animal work, we would again expect to see good results in that disease.

Back to Pierre.

Well, thank you, John. And just to wrap it up, again, on slide 30, milestones to year-end, so I'll remove the first two that were in the green in the previous slide to leave to the following that we still intend to announce the additional orphan indication for PBI-4050, and you already have received a bit of a cue from John just few minutes ago. We are in good shape to file the IND for IGIV or IVIG with the FDA. We intend to disclose two additional plasma-derived orphan drug, very, very well positioned to close before year-end some deals that will provide financial contribution, access to market and provide additional manufacturing capacity.

And of course, now you can take Q3 out of the H2 guidance, but we are still holding on to our guidance, which then translate into a significant Q4 in terms of revenue. And like if we flip through slide 31, and a bit of an outlook for 2015 what to expect, well, I'll start from the bottom this time just to bridge on my previous comments, you should expect as well a very strong first half of next year as there is also deals that we are making great progress and may not fall this quarter, but fall in Q1. And therefore, between what we know will fall in Q4 and what we can expect to also close for this first half of 2015, we are in extremely good shape.

Back to the top of the slide, though, 2015 will be strong with some development and regulatory milestone. Again, we will be, about the same time next year, we'll have four plasma-derived biopharmaceutical in Phase III. In fact, we'll be filing the BLA for plasminogen around that time, and we'll be in a good shape to have generated PBI-4050 proof of concept data in humans. We are pursuing different studies, and therefore some of them are likely to provide us with some indication of translation data between animals and humans, which is one of the key objective for 2015. We should be also announcing the advancement of two new small molecules. PBI-4547 has already been flagged as a likely candidate to be ready to enter clinical program in Q1 2016.

And we also expect to receive several different orphan drug designations throughout the year, based on some filings that we've already done and some that we'll be doing in the coming weeks. It should be also a year rich on the partnering side. Again, partnering to bring complementary expertise and financial contribution to the program. And so mostly in the fact that now the company is in good position with several assets moving into the clinical stage here and partnering to provide us with some access to market.

So on that note, I'd like operator to open the floor for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from Alan Ridgeway with Paradigm Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the questions. Pierre, maybe just, or John, maybe for you since this was your part of the Vanderbilt study section, just one question on that. On the last slide on the survival, what is it that is killing the animals in this model, is it kidney failure or is it some other organ failure?

It's a good question, and in fact, I mean, it's all-system failed. It's kidney conditions worsen, the animals have no insulin left, it's depleted. They have failure in their liver, it's the end game. But kidney, I would say, kidney and liver are the main culprit.

Okay. Great. Thanks. Then just moving onto the PBI-4050 clinical program, can you guys give us some guidance as to what the size of the three studies will be, as far as, number of patients you enroll or plan to enroll. And maybe on what the timing should be for – how long those studies will take before you'll be able to share some data with us?

Yes. So we'll start from, I'm looking at slide 29, Alan, and starting with the orphan condition, as you can expect, this is going to be like a 15-type, 18-type patients with very well defined baseline, and open label, and some centers in Canada, and in the UK for this one, possibly in the U.S. But we've already identified the principle investigators, and even the patients with regard to that conditions in both Canada and the UK. So we're looking at 18 patients, 20 patients for that phase Ib/II in the orphan condition to be announced. In the case of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, again the open label study we're looking at 40 patients to 50 patients. Again well identified sensors in Canada and UK, eager patients to participate, this is no fun when you're diagnosed with this.

And as John mentioned earlier, the current therapy, although helping some patients, they've not shown much effect on the moderate-to-severe cases, and they are the ones that are the most desperate and motivated to be in trials. And the phase Ib/II DKD patient study is slightly larger. It's double-blind, crossover – not crossover, double-blind, three groups, two dose, one placebo, and two different dose. You're looking here more in the range of 140 patients. Again, centers across Canada, Vanderbilt Sanford will be involved in the States, and we'll start there and expand, but it's a total of about 120 patients for that.

Okay. And cost of the three trials, ballparks?

Ballpark, I think, what will impact 2015 is in the range of CAD 7 million to CAD 8 million. But it's going to be like slow start and ramping up towards the year-end. So manageable cost, Alan, along with our other program. The IVIG program, as you know, is – we've incurred most of the cost to make the clinical GMP material already. So this is an interesting point that I want to make here is that, in Q4 and in Q3, and throughout the year, we've done a lot of work to prepare the clinical trial. And part of that for biopharmaceutical is the expensive cost of making the GMP material. So when you're on the study, then you've already incurred all those costs. So it's only the CRO that is left to manage. So the IVIG clinical trial, for example, is going to be about CAD 3.5 million spread over two years. The Alpha-1 Antitrypsin will start much later in the year to impact, but it's again, maybe CAD 1 million, CAD 2 million a year. So even though they're late-stage clinical assets, they don't tax heavily the P&L, and overall we can manage this program with our current program.

So just want to clarify, CAD 7 million to CAD 8 million is the PBI-4050 cost for next year.

Yeah.

Okay. And then just very last thing from me and I'll jump off is, when do you think you'll get data from each of the three?

Well, the open label study is one where you have access to the data at all time. So there are some biomarkers that we expect to see light up the right way sooner. The double-blind placebo controlled study is not going to open up unless you have results that forces you to stop the trial and put all patients on the drug, but at the end of the day, I expect this study to go its full distance because you need that data. So that's why we may also add some open label on DKD patients, just so that we have early evidence of proof-of-concept confirming the dose, and we can commence the pivotal studies.

Your next question comes from Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions.

Good morning Neil.

Just first on fibrinogen, you're on track for launching in Q4. Is there any additional validation of the manufacturing process that's required before commercialization? And I know it's for [indiscernible] (37:26) but are there any regulatory approvals that are required before you get the drug on market?

No, not for the use intended as a GMP product and purchased by pharma company to combine with their own medical device or their own product. So should we move forward to advance fibrinogen for use in human to treat, for example, hypofibrinogenemia or other conditions. So as an IV, then you would have to run that like typical clinical trial to get approval as such. So it's a GMP self-declared compliance with certificate of analysis that complies with the relevance pharmacopeia that allows you to sell those products.

And on the manufacturing, are you all set there?

Yes, we're all set.

Okay. And just a follow-up question on Al's question regarding the survival data for PBI-4050. Did you follow – were those rats sacrificed or the mice sacrificed at the end of the 30 weeks, or is there any data beyond that?

No. I mean, these animals at one point passed 30-week, they have to be sacrificed because then you also harvest the tissue, and this is where you can start making analysis of what improved from an histology point of view, from a physiology point of view. So all those tissues, kidneys are recovered for histological, for various cytokine analysis. And again, what's shown here is one, but they've repeated this study umpteenth time. This type of survival difference we've seen also in the very chronic model, nephrectomized rat model. We've seen in the long fibrosis model. Typically you get north of 85%-90% of the animal treated that are surviving, and you need to euthanize that at the end of the study versus those that are not treated that falls of the map throughout the study.

Right.

And in fact researchers will have to calibrate those study because you want to analyze the animal at the same time point. And in the case of Vanderbilt, it's pretty, it's quite – I'm very personally, very pleased with this because the FDA is clear. They accept the design that we are going to go forward with our DKD study as a measurement of biomarkers and so on. That in itself won't be enough for licensure as we all know. But that type of spread between a treated cohort versus non-treated for licensure will include the same type of outcome. That's morbidity, delay for dialysis. And it bodes well because in every animal study we do, this is what you see.

Yeah, agreed. Final question, just on the partnering. You talk about partnering out your plasma-derived therapeutics. Would those partnerships look similar to the plasminogen partnership that you have, or would you be looking to give up – retain more upside for ProMetic?

Much more upside. I mean, the plasminogen agreement that we've done is rather unique from many perspective. First of all, when we enter into our agreement with Hematech, it was a paper project. I mean, we were advancing the process, but we signed this thing 2.5 years ago. We didn't even have Laval secured yet and so on. And the agreement that we have with Hematech, let's not forget, committed CAD 10 million to the plasminogen development for a share of the global rights, but also close CAD 100 million of capital investment for the facility in Taipei. So, it was still a rich deal, the bulk of which being off-balance sheet.

Going forward, what we've been able to do now is to retain much more value for each of the product we're advancing. And the licensing partnering agreement will be to bring in not only financial contribution, but ability to penetrate market far more efficiently.

Let's think of just Europe, for example. If you look at most companies launching orphan drugs, they're more pro rata, more successful in achieving good revenue in the U.S. than they are in Europe, because in Europe albeit the market big, it's segmented in 20, 25 different countries, each having their own reimbursement policies and so on. So we're very much interested in partnership that will involve bringing expertise such as market for Japan and Europe.

Okay. Great. Thanks and congratulations on all the progress.

Thank you, Neil. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Sanjay Jha with Panmure Gordon. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon.

Just wanted to ask a question on plasminogen. Have you got some idea now what is sort of pricing for the market that you're expecting when you launch in 2016? Or is it too early to talk about?

Well, it's a bit early to talk, Sanjay. I mean, but it's not to say that we're not working on that. Obviously, what will be entering into such equation is the average type of treatment that such patient has right now, and that you could alleviate by prophylactically treating them with plasminogen. So that all falls into the same equation. Those that we have interviewed so far in preparation of the clinical program and talking to KOLs involved in this condition report eight to 12 surgeries per year, recurring events requiring a lot of healthcare professional assistance. And all those ramp up the cost that is otherwise required to keep a patient away from problems. So all of those has factored in when you propose a price and granted such price by the payers.

Okay. Staying with plasma proteins, I mean, you said you would announce two more this year – you said you'd announce two more drugs this year in plasma proteins. Is that correct?

Yes.

Yeah. So what drives the numbers? Is that because you're getting better at it, or is it sort of driven by resources? Should we expect a lot more next year? I mean, what's the...

It's a very good question. First of all, we already know more than two, right? But we've committed to two because other parameters that need to fall in place will be ready by year-end to disclose those two. We also have some orphan drugs that we are in discussion already with companies that we could consider alternative ways to commercialize them. And it's a such question, I could spend an hour on this one, Sanjay, because you have to bear in mind that when we have anchored the backbone of PPPS to manufacture protein such as IgG and Alpha-1 antitrypsin and plasminogen and fibrinogen, to name just those, it's not just about being able to make those proteins. But we took careful attention to make sure that we could recover a myriad of other proteins that we know how to recover, we know what purity level, the yield. And we also have started formulating them. But it's going to be a question of how do we sequentially introduce those into the development program. And it's involved, again, a myriad of considerations. But we've made a commitment to announce two more this year, and there'll be more next year for sure.

So can I just ask another question on bioseparations? I know it's not always talked about, but what's driving that next year, or what are the factors, or what's the visibility?

Well, next year, what's driving is going to be, again, some and more of the clients that have approval demanding more resin. There's also development programs that convert into manufacturing and supply. So we've announced over the past two years development programs with global companies. These were all successful, and that these companies have done more filing, notifiable change to their current process, which will then trigger more resin sales. And of course, Laval ramping up and other capacity for PPPS plants ramping up, this will command more resin sales. So the resin sales will be driven by existing clients, we have, what, 15 of them that have regulatory approval. And as much as it's been a slow start of business, we can just see that the work order is lining up nicely. But the PPPS plants, themselves order a massive amount of resin that will be a key driver as well for that resin sales.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from [ph] Jim Belin (47:57) with Aldebaran Asset Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I believe that there was an affinity resin contract that ended this last October that was a five-year contract. I'm wondering whether that contract with that client has been renewed.

Bruce, you want to handle this?

Sure. Yeah. Happy to handle that. So the answer to that is that we're in the process of renegotiating that contract right now. And we're just at the point of getting the contract where we're in a position where both parties can be happy. So we're working on that one.

Your next question comes from [ph] Ari Lesser (48:43). Please go ahead.

Yes, I just wanted to ask a quick question about PBI-1402. I haven't heard any updates in quite a while on that partnering relationship and how that's gone, and if there's any progress. Thanks.

Thank you for the question. Yes, PBI-1402 had its time. And it's interesting, because it kind of give birth to PBI-4050. In December 2009, we met with the FDA and we had during that meeting our data with the Phase Ib/II in chemo-induced anemia patients. We had our massive amount of data confirming that PBI-1402 in various animal models was not exacerbating cancer unlike EPO. EPO was exacerbating cancer in different models in a dose-dependent fashion. And we also had unique data with the similar compound like PBI-4050 in renal models.

And we all showed up at the FDA, explaining to the FDA that we had discovered different receptors. This was not EPO related, and we showed the data that confirmed this. And the FDA concurred with us, but also explained that the landscape for anemia was extremely muddy. They were not able to provide us any guidance, and in terms of clinical trial progression, but strongly suggested that we focus on fibrosis, because in their opinion the data we had was extremely encouraging. And that this was by far a larger market, larger problem and definitely unmet medical need.

From that point on, we focused on PBI-4050 and fibrosis. And I think it was the right decision. PBI-1402 is by far not dead, it's actually being revamped and reformulated and it's going to be repositioned, you'll probably see it pop again in the pipeline of ProMetic and look forward for that day, but the focus right now is really to progress our fibrosis program with PBI-4050.

There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to the presenter.

Well, again, thank you very much for participating in this call. Exciting year-end, exciting first half of next year, and we're in extremely good shape to deliver on the promised value and look forward to more webcast to update you on exciting programs. Thank you again everyone.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.