Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences Inc. 2012 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I'd like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice. [Foreign Language] (0:23-0:49)

I'll now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you very much, operator, and good morning everyone. And as we stated before, during the first four months of the year, we had amazing number of announcements that really laid out all the support to encourage others to take a closer look at ProMetic.

As we move to these slide decks, I want to remind you on slide 2, that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives and strategies, businesses and that involves risks and uncertainties.

The agenda for this morning on slide 3, as we intend to cover the business of the company and what was secured to-date in terms of business and then Bruce Pritchard, our CFO will go over some of the financial highlights for fiscal year 2011. And let's move onto slide 5.

Slide 5, provides you with a revenue history, and while our total revenue increase in 2011, product and sales – our product sales and service revenue has dropped to 7.6 million, of that CAD 7.6 million, there was a CAD 4 million of sales or product delivered to a single purchase order from a global pharmaceutical company.

If you move to slide 6, slide 6 illustrates our base case income for 2012 and which is already three times the level of last year. So, remember we said in terms of product sales and services revenue, we had CAD 7.6 million last year and with this slide, this is clearly indicating about CAD 21 million, and we'll go over this base revenue brick-by-brick, starting with multiple clients on slide seven.

We have numerous clients, licensees with whom we have purchased orders, recurring orders or contracts totaling approximately $3.5 million. These are not necessarily individually material, but collectively formed a foundation of that first layer for $3.5 million to be delivered in 2012. And this slide also indicates the split between the first half and the second half of 2012.

Moving to slide 8, we are very proud this morning to confirm the follow-on order, purchase order from a global pharmaceutical company for CAD 4.2 million. We've shipped already CAD 16 million worth of affinity resin to this client, so this will make up to CAD 20 million by the end of the year, and this CAD 4.2 million order is to be delivered in the second half of this year.

Slide 9, we summarize the Octapharma business, which resumed with the first purchase order last year in December, and the second one followed in January of this year. In total, CAD 3.4 million of purchase order that we're delivering on for the first half of 2012 and we expect a forecast of around CAD 2.5 million for the second half of the year.

The revenue is pretty much expected to be even between the two half of the year. So we move on to slide 10, now.

Slide 10, was announced earlier in March and amounts CAD 2.5 million and this consist of the development agreement for proprietary affinity resins to improve the manufacturing of an existing product.

Just a few days ago, then on slide 11, we announced a deal with Hematech Biotherapeutics for the development of an orphan drug – plasma-derived orphan drug product with CAD 1 million upfront payment and another CAD 1 million expected in 2012 related to a milestone, and another CAD 4 million expected in 2013. This is a very exciting agreement, one of series of others related to plasma-derived protein and this is a very, very promising relationship with us. Hematech Biotherapeutics also intend to build a facility in Taiwan and manufacture several protein derived from plasma using our PPPS platform technology.

On slide 12 now, we announced also and this was in April, this $1.9 million, their follow-on purchase order again for another proprietary resin to an existing U.S. biopharma company. And finally, on slide 13, there was a – on April 24, a announcement of CAD 1.4 million development deal with an European biotech company.

So, this is how the whole of CAD 21 million of base case revenue is stacking up, secured and to be delivered this year. And maybe Bruce, you would like to go over slide 14 where we discuss the income split for the year 2012 year.

Sure, I can do that. Good morning, everyone. So Pierre, over the past few slides has been talking about the value of the business secured already in the early months of 2012 and has described that as income. And I think it's important just to take the opportunity to stress again that there is a difference between income in terms of the value of the contract secured and revenue in terms of how we get to book that income to the top-line of the financial statement based on accounting principles.

So, international accounting standards are pretty strict and how they allow us to – when they allow us to record the income in the financial statements as revenue. In the case of product sales, it's fairly straight forward, we get to recognize that revenue at the point that the product is shifted to the customer. In the case of our development services, revenues generally recognized over the life of the development project as the specific technological milestones are met. If we're dealing with a project where there is no interim milestones, what we do as we look at the overall size of the project and then we make an estimate on a regular basis as to how complete that project is, and then we recognize the revenue based on the percentage completion of that project at a given point in time.

Well, looking at upfront fees and milestone payments, they get recognized immediately if the performance objective that has been linked to that milestone or upfront has been met. If however the fee is linked to an ongoing performance obligation than we generally have to recognize that income over time according to the period of time over which that obligation has performed.

So, all of this to say that the 2012 revenue that Pierre has spoken about or the 2012 income that Pierre has spoken about is secured. At this stage, we're very comfortable with the fact that we can recognize that revenue in 2012's financial statements, and we look forward to doing that over the course of the year. There are, however, some caveats for that based upon performance as we go through the year.

If we look at the split of revenue between that half one and half two, again it's very clear that this year is another year where the major revenues are backend loaded into the second half of the year. And as things stands right now, we're estimating that just under a third of the revenues will be booked in the first half, and that just over two-thirds of the revenues will be booked in the second half of the year.

The other thing that I think can be useful just to talk briefly about while we're looking at this slide is the ongoing cash requirement of the business. Pierre mentioned on the very first slide in the presentation that the 2011 revenues of the business included CAD 10 million associated with the Celgene transaction. And although these revenues appeared to the income line of the business, the corresponding entry on the balance sheet was to the retirement of debt rather than the inflow of cash.

As a result, 2011 presented the company with a cash requirement which continues into the first half of 2012. At the AGM, we announced that we have been successful in securing a CAD 1 million of private placements, providing much needed cash inflow into the business at this time. However, looking into the second half of 2012, the secured business that Pierre has outlined will start to deliver a significantly improved cash flow to the business, reducing the corporation's reliance on additional equity financing going forward, and a trend that we trust will continue into 2013 and beyond.

So, on that note, I'll hand back to Pierre to talk a little bit more about the opportunities for 2013.

Well, yes. Thank you, Bruce. On slide 15, that was one of the question very often asked, with this base case, which one of those elements that makes up for this 2012 base cases recurring. Well, most of it is recurring and most of it is growing, as you can see in 2013. This is quite a change and the fact that now we can count on that base case, and actually expect other upside deals on which we're working to top up those revenue. So on slide 16, for example, we fully expect that in H1, other transactions may come into further increase the level of performance for H1 and H2, adding to this base case of CAD 21 million of revenue for this year.

Bruce perhaps you'd like to cover first quarter 2012 financial performance.

Sure. So just on the slide 18, I'd just like to point out to everyone that the information on the next couple of slides is based on the unaudited financial information for the first quarter of 2012, and on the statutory financial statements for 2011, all of which are online at sedar.com. The amounts in the following tables are presented in thousands of Canadians dollars except for per share amounts or where otherwise indicated, and also a remainder that the financial statements for 2011 and beyond are prepared under international financial reporting standards.

So, if you flip on to slide 19, are provided details of the outcome of the first quarter of 2012, guidance for which was provided at the AGM last week.

Regularly, we talk about with difficulty in analyzing the business on a quarter-to-quarter basis and I hope that this slide that we presented earlier this morning, demonstrate that in the case of 2012, the majority of the revenue is to be recognized in the second half. In fact, the quarter one numbers clearly demonstrate that the first quarter was disappointing in terms of revenues for the business.

If we compare the results for the first quarter 2012 with the first quarter of 2011, total revenues reached just over CAD 1 million compared with CAD 2.8 million in the previous year. However, if we analyze the revenue in a bit more detail, you can see that in the first quarter of 2011, a sum of CAD 1.9 million of revenues relating to the Celgene transaction were recognized as licensed fees, which were not repeated in the first quarter of 2012. So when we isolate the underlying revenues from product sales and development service fees, the figure for the first quarter of 2012 is a CAD 185,000 or 21% higher than the same period of 2011.

Overall, the total cost was slightly higher quarter-to-quarter, but the variance is mainly attributable to exchange rate movements with all other costs remaining broadly flat from period to period. So resultingly , the net loss is $4.6 million for the first quarter of 2012 and which is around CAD 2 million higher versus first quarter of 2011. And again, the reason for the difference being attributable to the Celgene revenues that occurred in 2011, not recurring in 2012. So overall, in the first quarter, the company returned a net loss per share of CAD 0.01 consistent with the first quarter of 2011.

And clearly these are less than stellar numbers, but the most important thing, I think, is the quality of the revenue opportunity for the remainder of the year, which is set to be ProMetic's strongest year yet, with still some opportunity for upside which has not yet been discussed. So I hand back to Pierre for the last time to summarize and conclude the presentation.

Well, indeed Bruce. Even though the revenue recognized in Q1 were only at CAD 1 million, what was achieved during the quarter in the few weeks subsequent to the quarter-end confirm what's on slide 20 which I can summarize here for you is involving multiple clients and recurring orders totaling CAD 3.5 million. The Octapharma business expected at CAD 5.9 million, the biopharma development program that was secured and to announce for CAD 2.5 million followed by the U.S. base biopharma contract with CAD 1.4 million. The European biotech reorder at CAD 1.9 million and the just announced and confirmed this morning CAD 4.2 million from the major global pharma follow-on purchase order for CAD 4.2 million. And Hematech BioTherapeutics which out of the CAD 10 million deal, CAD 2 million will be booked in 2012 which than generate the base case that exceeds the CAD 21 million, and as Bruce explained, more is expected to be added to this total.

So perhaps, if ready, we could open the lines for question-and-answer period.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (15:41-16:08) Our first question comes from the line of Scott Houston, Private Investor. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, Pierre and Bruce.

Good morning.

Good morning, Scott.

Thank you for the presentation today. And congratulations on the business developed to-date and 2012 looks to be a brilliant year ahead for the company and hopefully the market can move beyond the Q1 revenues and awaken to the new reality. But we'll cross our fingers on that one.

Anyway, I got several questions. I don't know how many people are on the line, I can stop after two. But just to pick up on how you finished the presentation. You talked briefly about the potential upside beyond the base case of CAD 21 million for the rest of the year. Can you give any idea of what that potential upside is? Are we looking at an additional 10% or 25% or, well, 50%? Are we going to be able to reach breakeven this year?

That's a good question, Scott. And we've taken the view to be rather conservative and only provide guidance on, in fact, what has been announced and confirmed. And I mean, we're trading at a very low level and this CAD 21 million already doesn't quite justify for the share price what we're trading at. But you know, having said that, the type of upside – the deals that we're working on are varied in nature, varied in size, and there is never any guarantees on which one we'll close amongst that pipeline of potential deals. There are – so, it's quite a difficult to give a value.

Suffice to say that we are quite confident that we can land sufficient amount of those to bring the company to a profitable by year-end. And as you can see that last year's number at 7.6%, albeit all of the 10 from Celgene was a licensee fee with virtually no cost of goods. But it brings you to a level where at the DA near breakeven was achieved on that level. So it doesn't take much to bring the revenue state to CAD 24 million to CAD 25 million to have actually a profitable year.

So, and if you look at what base case is showing and you divide it more or less by three months – three quarters rather with the caveat of what Bruce explained in terms of revenue recognition and so on, still you're looking as an average of CAD 7 million or more per – million per quarter.

So going forward, very strong quarters, cash generating quarters in some cases and some of the upside, which I believe will bring us to a profitable level, and Scott, again there is several different initiatives each having very different size.

Okay. But let's go into some of those. Excuse me, my dog is making a bit of a noise here. You just pulled off another resin deal with that big pharma, which is fabulous and you mentioned that brings home up to CAD 20 million in resin sales over the years. Just as I understand it this is pharmaceutical company engaged in a phase 3 study and I'm wondering if you could indicate whether the big pharma is – whether those phase 3 studies are coming to a close, where and when we can expect to hear some results from those phase 3 studies. And whether there is any indication at all from their client whether the results to date point towards a registration, and if so, how significant event is this likely for ProMetic?

Well, okay. Thank you for that question. Obviously, we're bound by confidentiality with many of our clients including this client. It's a program in late stage development indeed and we will as soon as allowed, inform the market when the client's product have reached [indiscernible] (21:02) approval and market. Suffice to say that, the volume that we're shipping, however, significant is still smaller than what it would be once the product has reached commercial stage. So we can just imagine therefore the scale of the reordering once that product has been approved for sale in various jurisdiction.

So again, when we are able to disclose, we will. And we're very, very encouraged by the signal made by the company in the sense that they are fully expecting to go forward with the registration of the product. So when we'll know more and allowed to disclose more, we will share with our shareholders, but we're very excited about that line of business.

Okay. I can go up and come back now.

Okay Thank you, Scott.

Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (22:07), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Mr. Laurin.

Good morning.

Congratulations on the follow on.

Thank you.

I have a couple of questions which basically really are just clarifications. The first one is simply has to do with the slide – oh and I should, I guess, perhaps note, it must be difficult to have an AGM followed just a few days later by the first quarter where basically, obviously, there'll be nothing new. So kind of gets boring for the people listening because they've been listening twice. But I guess that can be avoided. In any case, the first question or clarification has to do with slide number 15.

Yes.

When I first looked at it, I was a bit disappointed because I took the estimates for 2013 as a projection of income. Then when I looked it again, I sort of tended to think, well, it actually says base case income which means that's not really a projection for 2013, that's just the minimum for 2013, is that the accurate meaning of this slide?

Yes, and you see Mr. [indiscernible] (23:21) I think that we have to repeat the message several time and you're an exceptionally good listener and you understood the presentation. But coming out of the AGM, there were still few questions on the slides, so we went through it again. And indeed what we were basically saying here is what it is that constitutes the base case income for this year and each of those element that repeat themselves for next year. So, there are some recurring business, most of them as you can see are exactly the same clients. But for example in [indiscernible] (23:57), you see Hematech $2 million – well Hematech it's $4 million, it doesn't include anywhere in 2013 any of the upside, whether upside secured this year that repeats or additional upside that's materialized in 2013 itself.

So, yes, this is not revenue guidance, this is just adding all the boxes together and saying this is what we got confirmed to date. And what is confirmed to date to repeat next year.

Understood. The other question is again, I guess, a clarification of the latest deal that you struck with Hematech. Originally, I sort of understood that is one deal for this...

Orphan drug...

For the orphan drug exactly, I am sorry, I went blank for a sec. And upon looking at it again, it begins to look like really two sort of separate deals, one for the orphan drug and a second one for the use of this GMP facility. Could you define more clearly the details and parameters of the two deals I would call it?

Yes. It's two aspect of the same deal, one include Hematech funding ProMetic for the development of the orphan drug in that stage or three years or so, $2 million this year, $4 million next year and the rest is spread between, for the most part, 2014-2015, but we're just step short of providing guidance for at least this year and next year to our shareholders.

The other element and this is for both Hematech and ProMetic to share globally, co-exclusively the right, the commercial rights for that orphan drug worldwide outside China. The second aspect of this deal include the fact that they will build a facility in Taiwan, that facility will obviously be dedicated to manufacture plasma-derived product, operating our platform, manufacturing platform process. It will be a copy cat of our owned Laval facility, so the blueprint will be then transferred, but albeit at a bigger scale and they will manufacture products, plasma-derived products in Taiwan and supply our clients. So that aspect of the business is almost like a contract manufacturing organization working with us to manufacture plasma-derived products which are unrelated to the orphan drug.

[indiscernible] (26:48).

Well, the orphan drug actually requires a small volume and Laval facility on its own could take on the world. These orphan drugs typically are targeting, they're extremely high value per use and they're targeting a very small number of patients, they do not require the construction of the facility in Taiwan for that. In reality, what happens here is this company, our partner in Taiwan will actually – may for a dual plan strategy manufacture part of the orphan drug requirement as well. But for the most part the value for us here as to increase with them funding all the CapEx and the OpEx required and which is not insignificant here. You're talking, a big chunk of change to build and operate a facility and it will be, it's as if now Laval and our ability to supply bulk active ingredient to our clients has quadrupled.

Right. And if I may, just place a small suggestion, I'm not sure if it would be a confident with regulation, but if it is it might be worth thinking about in the future years. Would it be perhaps not wiser to run both the AGM and the first quarter conference at the same time together, so no need for the team to keep repeating each other.

Yes. I think we're getting there, the whole point is question of the logistics and certain timing of board approval this year. Exceptionally, I think, fairly descriptive guidance of the one Q1 would look like was provided during the AGM. And then this AGM was followed by the board meeting, which then reviewed again the quarter numbers, few questions here and there. And then we could – we were in a position to issue to Q1.

But I think it's a suggestion that, we know and in fact the demand is as our performance dictates, and we become closer to become a earning per share company, this kind of rigor is going to be part of our mortis operandi.

It's a pleasure to talk to you twice in the same week, but nevertheless, you're [indiscernible] (29:16) company time for sure and perhaps company money.

I know. But if there is – while agreeing with all your comments here, it does provide for us an ability to provide further precision on what was originally there at the AGM. And thanks again for your question.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Barry Taylor with Webco Management (29:45). Please go ahead.

Good morning, Pierre. Could you give us an update on NewCo and when you expect it to be making a contribution to the ProMetic bottom-line?

Thank you. With the Hematech agreement and some follow-on agreements that we expect to unveil in the coming months, we can then – and we will update our shareholders, obviously, more precisely on this, but the impact of NewCo will start as of 2013. This year, will still be preparatory work, I don't expect this to represent any income contribution for the group. But as the plant will be turning on and generating service revenue and providing our clients with products for their own clinical trial in 2013, this will add up to our revenue in next year.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (30:54), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hello. Thank you for letting me speak. I am just interested to know as far as the upside is concerned, am I right in assuming that roughly an upside of $4 million or $5 million would bring you to breakeven, if it occurs in 2012?

Well indeed, sir. I mean, this type of upside would make us all forget Q1. And there is some performance in the second half, that per quarter depending on the mix here, I'm assuming that some quarter will be cash generative and profitable. And some of the upside of the nature that you're describing would definitely bring the company to a profitable level.

And so following on from that, is my final question. That's fine, as long as there are not unanticipated threats on cost and that sort of thing. So there must be some debt right now, are there any threats from that side where people might say, they want my money back sooner or there will be some on unanticipated cost because some expense becomes more expensive than expected?

We don't see this, as a problem. In fact, the debt provider as you know are – in one case the long-term debt provider are – has proven time and time again that they are aligned with the shareholders. In fact, they're going to present themselves a fairly large block of shareholding position in the company. And they've extended that loan because it's providing the company the runway necessary to create the value for the shares that they own. So this is a very, very well aligned strategic loan situation.

Then the other aspect that you see on our balance sheet is either revolving with regard to our financing of our R&D tax credit. So this is not a threat, and the other part is in advance some of the pharma that is repaid as we ship products. Again, a strategic play here and not to have any concern over.

With regard to the products that we ship or the service that we provide, for the most part, these are products that we've already made before, they are extremely well controlled in terms of supply of raw material for us.

I mean, it's – we're in pretty good shape to deliver on that base case and some of the upside deal are, for the most part, licensing agreements that would then add additional cash up front with no cost of goods related to such performance. So that's where we go step-by-step, just disclosing the base case and as we add up additional deals, we'll be quick to remind our shareholders that they are now – this base case has been revised upward. We have to win credibility step-by-step as opposed to provide guidance and disappoint. So, I think that's the view we're taking here and I look forward to better that base case and announce that fact in the coming weeks and months.

Thank you.

Thank you very much.

Our next question is a follow up from [ph] Scott Huston (34:27), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi, Pierre, I just like to have a follow-on question to NewCo, I think during the AGM you mentioned you're going to have certain kind of launching event and with NewCo coming out, you will be coming out with NewCo's new name and the like. The question I have is do you expect to have the financing in place by that launch in order to pay for the refurbishment of the Laval facility. I think it's around CAD 5 million to CAD 7 million that's required for this. Can we expect progress in that area in the near future?

Just a few points to qualify your comments before I answer the question. Of course, we've been debating internally and the reason why it's called NewCo, as we've been debating internally whether we should give us an special identity or maintain the use of ProMetic as part of the family of a companies or subsidiaries. So this will be on deal sometime in June, alongside with other events that we expect is going to be part of the upside. The cost to reactivate the plant, because as you know part of that plant is till FDA-warm, some area of the facility will need some touchup and adjustment to factor the PPPS process.

But it's the requirement to set up the facility is about, half of what you describe in the CAD 5 million to CAD 7 million, is not as much as that. There has already been some money pledge by shareholders toward the plant and more has been promised by the same, but others are manifesting an interest. And there is a different scenarios for that, for vehicle to kick start. And again, just a point that I just made, it's nowhere near as much capital required than you suggested.

Okay. And then another follow-on question to the HBI deal, which is – it's very clear that the PPPS technology is getting a strong foothold in Asia. Is there are interest in other countries in the region for PPPS plants and can we expect more deals of the HBI nature in the coming months?

Well, the answer is yes, and we'll take them one at a time. We have been pursuing and are still pursuing several initiatives. And the one with Hematech and the one with CNBG point to one come into the nadir, very well established, experienced, seasoned operators on the other side of the table. So it's, and it's not a surprise that some of the most developed countries that have experience in making biologics are at the forefront of our implementation of PPPS.

So we are looking at Asia as an emerging market that needs to supply more products for their citizens. There is also other growth area that we're in then discussion with some local operators. And as you start securing more deals then others are feeling less alone in making that step forward, let's say that PPPS is somewhat disruptive with you and there is a lot of things going at the same time, plant being designed, plant being constructed, products moving toward with letter approval, so you need very seasoned partners to understand that mosaic of activities.

And we are happy to see how we – with the work that we are doing in partnership which shows no revenue to speak of on our P&L, but the CNBG relationship I hope now people begin to understand the ramification of that relationship. It has helped us to save tens of millions of dollars with our balance sheet funding with the investment they are making in China and that now in turn is allowing us to help other potential licensees to go and visit CNBG and actually see for themselves what's going on. Which then – these are additional ticking the box for other players to say, oh my god, this is happening, this is really for real, this works at scale. And this hopefully will indeed accelerate other licensing agreements.

Okay. Just a couple of more questions. We haven't heard too much on the therapeutic side on today's call, although it was covered at the AGM. And unfortunately, I wasn't able to make the AGM being based in the UK. So I do appreciate the opportunity, I have some questions which I couldn't at the AGM. But can we expect any partnership deals to be announced on 1402 or 4050, 4419 this year?

We're recently working on that, and the reason we're not taking any – putting any emphasis on it, is certainly not because there has been a slowdown of activities on that front. I think that on this type of binary event, people will really pay attention when something is done, something tangible, something meaningful, pretty much all our shareholders are prepared to believe that there is value there.

But with a weak balance sheet and so on, it's like we'll believe when we'll see, so that's why we basically and mostly focused on talking about our base case, because that's what plays on everybody's mind here, do we have a sustainable business that we have something that will grow and that we can act on. And the answer is yes. And as this progress and we make that demonstration over the coming quarters, we never know one of those deals can happen. I mean, I say never know because we've been to term sheet several times and all kinds of outside events has turned that term sheet into a standby. So there is a lot of activities, and we'll see.

At the end of the day, I can tell you one thing is that as the company progresses and as it starts generating cash from its business, it is a much – in a much stronger position to consider various avenues and it's also in a much better position to drive a more sensible deal that looks at the value of the therapeutics as opposed to be deal that is done to finance the company. It's a completely different agenda. And that's, I mean, as much as I would have liked to have brought to the table for our shoulders to breathe with a sigh of relief because those type of deals usually involves some cash up front and so on.

At the same time, I have to say that perhaps we'll all live to appreciate that the fact we're putting our self in a better position to do something more tangible and more meaningful with our therapeutics going forward. So, that's how I see things as much as I would have, like many others to see a deal inked on the therapeutics. But there is no lack of interest here on the contrary and the fact that we're focusing on the other aspects of the business it's just to ring that message that we're there to stay, we're growing, and case by case we're going to show that our company is a much stronger company to reckon with in this year and the coming years.

Well. That leaves me nicely to my last question then Pierre. And then, you could just tell me what PLI's plans are to get more institutional investors onboard and get the stock price moving upwards again?

Well. That's a question I would like to turn the microphone to others, but that the feedback that I'm getting is that they are looking with great interest at our progression. There is a growing level of confidence in our ability to deliver on what we said. Some institutions like to play in the small cap field and we're trying to focus on those. Some have taken positions already. A lot of them are looking at the screen and panicking. It's not an ideal market condition right now for people to take long position in speculative stocks like ProMetic and many others in our field.

But the point is that, you never know, when one will get in and finally want to take a position in. And so, we've taken the view in the past year or so to explain the story and deliver and tick the box every time we meet again, we simply said we would do this and this is what we've been doing. And we, so far on every single thing that we said we would do, we have been successful in delivering, albeit a month or two late, certain things did pan out a little later in the year than we thought, but they are all happening and they will impact this year, I can tell you there is a lot of people watching on the sideline. And look forward for some of them to make a move.

I mean, today's announcement, confirmed again that [ph] top-line (44:10), and we keep on repeating it and repeating it, because every time we repeat it, there is a new element that kicks in and the question earlier by Mr. [indiscernible] (44:19), saying, oh, so that's not just 2013 forecast, but this is only the base case increasing. Yes, oh, so that mean that could be bigger. Yes, but we're not going there yet, we'll add brick-by-brick when it's delivered and rebuilt credibility at that point, when the company becomes self-sustaining not relying on the capital markets and it's obvious to all that we can generate cash with our business.

I can tell you the stronger buying movement will come in the stock for sure. The fundamentals are there and the gap right now is this uncertainty about their overall marketplace and the weakness of our balance sheet. Those who are already in the stock they've seen us operate, [indiscernible] (45:07) in the bank and we've managed just bring in the cash that we needed to finance the shortfall. But obviously it's not that type of financial position that inspire confidence typically with institutions. But as we improve our balance sheet, as we generate cash with our business, the sentiment will change dramatically. So, it's an opportunity for you guys to average down and take position and in advance of those who will feel more comfortable buying an entire value for whatever reason. Each one have their own features and criteria before they make an investment.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Scott, for your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Mr. Laurin, there are no further questions at this time, I will now turn the call back to you.

Well, thank you very much for this morning questions and I look forward to updating the shareholders as we progress and deliver on the upside that we've mentioned during the call. Have a great day and talk to you all very soon. Thank you. Operator?

Ladies and Gentleman, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line. [Foreign Language] (46:46-46:55)