Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
John Moran — Non-Independent Director & Chief Medical Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Neil Maruoka — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.
Douglas Miehm — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the ProMetic 2015 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer; and Dr. John Moran, Chief Medical Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask a question in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:31-00:52).

The conference may now begin. [Foreign Language] (00:55).

Thank you very much, Simon, and good morning, everyone. We have a lot of material to cover today in the conference. And therefore, I'll proceed this swiftly, reminding everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives and strategies and the business we're involved with that involves risk and uncertainties.

On slide three, I summarize the agenda we intend to cover today. Following the brief introduction, Bruce will describe the financial of the quarter. And then we'll provide an update on the plasma operations, give you an update on the clinical program between plasminogen and PBI-4050 and after recapping on the milestones for the second half of 2015, we'll open the conference for questions-and-answers.

But on the following slide, guys, we are very excited about the progress made to-date in the first half of this year. The second quarter has been rich in events that contribute to consolidate the bases of ProMetic's future. The financing placed the company in a very, very good financial position along with secured orders which combined with anticipated milestones will result in recognition of CAD 20 million of revenue in the second half of 2015. And this excludes, obviously, cash inflow from business development activities currently under discussion.

We secured two agreements with Emergent; one for the production capacity contributing to long-term production capacity, but contributing also immediately to the development capacity of ProMetic and I will have the four, five slides describing how transformational that relationship has become added to our existing level facility. And as we announced yesterday morning, we completed the transaction to acquiring the first collection center also in Winnipeg.

So, very exciting times. Our drug candidate, plasminogen first loading patient came out clean with no drug-related side effects. This is fantastic. And first PK indication quite along the line we expected, moving along to increase the dose now and PBI-4050, of course, first 12 patients enrolled. I'll let John expand on that later in the presentation. But why don't we pass the baton to Bruce now to cover the financials for the quarter. Bruce?

Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we can move on now to slide number six in the slide deck, I'm reminding everyone that this part of this morning's webcast is based on the financial information for the second quarter of 2015 and 2014, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014. All of these statements were prepared under IFRS. The full annual information for the group and the quarterly reports can be found online at sedar.com. And all sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for the per share amounts or where otherwise indicated.

So, if we move to slide seven, I'd like to start my part of this morning's presentation with the review of the revenues for the quarter, which were CAD 2.9 million compared to CAD 4.4 million in the same quarter of 2014. The analysis of the revenue reveals that in the second quarter of 2015, CAD 2.7 million of the revenue was generated from product sales, only slightly behind the CAD 3.1 million from product sales in the same quarter of 2014.

The forecast numbers for half two, which I will refer to shortly, confirm our usual advice that revenues do not accrue evenly from quarter to quarter and the annual comparisons are a more reliable indicator of our performance. Service revenues were only CAD 200,000 in the second quarter of 2015 compared to CAD 1.3 million in the second quarter of 2014 underlining the fact that this is no longer a core part of the business strategy as we focus on developing products to commercialize ourselves. There were no milestone or licensing revenues in the second quarter of either year.

If I turn now to the forecast, we're providing guidance, as Pierre mentioned, that revenues in the second half of 2015 are expected to exceed CAD 20 million when combined with the revenues for the first half, this confirms that we maintain guidance for the full year product sales of CAD 20 million and revenue from service, licensing and milestones to be around CAD 5 million.

It's important to note, however, that at this time, we've excluded the impact of any revenues from business development transactions from this guidance and although these are currently under discussion, the timing of revenue recognition from any of these deals remains uncertain at this time. So, we've excluded it from the guidance.

If I now transition onto slide number eight and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the second quarter, as discussed on the last slide, revenues were CAD 2.9 million for the quarter compared with CAD 4.4 million for the second quarter of 2014. As I mentioned earlier, product sales are down CAD 400,000 or 12.9% quarter-over-quarter and service revenues were CAD 1.1 million lower than in the same quarter of 2014.

The reduction in product sales impact on cost of goods sold, which amounted to CAD 1.3 million for the quarter compared to CAD 2 million in the previous year. Total research and development costs have increased over the same period in 2014, mainly due to increase in clinical trial activity on both the small molecule and plasma pipelines. Total research and development costs were therefore CAD 10.7 million in the quarter compared to CAD 9.7 million in the same quarter of the previous year.

Administration costs rose in the second quarter, primarily as a result of increased head count and business support functions together with increased stock-based compensation costs resulting from the higher stock price. These effects combined to make admin costs in the second quarter of 2015 CAD 3.8 million compared to CAD 2.7 million in the same quarter of 2014. Finance costs were slightly lower year-on-year, consistent with the level of financing activity undertaken.

The fair value adjustment on warrants was CAD 2 million in the quarter, we've described this in many quarters in the past, but this is the last time that these figures will impact the P&L account on a quarterly basis as the warrants themselves became an equity instrument during the quarter following our annual meeting. The loss on extinguishment of liabilities occurred as a result of the restructuring of the Thomvest loan and warrants, details of which are fully explained in the notes to the financial statements, which you can find online in SEDAR.

And finally, in 2014, as a result of our step-up acquisition of NantPro, we recorded a gain on that transaction and that gain was recorded in two lines in the 2014 P&L account. And these will not recur in 2015 and that gain skews the comparison of the net loss period-to-period. They turned a Q2 2014 loss of CAD 8.9 million into a profit of CAD 23.4 million.

In this year, the Q2 loss is CAD 13.5 million, reflecting the lower revenues, higher R&D costs and one-off debt reorganization charges. That loss computes to a net loss per share of CAD 0.02 for the quarter on both the basic and diluted basis. Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA shows a loss of CAD 11.5 million in Q2 2015 versus a loss of CAD 8.5 million for Q2 2014.

If I move on now to slide number nine and the key features of the balance sheet at the end of the quarter, cash stood strong at CAD 56.7 million compared to CAD 27.1 million at the end of the previous year. Accounts receivable stood at CAD 6.7 million compared to CAD 11.8 million in December 2014 and the main reason for the fall in accounts receivable was the receipt of the Generium upfront payment, which was invoiced at the end of 2014 but collected in Q1 of 2015.

Capital assets have risen by around CAD 3 million since December, representing mainly the ongoing investment in our manufacturing capability in Laval and on the Isle of Man. Intangible assets have remained unchanged at CAD 146 million. I'm reminding everyone that these include CAD 141 million recognized in relation to the acquisition of NantPro during 2014.

Trade and other payables were down by CAD 2 million at CAD 7.1 million due to payments in the first half of the year. The warrant liability which was CAD 24.7 million at the year-end has now been commuted to equity as a result of the change in the Thomvest warrants, resulting in a significant improvement in the level of current liabilities on our balance sheet.

Furthermore, the long-term debt provided by Thomvest shown here at CAD 20.9 million has reduced slightly as a result of both the debt modification and the repayment of debt and exchange for equity subscribed in the quarter. And lastly, we've got the deferred tax liability on the balance sheet of CAD 34.5 million relating to the recognition of the NantPro intangible and the timing differences between the book value of our asset and the value for tax purposes.

So, altogether, these results significantly improved the balance sheet, bringing total equity to CAD 166.6 million, up from CAD 104.4 million at December, and the total assets figure to CAD 235.9 million from CAD 203.4 million at December 2014, so, overall, a solid base from which to continue building. And on that note, I'll hand back to Pierre, who will provide some details of the business update.

All right. Bruce, thank you very much for that and again, as you say, strengthening the balance sheet and combined with our guidance for the base business to exceed CAD 20 million in an excellent position to execute on our plan and on that note, I'll take you to slide 11. We made announcements back in May and just as recent as yesterday on our relationship with Emergent BioSolutions and this transaction is transformational and I don't think that we've given it enough time for our shareholders to appreciate what it means.

So on slide 11, I summarize the two transactions. The first one that was announced in May is providing us access to Emergent's FDA licensed plasma production facility in Winnipeg. It provides immediate additional development capacity. It enables us to scale up and prepare GMP batches for additional IND filings without disrupting our current Prometic Laval facility operating under GMP conditions for plasminogen and IVIG. And it enables also to do a further five-time scale up of batch size compared to our Laval facility.

So, as we progressed, we're not only adding more INDs in the pipeline, but also further scaling up our process under GMP condition. And obviously, as we explained before, over time and for the next 15 years, it provides an additional 250,000 liter plasma processing capacity annually. So, this combined with our Laval could bring us to about 400,000 liter of plasma processing capacity as a base part, which is already in North America, built, operational and FDA-licensed, so extremely strong contribution to our business plan.

The second acquisition – the second transaction matter is the acquisition of Emergent plasma collection center in Winnipeg. That is now owned by ProMetic and it has FDA and Health Canada license to operate and collect plasma. It contributes to our management of plasma supply chain and further vertical integration. The plasma collection center can be used as blueprint for future centers. And the plasma collection center provides access to specialty pharma. So, all-in-all, two important transactions, but more importantly, I would say, on slide 12, like to exemplify how significant this is.

On slide 12, you can see that if we were to build a new greenfield facility, it would be at a cost of CAD 150 million. It will take three years to build and be validated. And throughout that time, it doesn't provide any capacity to our development of the pipeline, it doesn't contribute anything to being able to advance more INDs and more products in the clinics and the capacity only becomes available in 2018.

Now, this deal at a cost of approximately about CAD 5 million per year for the first two, three years, the capacity is readily available for scale up. It provides additional GMP manufacturing for our clinical trials in addition to Laval. And it's enabling us to ramp up multiple commercial launches ahead of a 2018 plant if we were to start greenfield.

Now, remember, and we'll talk about that later, but should come on line as well by 2018 Hematech and part of Generium's capacity to add to our 400,000 liter, but this is a major, major transaction for both companies. For us, certainly in the sense that this facility license is underutilized by Emergent and we can retrofit our platform technology at that facility and actually work with people who are extremely experienced as track record of the approved product and can understand and be trained very well to handle our platform technology.

So that being said, when you look at on slide 13, what it means is that what processes or products are being developed in Rockville, Maryland, they're now being tech transferred also to Laval and, in addition, depending on the protein, the size and where it is in queue for sequential development to Winnipeg. And therefore, those two facility will actually be working in sync and progressing more INDs. And this is again further exemplified on slide 14 how three products, fibrinogen, Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, and C1 Esterase Inhibitor will be accelerated, scaled up and prepared for filing of INDs early next year and that deal with Emergent contribute that additional development capacity.

Overall, if I want to summarize what this all means, our business strategy on page 15 is focused on a sequential development and commercialization of high-value biopharmaceuticals. So, as we add products to our pipeline and products become subsequently approved for sale, our net sales output per liter plasma increases significantly. And now you can see the revenue line curve is quite easy to understand at that point. It's each product contributing a value or sales per liter plasma timed the 400,000 liter capacity that already exists between Winnipeg and Laval and you have that kind of straight line that indicate the growth of that business as those products come on line. And this excludes, as I mentioned before, the capacity from Hematech and Generium expected to kick in as well by 2018.

Yeah, and Pierre, it's probably worth just reiterating that, of course, that capacity is obviously driven by the volume requirements for our high-value proteins and should we – as we go forward to require additional capacity, we can bring that on line, but we have the flexibility of using that capacity from Hematech and Generium to help us with that.

Absolutely, I think, Bruce, we had also, on slide 17 for our shareholders, a series of pictures that were sent – taken actually on the site in Russia where the construction has commenced. As far as the partner in Russia, they are planning to complete the construction of the building by the end of the year, so that they can continue during the harsh winter that they have just like us with the completion of the facility during the winter in-house, inside. So you can see the size of the plant. That plant will be able to accommodate capacity of 600,000 liter of plasma and well underway to be ready and operational and contribute by late 2017, 2018. So, a quite exciting time on many fronts with the plasma business, but I'd like to invite John perhaps to comment on our flagship product, plasminogen. John? Slide 18.

Yes. It's a pleasure to take you to slide 18 to talk about plasminogen. You heard Pierre's enthusiasm already. We're making really good progress there. As you probably know, we received orphan drug designation from the European community. And we've finished the first series of patients with the lowest dose, single dose, without any significant adverse events, in fact, no drug-related adverse events at all. And we're starting up the second cohort and we expect to complete that very quickly, because we have patients who have been hanging back to make sure that the drug is safe before they enter the trial.

So, in second half of 2015, to talk about slide 18 further, we expect to complete the higher dose, we expect to find nothing unusual in the pharmacokinetics and we expect to be starting Phase II/III, and we also expect during this half of the year to get permission to extend our studies in Europe. And the very important last bullet point, we're looking to develop another indication for plasminogen separate from the congenital plasminogen deficiency.

On slide 19, to talk our current sequence of clinical trials with our lead compound, PBI-4050. As you know, we've completed successfully the Phase I in normal volunteers up to 2,400 milligrams with no significant adverse events. We completed a similar trial in patients with advance kidney disease, which showed no change in the pharmacokinetics, a very helpful finding, and no significant adverse events again. We are now in the middle of a trial with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome, a rather important indication given that one-third of Americans have metabolic syndrome as of today. We have 12 patients enrolled. We are going to have a meeting shortly to decide whether it's safe to add more patients. We expect that meeting to occur before the end of this month. And I think we will be moving forward. We will be getting some preliminary data on the biomarkers showing us whether actually affecting the metabolic syndrome in the diabetes before the end of this year.

And slide 20, the rest of the things that are keeping us very busy. Initiating a clinical trial, Phase II open label in the United Kingdom; an orphan indication of patients with significant metabolic syndrome. We will be providing preliminary results in the first half of 2016. That study may be extended based on what results we see. It's very much an orphan indication and we expect that we'll have an accelerated pathway for approval.

We are starting in the United States – sorry – in Canada, we have a trial ongoing, open-label Phase II study of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Again, we have been granted orphan designation in the United States for this drug – for this indication and we are planning to extend that study as time goes on.

Moving to United States, we have setup a pre-IND meeting with the FDA to discuss the idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis indication and what would be required for pivotal trials in the United States. And the last trial we are developing right now is patients with diabetic nephropathy, nephropathy associated with Type 2 diabetes. That will be a multi-center study in both Canada and United States. We've talked to many investigators already and it will be our first randomized placebo controlled trial to get started. We need to have a meeting with the Food & Drug Administration to make sure they are happy with our trial protocol, and then we will get going.

So, if Pierre you could summarize please, slide 21.

Well, yes. Well, John, thank you for that. I would say that the last three slides really summarize what's to expect for the second half of this year. As John just said, on the plasminogen front on slide 21, further confirmation of safety profile at higher dose, which then enable us to provide an optimal dosage regimen and cross over to a Phase II/III program. And that should all happen during the second half. And as John mentioned, initiating a chemical trial in Europe, that will contribute to accelerating the program overall.

I'm very excited to look forward to share with you where we are going with plasminogen next. This is an additional medical indication and we're only few weeks away from unveiling the master plan on this one, exciting prospect for our flagship product, plasminogen. IVIG, we're back and forth with the FDA accepting enrollments of the primary immunodeficient patient on IVIG in U.S. and, in Russia, very shortly. This should have started earlier in the year, but again we have put buffers in our own critical path assessment and it doesn't change anything in terms of our expected BLA filing and commercial launch for 2018.

Something to watch very closely, obviously, the successful tech transfer to Emergent Winnipeg facility, a lot writing on this as three key drugs are being scaled up and being prepared for IND filing in 2016. And that will then bring the total late-stage clinical trial program to five from the plasma-derived product and then to top it up by our PBI-4050 program, which is again summarized on the slide 22 in the metabolic syndrome, what to expect. Therefore, we expect that the drug safety medical board to confirm that they're okay with the safety profile and enabling the expansion of the trial and look forward to be in a position to preliminary review the clinical data by the end of the year as John indicated.

The pre-IND meeting with the FDA for IPF in the coming weeks is very, very important. We have some great ideas that we want to share with the FDA, see if they're on par with us and if so then our Canadian program will expand in the U.S. and we will get ready for the pivotal IPF study.

Same for chronic kidney disease, we already have a meeting with the FDA for chronic kidney disease. There's some fine-tuning on the protocol that John wants to reassure it again with the FDA, but we'd be in a position to file our IND for both IPF and chronic kidney disease this coming quarter, and excited about the prospect of this orphan indication in Europe. Again, orphan indication, smaller number of patients may be required to show evidence of efficacy, because the risk benefit is very, very different when you have an ultra-rare disease, excited to potentially contribute to the quality of life of those patients. Look forward to more on that.

And we've submitted seven abstracts to the American Society of Nephrology and they've all been accepted. So, we'll be quite busy with several presentation of new data at the American Society of Nephrology meeting in November as well as presentation at the American Heart Association the week after.

So, a busy Q4 in terms of product development, regulatory milestone and, to sum it up on the operation side, just again reminding everyone, combination of product sale, service revenue and realization of some milestone bringing it to CAD 20 million by – in the second half and that excludes business development and our shareholder should expect us to continue and close on some of the current discussions on business developments. That contributes a combination of financial, a contribution to our development to help us access complementary know-how, intellectual property and improve the value of our pipeline assets and to provide us access to markets.

So, that's it from us for now and then perhaps we can switch over to the question-and-answer period. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

[Foreign Language] (29:26-29:37) Your first question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway with Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking my question.

Good morning.

Could you guys just confirm as a bookkeeping kind of thing, just confirm the guidance for me. So, the second half of the year, you're expecting total revenue of greater than CAD 20 million, which includes the CAD 5 million of milestones and service or is it you're expecting CAD 20 million of resin sales in the back-half plus the CAD 5 million.

So, Alan, it's CAD 20 million in total, so for the second half; total revenues for the year to be at least CAD 25 million. Of the full year revenues, CAD 20 million of the CAD 25 million will be the product sales and that matches the guidance that we've given earlier and then the residual CAD 5 million will be milestones and service revenue.

Right. Okay, great. Thanks. I just wanted to make sure I had that right.

Sure.

Okay. And then maybe, just on the R&D spending front, so if I look at the numbers for the quarter and annualize, it looks like the PBI-4050 program is at about a CAD 10 million run rate, the plasma program's at about a CAD 30 million run rate. You've got a lot of additional trials coming on line. Particularly, I think if you end up having a positive meeting on IPF with the U.S. and maybe filing INDs around an expanded program there, can you just talk to sort of where those levels could go as the programs continue to mature?

Well, on the plasma front, I think that one has to take into account that we have at least two, three costs contributing to what is seen to be R&D, right? Yeah, we have our existing manufacturing in Laval plus now the Winnipeg capacity that is labeled as R&D and, obviously, driving the cost for developing the clinical trial.

But when we are adding additional clinical trials, they're not necessarily linear, some of those trials, as you know Alan, involve a small number of patients. The IVIG trial is spread over – the cost of it is spread over two years and most program actually are spread over two years and they're about CAD 4 million or CAD 5 million apiece spread over two years. So, they're not – it's not like you're adding or tripling the cost of R&D as we add a new protein. The bulk of the cost at this point in time actually could be pointed to all the manufacturing, the GMP, the preparation of the IND, the stability, all that cost is in part our infrastructure that enables it, right?

So, as we add more product, don't expect like a double and triple of that cost line. It isn't going to increase, but it's manageable with our increase in revenue and we're looking very closely to synchronize some of our business development activities to a system on that front. There's some partnership that we're looking to close that will be quite helpful to contribute to offset or contribute to such costs.

On the PBI-4050, again, we are very, very much focused on demonstrating proof of concept one step at a time. We'll re-assess. We are in extensive discussions with several parties interested in partnering PBI-4050. So this is, again, a dynamic space that we're – we're proceeding aggressively and cautiously at the same time, right? The objective number one is to prove that we moved the needle with biomarkers and demonstrate translation of activity from animal to humans.

Now, the clinical trial expansion that will require significant spending are the two that we'll be filing IND for late this year, IPF and CKD, and we would probably really engage full course in 2016, 2017, having already on hand proof of concept data. So, probably a very different picture all over corporately and partner-wise, so Bruce, do you want to add anything to this?

No, I think you've covered it. I think we gave guidance some time ago [ph] for (34:35) total R&D spend for the year. I don't expect us to exceed that this year. I think your indication of the profile of expenditure is bang on.

And so just – Pierre, maybe on the last comment you made about the two files, the IPF and the CKD, just to close off the loop, if you were to drive ahead with the randomized trial in CKD and potentially a larger program for IPF, I'm assuming with the 150 or so patients you're forecasting for the CKD, it'd be at least that big on the IPF, how – are we talking CAD 30 million to CAD 50 million to run both studies? At which point then would you actively or aggressively look to partner that at this point or how are you thinking about that as you're looking into next year and I'll leave it there. Thanks.

Well, Alan, it's going to be interesting to see how things develop. Obviously, a lot of interest around our compound; it's a safe compound, it's orally active, it's a once a day. Everybody is on the edge, they're watching, is this going to translate into movement of biomarkers.

We can't take it all on our own. That's the obvious statement. And we're looking at an optimal way of partnering this. We're talking to a lot of interested companies and each one having their own preference on how something could be structured. But be under no illusion, this is a program that one way or another, we'll be partnered. There's some indication that would probably make sense that we could hang on to and do a very good job at developing and commercializing. There's other indication that [indiscernible] (36:19) by the tail because if we show efficacy in the cardio-renal metabolic type of patients, as John indicated, huge indication and probably more akin to a multinational infrastructure to continue developing and commercializing.

So, it's a complex set of circumstances that will drive forward the decision. But those decisions to be made about incurring costs on clinical trials they're not to be made now. What we have to do is just set the scene, design the protocol according to the best input from the world expert and take advice from the FDA and EMA and set the stage such that we could execute on our own and/or in partnership, right? So, stay tuned, exciting time actually.

Okay. That makes sense. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Just first on plasminogen, how many patients are interested in starting in the Phase II/III and if you're up at the 18-patient level do you need to have a crossover to Europe? And then the second part of that is can you outline your filing strategy for plasminogen and are you considering a rolling BLA?

I can answer part of those questions. John may step in, Neil. Thank you for the questions. As John indicated, when we invite patients motivated to be on the trial, we had probably a ratio of 80% of them preferring to be in the Phase II/III trial than the Phase I trial. So, we – the fact we've been recruiting a lot of motivated patients to be part of the program, but a majority of them that elected to wait for the first results. Now, those first results are very, very convincing in terms of safety and therefore will help bring the other one on line in the program.

So this program, the Phase I, Phase II and Phase III like that for an ultra-rare condition – rare disease is almost seamless, right? You go from one to another step and so it's not as formal as having to regroup all the data. The FDA has already agreed to the protocol of Phase II/III. And the question here is more to do with reconnecting with the FDA and making sure that the dose that we chose is agreeable to them before we formally proceed with the dose regimen optimization part of the trial.

So, we're looking again that the BLA to be filed is going to very extensive in terms of CMC section, which has been reviewed already for the IND. And it's a pharmacokinetic study, right? Monitoring adverse events, but it's a pharmacokinetic study as I reminded and the end surrogate point very well establish incremental of 10% above baseline as a surrogate endpoint to fix the objective for licensure, so, a fairly straightforward program. Yeah.

And just on the rolling BLA, have you had discussions with the FDA since your CMC section is probably largely complete?

Well, what happened here is that this – the FDA invites a company like us in condition such as plasminogen deficiency to have constant contact, so we'll be updating the FDA with the cohort one, the first dose and already engaged in discussing what else could we be doing. The FDA is really eager to see company advancing safely, therapies, especially in conditions that there is no solution. So, the precise regulatory process here will be refined as we meet the FDA again this summer on that matter.

Okay, all right. And your PPPS processes is optimized for – I think it's about 12 products, but you only disclosed a handful, including plasminogen IVIG. What considerations do you take into account as you move the next products forward from here? Is that partnerships or whether it's an orphan drug or not? And do you have any concerns as you look to optimizing more products within that process? How difficult it is to move product number 13, 14, 15 into your optimized process?

Well, yeah, there is a limit to how many products you want to make out of a single leader plasma, but we were very, very keen to make sure that before we locked in the backbone, we would make sure that we were okay on, as you mentioned, between 12 to 14 products. And how do you choose which one to move forward is the combination of a lot of factors and I will name some. They're not necessarily more important than the other. They're all important. But, obviously, manufacturing, technology readiness, some products sometime are more – are ready quicker for scale up and entry in the clinical trial.

There is also the logic of some products being launched commercially as much as possible simultaneously, so they become good companion products and generate a decent cash flow that contribute to the overall growth of the company. And two products that meet that criteria would be IVIG and Alpha-1 Antitrypsin for now. They won't be necessarily our flagship core products for us, but they will contribute significantly to the cash flow and will support plasminogen overall combined P&L.

We always look at freedom to operate the patent minefield and make sure that we can create some of our own. And sometime we got to be working a little bit more on creating a unique aspect to the product before we actually formally launch. So, a combination of all of those but in reality we have a core group that has a certain capacity and now that core group has launched its first wave of product and it's been developing the second wave of product. When Winnipeg is receiving the tech transfer, they will then get on to the third wave of product and this is where we can announce other orphan drug candidates. So, it's a sequential process that is driven by all those factors put together.

And are you still on track to announce a couple of more products in the near term?

Yes, absolutely. That's what we want ProMetic to be positioned in, right? Even though we derive protein from plasma, we're not per se a plasma fractionator. We're not out there to compete with Baxter, CSL in the business that they're doing very well at. We will sell some products called hospital commodity products, but none in the matter that is a head-to-head competition where we are seeking to take huge market share. These are more decent revenue contributing to our overall platform and growth. But ProMetic will be much more known for its orphan products and its positioning, taking boots on the ground and marketing, handling those products at least domestic market for us [ph] ideally (44:19) in North America, right?

Okay, great. And last question on fibrinogen. You can manufacture that product and have plans to launch that for non-pharmaceutical purposes. Can you give us an update on where you are there and with any partner – sorry – any customer discussions that you've had?

Yes. Fibrinogen, and you explained it well, there is two kind of life to it. There is an existing status, fibrinogen at ProMetic is commercially available for use as an ingredient to be part of another company's product and another product – and that would be a device, biologic glue, bandages, and, therefore, we can supply those products to those companies readily. We're in discussions with two group of companies, two group of clients or licensees, one typically have products already on the market and they're looking at us supplying them a new generation of fibrinogen or becoming a second supply when they want to de-risk their own current supply.

So that's a group of companies. And the other group of companies are developing new products needing fibrinogen as part of their offering and those two are being pushed forward, so we expect impact of this gradually and it doesn't require regulatory approval for us. But we also intend to have fibrinogen approved per se as an IV drug for the treatment of bleeding and there is a clear regulatory pathway that has been established for this. This will become disclosed fairly shortly as well in late Q3, Q4.

So, do you think you'll see some sales in the non-pharmaceutical use in the second half of the year?

Little bit, marginal, but more and more significant in 2016. So, in 2016, as our overall business grows, we expect to see fibrinogen contribute more meaningfully. We may get there as well with plasminogen if we are lucky and the review is fast enough and then to hit part of 2016, I know pretty much consensus with analysts is sales starting more meaningfully at plasminogen in 2017, but all of those are like lumping ahead as we advance our deals and/or advance the product in development.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line if Doug Cooper with Beacon Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. All of my doubts have been answered. Thanks very much.

Doug, I missed the question.

Your next question comes from the line of Sanjay Jha with Panmure Gordon. Your line is open.

Good afternoon, gents. Most of my questions have been answered. But can I just ask a couple of things on the plasma side? Now, it's been a few months now since you've had the Laval facility up and running. What's been your experience? You have been giving out some yield projections on what you might achieve. Have you still happy with those? Have you seen any things that have been positive for ProMetic, anything that's been negative that you might have seen from your experience at Laval?

It's an interesting question. Obviously, there has been problem that didn't come to my attention, as always. Well, I'm sure we have very experienced and [indiscernible] (48:13) senior management there, they've seen it before, launched products before, dealt with the FDA and regulators before, and that probably speaks to two things. At ProMetic, we do have a very robust platform. Let's not forget that we have been involved in the CMC section and the manufacturing process of some of the most sophisticated biopharmaceutical products where companies came to us to help them manufacture those products.

Albeit in those years in the past, we were mostly involved in the bioseparation of it, but that's key for biologics is the bioseparation is key and that's all we're doing here with plasma products. Plasma and the proteins in the plasma are made by humans. So, what do you have there? It's a bioseparation [ph] plain (49:00) and that's our strength, right? So on that front, we're very, very well positioned. And then people that are working at ProMetic have long-term experience of developing those type of products, several products currently in the market developed by existing players and there has been no surprise. It's been working well, because it's been a long, long planning.

We've been at it for so many years, Sanjay. Not to say we won't come across some challenges and so on, but, again, it's a good question and, actually, we're reminding ourselves that now things have been running rather smoothly considering, right? People look at this as a new process. Fair enough, but for us this is a 25-year old new process. We've been working with this process for various proteins for 25 years, right? So, it's not such a challenge as some may think from the outside.

And can I – my second question actually relates to Emergent, the plasma production facility in Winnipeg. This is probably one for Bruce. How do I model this? Because I see you have Laval and you've got production and you have cost, but how do we deal with something like Emergent where you have a strategic relationship with them, even be using their facility. So, how do we look at – think of kind of costs in terms of modeling it?

Good question, Sanjay. We're grappling with the final accounting for that ourselves right now, but the way it's looking right now, the IFRS, God permitting, is that we're going to be looking at the costs in two component parts. So, if you recall the announcement regarding the deal, we have a kind of minimum annual commitment that we're paying to Emergent for access to the facility. That's made up of two – essentially two components. There's an element of it that provides us with a minimum number of employees and there's an element of it that provides the access to the facility in the overhead. Essentially, the easiest thing to do, I think, is to take that minimum annual commitment and straight line it over 12 and then – through the P&L account because it will be that. It will be a P&L charge.

As we begin to ramp up production at the facility, we will exceed that minimum payment and the costs for how we go forward from there will not be incurred through the P&L account on a straight-line basis. They'll be kind of booked as incurred. So, as we're running large scale production runs and we have costs, they will be booked there. Again, if you recall that we have access to the facility, but it's not access to the facility 100% of the time. We have a certain amount of time in the facility. So, you'll see chunks of additional revenue. Unfortunately, at this stage, we're not in a position to give more detail than that on how those costs are going to accrue, but because we haven't yet ourselves booked all the production slots and worked out the production program, but baseline fixed costs, straight line them over 12 months couldn't be far wrong.

Okay, all right. Thanks, Bruce.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Miehm with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning. Yeah, a lot has been asked and answered, but I do have a few questions. Number one, with respect to the potential deals that you're looking at on the PDI-4050 side, Pierre, what's the hurdle, like what events or what type of data are your potential partners looking to get in hand before a final deal could be consummated?

You know what, Bruce, it's – Doug, I'm sorry. We could have done deals before and it was a question of as we have been in the weak position and needing badly a deal to fund the company, we could have done that. But as we progress overall corporately, we want to bring the company to the soft spot. And the soft spot is really, as you know, between Phase I, Phase II where some evidence of translation is present. De-risk the partner, increase the value, everybody's happy, and still ability for the partner to have some valuable input in the development program. So, it's interesting that we've seen that the soft spot for an optimal deal for both partners is in somewhere during the Phase II, not necessarily post pivotal Phase II, but during the Phase II trial, right?

So, we've been entertaining a lot of discussion [ph] that are around (54:17) due diligence and so on and you get to know the other partners as well, what's their weakness, what did they like. Not everybody wants the same indication; some are interested in lungs, some are interested in kidney, some interested in the diabetes aspect. So, we're blessed and cursed by a product like PBI-4050 because it deals with fibrosis and fibrosis is involved in virtually every bloody disease. It's the endgame of how a tissue or an organ doesn't heal itself, does not regenerate and start kind of slowly down-performing and dying.

So, it is a matrix. We're looking very favorably for geographical type of deal where a territory such as Japan, for example, would be more easily carved out if certain other territories are like that. And so looking by indication, by territory and using that period for what I would call the mutual due diligence to make sure that signing the deal is only the beginning of a long journey. You want to make sure that that asset is not only partnered but it's well partnered and that the partnership not just bring money, but brings wherewithal to increase the other's success. So, it's a process we're well engaged in and inevitable with that asset for sure. And we want to make sure we do it right.

Okay. On IPF, I gather you're going to have your FDA meeting in September. You get the results of that. What are the next steps depending on what the outcome is in moving towards that pivotal program and what I mean by that is what do you need to see from them and when is the likeliest date to commence that pivotal trial?

Well, we have minimum two objectives there with the FDA. First is to make sure that if we elect to, we could file an IND in U.S. and add U.S. sites to our existing Canadian trial. There are some interested sites already that would like to do just that. But the question that we have with the FDA pertains to the fact that there's now two drugs that have been approved for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis, nintedanib and pirfenidone, and everybody have seen the results of how in a animal model we outperform those two drugs with regard to reduction of fibrosis and, in particular, how the combination with pirfenidone showed extreme reduction of fibrosis like synergy between those two drugs. So, you can see where I'm going with this is, is that we're going to have some very interesting questions asked to the FDA whether they would allow the combination trial to start earlier for the benefit of the patients. And that maybe signaling that we could be heading a path that requires less patients to get an answer that is meaningful to patients and to ProMetic shareholders.

So, what you can expect from the FDA meeting is for us to have any heads-up, any green – any issues that they may have before we file the IND to expand the trial, get in trial, and we could actually execute on this in Q4, ready to kick in – coming back from the FDA meeting, because, again, this is not going to be the first time that the agency have seen the CMC section of the product and when we met with the FDA with cardio-renal. At this time, we're meeting the FDA with the pulmonary lung division under an orphan drug designation profile. So, we'll update everyone mid-September and could be rolling in those programs as early as October and November.

So, just so I'm clear, you think you could start a pivotal program by November?

No, no, no. The rolling the Canadian study as we finally – and when you open the IND in the U.S...

Into the U.S. and then getting data and then not starting a pivotal till probably early 2017?

Oh, no, the pivotal could start much earlier than that. The pivotal could start in first half of 2016.

Okay, perfect. Now, my final question just has to do with, you're generating a significant amount of what looks like important data, but I don't think it's been published yet in a significant journal. What can you tell me about how you're thinking about publishing some of these data that you're generating?

They've been a fly on the wall in my office. We are planning to, call it, open the kimono and start publishing along with some reputable institutions that has cross-validated our own data repeating our model and/or doing research in their own model such as Vanderbilt, the Montreal Heart Institute, both of which have generated astounding data supporting claims. So, there's manuscript that have been prepared to be submitted.

So, it's difficult to say when those will be published, Doug, as each publications have their own review time period [indiscernible] (59:57), but we expect just as of November when we'll be revealing new data and making new presentation, seven presentations at the American Society of Nephrology, two presentations in American Heart Association in November, and probably around that time maybe just a bit after some initial publications where more is revealed about mechanism of action and peer reviewed article and peer reviewed journals, yeah.

Okay. Thanks very much. That was great.

Thank you, Doug.

Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (01:00:40). Your line is open.

Thank you for taking my question. I'd like to know how is plasminogen administrated and how long does a dose of plasminogen last in a human before another dose is needed?

Thank you for the question. It's an IV infusion at this point in time and we will be disclosing the PK profile later this fall. We want to make sure that we answer a very critical question, which is does the PK change, is it dose dependent? And you need critical math, let's say, 12 individuals, to create a fair statistically representative profile. So, we have pretty a good idea where this is going. We can model it, but now we're going to be populating it with additional data in the coming weeks, coming months, and we'll be revealing that data this fall.

Okay. And I also had a question. Last fall, there was a resins contract, which was due to expire, and I'd asked the question on one of the calls about what's the status of this and I was told that discussions are continuing. I'm curious was that contract in fact extended or was a new contract entered into?

Bruce?

Yeah. I could tell him. The answer is that discussions are ongoing, nearing conclusion. We expect that to be extended and we expect to announced that fairly soon. What I would say is that we just want to make sure that as we're negotiating extensions to these contracts that the terms are favorable for us. And we as a company are in a very different position from where we used to be and we want to make sure that we get the best commercial terms, so that's why things have taken a bit of a long time, but we're getting close now.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. Presenters, back to you.

Well thank you, Simon, operator. We thank you for all those questions and participation this morning. As you saw in the recap, several milestones and we will be in similar conference calls when we update with significant news. We'll take the time to set webcast as to make sure that all those questions that you may have surrounding news and updates are addressed. And we will look forward to squeeze in an Analyst Day wrestling a bit on the best time to do this later this fall. But again, a lot of exciting developments forthcoming and look forward to other exchanges at the time. Thank you again, everyone.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.