Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
John Moran — Non-Independent Director & Chief Medical Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Neil Maruoka — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Derren Nathan — Analyst, Hybridan LLP
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the ProMetic 2014 Fourth Quarter and Year End Highlights and Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer; and Dr. John Moran, Chief Medical Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask a question in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:35-01:13)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. We'll start with the typical Safe Harbor statement. This presentation, as you all know, contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involve risk and uncertainties. I won't read the entire page, but let's move to page three or slide three and make sure we cover the agenda.

Bruce will lead the call with the review of the year and Q4. I'll come back and provide an update on the bioseparation business, our protein plasma platform. John will provide an update on PBI-4050, and we'll wrap up with a summary of the milestones and the 2015 outlook. So, Bruce?

Okay, thank you, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we can move now to slide five in the slide deck, I'll remind everyone that this part of today's webcast is based on the financial information for the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014.

All of these statements have been prepared under IFRS. The full annual financial information for the group can, as usual, be found online at sedar.com. And all sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or where otherwise indicated.

On slide six, I'd like to start my part of this morning's presentation with a high level overview of the results. This will inform the basis of a more in-depth look to each of these numbers. So revenues for the year were CAD 23 million and we're reporting a net profit of CAD 2.6 million for the financial year. Included in the net profit are non-cash costs of CAD 15.4 million relating to the ongoing revaluation of the original Thomvest warrant number two, with this charge being related to the significant improvement in PLI's share price between December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014.

In addition, as a result of the finalization of our accounting for the NantPro step-up acquisition, we generated total gains for our shareholders of CAD 49.2 million from that transaction. The results also reflect clearly our stated strategic intent of investing in our pipeline of plasma-derived and small molecule therapeutics, whilst being more selective about the licensing transactions entered into ensuring we retain more of the value of that pipeline for our investors. This focus requires us to invest in our resources, both human and physical, which is also reflected in these numbers.

Importantly, during 2014, we strengthened our balance sheet with additional equity and debt financing to the tune of CAD 48.8 million. This financing, coupled with the acquisition of NantPro in the year, resulted in us ending 2014 with CAD 203.4 million in total assets and CAD 104.4 million in net equity, a significant improvement over our 2013 balance sheet. This provides us with an opportunity to continue with our exciting projects, which Pierre will expand upon in his strategic outlook later this morning.

We can move now onto slide seven. I want to deliver two key messages regarding our revenues. Firstly, I want to make the observation that underlying product sales, showed in the orange, have again risen over the previous year, this time by CAD 1.3 million or 13.7%. Secondly, I want to highlight the service revenue which was CAD 8.7 million lower than in the previous year, in line with our current strategic direction of developing more of our products for ourselves rather than for third-party customers. And finally, licensing and milestone revenues reflect those received from GENERIUM and Hematech announced during the year.

If I move now to slide eight and reviewing the adjusted EBITDA performance of each business segment, at this point, I thought it appropriate to analyze EBITDA as it excludes the non-cash cost associated with the warrant liability and the NantPro transaction, and allows us to see an underlying picture of what's happening in the business.

Firstly, looking at Protein Technologies, the business segment that combines the activities of the bioseparations business and the plasma products, adjusted EBITDA was minus CAD 14.9 million compared to minus CAD 2 million in 2013. And this change is attributable to two main reasons.

Firstly, as I described earlier, service revenues are down on the back of the decision to develop more products for ourselves rather than for third-party customers. And secondly, as a consequence of this, we've been investing more of our resources in R&D expenditure for plasma products, notably investing in preparing and executing on the clinical programs.

Next, looking at the Therapeutics business segment, that's the part of our business that focuses on small molecule drug development such as PBI-4050, investors will recall that we've been advancing the compound through the clinical program for multiple indications and have, therefore, increased our R&D spend in this area.

And lastly, looking at the Corporate segment that contains all of our administration and compliance activity, there's been an increasing cost associated with our expanding head count, stock-based compensation costs, which in itself is aligned to the rise in the share price and additional professional fees. So, in summary, looking at the underlying business, the results, of course, were entirely in line with the strategic direction previously outlined.

Transitioning to slide nine and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the fourth quarter and full year, revenues for the quarter were CAD 10.5 million compared to CAD 5.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2013, with year-to-date revenues of CAD 23 million compared to CAD 20.6 million for 2013.

As I mentioned earlier, product sales are up CAD 1.3 million or 13.7% for the year and service revenues are CAD 3.7 million lower. Licensing revenues are up CAD 4.8 million on 2013, reflecting revenues from both GENERIUM and Hematech.

Increase in product sales impacts on cost of goods, which, themselves amounted to CAD 7 million for the year compared to CAD 6.7 million in the previous year. The other thing that's impacted cost of goods is the mix of products sold during 2014, which this year was by slightly more towards higher margin products than in the previous year.

Total research and development costs have significantly increased over the same period of 2013. However, as I mentioned in previous slides, there has been a rapid development of the pipeline of both plasma-derived and small molecule therapeutics, which, coupled to the internalizing of the NantPro costs, has led to the increase in the expense.

So with that context and given my explanations, let me discuss EBITDA by segment. Total research and development costs were CAD 11.8 million in the quarter compared to CAD 6.4 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total R&D costs to CAD 35.2 million for the full year compared to CAD 18.6 million for full year 2013.

Administration costs rose in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of the stock-based compensation cost mentioned earlier, making admin cost in the fourth quarter of 2014 CAD 5 million compared to CAD 3.7 million in the same quarter of 2013.

The 2013 gain on recognition of loan receivable relates to the sums due to the end of December 2013 from Invhealth, which clearly were not repeated in 2014. Finance cost was slightly higher year-on-year, consistent with the level of financing activity that we undertook during 2014.

The fair value adjustment on warrants was described earlier and that impacted Q4 to the tune of CAD 2.9 million, bringing the total charge for the year to CAD 15.4 million. And finally, in 2014, as a result of the step-up acquisition of NantPro, we recorded a gain on that transaction.

The gain is recorded in two lanes on the profit and loss account, and I don't intend to go into the detail of the accounting today other than to say that, in Q2, we made a preliminary estimate of the valuation and purchase price allocation, which we finalized in the fourth quarter. The results for the fourth quarter, therefore, reflect the increase in the computed value between the interim and final valuations; all this to say that the transaction resulted in a total gain of CAD 49.2 million in 2014. The notes from the financial statements and the MD&A include detailed descriptions of the accounting treatment for this transaction for those who are interested.

The year-to-date adjusted EBITDA, as I mentioned on the last slide, shows a loss of CAD 24.8 million versus a loss of CAD 8.9 million in the previous year. But, overall, the group returned a net profit of CAD 8.5 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the fourth quarter compared to the loss of CAD 7.5 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the same quarter of 2013, bringing the full year profit for 2014 to CAD 2.6 million or CAD 0.01 per share, compared to a loss of CAD 17.4 million or CAD 0.03 a share in 2013.

Moving to slide number 10 and the key features of the balance sheet at the end of the year, cash stood at [ph] CAD 27.1 million (10:44) compared to CAD 17.4 million at the end of the previous year. Accounts [inaudible] (10:51) compared to CAD 14.2 million in December 2013, [inaudible] (10:57) trade receivables remain unchanged at CAD 8.5 million. Tax credits receivable [inaudible] (11:03) since year-end. And the main reason for the fall in accounts receivable year-over-year was [inaudible] (11:09) during 2014 related to loan repayable by Invhealth.

Capital assets have risen by CAD 4 million since December 2013, representing mainly [inaudible] (11:23) manufacturing plants in both Laval and on the Isle of Man. And perhaps the biggest change of [inaudible] (11:27) intangible assets, which have increased from CAD 4.6 million to [inaudible] (11:32) December 2014. This change is attributable to the [inaudible] (11:40) of intangibles relating to the step-up acquisition of NantPro in the year.

Trade and other payables are up slightly to CAD 9.1 million, reflecting [inaudible] (11:53). The warrant liability at CAD 24.7 million [inaudible] (12:00) relates to the increase in the share price and [inaudible] (12:04) and I'll remind everyone, again, this is a non-cash item.

Moving onto the long-term debt provided by Thomvest, shown here at CAD 23.2 million will also likely to be [inaudible] (12:19) and I'll come on to discuss the recent modification of the Thomvest debt in a few moments. Long-term debt provided by shareholders was fully repaid in the year, leaving the balance of 2014 as zero.

And lastly, we've added a deferred tax liability on the balance sheet of CAD 37.1 million, which relates to the recognition of the NantPro intangible and the timing differences between its book value and the value for tax purposes. That sum will begin to reduce over time as we begin to amortize that intangible. So these results overall bring total equity to CAD 104.4 million, up from CAD 18.6 million last year, and the total assets figure to a healthy CAD 203.4 million from CAD 49.8 million at December 2013.

On slide 13, just quickly reviewing the cash position in light of the activities that I've just outlined, we have had CAD 44 million of net inflow from investing activities in the year. Of this, CAD 26 million was used in operations and, in addition, a further CAD 8.8 million was used in investing activities relating to capital assets with CAD 100,000 being attributed to the foreign exchange gains. These movements when combined with the opening cash balance of CAD 17.4 million resulted in a closing cash position of CAD 27.1 million at year-end.

So, wrapping up on the financials, the results for the year clearly continued to demonstrate that the investment in the company is building on future value for our shareholders. The step-up acquisition of Nantpro has been positive from both a profitability perspective, but also for contributing to the strengthening of our balance sheet, allowing to continue our focus on advancing our products through the pipeline.

On slide 12, the last slide of the financial section, I just want to take a few moments to talk about the modification of the Thomvest loan. ProMetic and Structured Alpha have entered into an amended and restated loan agreement on March 31, 2015 in respect of the two loan agreements dated September 2013 and July 2014 between ProMetic and Thomvest. These amended loan agreements provided for several amendments in favor of ProMetic, which, amongst others, include the extension of the maturity date of the loan agreements to July 31, 2022 without any increase in the total amount repayable.

A right of repayment of the loan agreements commencing on September 30, 2018 has been added and more flexibility in the affirmative and negative covenants has been built into the agreements. All of these make the loan agreements more aligned with the current business plans of ProMetic. In consideration for these modifications, ProMetic granted Structured Alpha 7 million warrants to purchase ProMetic's common shares at an exercise price equal to the greater of CAD 3 per common share and the volume weighted average trading price of the common shares on the TSX for the five trading day-period following the date of release of the annual financial statements. The warrants have an expiry date of July 31, 2022.

ProMetic also granted Structured Alpha a preemptive right to participate in any future public offering or private placement of ProMetic's common shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into common shares of ProMetic.

And finally for 2014 post balance sheet events, we've also amended the terms of the advance on revenues under a supply agreement with Octapharma, extending the maturity date on that instrument to the April 30, 2018. This instrument will reclassify in the first quarter of 2015 and with an element [ph] reverting (16:02) to long-term payables.

So, Pierre, that's it from me. I'll hand back to you now for the strategic outlook.

Well, thank you very much, Bruce. And let's move onto slide 14 and, actually, before we provide an update on both drug development platforms at ProMetic, let me summarize on slide 15 that the bioseparation business is indeed poised for growth again this year. We have announced earlier in the year CAD 11 million purchase order from an existing licensee. And this bodes well for the bioseparation business, which is expected to reach approximately CAD 20 million this year.

The demand in revenue growth really is expected to be driven by plasma-derived therapeutics actually. We have a combination of affinity resins to remove prions as well as proprietary resin to remove specific impurities and both applications of those affinity resins are meant to improve the safety profile of the products of our licensees.

And of course, recovery of therapeutics from Cohn fractions and, ultimately, PPPS platform, which obviously create a full stretch, fully integrated PPPS plans that consume several type of affinity resin and itself. All of these applications alongside with our application in the recombinant field continue to increase that business, but more so significantly in this year and the year to come.

Let's cross over again to our pipeline of drug coming from two proprietary platform. And on slide 16, I remind everyone again that we have a pipeline of biopharmaceutical that is generated from our proven bioseparation PPPS platform as well as the other platform being the orally active pharmaceuticals and today, we will again talk more about the lead drug candidate PBI-4050 targeting fibrosis.

But on slide 17 and we were asked very often some question about what's involved in the product development platform, what to expect this year and in the year to come. So let me take some time here to explain slide 17 that clearly shows on the left hand side, as you know, this is the illustration you're familiar with on our backbone capture step, sequential affinity step that captured a protein and the box – the blue box on the top left bulk API or active pharmaceutical ingredients, a process development. I mean this is the process to isolate and purify a specific protein extract that is from plasma, and this is an operation that is developed by ProMetic scientists in Cambridge or Rockville and is then [ph] tech (19:16) transferred to our facility in Laval for further optimization, scale up and then production under GMP condition.

From that point on, that bulk active ingredient can be sold as a GMP bulk actives to pharmaceutical company, they would used that material as a recipient in part formulation of their own biopharmaceutical, or can continue its course toward clinical program. This point in time, the finishing touch for this developing process before we can get into patient involve formulation, finish dosage form, some stability program, all of which becomes part of the IND submission that is meant to enable us to move in the clinical program.

So actually using those major key steps, taking each protein from the backbone through the tech transfer and the GMP manufacturing to scale up the finished dosage form toward the clinical and/or the availability of the GMP product to pharma is repeated on slide 18. But this time, to generate what one could call the emergence of our rich pipeline of products coming from that platform.

So you will be familiar about plasminogen, our first orphan drug that has gone through all these process of bulk active process development, finish dosage form, the tech transfer in Laval – this was announced throughout the year and we entered into our clinical program and the same apply for IVIG.

So in green, you have the code exemplifying each protein intended to get into the clinical program, as opposed to the one in gold which is a protein intended to be sold as a bulk active ingredient, therefore not requiring the clinical program. So IVIG is just entering clinical program. And we have, as I expand, other projects related to that capture step of IgG that I'll cover on the next slide.

Fibrinogen, as you know, is now from a point of supplying GMP material to other company, has reached commercial status. But we're looking at three drug candidates here; Fibrinogen, Alpha-1 Antitrypsin and a orphan drug to be named very soon, all going through the same development process and getting readied for entering into clinical program late this year, early next year. So a very busy year for the PPPS platform. And in fact, slide 19 summarize very well the status of each product and the next milestone to be expected in 2015.

Plasminogen, the infusion in patients has started. We have a very good tolerance to date, no adverse events to report. We've already identified 18 patients to get into the different cohorts that are scheduled for the clinical program. What we expect to deliver this year is definitely a confirmation of the safety and the pharmacokinetic profile of the product, but we also anticipate announcing new indications and some new intellectual property and new deals around that exciting program.

So a lot to watch on that space. This is an expanding program for ProMetic, with its first product in human from PPPS cascade

IVIG, the IND has been filed, the sites are already recruited throughout the U.S. We expect to have 100% enrollment of adult in primary immunodeficiency patients completed this year and also around that specific protein, we expect to announce deal for new indications as well as accessing intellectual property.

Fibrinogen, we announced before that we have scaled that protein up and we're looking to enter into agreement and to be announced this year, a new agreement for new indications, as well as prepare the fibrinogen for clinical phase I-III as we've identified a clinical red pathway and that will further expand during the year, but a promising opportunity again for our shareholder.

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, orphan drug #2 and orphan drug #3, all to be announced this year. Going through the process, product development that I just explained before, all scheduled to be scaled up and getting ready for clinical phase I-III and/or clinical program respectively throughout the year. So a very busy program, feeding the pipeline of ProMetic with late-stage clinical drug candidate, a very exciting year.

I'll move to slide 20 and pass the baton to John, who will provide an update on the actual clinical results to date. John?

Thank you, Pierre. I'm very happy to have this opportunity to bring you up to date with our clinical results, and also with some very exciting animal results that we have received from Vanderbilt University.

So on slide 21, we have done the conventional Phase I, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in normal volunteers to look at the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of single ascending doses.

So we did six cohorts of eight healthy volunteers, six subjects in each cohort were on the active agents and two on placebo, just to see whether any adverse effects claimed were actually due to the active drug or to the placebo. We had six cohorts, as I said, single ascending dose 400 milligrams, 800 milligrams, 1,200 milligrams, 1,800 milligrams and 2,400 milligrams and in one cohort, we did fed and fasting so that we could see if there's a food effect on the drug absorption.

So the outcomes, PBI-4050 was very safe and really well tolerated up to a dose of 2,400 milligrams. So there were no significant adverse events and certainly no dose-related adverse events. The comparison mentioned on the last bullet point between the therapeutic dose and the pharmacokinetic profile in animal models and the profile we observe in humans, suggest that the effective oral dose in the human situation should range between 200 milligrams and 800 milligrams once daily. So we have a very interesting drug, it's effective orally. It doesn't seem to have significant adverse events so far and it can be given once daily.

Slide 22, we're moving on to what we call a Phase 1b study, where we're giving the same agent in similar dose to patients with advanced kidney disease. The question we're asking here is does the pharmacokinetic profile or the absorption et cetera change in patients with renal impairment.

So again, we had eight subjects, six active, two on placebo, again its double-blind, so we don't know which one's which until we un-blind the study. So it says, stage 3b or for diabetic nephropathy with an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 15 milliliters per minute to 45 milliliters per minute – that is quite severe kidney impairment and it's in the pre-dialysis stage. So we are interested to see whether the PK, the pharmacokinetics change in these patients.

So we first gave these people a single 800 milligram oral dose to look at the PK and to make sure there were no events, safety events in this group with renal failure. After washout period, we then gave the same patients the same dose every day for 10 days to look again – does the profile change, is there accumulation of the drug. And the outcomes listed on this slide, no serious adverse events.

The pharmacokinetics in the subjects was renal impairment, was very similar indeed to the kinetics in healthy volunteers, and importantly, also the protein binding in the blood was very similar in the patients with renal impairment. That's very important news for us because that means we don't have to change the dose in patients who have renal impairment that makes the administration of the drug a lot simpler.

Now moving on to slide 23, we're going back to animal work and this slide shows very good news for mice, who have severe diabetes and severe hypertension. You can see this is a survival curve. The mice in this model have type 2 diabetes with severe hypertension as well. And as you can see in the controlled group in black, the mice are all dead by 26 weeks of age, whereas the treated group in red with PBI-4050 has very, very good survival up to 30 weeks – a very, very striking difference in survival. Why does that occur? For a number of reasons.

Slide 24 shows you the liver of a mice in the study. On the left, it's the controlled group, you can see in the circles, those clear areas in the liver that's accumulation of fat, hepatic steatosis and that's another typical finding in human patients with Type 2 diabetes. You can see on the right, the PBI-4050 that is a perfectly normal looking liver, no steatosis at all.

Slide 25, why do we improve survival, why have we got this incredible difference? And this slide tells you the answer. PBI-4050 does not affect the high blood pressure in these animals, but I'll show you that it does improve the diabetes.

In the vehicle on the left, labeled A, you can see the dark spots in the two left hand squares are macrophages. In other words, inflammatory cells that are infiltrating the pancreas and destroying the insulin production by the pancreas.

Conversely, you can see the squares next to it was PBI-4050, very few macrophages, essentially a normal number of macrophages. And in the graph below that that just quantitates those pictures for you. You see the very striking difference. We are reducing inflammatory cell infiltration into the pancreas. And then the next one is the same sort of thing showing two or three cells CD8. We're keeping those out of the pancreas too and therefore allowing the pancreas to keep on producing insulin.

Slide 26, how we're going to translate those animal findings into our clinical development program. First of all, we have two CTAs cleared by Health Canada, so one on the top is for an open-label study, single site; it will be type 2 diabetes with metabolic syndrome – in other words, typical type 2 diabetes. Initially, we'll have 12 patients, we plan to expand it up to 36 patients if we see no significant safety issues after 12 weeks. You can see the timeline there. We expect to have results available in the second half of 2015 from this study. And we expect to enroll patients in this study this month.

The next CTA cleared is a little bit further down, surprised because this is going to be a multi-site study of up to 40 patients, multiple centers across Canada and some in the U.S., open-label in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. We have very, very encouraging results in the animal model, standard animal model for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. And so this is an obvious next therapeutic area for us to go into.

Slide 27, we have a mysterious orphan disease in Europe, which we're filing a CTA in Europe this half, before the end of Q2 we believe, knowing the pathophysiology of this syndrome of fibrosis and severe diabetes. We believe that there is a very good chance that PBI-4050 can help these patients.

And then on the bottom half of slide 27, we're now getting into double-blind studies. This will be an advanced stage kidney disease associated with type 2 diabetes and it will be multi-center across Canada and the U.S. It will be double-blind and we will be looking at two different doses of PBI-4050, as well as the placebo group. Again, we want to be very careful in making sure that we establish the correct dose before we move on to phase 3 studies.

So with that very exciting news, I'll hand it back to Pierre.

Well, thank you John. Maybe as a summary before we move to question-and-answer period. On slide 28, therefore just to summarize on what John just covered, the milestone related to PBI-4050 in this year include the CTA filing and clearance thereof, and the IND as well for the CKD trial across Canada and the U.S. As well as the CTA filing for the Phase 2 in the subgroup patients with metabolic syndrome and fibrosis.

We also expect to announce interim report on clinical results on both open label studies in second half of this year with likely results from the lead trial for the type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome patients. So exciting year for PBI-4050, which is advancing in the program swiftly again with no red flags with regard to safety which is always very important.

Switching to slide 29, a packed year as well for PPPS related activity, expect this year again plasminogen to have confirmation of safety and of IV infusion in patients for the hypoplasminogenemia and define the pharmacokinetic profile. This is going to be a very critical milestone for this program. For IVIG, again confirm safety of the IV infusion and complete enrollment of all patients required for the cohorts, in the adult cohort, for the primary immunodeficiency.

On the manufacturing and regulatory, as I explained before, we're looking to scale up three additional proteins and prepared the filing of three INDs following between late Q4 and beginning of Q1 2016, expecting as well some orphan drug designations and the mix.

And partnering deals throughout the year, as we expressed before, combination of accessing market, core competencies and provide the financial contribution, but also an equally important excess capacity, excess additional intellectual property to create proprietary PPPS derived drugs, and to supply bulk active to licensees. So a very exciting year ahead of us and we look forward to update you throughout the year through webcast in the conferences, but with regard to this call let's pass on to the operator for the question period.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

[Foreign Language] (37:18-37:25)

Your first question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway from Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Pierre or maybe Bruce, can we start with maybe some of the new amendments to the Thomvest debt. I just want to understand a little better what was – like the reasoning behind this decision on your [indiscernible] (37:55) part, it sounds like you needed to loosen some of the covenants. Can you maybe talk a little bit about that? And as far as extending the date, what was the need to extend the date if the warrants cover off the repayment anyways?

Okay. I'll start and maybe Bruce can get into more technical aspect. But clear to say Alan, we contracted those debts in a very different time of the corporate life of ProMetic. ProMetic has grown tremendously as it's taken more development activities in-house and it was becoming clear that Thomvest as a lender and looking to protect its position as a lender, become increasingly aware that the value for them is in the papers and the equity.

So we look very hard as to how the company progress, what kind of loosening covenants it needs now to operate and move at what speed, and align much more the interest and the covenants of the loan agreement along with the shareholder objectives. So it's having access to capital – free capital is not an insignificant objective, especially when we look at the ramp-up in operations that we're going to undertake over the coming years, synchronizing all this with the expiry of the warrant such that the repayment of the loan coincide with the warrant.

All this was a complete realignment of the paper work to make sure that the working capital stays as long as possible. Although, having the possibility to repay sooner as well if the picture of the company further improves to a point where it makes more senses to take the debt out of the balance sheet.

So all in all, a much more flexible arrangement with Thomvest, which align much more Thomvest along with shareholders. I mean, Bruce, do you want to add anything to this?

I think not much to add other than just kind of remind us that these are original discount that notes and the face value, the repayable amount does not increase along with the extension of the – there is no further interest other than the payments that's being made in the form of the warrant here.

Well, and I think that's exactly kind of my point. The warrants were in place to cover off the repayment. Yet, you guys have extended the date and provided C$7 million additional warrants. So I'm just trying to get my head around that. Maybe we can move on.

On the resin sales, they continue to be a little bit weaker than I think some people were expecting. However, you guys have guided to CAD $20 million in sales for next year. Can you, maybe talk about how, as these new resins come into the flow in the product sales, how this should effect gross margins going forward which continue to be quite low? And I'll leave at that and jump back in the queue. Thanks.

Bruce, do you want to first kick it again on this one?

I mean in terms of the kind of the growth plan for resin sales, and the kind of variability, I mean we're clearly at the mercy of our clients and we have been for some time. We're now at the point where more and more of our clients are coming [ph] over (41:42) the regulatory process and into commercial sales of their products, and at least begin to normalize our ability to – the forecast begins to normalize.

I think the other thing that's going to add to more certainty around the resin sales business is the visibility that we're going to see from our partners in the PPPS process where we will be supplying our affinity technology into those guys and as they begin to scale up their operations to sell volumes that we're expecting to seeing again. That will add consistently to the top line in a more kind of regular and robust fashion.

So I think it's probably going to be realistically another couple of years before we see a smoothing of those revenues, but as we've given the guidance before, we expect them to grow and albeit in a slightly lumpy fashion for the next 18 months, 24 months.

And Bruce, so I guess just how does that impact then gross margins going forward from here?

Well, again, I mean the little bit margins as you know, Alan, they vary from product to product, but as we begin to see a greater mix of those products, they should begin to stabilize and it should begin to gradually increase a bit. So, we've got several clients, who place orders on a sporadic basis at the moment for resins which have got presumably high gross margins. Once we start getting into regular orders with them that will help the average margin shift upwards and become more stable.

Okay, thanks guys. I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you, Alan.

Your next question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka from Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning guys. Thanks for taking the question. Firstly just on the quarter, you had guided to CAD $15 million to CAD $20 million in revenue for the second half of the year. The product sales were in line with our expectations, but the milestone licensing revenue seem to come up a little bit short. Was the shortfall due to a milestone payment and if so, what was that related to and when do you expect to receive that payment?

Well yes, it has to do with – exactly that revenue recognition affecting the timing of recognizing such revenue. So – expect them in H1 and that's the only slight variation that we saw for the quarter.

Okay. And just another question, just a follow-on on Alan's question regarding the CAD $20 million in revenue from the bioseparation business that you expect next year. Is that just from product sales or are you including service revenue in there too?

This is mostly product sale.

Okay, okay.

I mean there is always a mix, but product sales this time around is making the bulk of that number.

Okay. And just on fibrinogen, I think that was a pretty important announcement that you've scaled that up in your manufacturing. It seems the validation of your process. Can you provide a little more color on what size of batches you're able to do and how many proteins you're pulling out when you're running a manufacturing batch?

Well that's an interesting question, Neil. And as you see the backbone involved several proteins, not all of which are at the same stage of development. But now, when you're looking at say put yourselves at same time next year or even by the end of the year, you end up having seven, eight proteins of the backbone all scaled-up, and that enables the company to manufacture all of them at the same time, at same scale, and it increase tremendously the efficiency of everything.

Fibrinogen, we have had multiple interactions with various parties. We started selling small quantities, but then the whole point of selling or making those products available for third-parties to evaluate our material, and to start factoring possible integration in their own products. So we should expect some movement this year as a result of our scale-up and activity of last year.

So what's the stability of fibrinogen, and do you expect that sales could ramp pretty significantly if you win and if you identify a partner?

Well, it's actually not just going to be one partner in this particular case. We're talking multiple users, which is a good news, I mean this is an output therefore and revenue stream at much higher margins than the resin which, back to the previous question, overall when those biopharmaceutical products what are sold as an excipient and/or sold as therapeutics, they will contribute to significantly improve further the margin.

So we're looking here in the case of fibrinogen at multiple clients, some as usual maybe bigger than others, and I am looking to also and to an agreement for fibrinogen to move as a therapeutic for IV treatment of hypofibrinogenemia.

So perhaps, the same process that we've entered with the plasminogen, although at this time there are some companies that have undertaken similar developments, so we wouldn't be the first one on the market – would be second or a third entry, a bit like Alpha-1 Antitrypsin but nevertheless a valuable opportunity.

So a dual-type of source revenue for fibrinogen to be expected over the years. One, so sales as excipient to a third party which does not require new regulatory requirements and the further developing from outside. And we're looking right now at a potential deal to accelerate and fund the development of the clinical development of fibrinogen.

And I know I'm over my allotment here, but just when do you expect that the sales of fibrinogen as excipient could begin?

I would say – our target is, we're standby on shipping those things, but I think that in a more meaningful way, in the second half of this year.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you

Your next question comes from the line of Derren Nathan from Hybridan. Your line is open.

Hello guys. Just looking at slide 27 on the PBI-4050 development, question on both of those boxes. On CKD, you mentioned that the primary objective of this study will be to optimize dosage. But to what extent is it going to be used to prove concepts and efficacy in this indication ? And then on the orphan indication, given that it has orphan designation in Europe, if that is successful, how quickly do you think it could be approved in Europe?

Well, I'll start and John maybe step in here. Obviously, the open label study that we intend to do in Europe could create an interesting situation, Darren. As you know, there is early access opportunity especially in UK with a Phase 2 compound with proven safety and proof-of-concept efficacy in very specific orphan disease. So this is something that could become quite an exciting avenue for both the patients and our shareholders, we'll share about that.

But certainly, we're always interested to find ways to have an ultimate validation in disease state and type of patients that can not only serve the purpose of addressing unmet medical need for that indication, but also become a very, very valid platform to prove the point of the powerful NTE fibrotic activity of PBI-4050 can therefore from that human experience translate to other patients.

In the case of CKD/DKD, this is going to be a much longer term exposure and we had had inputs from the FDA in our pre-IND meeting, very supportive of the study. So we're now synchronizing both the FDA and Health Canada's input for the design of that trial, and getting input as well from the various principle investigators that John has been able to rally in the States and in Canada. And this is as John mentioned probably, I don't know if you cover the notion of adaptive design, John in this approach, but certainly we'll provide more detail as we file the IND in the CTA for this trial.

This will take a little longer to execute in the open label. The open label therefore provide more of an earlier window for proof-of-concept activity. The chronic kidney disease could be designed such study it could actually roll into a Phase II/III trial. So that will be further be detailed as we progress with the program.

Thank you very much, Pierre. And just one more question from me. On the restructuring of Thomvest and Octapharma, can you quantify how much and in what periods that actually is is your working capital requirement?

Well, Octapharma... [indiscernible]

(52:23).

No, go ahead Bruce, go ahead Bruce.

What I was going to explain is that Octapharma essentially, Darren, is an instrument that was set up to match their own orders for product and would be repaid [indiscernible] (52:41) deliveries to them. Effectively, the instrument is now just being rescheduled to match those orders. So by 2018 that should be paid down completely out of the orders that they expected to pass through to us. And it's a fraction of the value of those orders that goes towards repaying the facility.

In terms of the Thomvest, as Pierre already mentioned, this is really taking the pressure off in the kind of the 2018 period – if you recall, these instruments were originally five-year instruments requiring repayments in 2018, 2019. But the original warrants were actually and scheduled to or had a life running up to sometime during late 2021. There was therefore a potential gap between that 2018, 2019 period and 2020, 2021 where we were exposed to the cash burn. And so that's why we pushed everything over to 2022 and by then [indiscernible] (53:49) we'll have products on the market.

That makes sense. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper from Beacon Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning, gentlemen. I just wanted to talk on the PPPS side for a second. So you got one product that's received the IND from the FDA – plasminogen, where they rushed [ph] down (54:13) the IVIG, in particular in the upper one, when do you anticipate receiving the approval back for the IND for those?

Well, I think that you have to watch that space for IVIG. We expect momentarily, I think the IND was filed and this is a pivotal study. So we've answered some questions to the FDA, so we're anticipating an update on this in the coming days, weeks. And as far as the – if you look at the slide 18 that outline the pipeline. What we have to do, Doug, as you know when we end up anchoring all the process for multiple protein, you can't go back and make changes any more.

So we took a bit of a step back on the Alpha-1 Antitrypsin to make sure that we absolutely captured some key other valuable orphan drug potential around the Alpha1 step, which we're very happy that the team has achieved. I mean these are not disclosed yet. And when they will be disclosed, it will make perfect sense and everyone will say – oh, my god, this is even more than we thought.

So Alpha-1 Antitrypsin remained a key project to file the IND by the end of the year. And fibrinogen, almost at the same time or few weeks just behind and the orphan drug that we have also already advanced significantly in-house. So all of those will be like following each other by almost a month or two starting in Q4 and crossing over to Q1.

When you just look forward, say two years, three years from now and presumably, these will start being in commercial production on a – I guess on a cascade growth [indiscernible] (56:11). What do you think when all these things are improved, what do you think the aggregate revenue per liter of plasma is for the – however many proteins you think you're ultimately going to have commercialized?

Well, I mean Doug, we had a slide for this – it's not on that slide deck. We did represent that with five proteins or six proteins, we would average north of CAD $2,000 per liter output, okay. And this is not counting all the orphan drugs that we have lined up to advance.

So, it's substantially higher than the typical industry average by virtue of a yield advantage on some of the more established therapeutic such as IVIG or Alpha-1 Antitrypsin. But the additional value contributed by some products that our colleagues in the industry have not been able to manufacture to date. And, therefore, the mix of those provide a guide by 2018 roughly an annual – an average revenue per liter of north of CAD 2,000.

Okay. And just then [indiscernible] (57:23) capacity, between the Hematech Russia and Laval, how much more capacity do you think you will need or have by the time these things start to get commercialized?

Well, that's a good question. Our capacity is not going to be driven for the large volume protein. We will be gauging our future capacity on the like of plasminogen and other orphan drugs. And therefore, we are aiming to be at about 800,000 liters by 2018, 2019, so if you run the math 800,000 liters times the average selling price output per liter that's pretty substantial top line and huge margin.

Yeah. And finally, just on plasminogen you have in your next milestones for 2015, new indications, IP, any hint at what that could be or when we might hear about them?

No, suffice to say we wanted to point and attract the attention on that plasminogen. We're the first one in there with an IV infusion, proving that safety of our plasminogen and patient and the PK profile is very useful. And as much as the type 1 orphan drug indication is a defined regulatory pathway for us, we've been looking at other indications and we look forward to be announcing this, hopefully, by the AGM and we'll be able to fully expose the program at that point; quite exciting opportunity for ProMetic.

Okay. And finally, just R&D non-rechargeable, what do you anticipate that to be in 2015?

Bruce?

Well, I think the number is going to be tracking up, clearly, Doug. It's probably going to be in the CAD 50 million range, maybe a little higher. It depends really on the pace at which clinical trials progress. The cost of clinical trials are obviously budgeted, but the rate at which we spend depends on rate of recruitment and so on into the trials, but it's – we're certainly going to see that spend increase next year.

Okay. So in the combination – between the cash you have and potential partnership deals, you think you'll be able to fund that spend?

Well, that's the plan right now. We're working hard on these partnerships.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks, gentlemen.

Thank you, Doug.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Jim Belin from Aldebaran Asset (01:00:05). Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Thank you for taking my question. My question concerns the proxy that you filed. There is a provision in there. You were seeking a vote on a share consolidation one for two, one for five. I know that this is just seeking permission, and it's not something that necessarily would be done. But my question is why? In my 25 years of experience, I've rarely seen an occasion where you've had a consolidation later lead to an increase in share price. And most often what happens is the share price falls. And my thought process is if you announce one big deal or show continued progress on PBI-4050, why would you even need to entertain the idea of a share consolidation? Thank you.

Well, I almost hear myself speaking here, and I hope that everyone gets the sense of why we applied for that request. It is entirely conceivable that as we progress the company we already meet all the requirements [indiscernible] (01:01:17). And share price is a bit of an art of its own. I believe that, from the advice we receive from advisors and bankers, there's an optimal sweet spot when you're considering an IPO [indiscernible] (01:01:37). And that sweet spot could be in the range of CAD 12 to CAD 15.

And even if the company progressed very well, we could look at – and the share price increase, we could look at an optimal uptick of doing a reverse split. This is not something you do for fun, but it would be really to make sure that we maximize access to accounts that otherwise cannot buy into the story, because the share price does not reach a certain level. And the soft spot that we are asked by advisors is around $10 to $15.

So, we want to put all our chances on our side for a successful listing. And you're absolutely correct, we may end up doing partnership, we may end up announcing milestones such that the company on its own gets to that point, and that's certainly plan A. And our objective really this year is to focus on execution, but keep our company in constant state of readiness for the possible dual listing.

And so that's an initiative that we have set for our self for the benefit of our shareholders and rest assure that should we use that, I'm sure the shareholders agree to this and should we use this consolidation, it would be one that is done in a state of momentum. The only consolidation that works or I've ever to seen to work is in the context of a strong momentum. So, you're absolutely right. Usually, people do consolidation [indiscernible] (01:03:21) to stay listed or things like that and these fail miserably. And that's not the intent here.

Thank you very much.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from the line of Sanjay Jha from Panmure Gordon. Your line is open.

Good afternoon from London. Just a couple of questions if I may. You've said you scaled up three new proteins from PPPS this year. How do you decide these numbers? Is this sort of something you know you're going to do, is it sort of – what's the process and what's the cost involved in sort of coming out with new protein?

Well, good question. Good morning, Sanjay – good afternoon, rather. These – I'm confused. I'm calling from Tokyo and you're in London and we're in Montreal on Eastern Time zone. It's a notion of a multi-factor. First of all, market-driven, unquestionable, the protein that we decide to scale up has to have an unmet need and we have to have an edge. The edge usually is a yielded passage or first end market or yield and purely advantage and, therefore, really putting ourselves at the top of the offering in terms of strategic positioning.

What one has to take into account as well is the practicality of those proteins in a sequential production. The more you can manufacture conveniently several proteins every time you process one liter of plasma, the more you reach optimal profitability. So that's also a factor. The good news here is that everything that relates to scaling up, optimizing process, are all fixed cost that we already have built to be able to supply the pipeline. The additional task really comes when we bring those products to the clinics where now we have now to outsource additional work with the clinicians and the CRO.

But, by and large, the manufacturing of those protein and the scale-up exercise that we're going to undertake this year is undertaken by the same group that has already done that work for fibrinogen and plasminogen and IVIG and now, sequentially, are involved in scaling up others. And they will have that kind of evolving sequential pattern here where once those [ph] three deals (01:06:07) are scaled up, then there's others that will be following to keep feeding the pipeline like that.

And can I just quickly ask a question for Bruce. Bruce, is the – the GENERIUM deal, which was done in December last year, are there any numbers from there in the 2014 numbers? I'm just trying to understand...

Yes. Yes, there is. There is the upfront payment in there.

So that's the CAD 6 million.

CAD 6 million, yes.

And there is another – is it CAD 11 million to come in 2015? Is that...

It will spread over a period. I don't believe it will all come in 2015. But there are milestones to come once we achieve other things along the way. Yeah.

Right. And one final question, I think it goes back to Pierre. I know you've done deals in China, you've done deals in Russia, Taiwan, are you at a stage where you'd have interest from Western Europe or U.S.?

Absolutely. Actually, it's funny you mentioned that most of what we're contemplating doing this year is now Europe and North America. But, remember that we've partnered with extremely solid regional partners in the emerging market, key emerging market. GENERIUM [indiscernible] (01:07:38) extremely well positioned in the Russian GIS. We have this partnership with the CNBG in China and Hematech in Taiwan. And now, most of what we have on the plate for deals, really, is a focus on Europe and U.S.

All right, okay. All right. Thank you, gentlemen.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway from Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my follow-up. Pierre, we haven't talked about in a while, can you maybe just give us an update on the CNBG and where things stand in China as far as their development, what they're doing with the program and when they may start coming online as far as ordering more resin, et cetera?

Yeah. It's interesting. What happened with China is, when you know the expression of balance sheet you cannot have more up balance sheet than this. A lot of the work that we're able to do and a lot of bystander looking at our performance and how can it be that we're developing so many products at the same time, well, is we have many more people working than even what we show in our own expense card.

So, a lot of the work is done jointly with our colleague in China. The challenge that we have in China or that CNBG has in China is that unlike the U.S. or unlike Europe where each product has its own IND process and they can all be done sequentially. The Chinese regulatory authorities will look at PPPS and will require CNBG to file multiple INDs at the same time.

So, this is what CNBG is busy doing right now, ramping up several products, bringing them all to a point of readiness instead of being like us sequentially. And so, it's going to be an interesting breaking out of silence mode in one shot. So the visibility of what CNBG is going to do, I'm not quite clear whether this is towards the second half of this year crossing over next year, but, definitely, still very engaged and supporting, actually, indirectly our own program.

So, just so I'm clear Pierre. So, they will be filing all of the INDs at the same time and that filing will likely occur either late this year or in 2016?

Yes, and you're looking at four products or more simultaneously.

Right. At which point then they start their own clinical programs, so we're probably pushing out any commercial sales out of China for at least a few more years, right?

Well, their clinical requirement and regulatory requirement is different, clearly different. The type of the studies they have to perform is different. And remember, they are in a very unique position where they're manufacturing both currently [indiscernible] (01:10:53) derived protein and our PPPS-derived protein. So they're in a very unique position where they can compare bioequivalence in-house.

What are they going to get away with, with the agency is something that really belongs to the Chinese authorities and the Chinese partner, but one big difference in terms of their approach, which is a regulatory impose approach is multiple IND simultaneously as opposed to sequential as we have it.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, can you – and you may have said this in your prepared remarks, I just might have missed it, but an update on where the plasminogen trial currently is as far as an enrollment and maybe just where IVIG is? Has it started enrolling?

No, IVIG, we're expecting clearance from the FDA and that will be announced. We filed the IND. We had some question to answer. That was in my previous comment, Alan. This is a pivotal study straight to phase IV, so we expect a green light very soon. The good news on the IVIG is that all the sites have been lined up already. So, as soon as we get the approval, enrollment starts schematically. So it's a very well synchronized.

The plasminogen, we hope to have our PK data this year, and, therefore, PK and safety confirm that will be the major milestone to be announced this year for plasminogen. So recruitment so far we've identified already 18 patients and the infusion that we have given to patients to date has produced the desired PK data, but, more importantly, supporting good safety profile, so, so far so good on plasminogen.

And the PK data you'll get this year is sufficient for registration?

Well, it's a typical thing. We regenerate the data, sit down with the FDA, the cohorts that we'll enroll and generate the data is going to enable us to present that for the FDA. So, it's a race against the clock again. But, so far, more importantly, it's how the patient behave when you give those products and so far the infusion is totally without any adverse event. So, we're very, very positive with the program.

Okay. And then one just last one, I promise. And just on the R&D spend this year, what's – of that potential upwards of maybe CAD 50 million that I think Bruce mentioned, what's the cut between PBI-4050 and then plasminogen – or not plasminogen, sorry, the plasma products? And I'll leave with that. Thanks a lot for all the answers, guys.

Okay. Well, yeah, PBI-4050 stepped up a bit compared to last year by CAD 3 million or CAD 4 million. And again, is really variable cost subject to rate of enrollment. And overall, what you see increasing in 2015 is the ongoing clinical trial of plasminogen IVIG and the launch of the clinical trial of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin. But, Bruce, you commented on an overall quantum, but, again, a lot of that includes some variables subject to performance of program. So, do you want to expand on that, Bruce?

No, I think you pretty well captured it. The split is more – clearly more heavily biased towards the plasma proteins. There's much more happening in the clinic there. So, yeah, I think you've said it all, Pierre.

Okay.

Your next question comes from private investor [ph] Norman Claremont (01:14:53). Your line is open. [ph] Norman Claremont, (01:15:00) your line is open

All right. Good afternoon, sir.

Good afternoon.

In your last conference call, you mentioned – yes, am I on now?

I didn't understand your question, I'm sorry.

Okay. In the last conference call, you mentioned you had two deals in the proceeding and one of them came about. What about the other one? Is that still on? Or are you looking at...

Yeah, we're working. We're extremely busy with negotiating agreements with various licensees and partners and there is more than one on the go, and the one that's we were hoping to announce before Christmas is definitely going to be announced before the AGM. So it's nothing lost there. But, obviously, we're talking much more than one deal. We're talking multiple deals this year around the PPPS program; very exciting. As we move forward and validate and advance the program, more people are showing up in the plate and want to participate. So it's very, very encouraging.

Okay. Thanks very much. And also I have a small one on a fibrinogen. What order of magnitude are we looking at for commercial grade sales in this year?

Well, fibrinogen is a very complicated product to analyze. Overall, sales of fibrinogen is measured in north of CAD 1 billion and, in some cases, its use of therapeutic itself, that represents maybe CAD 0.5 billion, and then it use of excipient. And as you know, companies don't necessarily publish all their sales in excipient.

But we're looking at taking a market share of those two indications. So you're looking at sales exceeding CAD 100 million for fibrinogen for us over the coming years on an annual basis. So, and again, in a mix of both supplying other pharma companies and selling the actual product as a therapeutic.

Okay. I understand like the Rx part is a big amount, but what about the commercial grade that could help us with the free cash flow this year?

Yeah, the actual – the sales of pharmaceutical grade could exceed the sales of the therapeutic. And as you mentioned yourself, the factor, with contribution toward the second half of this year, as I mentioned, and growing 2016 and 2017, and we'll disclose the clinical program when we're ready on the fibrinogen therapeutic and that has a very good chance to contribute in 2017 at the same time as IVIG and other proteins. So, all of those you stated very nicely the contribution of sales as excipient could very well proceed significantly the therapeutic one and its starting this year.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Well, thank you very much for your participation today. This is exciting. I apologize in advance if the line has been cracking. We – John and I are in Tokyo and Bruce in UK. So, I could hear the line crack from time to time. But, again, thank you for participating in this call. I look forward to more exciting news and development this year. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.