Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Gregory L. Weaver — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
John Moran, MD, FRACP, FACP, FACPE — Non-Independent Director & Chief Medical Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Neil Maruoka — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Christopher Lam — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Derren Sean Nathan — Analyst, Hybridan LLP
Chris K. Potter — Founder & President, Northern Border Capital Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the ProMetic 2015 Third Quarter Highlights and Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Operating Officer; Mr. Greg Weaver, Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. John Moran, Chief Medical Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask a question in the language of your choice.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Pierre Laurin.

Well, thank you very much, and good morning, everyone. Just as you all know, this presentation does contain forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives and strategies, business that involves risks and uncertainties. And on that note, I will bring your attention to the agenda on page three that we intend to cover. Greg and Bruce will share the third quarter financial update and then we'll get on with John and myself covering the plasma and small molecule therapeutics, and we'll recap with the outlook for the reminder of Q4 2015.

But again, on slide four, just a reminder that we have a very, very busy beginning of second half 2015. We have provided again reiteration of strong guidance of revenue C$18 million to C$20 million, I'll let Greg and Bruce expand on that during their presentation.

You may recall that we secured ownership of the plasma collection center in Winnipeg, that really helped consolidate our strategy for the plasma-derived biopharmaceuticals. Plasminogen development program made significant progress during that period, achieved new milestones even with the German patient, brilliant recovery that John will expand on, and the expansion of the indication that we promised and were disclosed just few days ago, and we'll have several slides on that today.

IVIG, the IND cleared by the FDA and this program is finally moving forward. And PBI-4050, what's to say, Orphan Drug Designation in Europe for IPF, and a successful pre-IND meeting with the FDA with regard to the add-on pivotal clinical trial with IPF. We'll update all of that during the call, as well as the update on the metabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes patient, and the CTA that was cleared in UK by MHRA. So, a lot of material today to cover, but let's start first with the financials and I'll pass it back on to Greg and Bruce.

Okay. Thanks, Pierre. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First, as Pierre's already mentioned, we announced earlier this month the addition of Greg Weaver to our executive team as CFO, as I change my focus to the growing operational responsibilities of COO. However, given that Greg has only recently arrived with us on the team, for today's call, Greg and I will share the presentation on the financial results.

So, we can move to slide six, as usual, I remind listeners that this part of today's webcast is based on the financial information for the third quarters of 2015 and 2014, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. All of these statements have been prepared under IFRS and the full financial information of the group can be found online at sedar.com. Finally, all sums in the presentation today are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or where otherwise indicated.

So, let's move to slide seven, and I'd like to begin my financial comments with a review of revenues for the quarter, which were C$5.7 million compared to C$2.3 million in the same quarter of 2014. A more thorough analysis of that revenue reveals that in the third quarter of 2015, C$5.1 million was generated from product sales, compared with only C$1 million from product sales in the same quarter of 2014.

As we've mentioned on previous occasions, the company's revenues typically fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, so comparisons are better done on an annual basis to give a more reliable indicator of performance, however, and it's clear to see that the figures for the quarter reflect our earlier statements about growing underlying product sales, and I'll comment shortly on the anticipated full year numbers.

So, since the shift in strategy to focus on developing fewer products for third parties, the service revenues have remained broadly consistent year-over-year with C$0.6 million in Q3 of 2015, compared to C$0.7 million in Q3 of 2014. In addition, there were no milestone or licensing revenues in the third quarter of this year.

So, turning now to revenue guidance for the full year 2015, we expect total revenue for half two to be in the range of C$18 million to C$20 million, bringing the total forecast revenues for the year to C$23 million to C$25 million. That range in guidance takes into consideration both currency fluctuations and the fact that certain product deliveries are scheduled very close to the year end and depending on the actual delivery date will fall either in 2015 or 2016 revenues.

It's important at this point to highlight that these forecast revenues will be generated mainly from product sales, showing strong growth in that area. And at this time, we've excluded the impact on the forecast of any potential upside from business development transactions that are currently under discussion. And the reason that we've excluded those are just due to the uncertainty of timing and the accounting treatment of any revenue, but some of those may still impact this year.

So, moving then on to slide eight and some of the key figures from the P&L account for the third quarter. As I mentioned on the previous slide, revenues for the quarter were C$5.7 million compared to C$2.3 million for the third quarter of 2014. Cost of goods sold were C$1.2 million for the quarter compared to C$0.9 million in Q3 of the previous year, reflecting both the increase in product sales and an improvement in gross margins due to the sales mix year-over-year.

Total research and development costs were C$11.9 million in the quarter compared to C$7.7 million in the same quarter of the previous year. These R&D costs have increased over the same period of 2014, mainly due to the increase in clinical trial activity on both the small molecule and plasma therapeutic programs, and also due to the recording of expenses from our manufacturing operations in Winnipeg.

Administration costs increased in the quarter, primarily as a result of increased head count in business support functions, together with increased non-cash stock-based compensation costs resulting from stock price increases. These effects combined in the third quarter costs of C$4.1 million compared to C$3.2 million in the same quarter of 2014. Net financing costs, slightly lower, consistent with the lower level of financing activity undertaken this year. And finally, the fair value adjustment on the warrants was zero in the third quarter as these warrants were actually converted to an equity instrument in the previous quarter.

So, that all brings us to a net loss for the quarter of C$10.6 million, down from a loss of C$20.7 million in the same quarter of 2014, resulting in a net loss per share of C$0.02 for the quarter on both a basic and diluted basis. That set of results also gives us an adjusted EBITDA loss of C$10.2 million in Q3 versus an adjusted EBITDA of C$7.4 million loss in Q3 of 2014.

So, on that point, it now gives me great pleasure to hand over the reins to our new CFO, Greg Weaver, to present the balance sheet. So, Greg?

Thank you, Bruce, Pierre, John, Fréd, thank you very much for this opportunity. I'm going to move you to slide nine and the key features of the balance sheet at the end of the quarter. Cash stood at C$42.5 million compared to C$27.1 million at the end of 2014 and our operating use of cash in Q3 was C$11.8 million and C$33.4 million for the nine months year-to-date.

I draw your attention to our quarterly disclosures that the company has at least 12 months of cash liquidity as of the end of the quarter. Accounts receivable next, stood at C$6.9 million compared to C$11.9 million at the end of 2014. The primary reason for the decrease in trade receivables was the receipt of the Generium upfront payment of C$6 million in Q1 of this year, while it was invoiced and recorded as revenue in Q4 of last year. So essentially, a cut-off timing difference of revenue and receivable book last year followed by cash collection this year.

Inventories increased in the third quarter, which total C$8.3 million. And the investment in inventory over prior quarters is indicative of larger volumes of production and upcoming sales. And as you can see from our more detailed footnote disclosure in the Q includes growth in both raw materials, WIP and finished good inventories.

Moving to capital assets, the balance has risen by C$3.7 million since the beginning of the year, which represents the [ph] plant (10:41) investment in our manufacturing plants both in Laval, Québec and on the Isle of Man in UK. Intangible assets remain stable at C$147 million and includes the C$141 million intangible recognized in relation to the acquisition of NantPro in 2014. You may recall this intangible was the result of the business combination accounting which arose in the prior year and was fully disclosed at year end.

Trade and other payables were down by C$1.5 million at C$7.6 million due to normal payments terms. The warrant liability of C$24.7 million at the year end, which has now been commuted to equity earlier this year in Q2, resulting in a significant improvement in the level of the total current liabilities.

Long-term debt provided by Thomvest, shown here at C$21.4 million, has reduced slightly this year as a result of the debt modification and the repayment of some debt in exchange for equity subscription back in Q2.

Lastly, the total deferred tax liability balance is at $33.2 million at the end of Q3, a decrease of C$5 million from the year end 2014, and this decrease relates to recognition of the company's pro rata share of the NantPro results effect on the deferred tax asset.

So the company's overall consolidated balance sheet remains strong, clean, a solid base from which to continue building. And a rich pipeline of therapeutic drug candidates here supported by strong operations, with which we will continue to invest.

And to that point, transitioning to the next slide, slide 10, where we provide a bit of initial color on our clinical trial plans, and cost estimates for next year. I point out these amounts are initial estimates [ph] without the precision that we'll create (12:33) going forward, but for today's purposes provides us a good guide to discussions on our strategic clinical focus in 2016.

In summary, you can see the various protein programs in the 4050 portfolio. But important to point out that at this stage, we have an active – a very active clinical strategy and you can see from these amounts here are not breaking the bank, but look very manageable from my perspective.

And now, in transition, I'd like to hand the call to Pierre and we will move on with the operational details. Thank you.

Well, thank you, Greg. And indeed, as you commented, we'll expand a little more detail-by-detail, line-by-line later in the presentation on those clinical program. But I appreciate that you bring our shoulders to a sense of reality [ph] because I was getting (13:26) those comments from time-to-time, guys, you keep pumping good news about the program but how much is this all going to cost, and it's quite reasonable indeed.

So, let's move on to the corporate side of the presentation and let's start slide 12. Exciting times for plasminogen, several milestones, in fact, all the milestones that we have set for ourself for this year have already been achieved and busted. The safety at further – higher dose is further confirmed, that's on page 12. There's no drug-related adverse events and the follow-on PK at a higher dose generated results just as expected. So we have confirmation of pharmacokinetic profile by year end as explained, expected.

But more so, in fact, and John will speak to that, we were so proud all [ph] here (14:23), and I'm sure a lot of shareholders conveyed the same pride, that our established optimal dose regimen that we've generated understanding and good control after our clinical trial in the U.S. has enabled us to reverse a very acute medical condition in the German patient. And as I said, John will expand on that.

Another milestone that we have set ourselves by year end was the expansion of plasminogen use to address additional medical indications. And then, again, few days ago, we announced the deal with Omnio, and there will be few more slides on that. On that note, John, maybe you want to talk to our audience about the German plasminogen case.

Yes. As you know, we treated under an emergency use condition, a very critically ill 20-month-old baby in Germany. And this is the first therapeutic use of this agent in man. I have to say, it is one of the most dramatic things I have seen in my 40-year medical career. Patient was on a ventilator, requiring circulatory support, we gave three doses of plasminogen. And within four days, the patient was removed, no longer needed the ventilator. We could see clinical signs earlier than that, viscous lung secretions were markedly decreased, and the respiratory function improved again within hours, so that the patient required less oxygen. I think this is a N=1 series of a clinical case but very, very dramatic and very, very clear cut clinical response.

Great. Well, I mean, again, [ph] you major turnaround on the situation (16:26), as you know, the FDA has agreed to a accelerated regulatory approval process for plasminogen in the U.S., which means that we have an agreement that so long as we deliver on the surrogate endpoint that is confirming what dose and dose regimen keeps a patient above a minimum threshold, that would otherwise keep the patient out of trouble, that will be sufficient to file the BLA. But augmenting that data pack with a clinical efficacy that dramatic, I don't need to explain that this will add to the case favorably. So very, very excited with this.

And on that note, now I'm turning to the expanded therapeutic use of plasminogen in wound care management on page 14. Very, very happy to share what's been almost a year of discussion and negotiation, of course, but also getting to understand our colleagues now at Omnio, Dr. Tor Ny and his colleagues who have vast experience on the use of plasminogen for treating wounds. And had filed patents and have published numerous papers on the topic. And this was a marriage to be made, that is a good scientist with extreme good knowledge of how to use plasminogen in those, how to treat wounds, and a industrial partner like ProMetic that has the wherewithal to manufacture large quantities of GMP plasminogen, getting together to form this alliance.

So, the deal provide to us IP, intellectual property, and patent position on existing patent as well as new patents that have just been recently filed, giving us a proprietary position in the treatment of wounds in most major markets. It's a huge underserved medical situation. You'll see later with the numbers, it's staggering. But I'll let first the picture speak for themselves. Let's – John, why don't you comment on the following slide, slide 15, for example.

Yeah. So, one picture is worth a thousand words and we have several pictures, but I'll confine myself to fewer than 3,000 words. This again, are very, very impressive pictures. The proof of principle in the human model. Patients who have had long lasting wounds have been improved and cured with intravenous – sorry with injection of plasminogen around the wound every two or three days.

The first patient on [ph] patient (19:34) 15, a 77-year-old diabetic, three years with chronic ulcers on both feet and three years is not an unusual result for diabetic ulcers, as the slide says the patient was being considered for bilateral below-knee amputation. The pictures show you the very dramatic [ph] improval (19:57) healing. One thing to note is this patient, as a complication of these foot ulcers, had infection in the bone, osteomyelitis, and that was what was really leading towards the consideration of below-knee amputation, both the wound and the osteomyelitis seemed to have been cured with plasminogen over several weeks. Again, something that's there for three years that you can make disappear within a few weeks is very impressive.

Slide 16, second patient, this is a patient with the ischemic ulcers on the legs, bilateral neuropathy due to ischemia. Long-lasting post-operative wounds from attempted repair, not an unusual result, and you can see within a few weeks, again of plasminogen injection, healing of the wound, completely healing.

Slide 17, the third patient you, got to mention, 66-year-old female with a nine-year wound on the lateral malleolus, in other words on the outside of her left ankle, you can see the improvement again within a few weeks. We put a SEK 10 Swedish coin there to show you – give you an idea of the size of the wound that's about the same size as a quarter, and you can see the quite dramatic improvement. The other point that's measured here is vitality and social life markedly improved. This patient felt unable to leave the house with this very severe wound and is now mobile and able to lead, essentially, a normal life.

With that, I'll pass you back to my friend Pierre Laurin.

Well, John, I mean of course, we're thrilled with the therapeutic efficacy confirmed in the plasminogen-deficient patients, and there is a very sensible mechanism of action involving or building the rationale for use of plasminogen to treat wounds. And we look forward to expand on this in the early quarter next year when we'll have all day Analyst Day, and will give us a better chance to go over a full-fledged presentation on how plasminogen actually can reverse such situation.

But needless to say, plasminogen is manufactured under GMP condition. We're looking to initiate clinical trials in the second half of next year. One may ask why? Why does it take it so long? Why aren't we starting right now? Well, I mean there's some formulation adjustment and some dose calculation required here to make sure that we do it right. There's good hands-on experience and we want to use all that hands-on experience to design the trial that would satisfy the KOL and the regulators, but we're quite keen to come to, hopefully, the rescue of some of those desperate patients.

And of course, when you look at slide 18 and 19, we're talking staggering numbers. I won't cover them point-by-point, you can read them on your own. But you're talking billions of dollars of cost to the healthcare system, Nearly a million patient incidents annually, with half of them having hard-to-treat wound with limited options, which basically mean leading a lot of them to amputation. And it's not the end, a lot of people with amputation actually don't live very long afterwards because sometimes they may have waited too long or becomes systemic.

So, all in all, all I can say is that a cost of an injection around a wound for a few weeks is going to be much cheaper and much more affordable than the exorbitant constant managing those wounds right now, and that's where I think that ProMetic will make a huge difference, not just bringing a therapeutic but bringing a affordable therapeutic solution to an unmet medical need.

So, it's quite exciting – a quite exciting time for plasminogen, more to come as we progress. In fact, crossing over to the Phase II/III for the plasminogen deficiency program next year, and – well, in fact, I mean in the coming weeks, and – but also eagerly pleased to advance the program in those hard-to-treat wound patient.

Turning to IVIG, not much to say on that one, I mean IVIG IND clear now is very happy ending on a long exchange with the FDA. Finally, clearing our pivotal Phase III clinical trial in primary immunodeficiency patients. This is an open label, single arm with two cohorts, multi-center study, and there's 50 adults to be recruited in cohort 1, and 25 children in cohort 2, can only start the children after a few adults have been – I think it's 20 adults, John? [ph]

I guess so (25:22).

20 adults confirm. Our colleagues in Russia, Generium – MasterPlasma, rather, they changed their name to MasterPlasma, will contribute to the clinical enrollment with some sites in Russia as well, such that our BLA filing will actually be a BLA that will be eligible for filing in U.S., in Canada, in Europe and in Russia. So, expecting completion of this trial in first half of 2017. I mean, IVIG is one of many mainstream plasma-derived products that will contribute significantly, financially, and facilitates the advancement and the commercialization of other orphan drugs.

So, it's the strength of PPPS that enables us to manufacture, from a single liter of plasma, several products as indicated on page 22. So, on page 22, you've seen that pipeline before, plasminogen now moving further deeper on the clinical program before it reach commercial status. The new indication will cross over to clinical program as we said midyear next year. And the IVIG now is well on its way, now that the IND is cleared, it's pretty straightforward protocol that we're following.

The other program, as you know, are being alpha-1 antitrypsin, C1 esterase inhibitor and fibrinogen. They're under manufacturing scale-up right now, getting ready to be collecting data for the stability program and then filing the INDs. All of those hopefully being filed next year, such that we can initiate the clinical trial program in the second half of 2016.

Perhaps, we should switch here for PBI-4050, because it has a long list of achievement as well in this period. If we go on page 23 and start with the idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. And we're quite excited about the orphan drug designation granted in Europe. It follows the one that we have already received from the FDA in – for the U.S.

We have initiated and are enrolling patients in the Phase II clinical trial initiated earlier this year in Canada multi-center trial. But the highlight, I would say, excitement for us is probably the successful pre-IND meeting we had with the FDA, suggesting that we initiate a pivotal trial immediately in IPF patients in the U.S., and that would end up being an IND filing in the U.S. and Canada. But we now have the input from the FDA to have, what you would call, an add-on protocol that is add ProMetic PBI-4050 to a patient that is already controlled with either pirfenidone or nintedanib.

And therefore, this is, I would say, an easier trial to execute on. And currently, John, I mean you are busy with the KOLs to design the protocol in a matter of the next week with all the FDA inputs and so on, and expecting the IND submission for Q1 2016. It's important to know when you see all those dates and what happens. When you file the IND, obviously the FDA has a chance to review it in 30 days. But once – you either have some comments or they accept it as is, very unusual to accept it as is, but the pre-IND meeting help resolve a lot of uncertainties when you file the IND.

You already have taken into account a lot of the advice that they have for the company. And once the IND is cleared, then you got to get the sides going and you got to sign contracts with the clinical sides and the CRO and the principal investigator. So there is always a gap between the IND being cleared and the clinical trial started. That's something we were able to mitigate with the IVIG, because even though there was a delay in the clearance of the IND, we kept growing 12 sites, anticipating that the clearance will take place and we're able to manage that in parallel. So there's not much time wasted despite the delay of the IND clearance for IVIG. But IPF looking at submission in Q1 next year for IPF PBI-4050. And therefore, as Greg indicated in the schedule, clinical trials starting enrolling in the second half of 2016.

On page 24 for the type 2 diabetes with metabolic syndrome, well the Phase II trial in Canada is going very well. As you know, the Drug Safety Monitoring Board confirmed safety in the first 12 patients. We're now at 22 patients enrolled. Thanks to that expansion enabled by the Board that confirm its safety. So I mean, it's very interesting protocol open label, which we look forward to examine the effect of PBI-4050 on the biomarkers, which would help to confirm the translation of pharmacological activity from animal to human. So that translation is very, very important because once you have that confirmed, you know you have a drug. So we look forward to that event to unfold in Q4.

We also have great news from the MHRA in the UK. We'll clear the CTA for our other study in the diabetic patients with multi-organ severe fibrosis. This is also scheduled to start later this year, with enrollment in the center, in the UK, in the first quarter of 2016. But new data presented at the American Society of Nephrology, a lot of presentations were available in the website. Seven presentation overall, with regard to PBI-4050 and analogs, and I will alert you to pay attention to some of those analogs, which will probably have a spot on the podium on their own, very soon.

But more data from Vanderbilt confirming the marked reduction of fibrosis in kidney in a pure fibrosis model. I mean, that is a very impressive piece of data that Ray Harris presented that day. And again, also from [indiscernible] (32:17) lab, more data confirming the dual effect of PBI‐4050 both on reducing fibrosis in the kidney, but also improving the pancreatic function in those diabetic mouse. And again, that's very, very unique feature of PBI-4050. It has shown – has been shown to show reduction of fibrosis in the absence of diabetes, but when you have those two conditions combined, the overall conditions of the animal improved dramatically, because both the kidney, the liver, the pancreas improve overall.

So, it's something we obviously hope to immolate in humans, and we're excited about the prospect of PBI-4050, in the current metabolic syndrome patients, in the Phase II. And of course, initiating our program, so we were busy with the CKD type 2 diabetes. This is something a recurring thing you'll see is a concomitance of fibrosis in diabetes as a very interesting playground for PBI-4050. So summary on page 25 of the clinical program. We completed both Phase I and Phase Ib with no side effects. John presented at the American Society of Nephrology much more detail. He has a full poster on that with a lot of detail as you can see with no more side effects on the treatment group than the placebo group. It was clear that the drug is extremely well tolerated and not a big plus, which may seem trivial, but it's not trivial, and that even if patients have impaired kidney function, there was not no need to adjust the PK in those patients, which means that this facilitate the dose regimen and prescription for chronic kidney disease patients, for instance.

So again, the Phase II open label for IPF and the metabolic syndrome in Canada both running and enrolling. The next step though for the metabolic syndrome trial is a preliminary readout early December of the effect of PBI-4050 on metabolic disorder biomarkers. And we also have an exciting program to announce soon a new orphan indication for PBI-4050, and this again will be announced in December when we have wrapped our mind around the protocol that we're finalizing. So exciting times for PBI-4050.

So finalizing the protocol for both the new orphan drug indication that we'll be announcing and the CKD with diabetes and IPF add-on protocol. So we have a John Moran and his team extremely busy right now, but all looking to file the IND with the advice and input from both Health Canada and the FDA with the program initiation early 2016.

So – and Greg, just beforehand, and you can refer back to that slide, these two slide [ph] jive (35:30) with again an impressive program to demonstrate proof of concept, proof of efficacy, and in some cases, initiation of the pivotal trials. They're not [indiscernible] (35:43) in the diabetes, actually, they're not invasive, they're not expensive to drive and something that ProMetic with its current financial situation can easily handle.

So, in summary, the key milestone for the second half of 2015, on slide 26, as I need to wrap up this conference call. We provided guidance on the revenue as Bruce and Greg indicated significantly relying on product sales. So these numbers are pretty solid as we have the PO, we're delivering on it. You saw the number of inventory increasing, indicative that there's a lot of products to ship in Q4 and Q1. So that's a good sign because the base business is growing and it's solid.

There's also business development transactions that are expected at closing and recognized this quarter, next quarter. The point is, that there is more cash coming in from business transactions, but there's also other contributions from those deals. As you can see, the deal with Omnio didn't provide cash, obviously, but provides a good complementary know-how and intellectual property that helps us advance further the potential use of plasminogen as a therapeutic.

We have promised and we will disclose a new orphan product coming out of PPPS cascade, and this is also before year end. We're busy manufacturing all the products, but including the alpha-1 antitrypsin, the C1 esterase inhibitor and the fibrinogen. We may not be press releasing every time we successfully scale up one. At one point, the company is maturing that is not going to start talking about every [ph] product (37:28) it can achieve in the manufacturing plant, but let's put it that way. The program is running well between Rockville and Laval and Winnipeg, the triumvirate is working extremely well, and we are going to be filing IND in 2016 to enable those products to join the bang and have more in the pipeline.

PBI-4050 preliminary readout. That's a date you will not want to miss. We'll be all looking at the screen at the same time to see PBI-4050 performance in the first 12 patients of the metabolic syndrome patient study. And why not a new orphan indication for PBI-4050 to be announced. So I would say that between now and Christmas, we are busy, more to come. Exciting year so far and good prelude for an exciting 2016.

On that note, operator, I will open the floor for questions. [Operator Instructions]

[Foreign Language] (38:36-38-40) Your first question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway from Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the questions. Pierre, maybe I'll start with new Omnio indication in the wound healing. Can you maybe just provide us with a little bit, so I think you guys mentioned a few times that this healing is taking place over a few weeks after years of having these ulcers. How is the plasminogen being dosed during that time? Are we talking about multiple injections on various days or weekly or how is that being given at this point?

Well, Alan as you can appreciate the pictures that are shown here, we're done on a compassionate use and the dose regimen that has been used has not necessarily have the optimal compliance of, you know, nurse going every day and so and so. I think that what will happen here is that we have learned from the experience of our colleagues in Sweden, we'll factor that in into the protocol.

We are running other experiments to optimize those regimens, but I would say that just for indicative purposes, let's put it that way, don't hold me to it because there's still optimization and still some thinking around that, but we are looking at a regimen that will look like injections every day, every second day for about a month to resorb significant old wound. And it's been done before and here what's impressive is it's being done in humans, right.

So, it's – and the logic and the mechanism of action as you know is quite straight-forward, counterintuitive, I would say, but quite straight-forward and hence, the marriage between the ProMetic and Omnio making a lot of sense.

And you mentioned having to maybe tweak a little bit on formulation. Can you just comment on maybe the extent of what work needs to be done there from a formulation perspective to get this into the injectable form? Are we just talking about finding the right concentration or is there going to be some other components of the formulation that needs to be worked out?

No, we have done that work in the background. Okay. We've done the work, we already have the formulation. Except that, typically, when you file an IND, you already have to have the stability program in your – in the vial. So, we have been busy focusing on the IV formulation and this is the one that is in patients right now, but it's the same API, right, it's the same plasminogen API.

You don't worry too much about concentration per ml, when you'll inject IV, it's a slow infusion. When you start injecting micro volume intradermally around the wound, then the higher the concentration, the better within reason. So, there is some optimization there, but we have a very good range and we have formulation developed already. So, it's a matter of the clock ticking to accumulate this stability program before we can officially file the appropriate formulation for those type of clinical indication. But as there's no, I'll put it, R&D risk here, it's more just like ticking the box and getting ready for the filing.

Okay. And then maybe my last question, and I'll jump back in the queue. What do you think the full clinical program for this indication might look like? How big might the first trial be and then, what type of trials would you potentially need to run following that one to go for an approval in wound healing?

Well, it's a good question though we actually cannot comment right now. We will learn a lot sitting down with the regulators. This is a rather unusual situation. You have a very characterized – well characterized product. It's a single protein doing its magic. Plasminogen is a well-known plasma derived protein, doing its magic. We know its key role in the wound-healing process. This is an API that most likely as we get into the wound-healing patients, we'll already be filing a BLA for the treatment of systemic wounds. Think about it. We have patients who will have now wounds in the lung, wounds in the various part of their body and we will have an API authorized for use in human, injected intravenously. And all of a sudden, we're expanding its use for the treatment of topical wounds. So what kind of regulatory process would be allowed? Are we going to face again a potential accelerated pathway here? I don't know. There has been failures in the attempts, previous attempts to treat diabetic foot ulcers, but these were novel treatments and so on. Here, we're talking about expanding the use for an API that would most likely RAB- approved for use in humans systemically. So it's a question I look forward to update you all in a Analyst Day once we've had the chance to get some feedback from the regulatory agencies on that.

Thanks guys.

Thank you, Alan.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Miehm from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi there, guys. It's [ph] Joel (44:40) on for Doug. He just had to step on a flight. Congratulations again on the excellent progress you've made so far in the clinical programs.

Thank you, [ph] Joel (44:48).

Just wanting to ask quickly, have you had any more contact with the FDA regarding plasminogen as it relates to the acute treatment of plasminogen deficiency?

Well, I mean, this type of program, when it's an orphan indication, is one where there's a more open dialogue than usual. I think that we're in a position where right now we're gathering data on our U.S. patients, the German patients. Our colleague here is on the line, they want to comment on this. John is trying to package this as neatly as possible, but we have a very interesting position here where we are authorized to file a BLA without any evidence of clinical efficacy. So, again, I appreciate that people are wondering, now that you have clinical efficacy, n equal one, and possibly we'll have more than n equal one by the time the trials are all done, what difference does it make in terms of the filing, and probably not much. The point is that, we're looking at filing a BLA next year and be in the market very soon. So that's quite fast for a biopharmaceuticals, anyway. But you can imagine that the data for the German patients – patient will be used with the filing with FDA. That's for sure.

Perfect. Thank you. And then one other question. John, do you have any specific plans for the Center of Excellence that you're going to be operating in Sweden?

Well, again, I don't want to make this sound as a huge expense. This is something that we can afford and instead of reinventing the wheel in our labs here, we saw a great opportunity to have a collaboration with savvy, seasoned scientists that knows more about plasminogen that many labs put together including ourselves and it was easier, much more sense, and actually quite [ph] legal (46:50) to have that relationship with R&D pursued there. The [indiscernible] (46:55) study is supporting the IND filing. There's a lot going on. Plasminogen is involved in so many different ways in the treatment of wounds, both in the body and on the surface. So, we – this is a great addition to our capability and understanding of plasminogen overall. So, that's what we're funding and leveraging our knowledge, understanding of this fantastic protein.

Excellent. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka from Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, guys, and congratulations on the progress just over the last few weeks. Just a follow-up on the – on Alan's line of questioning. Can you also – how many patients you have data for in that proof of concept dataset for plasminogen in wound heal?

Yeah. It's – there's nine patients.

Total nine patients?

Yeah.

Do you think that based on this and the unmet clinical need that there is a chance you could move this directly into a pivotal trial in diabetic foot – diabetic ulcers?

Well, quite frankly, I wouldn't go there, Neil, if anything – establishing an optimal dose regimen is very important. I mean, I think, that we want to understand what went wrong with other trials and we want to make sure that we've totally optimized the protocol to make it as simple as possible. And so, I think what we're proposing here as a first trial going in, it's certainly to repeat what's been done using our GMP product, establishing evidence of frequency of injections and quantity to be injected. Is there evidence that more accelerate versus not? These are some questions that we will be asked by the regulators, and might as well ask those questions to ourselves and our key KOLs that [indiscernible] (49:22) the studies.

So, I would say that the pivotal study is something for 2017. At one point, we have a better understand – better hands-on experience with our plasminogen and good compliance on the dose regimen that is fixed in the protocol, right. Then that becomes a protocol you roll out in your pivotal study.

But indeed, if we repeat the reversal of those very old wounds and wounds that are in patients that would otherwise need amputation, it could very well be that there is a special treatment from a regulatory point of view for those. So, we'll go step-by-step.

It's a rather unusual situation to have again, a drug that is technically would be otherwise approved for systemic use and now you're going into intradermal injection on a smaller scale. So, from a regulatory point of view, you're exposing the patient to a far lower dose than the systemic use for a very localized wound. So, we'll try to leverage all this. More importantly, let's understand what's the optimal dose regimen here to achieve the fastest result.

But as you can see, it's quite evident those – all those that John presented and six others, they were all old. Some case, venous ulcers, pressure wounds, but old.

Right. Great. Okay. Switching gears a little bit. Your PPPS processes is optimized for several drugs and many of which are not yet announced. What are the hurdles to announcing those additional plasma-derived orphan drugs? Are you looking for partnerships, [ph] do you have big farm (51:15) interest?

Well, Neil, just look at the Omnio transaction, right. It's one that actually you have the – in almost a period of a year, we've been working with the principals at Omnio and Dr. Ny to understand how we could jointly advance the knowledge, the science around plasminogen, how we can structure a deal so that everybody is happy. They had patents. We found ways to file additional patents. And you don't want to go ahead and announce something until all that is done. So we always said business development deal around PPPS-derived proteins would be the type that can contribute financially, can complement knowhow or add intellectual property, or provide access to market.

If you look at the deal that we had with Generium not so long ago, we access Russian CIS market, but there's also complementarity financially. They also fund clinical trials. They have a great understanding of hemophilia and they're advancing hemophilia products that we had no wherewithal to advance ourself.

If you look at the deal with Omnio, okay, they don't contribute financially, but they provide us access with patents that now make that plasma-derived product proprietary. And we will have with the new patents filed with them 20-odd years of exclusivity globally, right. So this is beyond now orphan, this is global patent protection for a million patient base indication. So, this is why sometime we are well aware of what we're going to do, but we're waiting until an agreement of [ph] the kind (53:07) is done to [ph] see what happens and would put – that (53:09) both party intended to get together to do something together in the best commercial position. So, Omnio took a year to close and set the stage.

And during that time, it's good that we progress our own plasminogen to a level now where we can enable that program efficiently. So, that's, in a nutshell, two examples of why. But there's more to come and we are going to announce another one before year end.

Okay, okay. And maybe a near-term revenue opportunity, fibrinogen in non-pharmaceutical use, are you close to a commercial agreement there? Do you think you can sell that – start selling that product before the end of the year?

Well, I mean, we have made progress with many parties. And not all of which we can also disclose for various reasons. So, it's like we're looking at this as an interesting business line for us. Fibrinogen has and will have its own future as a therapeutic, as we announced. So, it will get into its own pipeline. It's going to be an interesting protein, as you say, with potential sales without being a regulated therapeutic, but we're making progress, and again, some restrictions as to what we can disclose for the time being. But it's progressing pretty well.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot.

Thanks, Neil.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper from Beacon Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just on the product sales, first of all. You have any more color around that? Is that going to clients or pharma companies who are beyond clinical trials that are actually into commercialization? I guess I'm just trying to get to, is this at a level now where we can expect these kind of sales or is this still a sort of lumpy C$18 million to C$20 million in the second half, is that something that will continue into 2017 – or 2016, excuse me? [indiscernible]

(55:23) I think, Doug, the answer is that we're certainly getting closer to this being more linear, but it is still lumpy. What we're seeing in the latter half of this year are deliveries against some orders that we received early on in the year, where clients have asked us to hold back and deliver at the back end of the year. Some of the deliveries relate to marketed products, some of the deliveries relate to products that are in late stage clinical. I think as we get through 2016 and into 2017, that's when we're going to be in a position to see this leveling out more regularly.

Okay. Pierre, can you maybe just remind us the commercialization time table, I think you said you're hoping to file BLA for plasminogen in 2016. Is it commercialization, you think, in 2017? And IVIG, you noted here, I guess the clinical trial going into 2017, is that a 2018 commercialization kind of thing?

That's the way we're looking at it right now. It's like a fairly well sequenced program where. as you just mentioned, looking at plasminogen that will be used on a compassionate use because those patients that are on trial and actually relieved are going to be kept on the drug until approval. And – so, we're looking to have a rapid review by the FDA on this type of drug. And definitely, 2017 is a year where we would have a commercial product for almost a full year. And then follow the year after by IVIG and alpha-1 antitrypsin will kind of be a very close timing.

So sequence of products, 2017, 2018, 2019, by 2019, 2020, you have now five or six products contributing to the top line, bottom line, so this is, as you well know, the model explodes to rather insane numbers. But plasminogen, by far, will have the potential to drive far more revenue than everyone anticipated here. Congenital is an interesting market, but it's pale in comparison to the wound care healing [ph] drug (57:55).

Just on the wound care, and I'll jump back in the queue, but it's early days yet, but just in terms of your preliminary thoughts on distribution of it and pricing?

Well, it's a good point, Doug. I mean, we said all along, we cannot be the best party to commercialize everything we can make, right? So we're okay to market products that are for orphan indication, where you're looking at 40, 50 teaching hospitals in the U.S. for example, who treat most of the patients with plasminogen deficiency. That is something that ProMetic can handle.

When you get into a success story with the treatment with wound healing, that may require a partner that is already well-established in this, we could indeed have a commercial partnership that would help us reach deeper in that market. This is to be evaluated as we go along. We just disclosed right now one of the wounds that plasminogen can address. The patent covers more and we'll address this internally, as to see what makes sense to pursue as we go along. So, it's very, very interesting when you can have a single API manufactured into the plant that can explode into different medical indication. But we may not be the right party to commercialize them up. So, stay tuned for that. I mean, that's pretty clear in our mind, right.

Right. And I guess, just – I just lost my train of thought there. Oh, this is, I guess, a recurring – [ph] curative of the (59:48) foot ulcer, the diabetic patient is still prone to more in the future, correct?

In fact, I'll defer this question to John, really.

Yeah. That's entirely correct. And in fact, one of the patients did relapse when the plasminogen was stopped and it had to be started again. So, we're not curing the diabetes in this particular case, we're just dealing with a wound. And because diabetes is a systemic disease affecting many parts of the body, we can expect that we'll be treating the same patient for different wounds.

Right. Perfect. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Doug.

Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Lam from Paradigm Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my call. If I could just jump to slide 12, the first three bullets regarding the safety confirmed that a higher dosage and the pharmacokinetic profile, is this – has this been confirmed in the second cohort of the Phase I trial and can we take this as a sign of completion of that Phase I?

It has been done, of course, in the cohort 2, and there's always a delay between the final report and everything and some preliminary, this is an open-label trial, right. So, what I'm reporting today is that the PK is confirmed at a higher dose and – but not only that, Chris, I mean, this is the basis of which we use to treat the German patient, right?

Yeah.

So, it was already with good insight of the cohort 2 PK that John was able to work with the German patient – the German medical team and achieve this kind of miraculous turnaround. So, if it hadn't been a cohort 2, we would have been a bit dabbling around the dose, but cohort 2 really firmed up our understanding of the PK and the dose that you achieve and the plasma level, and it all worked well, as you can see.

Absolutely. Okay. And just one last question for – on the Omnio patients. In terms of the source of the plasminogen, can you just confirm, was that a product made by ProMetic?

No, no, no. This has been done on a compassionate basis by Omnio over the years and they were using a [ph] sterile (01:02:23) plasminogen made locally. We, during the phase of mutual due diligence, we confirmed that our plasminogen behaves the same way, performs the same way, and of course, going from – going on, this is going to be a GMP product from ProMetic now, but we know that the characteristics of our product emulates the one that Omnio was using in the past.

Right. Okay. And then, just lastly actually on the Omnio patents, you touched on it a little bit, would you be able to provide a little more details in terms of what those patents protect, is it the injectable formulation, and potentially a number of indications that you're looking at getting patents for?

Well, I mean, these patents are public domain information. They cover multiple different type of wounds. They cover different type of administration. They also cover the recombinant form, the plasma-derived form, so they're quite wide. And we've layered additional claims since, and these are not published. And these new patents are far more precise to the methods of use of plasminogen to treat [ph] specific (01:03:49) embellished by our own data and Omnio's data that have never been published before. So, there's the patent family that has been published plus the one that we filed recently that will not be public until a year and a half from now that will cover the entire patent estate, and probably more as we go along with Omnio [indiscernible] (01:04:14)

That's great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Derren Nathan from Hybridan. Please go ahead.

Hello there. Part of my question was just answered, actually, about [ph] the source of (01:04:29) plasminogen, but following on from that, I think, if I have it correct, there wouldn't have been any alternative for them to do this sort of trial on a mass basis. As far as I understand, you're the only GMP source of plasminogen out there at the moment and also will have a much better yield than any other method. That's my first question.

So you're absolutely correct, Derren. I mean this was – this was as we say it, this was written, right. I mean these guys in Sweden they know their stuff but they didn't have the industrial capabilities. And as much as we know a lot about plasminogen, we have learned tremendously and will continue to learn about the aspect of plasminogen on those topical wounds, and that partnership makes the whole thing possible. Yes.

Very good. And then just on a business development, clearly, there's quite a lot of stuff that could fall in the next six months, which is why it's a bit of a timing issue for the year end. Can you give any idea of the sort of scale of the short-term deals that you're looking at in comparison to your other revenue sources?

Wow, Derren, you're asking a tough one here, I can't really comment because they're like material in size and range. And there are certain things that we may put the pen down because we're getting data from our own trial and all of a sudden say, whoops, that changed a number. So, it is a bit premature to comment on that.

But let's put it that way, we – I believe the company is again in a position to enter into agreements that would keep on maintaining or strengthening its balance sheet and enhancing its pipeline. So – and I think we've demonstrated that in the past and I think that as we advance the assets in the clinics, the odds/probability of being able to achieve same or more is increasing, right. So – and as the asset gets derisked, value goes up. So it's – I think we're heading in that direction.

Okay. Thank you, Pierre.

Thank you, Derren.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Jim Belin from Alderburn (01:07:07) Asset Management. Please go ahead.

Hi, congratulations on all your progress. The success in treating that German child makes all of us especially proud to be ProMetic shareholders. My question involves plasminogen. By January 1, 2017, how much plasminogen can be produced by the current manufacturing capacity? And how many patients – diabetic patients could likely be treated by that amount of plasminogen that you produce?

If we – it's an interesting calculation but if you do – and believe – and it's going to be on the script, if you do a back of the envelope calculation, right, a small napkin with a [ph] rough pen (01:07:54), you would probably, with current capacity in Laval and Winnipeg, treat 200,000 patients, right. So if you do the math and you know that these patients really cost so much money and you just apply a $10,000 per treatment patient, which is not exorbitant if you can save them from being amputated, you're looking at an interesting top line just with our existing capacity.

And that existing capacity will not remain static, as you know. There's partners that are already building; next webcast we'll share pictures of where the Generium plant is at in terms of construction, pretty impressive. But to your question, with existing capacity, 200,000 patients.

Okay. My next question is you said that you have enough cash for the next 12 months. My concern is you have so many things going on. If there happens to be a delay in the timeline and the cost of some of these trials are slightly more than expected, I'm worried that you may have to go back to the market sometime in the next 12 months before some of these other revenue sources kick in. How likely is that?

Well, it's a good question. I'll let Greg and Bruce step in after I make my opening comment – comment is that we are doing everything possible here to line ourself up to our NASDAQ listing. The optimal timing for us is, as you can appreciate, having brought our pipeline to more maturity and have more clinical evidence of efficacy on our two lead products, plasminogen, PBI-4050, which I believe should drive the value of the company and also attract many new investors as well, which were all in the Q waiting for this to be confirmed.

We have deals that can embellish the balance sheet overnight as you know, and one wouldn't do a NASDAQ listing without considering doing an issue as you list. So these are all things in the work. I'm also reminded by our CFO that there's some warrants that will come to – they're like well in the money and they will come into a pressure for exercise by the time we're talking about, and that adds another $25 million. So there's all kind of things that can come the way of ProMetic and keep the balance sheet very strong.

So, it's not a given that you have to turn around and – I mean, the point of Greg's slide initially, right at the financial section, was to show that, yes there's a lot of program going, but we have not – we've not opened the gate to very large expensive clinical trials. That will come as we progress and that will then be addressed with a stronger balance sheet, either enabled through partnership or as we list on NASDAQ, but that's for later in the year of 2016.

I might add, this is...

Thank you very much.

It's Greg Weaver here, thank you, just I would add that in large measure a business model based upon joint ventures, partnering alliances, and there's a history of that activity here, a very positive way. And so to the extent that non-dilutive funds can be put to use here to drive this clinical strategy, that's where we'll be focused. This is all in addition to what Pierre just laid out for you. There's pretty comprehensive answers, there's not much for me to add without being redundant, except to say that we will – as well as shareholders here – we'll do the right thing. I'll leave it at that.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Chris Potter from Northern Border Investment. Please go ahead.

Hi, Pierre. Can you elaborate on what the economics of using plasminogen for wound healing might look like relative to – for plasma-deficient patients? In other words, is a unit of plasminogen used for wound healing more valuable to you than for other indications?

It's a very interesting question, and I think if we use again back of the envelope calculation, that an $8,000 to $10,000 cost to treat a diabetic wound healing for a month, it's quite compatible to the annual treatment of a congenital deficiency patient on an annual basis. So, that was another big reason for us to move forward with that indication is that there are quite compatible price-wise, because one is an acute use of a low dose and the other one is a long-term, lifetime use and, to put it bluntly, they're quite compatible. So, it gives you an idea that congenital treatment of [ph] the kind (01:13:39) is going to be in the range of $50,000, $60,000 per year, and it's all subject to health economics.

If you take a patient like the German infant who's been for weeks in ICU with extreme cost to the health system, and most patients in the clinical trial in the U.S. who have undergone dozens, in one case, hundreds of surgery, that's how those products end up being priced. So, in a nutshell, they're compatible because one is an acute treatment and the other one is a long-term treatment. It works.

So I'm not sure I follow. You've talked about getting $500 per liter of – per liter for your plasminogen, does that – will it still be $500 and you'll just be processing more liters over that $500 number change as a result of this new indication?

Well, it is – if we use the back of the envelope calculation I just provided, the number has just shifted to more closer to $5,000.

Okay.

Per liter. Yeah.

And are you concerned that the wound care market is so big and that other people – other processes can produce plasminogen, that you'll invite more competition because of this?

Well, I mean they'll have to wrestle with patents, that's the whole point. I mean if people want to make their own and want to in-license rights from us, because we realistically cannot supply the world, and it's – there will be a great problem to have. I mean this is where some licensing rights to enable more patients being treated would be ethical and quite economically sound for us to do. But that would be the amazing problem to deal with.

But we have the ability to partner and enable others to use our platform technology under license to manufacture more. The answer to the previous questions about capacity is really restricted to the Laval and Winnipeg facility, when you start adding other facilities with the PPPS efficiency, that's the whole point. I mean nobody really will be able to rival with our platform. You've got to use our platform to make efficient plasminogen, otherwise, you're wasting your time. So, – and on top of that, you'd be infringing patents. So, we're in a very good position with regard to plasminogen and its therapeutic use, even in large equations like that.

Great. Thanks for your impressive progress.

Thank you, very much.

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.

Well, thank you very much for all your questions and we're very excited, also extremely proud to be shareholders of ProMetic and it's nothing, as I mentioned before, more grateful in life to actually be working in a company like this, that will reward those who sponsor the program and relieve patients that are facing the wall and looking at no more option. So, this is an amazing opportunity for us. We're all trying to do even more than that and we look forward to the next webcast, which shouldn't be too far from now, updating you guys on further programs. So look forward to the next one. Thank you, again.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.