Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, Chief Executive Officer & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Robert James McWhirter — President & Portfolio Manager, Selective Asset Management, Inc.
Will Tiviluk — Vice-President & Portfolio Manager, RBC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc. 2012 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in a language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:22 – 00:48)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. We'll move quickly to the presentation reminding everyone on slide 2, that the presentation do contain forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies, and businesses that involves risks and uncertainties. And on that note, I will pass the button immediately to Bruce to review the financials and some highlights of the quarters and then expand afterward on the progress of the business before we open the floor to questions. Bruce?

Okay. Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As usual, the information that I'll discuss during my part in this morning's presentation is based on the unaudited financial statements for the third quarter of 2012 and on the statutory financial statements for 2011, all of which can be found online at sedar.com. All the sums in the following tables are represented in thousands of Canadian dollars, except for the per share amounts or where otherwise indicated.

I'd like to remind the listeners that the financial statements for 2011 and 2012 are prepared under international financial reporting standards, [ph] with it also (2:00) being prepared in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Filing.

If we move to slide 6, on this slide, slide that provides details of the outturn for the third quarter of 2012 and for year-to-date and remind listeners that the guidance for the revenues which was provided at the AGM earlier this year.

The Q3 numbers clearly demonstrate the anticipated improvement in revenues and compare favorably over the guidance provided at the AGM. Comparing results for the third quarter of 2012 with the third quarter of 2011, total revenues reached just over CAD 7.7 million compared with CAD 3.3 million in the previous year.

Analyzing the revenue in more details showed that in Q3, the product sales were CAD 4 million compared to just CAD 2.8 million in the same quarter of 2011. This relates to continued progress against delivering of some the purchased orders announced earlier in the year.

Service revenue was CAD 1.7 million in the quarter compared to CAD 0.6 million in the same quarter of the previous year, with the increase there relating mainly to the recently announced plasma-derived therapeutic deals. And finally licensing revenues for the quarter were CAD 1.9 million, which relates to the US$2 million upfront payment from the Hepalink agreement announced recently. This brings the year-to-date revenues to CAD 15 million compared to CAD 9 million in 2011.

Total costs were around CAD 200,000 lower quarter-to-quarter with the variance being mainly attributable to additional cost of goods associated with higher product sales, offset by savings in overall R&B and administration costs. So, for the year-to-date, total costs will go up to CAD 600,000. This is made up of an increase in cost of goods of CAD 2.2 million relating to the increased revenues, but is offset by savings of CAD 1.6 million in other costs year-to-date.

The resulting net profit for the third quarter of CAD 2.5 million compares with the net loss of CAD 2.1 million in the same quarter of 2011 giving us a year-to-date loss of only CAD 1.4 million compared with a loss of CAD 6.6 million in the year-to-date 2011. And it's probably prudent to remind listeners that we anticipate a further strong quarter in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Overall, therefore, the company returned a net profit per share for the quarter of CAD 0.01 compared with a net loss per share of CAD 0.01 in the same quarter of 2011. And for the year-to-date, the net loss per share is zero and that's just due to rounding, compares to CAD 0.02 per share in 2011, further demonstrating this year's progress.

Finally, looking at EBITDA, which is the non-GAAP measure that we employ as a company to measure our performance. This showed earnings of CAD 3 million for the third quarter compared to a loss of CAD 1 million in the same period of the previous year, bringing year-to-date EBITDA to earnings of CAD 0.8 million compared to an EBITDA loss year-to-date of 2011 of CAD 4.4 million.

So, clearly, these results show an improvement, not only over the previous quarters, but more importantly, continue the trend that we started in the second quarter of tracking ahead of guidance given at the AGM.

If we move to slide 7, I'd like to take a moment to highlight some of the key numbers from our increasingly complicated balance sheet. Firstly, the cash position was slightly improved at the end of the quarter showing a balance of CAD 600,000 compared to just CAD 300,000 at the year-end. This, when coupled with the accounts receivable figure of CAD 7.5 million, up from CAD 1.4 million at the year-end, underlines the progress and improvement in general business over the first three quarters of the year.

Trade and other payables have reduced slightly since the year-end. However, underlying this slight improvement is a significant recent addition in the number of trade payables associated with raw material purchases to meet manufacturing demand. So, this compensates for a reduction in the other outstanding balances that was made during the quarter.

Deferred revenues have increased from CAD 0.4 million at year-end to CAD 3.6 million at the end of the third quarter. Those are revenues from which we've received the cash for which the associated goods or services have not yet been delivered. The deferred revenues will reverse to the [ph] income line (6:37) over the coming quarters if these conditions are met.

The long-term debt provided by shareholders has been reduced slightly since the year-end, principally due to the retirement of a promissory note against recently announced [ph] right (6:50) licensing revenues. The advance in revenues from a supply agreement has also reduced modestly principally as a result of exchange rate movements.

So, the overall impact of the continued positive business in the third quarter has been to drive a substantial improvement in the shareholders' deficiency, are over CAD 4 million since the year-end, with the over balance sheet total having improved from CAD 8.7 million to CAD 15.6 million in the same period. I hope to be able to continue reporting improvement on these metrics on the quarter-to-quarter basis as we move forward.

If we move to slide 8, I've shown graphically the performance to-date against the base case income discussed to the AGM. With a further strong quarter anticipated for Q4, we are, as I said earlier continuing the trend started in the second quarter tracking ahead of the [ph] gates (7:44) given at the ATM.

Moving to slide 9, I'll start very briefly with a description of the major deal announced in Q3 before handing to Pierre, to put that deal in context of the overall business strategy.

So, on slide 10, there's a graphic demonstrating the impact of the various parts of the group from the recent announcement relating to the transaction with Hepalink.

Firstly, Hepalink will make an investment subject to regulatory approval of CAD 10 million for 10% of PLI. This investment was priced at a premium to market at the time of the deal. In addition, PBL has entered into a development agreement with Hepalink, which provides for US$11 million milestone payments, the first $2 million of which was due on signing and was recognized in the third quarter. The remaining milestones will be recognized in the coming quarters as targets are achieved. And this is all augmented by development service revenues, which will begin to impact the top line very soon. Part of the proceeds from the CAD 10 million investment that we highlighted will be used to enable the operational launch of the GMP plasma facility here in Laval.

So, I'll now hand over to Pierre, who will explain a little bit more about this transaction and how it fits within the way that our business contacts. Pierre?

Well, thank you, Bruce. And I have to say that our recent agreements with Hepalink, Hematech of Taiwan, NantPharma, along with a systematic progress made in China with CNBG, all contribute to leverage our GMP facility in Laval. A reminder that CNBG or China National Biotec Group provides a significant of balance sheet financing for ProMetic by progressing the scale-up activities and the manufacturing activities in China, using our platform technology, that benefits both ProMetic and our licensees outside China. And Hematech, which earlier this year we've announced that they've pledged CAD 10 million for the development of one orphan drug, plus the funding to build a plant in Taipei to manufacture plasma-derived for ProMetic and ProMetic licensees.

So, all of these announcements are contributing massive leverage for ProMetic and for the most part of balance sheet. We also have secured the deal with NantPharma, Blackstone-backed NantPharma which is more or less a joint venture between Dr. Soon-Shiong and Blackstone. And Blackstone announced its pledge CAD 125 million in NantPharma to advance biologics to the market, some of which include plasma-derived products pursued with ProMetic. We announced the formation of NantPro as a JV with NantPharma to advance, in particular, one of this high value plasma-derived therapeutics. NantPro has the rights for the U.S. while ProMetic retained the rights for the world outside the U.S.

So, all of those announcement, all of those activities contribute to our growth in the quarter, but also and more importantly to this continued value creation by feeding products to the pipeline business, to the plant, and creating this critical mass now that leads to the ability for ProMetic to not only now manufacture and ship proprietary affinity resins and filters, but also eventually by the second half of next year, ship high value by pharmaceutical products from its Laval facility.

If I use as a summary, couple of slides toward the end of the presentation, which I believe are slides 14 and 15, you can see that ProMetic is moving up the value creation in terms of its activities and its recent deals. If you look at the bottom of the slide where we actually represent the sales of affinity resin to a licensee, this would typically represent anywhere between 2% to 4% of the value of the actual biopharmaceutical product. So, when we deal with plasma-derived therapeutics, because of our joint venture with the American Red Cross in the past.

And the fact that we have ultimately developed turnkey process that we licensed to parties, their licensing value is much higher. And in addition to earning revenue from the use of the affinity resin, we also look to collect royalties on the sale of those biopharmaceuticals, in some cases, we will sell bulk actives and, in some cases, we will actually retain the rights of the product for some territories.

So, you can just see how we basically progressively leverage the value of our technology, increase a critical math of licensees, all of which contribute to a continued growth but also an increasing value by being able to for a singular product, retain much more of the value of that market.

So, one on the last slide of this presentation, I've put some logos in there on the slide to just exemplify, for instance, that when we ship products to the like of Halozyme or Octapharma, we actually derive revenue from the sale of the affinity resin. When we're dealing with CNBG in China or NantPharma, we actually have a residual royalty right in the product, in the jurisdiction that they have exclusivity in.

The sales of bulk actives as well will be involving some of the licensee and, in fact, in the case of Hematech and NantPharma, we actually will derive revenue from the actual sales of the finished biopharmaceuticals. In case of Hematech, we split the revenue of the biopharmaceuticals developed and funded by Hematech. We split the worldwide revenue – the profit rather. And in the case of NantPharma, we retain the rights outside the U.S.

So, you can see that as we gradually improve and increase our critical mass of revenues from the sale of resin, you'll see this contribution of service development, which is service revenue associated with bringing those products to market. But in addition to those revenue, this is actually a contributing value, value by putting additional products in the pipeline of ProMetic that ProMetic will eventually sell or sublicense at even higher value.

So, this is what we described as one of our most significant growth engine, along with our therapeutics, small molecule therapeutics. So, very pleased to see that we're performing on our base business to generate cash and at the same time provide the opportunity to create extremely significant value leveraging our proprietary technology in that way.

Operator, I think it would be nice to open the floor now for questions. Operator? Celine?

[Operator Instructions] And there seems to be no question. We do have our first question from the line of Bob McWhirter with Selective Asset Management. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. You've talked about the kind of second half for shipping high value biopharmaceutical from Laval. Can you give a bit of insight as to what some of those products might be and what kind of values they might have either on a per unit or potentially total dollar capacity of the manufacturing facility?

Thank you. Good morning, Bob. The plant in Laval will be operational in the second half and initially produce manufactured products under GMP grade for use in the clinical trials, such as the companies – such as NantPharma can obtain regulatory approval, demonstrating bioequivalence to those exact same versions out there on the market. I think exact version's not quite through, we will provide NantPharma with best-in-class, which means better yield, better purity profile, better safety from a viral and prion removal, pathogen removal in general. So, it's best-in-class, but still need to be classified as a biosimilars, bioequivalent.

So, the revenue capacity for the facility is quite substantial, it is not a huge commercial plant by any standard of plasma fractionators. However, it is designed to enable the construction of other plants such as the one in China, the one in Taiwan, the other ones that will likely going to emerge over the coming years, and the plant in Laval will be able to crank up north of CAD 100 million revenue from its current capacity. So, it's a very nice piece of asset that we have in the group.

Okay. And my understanding was that the equivalent of the U.S. FDA in China was working on the bio equivalency of I think six different drugs related to the kind of Chinese partner/plant. Can you talk about progress there, if any?

Yes. I mean, they are – I mean the Chinese market is a closed market. It's a totally independent market. That is plasma used to manufacture products for China comes from China, products manufactured in China stays in China, and that there's an immense growing demand and six – indeed, six products are being developed in parallel or simultaneously. There will be a wave of three products in pre-clinical trials early next year. We will be making announcements to that effect, obviously, because that will become public information, and we'll be able to allow our shareholders to track that progress.

At this point in time, they're very, very busy making sure that all of their manufacturing will meet their own SFDA requirements and lining up their clinical trial program. But it's very exciting to see that, in fact, I mean, what's happening over there for China is an opportunity itself because China is the fourth largest domestic market now from a biopharmaceutical standpoint of view. So, it's a growth opportunity, but it's also a massive undertaking that was very useful for due diligence by other third-party that can actually see with their own eyes, our technology being implemented scaled up, and operating according to our promised specifications.

Very exciting times, Bob, but I think we'll be in a better position to enable our shareholders to track their progress when they make their own full disclosure and that happens usually as they file their own respective IND. IND is the regulatory process that allows the companies to initiate those bioequivalent clinical trials.

Okay. And on October 26, Hematech-related conference call, you talked about the potential of CAD 5 million to CAD 7 million worth of money coming from [ph] Hematech (20:41) for product development, some potentially in the fourth quarter of this year, majority, I assume into next year. And I just wanted if we could get an idea to – whether it's front-end loaded, meaning would it be in Q1 or Q2 of 2013 or more evenly spread out over the course of the year?

Typically, these programs are more evenly spread over a 12-month period. The activities have started and it's always a question of by when this – any cash inflow is recognized as revenue. But it has started and I would say that the bulk of it we'll see in 2013, pretty much evenly distributed.

Okay. And a wet-finger guess as far as the potential timing of the TSX review of an investment by Hepalink, is it reasonable to expect that by the end of the calendar year, you should have an answer back from the TSX?

That's our expectation. We expect this to be completed before year-end. If it slips maybe by few weeks, early January. But we don't see or foresee any delays on that front. All the paperwork had been filed in compliance with both respective regulatory authorities. It's progressing very nicely and swiftly so far.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Bob.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Hank Master (22:06), who is a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, [ph] Hank (22:11).

Just wondering, has Octapharma shared any information with you concerning the approval status on the OctaplasLG?

Well, what I'm at liberty to share with our shareholders right now is certainly that it's all positive. There has been a recommendation by the panel, as you know, to approve this product. There is always an exchange between companies and the regulatory agencies when such approval is granted. There are some post-marketing, post-approval obligations a company may have to undertake such as monitoring side effects and things like that, and you have to put forward a plan to do this so that when you accept the approval, you actually accept under certain conditions. And we know that this is usually the case for all companies and certainly the case here with Octapharma. So, the feedback we're getting is that it's all positive and that by the early Q1, this will be made official.

Sounds good.

Yes.

Also wondering, do you have any idea at the present as to when you will start being comfortable with providing forward revenue guidance?

Well, that's a good question. We were debating this ourselves this morning. I think that we're gradually climbing, I hope, in a way we're climbing the creditability steps in the sense that we've provided a base income, base case guidance early last year, reinforced that at the annual meeting, with Bruce warning everyone, listen this is – we've secured CAD 21 million worth of business. Not necessarily everything will be recognizable as revenue per se, depending on accounting treatment of certain parameters.

I'm very happy to see and report that we're tracking very nicely to that business, secured base line that we've provided guidance for. And that's – I mean, it's not hard to look at the graphic and believe that we'll do better than the guidance that we've provided then. And these are the type of steps, I think, [ph] Hank (24:42), that we have to overcome gradually to be able to have the market feel that this now, the ship has taken off, and it's performing with less variations. I mean, there may be still variations between quarters but nowhere near what we've seen in the past, and that this critical mass of base business is really growing.

It's two quarters in a row, as Bruce mentioned, expect a strong quarter in Q4. Therefore, we believe our shareholder would be very pleased with the year-end, and we're heading toward as an extremely good year in 2013. I would say that as we are doing the bottom-up budget exercise for 2013, and we're re-validating all the assumptions and so on, come December, early in the year, we'll be able to provide guidance again as to what we see 2013 shaping up with. But if you recall in May, we did show that a lot of the business that we had in this year is recurring and that I can confirm it to be the case. And it's very exciting times.

And finally, we're getting a position that the business and the base case is generating revenue enough to cover our cost. Very exciting times, turning point for us.

Okay. We're looking forward to the next few quarters.

Yes.

And our next question comes from the line of Will Tiviluk with RBC. Please go ahead.

Hi, Pierre. How are you?

Good morning, Will. Fine. Yourself?

Good. Thanks. Just through the last few days, as you guys have disclosed the quarter. Are you – has there been further talk of putting money in the PBI-4050 to advance it at all? I'm just curious on the therapeutic side? Thanks.

Well, let's put it that way. We had a good strategic session yesterday. We'll have another one come November – mid-December. It's pretty clear that as we review all the value drivers that the company has, that PBI-4050 stands out as one item that we have to do what is necessary here to get that asset moving.

So, there is a strong support from the board to look into this and to do the necessary work. I'm cautious here, Will, with the only caveat that people may misread the statement as meaning, oh gee, that means they will spend CAD 10 million doing something. We're talking about a small amount of money here that can create a lot of value by bringing the asset where it is to a clinical stage. Net of R&D tax credit and so on, we're looking maybe at CAD 1 million. And as we generate cash and we receive this receive this investment at premium from Hepalink, we'll be in good position to make huge progress with PBI-4050 and leverage much more its current potential value.

So, definitely, one of the value drivers. We've announced before that NewCo will also be here marked as a major leverage and I hope that the few slide explained how that GMP facility contribute to generate value and revenue growth. But PBI-4050 is also earmarked as another huge generation of value for the group.

And I assume you – I mean, can you say that you continue to have discussions with parties about PBI-4050 and keep them abreast of the progress there?

Absolutely. I mean, this is for us, the big difference here – I mean, this is targeting – first of all, I mean, thank you for that question. This is targeting a huge, huge market, huge indication. Fibrosis is the endgame for many disease and when you start looking at diabetic nephropathy, chronic kidney disease, acute chronic heart failure related to diabetics or associated with renal disease, it is like a significant portion of the spending in healthcare. And, therefore, requires that we partner that asset eventually.

Now, that question of the appropriate timing and the appropriate partner is always one that is very hard to predict. However, the huge difference now is that we're not looking to do a deal to finance the company, we're going to do a deal to make sure that it's going to be on the face value of the asset. And we also know that by moving in from pre-clinical to clinical asset, this still means that partnering for the extensive clinical phase will be required. But at that point, you've removed a lot of the – some of the unknown that pharma would like to have answered such as typical toxicity in Phase 1 clinical trials. These are not the most expensive things where could never afford to do in the past. So, now we're in the position to consider doing this and also do the right thing with regard to the value of that asset as opposed to do a desperate deal to fund the company.

And the timeframe of advancing from preclinical to clinical as you said in the past, sort of nine months, is how [indiscernible] (30:02)?

Yeah, yeah, seven months to nine months. Yeah, roughly. I mean, so we're looking at – mid-year could be an interesting objective for us to basically now announce that PBI-4050 is becoming a clinical asset.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Will.

[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from the line Bob McWhirter with Selective Asset Management. Please go ahead.

So, Bruce, turning to slide 7, the accounts receivable, the roughly CAD 7.5 million, up CAD 6 million year-over-year. How much of a timeframe do you expect to take to basically receive the money? Is it reasonable to expect that money by the end of the calendar year? What's the kind of expected days sales outstanding on it?

Yeah. No. These are all relatively current. So, of that figure, there is obviously the couple of million dollars that relates to the Hematech transaction that was invoiced just at the end of the quarter with cash flows – sorry, not Hematech, Hepalink, which was received or has not been received at the end of the quarter. The balance of that is normal trade payables and the majority of that will be received by the end of the year. We're pretty aggressive with our collection terms on our accounts receivable and we don't have any issues in bad debts in there. So, we are pretty confident that we'll see most of that washing through by the end of this year.

Great. Thank you.

Okay.

And there seems to be no further questions at this time, sir.

Well, thank very much for your questions and listening in this conference call. Look forward to more update as we continue to progress with our business and we thank you again for your interest in ProMetic. Very exciting year, inflection point that we're reaching and we're demonstrating with our quarterly performance that are generating cash with our existing business and showing how we can grow value. Look forward to report more exciting news in the coming months, and thank you all for participating in the call today.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.