Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Cameron L. Groome — Analyst, Bioniche Life Sciences

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc. 2012 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice. As a reminder, this call is being recorded today, Monday, August 13, 2012.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you very much and welcome, everyone, to this webcast.

As we move to the slides which will use as a visual aid throughout this presentation, slide 2 is a reminder that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and businesses that involves risk and uncertainties.

On slide 3, proposing the agenda for this morning where Bruce, our CFO, will go over some of the financial highlights for the second quarter of this year, and we'll go over the business highlights of the quarter and expand a little bit more on the two strategic partnerships entered into in Q2 for the plasma-derived therapeutics.

And I have to say as an opening statement that we're very, very pleased with what was accomplished during this quarter. We have seen the strengthening of our base case business for 2012 with over CAD 16 million worth of purchase orders, contracts secured in the second quarter alone and anticipate a very strong half for 2012.

But before we expand on the business highlights, I will invite Bruce to cover the financial aspects for Q2. Bruce?

Okay. Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

If I can turn, please, to slide 5 in the presentation, and we'll remind that this morning's presentation is based on the unaudited financial statements for the second quarter of 2012 and on the statutory financial statements for 2011, all of which can be found online in sedar.com. All the sums in the following tables are presented in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or are indicated otherwise. And I'd like to remind everyone that the financial statements for 2011 and 2012 are prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards.

So moving to slide 6, I provided details of the outturn for the second quarter of 2012, and just to remind listeners of the guidance for the half one revenues which was provided at the AGM earlier this year.

The Q2 numbers clearly demonstrate an improvement in revenues as anticipated, bringing the income for the first half of 2012 in total slightly ahead of the guidance provided at the AGM.

Comparing the results of the second quarter of 2012 with the second quarter of 2011, total revenues reached just over CAD 6.2 million compared with CAD 3 million in the previous year. If you analyze that revenue in more detail, it shows that in the second quarter of 2012, product sales were CAD 2.3 million compared to just CAD 100,000 in the same quarter of 2011, and this relates to the progress against delivery of some of the deals announced earlier in the year.

Service revenue in the quarter was CAD 0.4 million compared to CAD 1 million in the same quarter of the previous year, but that difference being due to the seasoning of work programs, and we expect that revenue line to pick up during the year as we begin to deliver on the recently announced plasma-derived therapeutic deals. Licensing revenue for the quarter was CAD 3.5 million made up of the Hematech and NantPro licensing fees recently announced.

Moving to total cost, fees were around CAD 600,000 higher quarter-to-quarter with the variance being mainly attributable to the additional cost of goods associated with the higher product sales in 2012 offset slightly by savings and overall R&D and administration costs.

The resulting net profit of CAD 800,000 for the second quarter of 2012 compares with the net loss of CAD 1.8 million in the same quarter of 2011. So, overall, the company returned a net profit per share for the quarter of CAD 0.00, and that's just due to the rounding based on the number of shares outstanding, compared with a net loss per share of CAD 0.01 for the same quarter of 2011.

So finally for this slide, looking at the EBITDA which is a non-GAAP measure that we use as a company to measure our own performance, that showed earnings for the quarter of CAD 1.4 million compared to a loss of CAD 1.8 million at the same period of the previous year. So clearly an improvement over the previous quarters and, more importantly, it was tracking slightly ahead of the guidance given at the AGM.

If I can move now to slide number 7 and take a moment to highlight some of the key numbers from our fairly complicated balance sheet. Firstly, the cash position was slightly improved at the end of the quarter over the year-end, showing a balance of CAD 700,000 compared to just CAD 300,000 at the end of the year. And that, when coupled with the accounts receivable figure of CAD 5.9 million, which is up CAD 1.4 million from the year-end, underlines the progress and improvement and the general business conditions over the first half of the year.

For the first time this quarter, we're carrying on the balance sheet an investment in associated company. This represents the net impact of the initial recording of ProMetic's equity position in NantPro, an entity recently announced as part of a plasma-derived therapeutics deal. Full details of the numbers are provided in the financial statements, and Pierre will talk more shortly about the business impact of that transaction.

Trade and other payables have risen since the year-end partly due to our tight cash constraints in the first part of the year, but also due to an increase in the level of raw materials purchased for production towards the end of the quarter. We expect over the coming months to see a continued improvement in this number as we go forward with the revenues beginning to increase.

Deferred revenues have increased from CAD 400,000 at the end of the year to CAD 3.8 million at the end of the second quarter. And just a reminder that deferred revenues are revenues where we have received cash, but the associated goods or services have not yet been delivered. These deferred revenues will release to the income line of the profit and loss again over the coming quarters as we begin to deliver on these contracts.

The long-term debt provided by shareholders has reduced since year-end partly due to some repayments and partly also due to the retirement of a promissory note against the recently announced licensing revenue transaction.

And finally, the advance on revenues from the supply agreement has moved modestly as a result of the exchange movement at this time.

So the overall impact of the positive Q2 business has been to drive a slight improvement in the shareholders' deficiency of CAD 1.5 million since the year-end, with the overall balance sheet total having improved from CAD 8.7 million to CAD 13.9 million in the same period. I hope to be able to report continued improvement on these metrics on a quarter-to-quarter basis as we move forward through the year.

And finally from me, if we move to slide 8, I'd like to take just a few moments to highlight a number of the financing initiatives undertaken this quarter.

Firstly, we were successful in securing commercial credit from Conister Bank on the Isle of Man based on the strong trading position in the blue-chip client base of the UK subsidiary. This loan provided working capital for CAD 0.5 million GDP and is repayable in December 2012.

Secondly, in recognition of the significant business performance associated with the Isle of Man manufacturing plant, the Isle of Man Government's Department of Economic Development agreed to reschedule the repayment of its working capital grant in order to support the cash requirements of servicing the growing order book. This renegotiation means that the grant balance is repayable no later than the 23rd of February, 2013, and the interest rate is unchanged at 5%.

And finally, [indiscernible] (08:59) equity investments from long-term shareholders and new strategic investors raised CAD 1.4 million in the quarter.

So at this point, I'll hand back to Pierre on slide 9 for the business update. Pierre?

Well, thank you, Bruce. And as Bruce pointed out, the slide to – slide 9 is the spacer to switch to the highlights regarding the business, and let's move to slide 10 as a summary slide.

During the second quarter, ProMetic confirmed a total of CAD 12.1 million worth of purchase orders and contracts related to our proprietary affinity adsorbent, and we secured two large strategic deals for the plasma-derived therapeutics, contributing in excess of CAD 4.5 million in 2012 and significantly more beyond. So let's maybe go over the next four or five slides to simply highlight these proprietary adsorbent deal.

On slide 11, we had CAD 1.4 million agreement with the European biotechnology manufacturing company to develop an affinity resin for use in their manufacturing process.

On slide 12, we've also announced the CAD 1.9 billion follow-on product order from a U.S. based biopharmaceutical company, and this is pursuant to an existing long-term supply agreement, again, for the manufacturing of an established biopharmaceutical product.

On slide 13, we announced this CAD 4.2 million follow-on purchase order pursuant to an ongoing long-term supply agreement, again, entered with a major global pharmaceutical company back in 2009.

And finally on slide 14, a CAD 4.6 million follow-on purchase order under an ongoing long-term supply agreement with Octapharma with shipments to be spread between the second half of 2012 and the beginning of 2013.

Let's move on to slide 15 for a broader description of our plasma-derived therapeutics deal that we secured with Hematech and NantPharma.

On slide 16, we announced in May that definitive agreements with Hematech Biotherapeutics were signed for the co-development and co-exclusive commercialization on a worldwide basis for a plasma-derived biopharmaceutical product targeting a very rare medical condition. Hematech is a new company formed by Adimmune to focus on blood and plasma-derived products targeting unmet medical need, and Adimmune has quite a track record for having built and operated the first vaccine plant in Asia with European regulatory certification.

More on the deal on slide 17, where the CAD 10 million funding from Hematech will be provided to support the development of a new orphan drug up to regulatory approval. So CAD 2 million in 2012 by way of an up-front payment and a milestone expected later this year will be followed by another CAD 8 million of stage payment to ProMetic and related to defined development milestone. Of that CAD 8 million, we anticipate CAD 4 million of the development fees will be paid during 2013, leading to the filing of an IND later in next year.

And following the completion of the clinical trials and regulatory approval of that product, it will be commercialized jointly by ProMetic and Hematech on a global basis, with both parties sharing profit equally. And the orphan drug will be manufactured by ProMetic in our Laval facility, as well as in Hematech's planned facility in Taiwan.

More recently in late June, we formed with NantPharma an affiliated biopharmaceutical company called NantPro BioSciences. The newly formed U.S. based company has entered into exclusive development, licensing and manufacturing agreements with ProMetic.

As most of you know, Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong has previously founded two successful pharmaceutical companies addressing unmet needs of critical ill patients. The injectable drug company he led called APP Pharmaceuticals was the nation's only safe source of heparin during the supply crisis in 2008 and his biopharmaceutical company, Abraxis BioScience, developed the world's first protein nanotechnology cancer drug transporter for breast cancer and now in trials for pancreatic cancer and lung cancer. Dr. Soon-Shiong sold these companies in 2008 and 2010, respectively, raising several billion of dollar to pursue his vision of personalized medicine through NantWorks. So slide 19 expands a little bit more on the deal structure.

In July, California-based NantWorks announced that leading investment firm Blackstone invested $125 million in NantPharma, a NantWorks company whose products include high-quality, biologically derived pharmaceuticals. NantPharma operates a number of drug manufacturing and research facilities around the U.S.

In January 2012, NantWorks announced the acquisition and redevelopment of a former Pfizer facility in Terre Haute, Indiana, with a commitment to invest $85 million to produce critical care injectable and oncological drugs. The new plant is expected to become operational in 2015.

So NantPharma and ProMetic formed NantPro. ProMetic have granted NantPro rights to its Plasma Protein Purification System and Prion Reduction technologies for the exclusive development and commercialization of a plasma-derived biopharmaceutical product for the U.S. market. In addition to the $2.5 million up-front payment, the agreements provide ProMetic with grant back rights to the biopharmaceutical product for markets outside the U.S. subject to payment and royalties by ProMetic to NantPro arising from ProMetic sales outside the U.S.

Additional revenue will also be derived from this relationship from the development and manufacturing services, including the production in its Laval facility of cGMP bulk active batches to enable the IND filing and provide product required for the bioequivalence clinical trials. Upon FDA approval, ProMetic will manufacture and supply the commercial requirements of the GMP bulk actives with NantPharma completing the final sterile manufacturing steps.

So, on slide 20 again, a recap of the NantPharma deal. And aside from the $2.5 million upfront, something impacting ProMetic's revenue in 2012 onward is expected. With an IND to be filed for the product later in 2013, second half of 2013, and very important is the manufacturing of the drug in ProMetic's Laval facility.

So if we recap on slide 21, it's quite remarkable, I think, to say that the successful scale-up of ProMetic process in China National BioTec Group facility confirmed the successful training and technology transfer program and sort of confirmed the ProMetic's manufacturing platform is robust, and it validated operating cost, yield, impurity performance, which facilitated due diligence for other parties. So the [ph] lap in (16:56) programs continue to expand leading to the performance of bioequivalence clinical trials in China, and Hematech and NantPharma significantly contributed to our plans.

The costs related to the development of a plasma-derived product up to regulatory approvals vary for each product. But it's fair to say that they range anywhere between $10 million to $25 million per product. So our strategic partners rely on ProMetic for the manufacturing process and the supply of cGMP grade material to perform the required bioequivalence studies, and a lot of the allocated earmarked budget for each one of those products generate revenue for ProMetic, and those revenues obviously become more substantial as the product receive regulatory approval.

And as you can see, our facility in Laval plays a pivotal role in enabling those deals, because as much as the technology has proven to deliver the yield and the purity performance, being able to supply the bulk actives is pivotal for our partner.

If we move to slide 22, I would like to make the comment that our actual performance for H1, actually as Bruce mentioned, was in line slightly above our guidance. But I will let Bruce comment on that slide as well because we're making very important points in terms of revenue recognition and so on. I'm very, very happy that we're more or less where we thought and actually better off with a lot of, if not most, of all the purchase order confirmed for H2 and it's a matter of delivering, but Bruce would like to expand on this.

Hey, thanks, Pierre.

So during the part of the presentation, Pierre recapped on the value of the business income secured in the early months of 2012. And it's important just once again to stress that the income from these contracts doesn't necessarily manifest itself in the revenue figure in the financial statements until some strict accounting tests are met.

In the case of product sales, revenue is recognized at the point when the product is shipped to the customer. In the case of development services, revenue is generally recognized over the life of the project, specific technological milestones are met or, in the case of projects with no interim milestones, based on the percentage completion of the project at any given time.

And in the case of up-front fees and milestones, they get recognized immediately if the performance objective has been met. Alternatively, if they're linked to ongoing performance, they get recognized over time as the associated task is performed.

So in terms of those income numbers, we still have to go through the hurdles of meeting the revenue recognition test, and it's impressive to see that in the first half of the year that we've met those tests and we are tracking in accordance with guidance.

The mix is slightly different than that we had originally predicted, but we expect that to correct by the end of the year. And all that to say that we currently secured business that we have is valued over CAD 21 million and which is all capable of being recognized as revenue in 2012. And indeed particularly with the NantPro transaction, it is possible that we might achieve more than that number.

However, we just have to be cautious and advise everyone that the accounting test for revenue recognition do have to be met, and if for whatever reason they're not, then that would impact on the overall result. However, at this time, we don't expect that being an issue, and we do expect to be exceeding our CAD 21 million figure for this year.

So on that note, I'll hand back to Pierre for wrap-up on this slide and through the presentation. Pierre?

Well, perhaps and, in fact, we should open the floor for question for our participants. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question coming from Cameron Groome from Bioniche. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Pierre. It's Cameron speaking, not strictly from Bioniche, as you know. Just had a question for you. In regards to the revenue, I just wanted to affirm that you do expect to see the full CAD 21 million recognized in 2012, if I heard correctly, and also to ask whether you see consistent profitability emerging from this quarter forward. Thank you.

Well, thank you and good morning, Cameron. I think, Bruce, you could answer to the revenue recognition and you may want to repeat this one again. We have business secured, Cameron, that we are in a good shape that should deliver on, and I think that with the NantPro, it gives us even higher buffer to meet the CAD 21 million that we've provided as guidance.

But the revenue recognition is always a tricky one that has to pass and meet the test of accounting for quarter-per-quarter, shipment date by one day and it fall in a different month or a different quarter. And if you look at the size of the purchase orders, they're pretty sizable.

Bruce, you'd like to expand on that?

Yeah. I mean, I think you've pretty much got it in a nutshell, Pierre. I mean, as I said in my wrap-up there, at this stage, we are as confident as we can be that we're going to achieve that CAD 21 million target. As Pierre said, there is the caveat of just the performance of the accounting test, but at the moment, we're reasonably comfortable that we're going to achieve that.

In terms of the question about ongoing financial performance and profitability, I think as all of the investors who follow our company are aware, the kind of range of profitability that we have within our product mix does vary quite significantly, depending on whether we're talking here kind of core off-the-shelf products or our purpose-designed sort of development services.

In terms of the kind of overall position, I think investors are pretty well aware that in the range of CAD 20 million to CAD 25 million of annualized revenue is the sweet spot, where we see breakeven occurring, the exact number very much dependent on the product mix. I think for this year, we're certainly very close to that. Until we get the final product mix, it's going to be, I would say, it's a tough one to call whether we're going to fall with just one side of the lane or the other, but certainly that's where we're at right now, and the target as always has been to build the underlying business, particularly from the sales of bioseparations products to get to the point where that is a given on an ongoing basis. So we've got work to do on that, but big progress this year with these recurring orders that we like to see slipping forward into next year and beyond.

Wonderful to see the recurring orders. Gentlemen, thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question coming from the line of Scott [ph] Houston. (25:30) Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Pierre and Bruce. Congratulations on the quarter, and I'm glad the year of the optimism for 2012 and being in the black for the year. I'm very pleased with the Hematech and NantPharma deals. It seems that these deals along with [indiscernible] (25:54) PPPS business unit has established a really solid foundation of growth.

And I'm just wondering, Pierre, if you could elaborate a bit more on NantPharma and their facility in Indiana. I expect this to be a world-class facility and will require a bulk active well in excess of that which can be produced at the Laval facility. Do you expect NantPharma to be sourcing some of its bulk active from Hematech? And is there a possibility that if NantPharma itself could invest in its own PPPS facilities?

Well, that's a very insightful question, Scott. I mean indeed, we mentioned in the past that Hematech, would be planning to build the facility that would be a copycat of our Laval facility, but at the much larger scale. And with the supply or licensees with bulk active, using the same process and so on. And so, this is acting like a CMO and quadrupling our overall capacity.

So indeed, NantPharma and other future licensees would benefit from the capacity between Laval and the Taiwan-based capacity processing FDA approved plasma. NantPharma certainly has the right, should it wish, to increase further that capacity to build it up in their own facility. I guess it's a bit early in the process, but that's the possibility they do have space and obviously the means to execute on such alternatives.

Okay. Basically what we're looking at is we have four factories that are built or being built to use the PPPS technology or the bulk active of product from PPPS facilities in China, Canada, Taiwan and now the United States. Can you provide an estimate of the revenue streams that are likely to accrue to PLI when these facilities come on-stream in 2015, 2016? I mean, what's the total price that's being developed here in the new emerging PPPS empire here that you're building?

Well, this is a very good question that will deserve a webcast and a full slide deck of its own, Scott. For many reasons, obviously, the revenues that will be seen for the next two years, three years are for the most part revenue providing services to our partners and bringing those products to bear and regulatory approval.

When you get into the larger scale manufacturing just before approval, manufacturing for commercial launch and commercial phase, automatically the revenue take completely a different proportion increased by more than a lot by virtue of the sheer scale of things. So I think that it will end up being required for us to outline the presentation in the near future that will showcase exactly the type of revenue progression.

And as I said again, very good to see revenue complementing the base case for this year and next year and the year after. But what's even more interesting is once these product get approval, our revenue would be much increased. You also have to take into account that, there's some of those situation, where we also have the ability to sell the finished product ourselves. If you look at the Hematech deal, I mean we would re-jointly commercializing the product. So that means that we're not only providing the bulk here, but we are actually going to have ProMetic own the label for those products.

So, a huge swing in terms of being able to participant in the full value of a biopharmaceutical product yet sponsored by, the development is sponsored by Hematech. And our contribution being our patent pass investment on the platform technology.

The same thing with NantPharma, having the ability to market ourselves or to license to others, other parties and other geography the – the product being developed by NantPharma for U.S. is providing additional revenue. So it becomes a – a quite complex metrics of revenue stream, all pointing upward in terms of leverage in view of our affinity. But I think it deserves a slight deck of the tone.

Well I look forward to that presentation. Just one another question Pierre, regarding the NantPro, the new joint venture between ProMetic and NantPharma. Can you elaborate on what does PLI's equity interest in NantPro at this point in time and how it's likely to evolve as NantPharma makes further investments for I guess further services down the road.

I think Bruce can complement my answer. I think that you could review the notes in MD&A with regard to that NantPro entity. I start to say that we currently control – from a percentage point of view then probe it ultimately – it is, is actually then NantPharma driving that from an accounting feature because they lead by virtue of funding that entity they will be holding and ultimately owning the majority of that vehicle. So it's a vehicle that enable a gradual funding process and ownership, and also as you can imagine that pie or that NantPro company value increases as the product move from an I&D then to the clinical trial, so the value of NantPro increases, and so as our ownership in the rest of the world.

So there's two pie here that will increase. We'll have a residual ownership in NantPro and 100% ownership in the pie and the rest of the world. And we intend obviously to bring other partners for the rest of the world. But if you review the MD&A, you can do the math in terms of the ratio and how it was accounted for.

All right. It looks as all through NantPro, definitely, you're not just having business relationships with NantWorks, but you're actually becoming part of the family. How insignificant do you see that for the future of PLI and its association with Dr. Soon's new NantWorks?

Since 2008, we have very close relationship with Dr. Soon-Shiong's company. There has been – something goes, hurry and wait, wait and hurry and all related to various events, including the acquisition of Abraxis by Celgene, which slowed down the process. But there is always been a firm determination to move forward with the program and create value with our platform technology.

And I'm very happy to be able to speak up about it. I was also very happy to see Dr. Soon-Shiong own quote in Blackstone press release, where he specifically talked about how important it was to bring you know say supply of plasma-derived product, pointing exactly to what you intend to do with ProMetic's platform.

So that bodes well for the future. I mean, we have order, I mean the relationship that we have with companies is very, very close. I mean we're providing and enabling platform, which is involved in drug master file of those drugs and when you get into the plasma-derived therapeutics, it's not just about supplying the affinity risen at this time around. But it's a whole turnkey process.

So as soon as you touch the [indiscernible] (34:54) you'll see much more strategic type of relationship, and we're very proud of the ones that we've achieved with CNBG to-date, Hematech and NantPharma.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Scott.

Looking forward to the progression. Bye now.

Bye-bye.

Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Dave [ph] Tupper. (35:22) Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Pierre. How are you?

Good morning, Dave.

Three quick questions, Pierre. I don't see anything in your – your revenue forecast, specifically relating to China Biotech. Can you give us an update on whether that project is proceeding as it was intended and when the cash flow starts there?

Yes. I think that the revenue for China National Biotec Group is blended in the multiple clients that column. It's still small, in terms of resin supply. The company at – in Wuhan is preparing its facility to manufacture clinical trial material and it will be running three programs simultaneously, in terms of getting three and then another three, I think a total of six to seven products, need to go through that clinical bioequivalent that is to show that when they make this product with the new process, it meet the exactly the same specs as the product that they currently manufacture with the old process.

And as they systemically progress toward that program then they will start ramping up manufacturing capabilities. So as of now, it's been small sales of resin. I think they're blended in the mix. We're not making an exceptional case out of it as of yet. Obviously when you start looking at the size on the picture, the size of those facilities when they come online before the commercial approval and – [indiscernible] (37:03) approval and for commercial phase, this is when you see a significant ramp-up of resin sales and then the royalties kicks in.

We are, as you can imagine, very prudent in terms of projecting by when these will come in. And it's like we're trying to adopt a model here, where we give guidance on the back of what we know on the back of purchase orders and gradually as we deliver against those guidance then maybe the market will be ready for us to start talking about what's in it for the future. And China National Biotec Group is huge, and we've published before the size and the scope of what two or three facilities in China could represent for us in terms of resin sales and royalties. And you can be assured that, as we progress this year or early next year, we'll be in a position to start talking about the scope of those revenues. But we're adapting a very conservative approach right now providing just guidance on what we have on hand in terms of business.

Okay. The various deals that you've announced regarding IND applications and whatnot. None of these have anything to do with the therapeutic division. And I don't hear in 1402 and its derivatives talked about at all, are you beginning to phase that down?

No, no, we're not phasing it down at all. I think that the objective is clear. We've basically said we need to bring this company to a self-sufficient mode. We have made the necessary and very selective investment in the therapeutic division to maintain the level of due diligence and exchange with potential partners. And but we've basically decided to focus on making sure that the group overall reach profitability. At that point, we could consider being more aggressive on the therapeutics ourselves or we will have by that time partnered the small molecule therapeutics. But I think that pretty much all our shoulders are really interested in making sure that we're focused on getting a breakeven stage here and show that the company can sustain itself with its core technologies.

I still believe that some of the greatest value for the group reside in the small molecule therapeutics, but it will have its day, Dave, and certainly not phasing out.

Okay. Last question, the products that are subject to the IND applications that are going to be filed next year. Is it fair to say that when those applications are filed this thing becomes public knowledge and we then know what the target market is you're after and can therefore extrapolate the revenue stream?

Yes, completely. I mean, this may be revealed ahead of that event, but the very latest, this is now becoming public information. And for various reasons, as you can imagine, the parties may choose to strategically not disclose that information or may come out and disclose it. But, at a very lease, you could say that the IND triggers disclosure.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, Dave.

Thank you. Our last question coming from the line of [ph] Henry Lannister. (40:29) Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Pierre.

Good morning.

Congratulations on the great quarter.

Thank you.

Frankly, all of my questions have been asked and answered, so it doesn't leave me with much to ask really except to say everything seems to be humming and we hope that we get to that breakeven point real soon, so we can get started on the therapeutics.

Very much share the same view. Thank you very much for your comments.

Thank you.

Are there any other questions, operator?

Mr. Laurin, there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, I thank you very much for your questions and your interest in ProMetic and your participation today. And, we look forward to a very exciting second half of 2012, where we've laid the foundation, lot of business is already secured, showing promises for a breakeven year, and I look forward to having you again on a call with some update on our progress in the business and exciting news. And thank you again for this morning call, and look forward to talking again very shortly.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation. And ask that you please disconnect your lines.