Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Kevin M. DeGeeter — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Roger D. Bensen — President, Number One Corporation
Albert Lemieux — President, ACS Prevention inc.
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Hybridan LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences Inc.'s 2012 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:31-01:01)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Well, thank you very much, Franz. Welcome everybody to this webcast this morning. We were quite pleased to share the information, the results with you and go over the business. But first, again a reminder on the forward-looking statement that this presentation contains statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies, and business that involve risks and uncertainties, and I will not expand on that statement further.

Before I pass the microphone to Bruce, who will go over some of the financial results and I will take it over afterwards for the business review. And that would take you to slide four. Bruce?

Okay. Thank you, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Turning to slide five. The information that I'll discuss during this morning's webcast is based on the audited financial statements for the ProMetic Group for the year ended December 31, 2012 and on the comparative figures for the year ended December 31, 2011. Both sets of financial statements were prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards.

The two annual financial information for the group can be found online at sedar.com. And all sums in this morning's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or were otherwise indicated. Moving to slide six, which analyzes the financial performance of the group, it's clear to see that 2012 was a pivotal year for the company. The group delivered its strongest results to-date and built a platform of opportunity for growth into the future.

During this morning's presentation, we'll focus on the future. The key achievements of 2012 have been communicated regularly throughout the year and are also documented in the MD&A which accompanies the financial statement. However, before moving on to discuss the growth plans and prospects, I'd like to take a few moments to discuss the 2012 financial performance.

In this slide – in the next slide, rather, I'll provide more comment on the revenue breakdown. However, here, I will note that revenues for 2012 were CAD 23.3 million, up 32% on the CAD 17.6 million achieved in 2011. And this figure of CAD 23.3 million was ahead of guidance provided throughout the year.

The cost of goods rose in line with the increase in product sales, and I'll discuss this in more detail shortly. Total research and development cost continued to show the downward trend associated with the cost control program introduced several years ago, and R&D costs are now solely focused on supporting client development programs and on supporting business development activities for ProMetic's products.

Minor inflationary increases were experienced in admin and financing costs resulting in an overall net loss for the year of just CAD 400,000 compared with CAD 3.3 million in 2011. This translates into a net loss per share of CAD 0.00 due to rounding in 2012 and CAD 0.01 per share in 2011. Encouragingly, EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measure, showed positive earnings of CAD 2.5 million in 2012 compared to a loss of CAD 0.5 million in 2011 clearly demonstrating the progress the group has made in 2012.

Moving to slide seven and taking a closer look at revenues, it's clear to see the difference in revenue mix from 2011 to 2012. It's worth reflecting for a moment that the 2011 revenues included CAD 10 million of non-cash income where Celgene retired a debt in exchange for certain license rights. In 2012, all revenues were cash generating. Product sales accounted for around 50% of revenues in 2012 or CAD 11.5 million. In 2011, product sales were CAD 5.2 million.

Service revenues also rose from CAD 2.4 million in 2011 to CAD 6.3 million in 2012. And when we look at the overall gross profit from the combined product sales and service revenues in each year, this is relatively consistent at around 55%.

Licensing revenues in 2012 were CAD 5.4 million compared to CAD 10 million in 2011. But again, I'll remind listeners that the CAD 10 million in 2011 came from one single transaction and that in 2012, licensing revenues came from a number of opportunities that unfolded throughout the year, and we look forward to more of those developing in the future.

If I turn now to slide eight and the balance sheet, as a result of the encouraging financial performance in the year and as a result of the investment from Hepalink towards the end of the financial year, the balance sheet of the group has significantly improved. On this slide, there are a number of key metrics I'd like to draw attention to.

Cash at the end of 2012 was up CAD 1 million on the previous year. Accounts receivable were up at CAD 4.7 million compared to CAD 1.4 million in 2011. This was reflective of the increased trading activity in the group during the year and in particular the volume of product shipped in the final quarter of 2012.

At the end of 2012, we recorded an asset of CAD 9.8 million in respect of the share subscription receivable from Hepalink and the cash associated with that investment which was received just after the balance sheet date in early January. Bank and other loans rose during 2012 reflecting the financing that was made available to us by Conister Bank from the Isle of Man for funding the increased working capital requirement of the UK operation.

Trade and other payables, however, fell significantly from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012 as a result of the increased cash flow in the business and the company becoming more current with its trade suppliers.

Deferred revenues rose between 2011 and 2012, and I remind listeners that deferred revenues arise when we receive advanced payments from customers towards our product sales and development services. We often use these advances from customers to ensure that we can offer the most keen pricing to our customers and use their funds to help finance the working capital requirements of the order. Those deferred revenues will convert into revenue during the coming months of 2013.

And finally, the long-term debt provided by shareholders remained static at CAD 4 million. And I remind listeners of the recent announcement that indicated that the terms of that debt has been extended to push the repayment out until July of 2014.

All of that to say that there has been a significant strengthening and improvement in the balance sheet position of the company with the net equity – or resulting in a net equity position of CAD 5.8 million compared to a deficiency of CAD 8.6 million in the previous year with the balance sheet total and outstanding at CAD 22.9 million. For us, it's just CAD 8.7 million in 2011. So, overall, a very positive year for the company in terms of financial performance.

I'll now hand the call back over to Pierre, who will take us through the business opportunities for 2013 and beyond. Pierre?

Well, thank you, Bruce. And as you just explained, our protein technology business segment drew much of the attention in 2012. And while I will not review all of the key individual events that took place last year, it is difficult not to discuss some of the deals that were concluded starting with NantPharma-ProMetic joint venture set up to develop and commercialize the plasma-derived biopharmaceutical products for the U.S. market. Very important to note here that our agreement provides ProMetic with the grant back rights for that very biopharmaceutical product for markets outside the U.S., and something I will expand on later during this webcast.

So, on slide 10, we're very, very pleased to have recognized early enough the need for ProMetic to establish a strong presence in emerging market. Many years of hard work and key relationship development are starting to bear fruits. I mean, ProMetic is now extremely well positioned to become a dominant player in what is considered by many to be one of the most phenomenal growth vector for many years to come. We anticipate our partnership with some of the most recognized emerging market industry leaders to play a key role in our market expansion strategies.

Clearly, our strategic relationship with prominent players in China is no coincidence and quite indicative also of the relevance of our technologies to this massive emerging market opportunity. Our agreement with Hematech to co-develop and co-market plasminogen worldwide received two good news. I mean, the first was the manufacturing milestone met by ProMetic in December, which triggered a $1 million payment by Hematech, and the recent orphan drug designation granted by the FDA. And I will expand on plasminogen later in a few minutes during this webcast.

Our two strategic agreements with Hepalink sealed our record year, $11 million licensing deal, of which we received $2 million upfront, and a $10 million equity investment done at premium. This investment transaction was cleared by all regulatory authorities, as Bruce mentioned, at year-end. And the $10 million was just received the first week of January. So our strategic relationship and joint ventures with China National Biotec Group may not have impacted our P&L in any major way, so far. And yet, ProMetic is enjoying the benefit of significant investments being made by CNBG in China.

We announced a series of milestone achievement with – over the years that should leave no doubt in anyone's mind in our ability to leverage our strategic relationship for the benefit of both companies. CNBG scientists, if you recall, were trained by ProMetic in our U.S.-based facility. They went back to China and repeated our process successfully and then scaled it up successfully with next to no variation between the process in China at scale versus the one that we do for R&D activities in Rockville, U.S.A. So this has enabled us in turn also to collect very valuable engineering information that enables the quick start of the Laval facility.

And let's move on to that next slide here, slide – what's the slide number? I'm sorry, slide 11, and to understand the expansion of ProMetic's product portfolio. I mean, we have been known to sell filters, affinity resin to our licensees and clients. And the advent of this Laval facility is now enabling us to manufacture bulk active ingredient to our existing and future licensees as well as to manufacture high-value products extracted again from plasma and enable ProMetic to market itself. It's a remarkable leveraging exercise here that this facility is providing ProMetic here.

And if you move on slide 12, some highlights of the facility that I would like our shareholder to be reminded of is this is going to be co-dedicated facility to manufacture plasma-derived product. It will become fully operational in the second half of this year. It will supply bulk active protein to our partner, but also be manufacturing high-value products. As we mentioned all along, one of the long-term mission for that facility, once it has enabled others to manufacture large-scale commodity products under license from ProMetic, that facility will focus on making high-value, low-volume, orphan drugs. And plasminogen is our first business case that we're very pleased to share with our shareholder, and I'll expand again in just a few slides from now.

Slide 13 is indicative of how we're planning to – have started in planning to continue build shareholder value. The sales of our affinity resin to our licensees is known to most of our shareholders and represent as a rule of thumb 2% to 4% of the value of the biopharmaceutical products that we're enabling. That is using our resin in their manufacturing facility as part of the component to manufacture their drug.

As a result of our longstanding relationship with the American Red Cross starting back in 2001, we developed two platform: one to remove pathogens from products such as blood and plasma; and the other one was to extract more efficiently very valuable proteins of plasma. And that investment over all those years is turning to really pay back here.

As you can see, as we integrate all those platform technologies together, we are able to license through our partners a turnkey process which earns us royalties on finished product. And the plant, as you can see now, is enabling us to further create value for our shareholder by being able to sell the bulk active ingredients to our clients and also sell ourselves the biopharmaceutical products.

So, I mentioned before NantPharma with a grant back right to ProMetic. So, you have an example here between plasminogen that we are going to co-market worldwide with Hematech and NantPharma. These are two first examples of biopharmaceutical product that will actually bear ProMetic's label on the vial. So, the combination of all those revenue mix will most certainly contribute to our exponential growth.

Let's move to slide 14 here just to review, again, what we mean by plasma-derived products and the market. I've highlighted in blue what one could describe as commodity products. These products are sold day-in, day-out in around the world for critical care, for various indication ranging from hemophilia to immunodeficiency, emphysema. And a value north of CAD 12 billion of annual revenue is derived from those commodity products.

And you see on the right column the yield advantage that PPPS – the platform that we co-developed initially with the Red Cross, and we furthered the development on our own since 2006 – you can see undoubtedly the yield advantage is quite significant. So, part of our clients, part of our strategy here is to partner with companies that are looking to take advantage of our platform technology to enable them to have best-in-class, well-proven products derived from plasma, enjoying a better yield, better margins, therefore, better safety profile, better purity profile, prion reduction, so a best-in-class product.

If you convert to slide 15, you see that our platform not only enable the improved manufacturing of existing products, but also enable the advancement of what we refer to rare disease or orphan drugs, plasminogen being one, for example, That is not commercially available today. This is an example of a product that is otherwise difficult to make under cone process. It's a small market. So, it's either very difficult or impossible to extract with current manufacturing process or certainly not a focus for large plasma fractionators which are really busy attending to the billion-dollar-market strategy.

So, these nice niche products are extremely expected and needed products by the patient community and represent very high value niche opportunity for ProMetic to advance. And our shareholder can just expect more of those orphaned drugs to come in our pipeline, advance by ourselves or in partnership with others. But that's the beauty and one of the main reasons for the partnership with the Red Cross was to be able to go from bench to patient very efficiently and with low cost compared to having to go and develop a recombinant version.

Some people have been asking me what does it mean to have an orphaned drug designation. We've summarized some bullet points on slide 16. And overall, I mean, of course, for the U.S., it means affecting or addressing a condition, a disease that affects fewer than 200,000 patients. And so, it provides an exclusivity period upon marketing approval. There's all kinds of tax and financial incentives that are provided to companies willing to invest in advanced drugs that address rare disease.

You have also a very interesting interaction with the FDA and other agencies in terms of trial design and making sure that the trial size and the timing to bring the product to market is commensurate to the patient population. So, it's quite a strategic advantage to have such designation. And I'd like to remind everyone, I've combined on one slide here various statistics on slide 17, of what orphan drug disease have done to the industry, and it's a word that we take for granted now. But if you look at the average orphan drug net present value is over CAD 600 million. It's been one hell of an engine for the biopharmaceutical industry. And it's a clear path for our company to leverage our platform technology and benefit from this regulatory status.

So, shareholder can expect more out of this. And just the focus maybe a few slides here on plasminogen deficiency, slide 18. I mean, there is the value to create to the shareholders, but there's also a very rewarding message that we receive as a result of the press release on the orphan drug designation. Desperate parents writing to us, calling it a message from God, hearing their message of dire demand for treatment these young kids as this disease affect predominantly – having deficiency with plasminogen will have all kinds of complication, multi-system complication.

One of the most common one is that poor little girl with the picture, where you have common extra growth of mucosal membrane around the eye that could even lead to blindness if not treated. There's different degree, different severity, and it's quite rewarding to see that we can achieve both things here that create value for our shareholders but also provide a product that will change and improve dramatically the quality of life of some of the children worldwide affected by this condition. And as I said, PPPS promised many other conditions to be addressed in that fashion.

Switching quickly to slide 19 where I've imported one of the image in our annual report to really summarize where we're at and what we've done, so far. Our small molecule compound, orally active have proven beyond any doubt now in several different animal models on four different system, the kidney, the heart, the liver, the lung that our compound is able to treat fibrosis. Reduce fibrosis, delayed the loss of functionality for those organs.

And of course, we intend to have a primary focus on kidney. We intend to leverage all the knowledge and the amazing amount of data that we've generated on the kidney. Kidney, if you recall the slide that we shared with you before, Medicare. Medicare cost in the U.S. in 2010, alone, representing over CAD 175 billion related to kidney disease, end-stage renal disease and the complication with the cardiovascular system.

So, we're not talking orphan drug disease in this case because this is a massive number of patients being affected. We're talking over 25 million Americans affected with chronic kidney disease. And this is obviously something now that we have the financial means to bring to the clinical stage. So, we are going to intensify our discussion – partnering discussion as this asset now is moving to a soft spot for our partner having the ability now to not only see very good and solid in vivo preclinical data, but also having now a clear regulatory pathway defined for them with some initiation of clinical trials that will hopefully lead to partnership at much better value for ProMetic. And we look forward to update the market as we program – as the program progress.

But certainly, as one of the milestone that we have set for ourselves, on slide 20, filing INDs will trigger these compounds hitting the radar screen and have been taken much more seriously in terms of potential therapies for those unmet medical need. So in 2013, on slide 20, the key objectives that we have set for ourselves is to continue to broad our – broaden our client base, to leverage on our existing relationship, and secure new business opportunities with the very same players that we're growing right now. And some of them have come to us for very difficult projects. And as they see us perform on those difficult tasks, they are very encouraged to actually give us more business and develop other things, other projects with us. And we're quite pleased to see those relationship expanding.

And you've seen the news of the like of Novozyme and Halozyme being extremely successful with their own platform, which then in turn rely on our own, so we can expect some growth coming from both new clients, but also our current clients driving the business. So, of course, success attracts success and increased recognition of our technical advantages by the industry and further evidenced when we actually operate our GMP facility in Laval. That will also provide an amazing full scale showroom for many others to start looking at this as a serious option for their own strategic decision.

The plasma-derived therapeutics will remain a very, very intense business area for us with the launch of the Laval facility and also the advance of other high-value, low-volume products secure orphan drug designation; and at the same time, throughout the year, meeting various development milestone for our clients, which will lead to increased visibility. I mean, we look forward to be able to share with our shareholders what it is that we're doing with some of the clients, let alone start being able to disclose some of the client that have been working with great success and that we have not been able to disclose their identity as of yet.

So, throughout the year, we should see a gradual increase of visibility in terms of what we're working on and what this mean to our growth and our future prospect. Finally, the small-molecule therapeutics as I said we've set for ourselves as an objective to bring one of the lead compound to clinical stage and filing the IND is necessary to conduct those initial clinical trial. We're talking about a minimal investment here because we have brought the product for a state of readiness throughout the past 18 months, and what's left to be done here is to complete the necessary top studies to enable the filing of the IND. So we're not talking about a significant investment for us to create significant value for our shareholder.

I think, probably, the best slide is slide 21 that summarize how we can ensure growth. As we've said just before, a number of clients will grow with licensees and clients' program that – current licensees and clients' program that are also expanding a growing number of applications moving up the value creation hierarchy.

I've shared with you that graphic that shows that just a small number of our existing clients can actually generate significant value simply because what we can earn in terms of the value of the drug we're enabling is much more substantial than just providing the resin. Nothing wrong about the resin. It's a great business to be in and we have several clients to service and we will grow from this. But the value, proportionately, is so much bigger on some of the activities related to plasma-derived therapeutics that one can expect a significant jump in our value and our revenue stream going forward.

And of course, increasing our presence in fast-growing and emerging market, while I think we've proved a point here with three major relationship; one in Taiwan and two in China, and more to come, as well as expansion of our current relationship with those same players will be, again, a sign of us positioning ourselves very strategically in the emerging market in Asia and finally, leveraging our technology platform as we explained in previous slide.

I think operator, Franz, I would pause here and open the floor to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of Alan Ridgeway from Paradigm Capital. You may begin.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the questions, and congratulations on another good quarter. Pierre, maybe you could give us a little bit more info into some of the work you've done to capture this opportunity in the plasma-derived product area? I know you've got six partnered resins at this point for six products. Can you comment on sort of your strategy as far as developing other resins? Do you have other resins already developed that you're out talking to potential partners with? Or is this sort of more driven by the partner coming to you and saying this is a product we would like to go after?

Well, it's a very good question that could take a lot of time, and would probably feel better with a whiteboard. But it's a combination of many things. Obviously, when we look at what we can dig out of that crude oil that is being collected, I mean, I'm using this expression because it's totally what it is. It's a core that we have to choose what is the most valuable thing that we can extract that has either existing value or future value because no other treatments are available.

So, it's going to be a complete analysis over our ability to quickly bring this to market. So, as you mentioned, we already have ligands for such protein. Therefore, that would score highly. We are becoming extremely more selective on who we're going to work with and make sure that we now can perhaps have the wherewithal to manufacture the product. So more, stronger interest for marketing partners to cover certain areas that would enable us to expand and have a global reach. So it's a combination of many things. But I think we'll end up successfully managing a blend of both, having the ability to work with our existing player will drive revenue for existing markets and create new opportunities with other partners that have reach in selected market.

And is there a number of products that you believe could – like how many products are possible to be pulled out of plasma, do you think?

Well, I mean, the theoretical number is over 600, right? So, I mean, it's – so, that's the theoretical number. There's a limit to what one can do in a single facility. And obviously, our objective here is to optimize our choices on the back of market potential, market entry readiness and ability to have what I call companion products under the same footprint, right?

But, I mean, it's – that was one of the main reasons that drove the partnership with the American Red Cross is the ability to say, hang on a minute here. We are aware of such and such disease being in relation to the following deficiency. We are able to extract this from plasma and give it to those patients in a matter of a year or two, not 10 years of development. This will cost CAD 5 million to CAD 10 million to bring to market, not CAD 200 million to bring to market.

So what's wrong with that platform to address rare disease? Well, nothing wrong with it other than you need to have a critical mass of other projects that fund the plant and generate revenue, and then you end up with a great mix of product. So, focusing on those orphan disease will be part of our in-house growth pipeline as well as partnering.

Okay, great. Maybe to switch gears just a little bit, to ask a second question. On the resin business, could you update us on the number of products that are currently in development, and maybe give us a very rough breakdown of sort of what stages they might be at?

Well, we publicly I think disclosed that there's now 14 biopharmaceutical products that are approved for sale relying on our technology. There's over 28 under development. More than half of those 28 under development are products that exist today in the market and that the manufacturer or our licensee is looking to use our technology to create a new generation, new improved version of their current product. So that may or may not require clinical trial. That may just be a notifiable change to a process, a bit like what Octapharma had to do to get their prion-free Octaplas. That would be a prime example of a product that was already on the market but they're bringing the prion-free product now and you improve.

So, we have at least half of our roster of product development that are like that, so I call them as very high probability of success and also like relatively short term before they impact our growth, resin growth and revenue growth. Then we have other products that have just completed. They're Phase III clinical trials filed for BLA and we're expecting their approval in the coming quarters, and this will also impact our resin sales.

So, it's a combination of some new products that are in clinical trial Phase II, Phase III, and some major ones that are just expecting approval, and I would say more than half now that are actually going to be a bit of a change of process. For example, CNBG would be a good example of – or they're making albumin today or they're making IVIG today in a certain way and they will make it in a different way with ProMetic's platform. And they have to satisfy the regulator that the product is as safe, if not safer, and before they can move on. But it doesn't require a lot of time like developing a new drug. So, we can expect, therefore, impact on our revenue in a much shorter time.

Okay, great. I'll jump out and let some other people ask some questions. Congratulations again.

Thank you, Al.

Our next question is from the line of Kevin DeGeeter from Ladenburg. You may begin.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Congratulations on the progress.

Thank you, Kevin.

Can you provide an update on the upgrades in manufacturing facility in Laval, sort of how is that going and how should we think about sort of a timeline to completion of that process?

Well, we believe the plant will be ready to start making its first batches for validation in the latter part of the third quarter. And we can expect, therefore, fourth quarter to signal – these represent milestones that are awaited by some of our licensees. So, we'll make sure that the Street is fully appraised of those achievements.

And we're on time for that. So, right now, we're in the work of refurbishing certain area that need to be accommodated for the new equipment that is already ordered and on its way to be installed later this summer. And as I explained during the presentation, there's a lot of work that has been done in China and it's a big difference to see a process operating at scale, and then transferring that scale back to your own facility. So a lot of the work that was done in terms of finalizing the design and the selection of the scale and equipment, and so on, has all been done over the past year whilst working with CNBG in China.

So same equipment provider – Sartorius, for example is providing the same equipment, the base footprint equipment that we rely on to apply our filter technology in China and in Laval. And more and more, Kevin, the benefit here is as you can imagine the future tech transfer will be done from scale to scale which is a huge advantage.

Sure. No, that's very helpful. Thanks a lot. You mentioned, towards the tail-end of your prepared comments, about the desire, and hopefully the opportunity, to provide a little more visibility on the specific programs that some of your partners are working on. Do you anticipate in 2013 there will be specific development milestones from various partners that will allow you to communicate, or will make essentially public what some of these programs are?

Yes. Yes and we very much look forward to that.

And can you provide maybe a little more granularity in terms of – not obviously programs, but a specific partner that you're hopeful that if things move along on-plan, there might be a little more granularity on specific programs?

Well, in reality what happens here as you imagine is that companies, and then there are two or three key examples of why it is that we're asked to maintain confidentiality on such matter. One of the prominent one is when you have a company that has an existing product looking to introduce a new improved version. Obviously, they will not allow us to disclose who it is until such time that they have reached a certain level. Most of the time, its approval of the new version, at which time, they're very happy to even let it know on their website that they've worked with us to achieve this. And again, a good example of that was Octapharma. So, upon approval, then, nobody will ask them so, well, is there a prion problem in your old product? Well, the new product, for sure, doesn't have any prion problem.

So, we have – given that we have a lot of those clients and it's very touchy as to what it is that we're allowed to disclose, and disclosure makes a big difference because it makes life easier for analysts to start having a better view of the window, by when such impact – such revenue will impact the company and also the size and the scope of the relationship. So, right now, a lot of people are hanging and they are guessing what this could represent. And we are involved in some project that has some significant tonnage and significant volume. So, it's quite apropos to have, at one point, visibility impacting this year as some of those relationship and products specifically will be disclosed.

Okay. No, fair enough. Very helpful. Maybe one more for me, then I'll get back in the queue as well. Could you just talk a little bit more about your business development priorities for 2013? Specifically, the relative importance of central out-licensing of some of the internally developed programs, versus how one thinks about the right type of partnership structure within your plasma business. Obviously, it's been a very fertile area lately, but I'm just thinking specifically in the context of the strengthened balance sheet and the strengthening overall operations. That presumably has some flow-through as to how you think about strategic priorities on business development.

Yes. Well, it's a very good observation. For sure, one of the biggest thing that an improved balance sheet has done is enabling us to do the very few – little things still left to do to create significant value with our small molecule. So, we were eager to partner our small molecule product, and it was in part something that our shareholder was hoping will do to fund the company. We don't have to fund the company with this, and we can expect to enter into agreements now that will be more in line with the value of the drug and not at discounted value because the company is on its knees.

Having said that, we don't want to alert anyone in thinking that we have a balance sheet to start developing ourselves, therapeutics to the endgame. I mean, that's still the view that – and then especially when you get into fibrosis market, these are huge market. I call it having a T-Rex by the tail because our drug could truly be breakthrough therapies and involve multinational investment and deployment. So, the strategy here is obviously kind of now focused on finishing some key steps to bring the asset to a much higher level of visibility, i.e., Phase 1, Phase 2 trials, and also attract more, I would say, significant partnering on that front. But that is definitely the plan that we are communicating to our shareholder now.

The plasma business, with the facility has a critical mass of current clients that attract more to come. So, there will be a combination of some players that will be interested in having rights for certain geographies that are of interest to us, and the plant can now count on a growing number of clients to supply, but also if a client is interested or a licensee is interested in products that we can easily accommodate as part of the backbone manufacturing process.

So indeed, we can expect plasma therapeutics to be an engine for partnering and the small molecule as well. But the one thing we want to achieve for our shareholder is to advance this asset to a higher value without having to – and we were talking here, as, Kevin, you will know, I mean, adding CAD 800,000 to a program to an asset to increase by 2 log its value, I think it's fair to say that that is a sound move to make for a small molecule program.

Terrific. Listen, I appreciated all the candor and I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Doug Cooper with Beacon Securities. You may begin.

Hi. Good morning, guys. I just want to follow up a question that Alan touched on, first of all. Just in terms of the drug pipeline, Pierre, you said – I think you said there was 28 in the queue in various stages of development. What do you anticipate – how many of those drugs could come to market in the next two years or three years, of those 28, do you think?

Well, a good majority of them, I would say 75%, 80% of them have a very good chance of contributing to our growth over the next two years or three years. So, as I said, some of them require less stringent process, or they're advanced and BLA were filed. So there is just a regulatory hurdle of waiting for a year or so for approval. So, a lot of those things are on a cusp of materializing and converting into resin sales.

And I guess my view would be, I think, obviously product sales are the important thing that's going to drive value for the company. So part of those 28 drugs would be a combination of new drug development – whether it be the orphan drugs; and some of those will be existing drugs, as you indicated, looking for the new and improved status. Is there any way you can give any sort of ballpark figure what the value of those 28 drugs – or 75% of those drugs could be, in terms of commercial sales?

Oh, my God. I mean, you can imagine, at one point, Doug, we did offer some guidance that could be reminded here because they've been previously disclosed. Fully operational, CNBG, for example, in China, will represent annual revenue north of CAD 25 million, CAD 30 million for ProMetic, in terms of a combination of resin sales and royalties. So, that's CNBG operating with a couple of facilities. They have built one and they will build most likely a second one and a third one. That's their plan that needs to happen. But that is an example of the scope with one player driving PPPS.

But of course, Hematech is another example, and you have some of the clients driving what you call switch with the existing process to make a new brand, new improved brand. The revenue there, each product can range anywhere from as little as CAD 2 million, CAD 3 million a year to as much as CAD 20 million a year. They're different in terms of scope and size. The overall good news is as the Octapharma resin grows, those new coming, PPPS expanding, yeah, it's quiet obvious that the cumulative effect of this is resin product sales will keep on increasing.

Sorry. I guess I'm not talking about your sales to them. I'm talking about the gross sales of those drugs. Like is there somebody in the pipeline that's doing a new and improved version, like an Octapharma, that has a blockbuster drug out there, that's significant in scale? And I'm talking like CAD 500 million to CAD 1 billion or something.

Yeah. I mean, we have several of those products that currently grows north of CAD 1 billion in revenue. And...

Right. So, that's sort of I was looking for, the aggregate sales of those...

Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, it's – I mean, again, looking – and when we mentioned earlier in the call with Kevin, visibility, of course, we look forward, Doug, as you can imagine to start providing better visibility on some of these products we're working on. Can you imagine? That becomes a dream come true for analysts and ourselves.

For sure. Let me just sort of dovetail in from there. Product sales are the – to me, are the important driver in trying to get some idea of what those product sales will be in the future. If I look at – maybe this is a question for Bruce – just on the margin of product sales, there seem to be a lot of variability over the past bunch of quarters. It was like 56.3% this quarter; it was 69% in Q3. It was a high as 87% in Q3 of 2011 and as low as 13.5% in Q1 of 2012. So, what is a sort of good modeling number for product sales, in terms of margins?

Hi, Doug. Well, I think you've highlighted an important point, and I think we've mentioned this on a number of occasions. The product sales that we're booking right now are predominantly product sales from our bioseparations resins, obviously not from finished drug product. And each of those – they carry a different margin depending on the manufacturing process and some of them are more expensive for us to make than others. It's – I think we're still a little bit early in the game to be able to give a kind of a blended average that's reliable. But I think if you look over, if you look over time, rather than at the quarter-to-quarter variability, we're delivering on average, 55% gross margin on the sales. You're right. Some...

Well, the 75% – it was 75% in 2010. It was 75% in 2011. Now in 2012 [indiscernible] (49:49)...

But again, it depends – it depends on the product mix. And I go back to the point that until we get to a point where we have more regular recurring orders from a greater number of clients, it will be hard to get to a blended average. So I think it's a case of watch the space. It will become easier over the coming periods as we get those, a greater number of customers making more regular orders.

Okay. Or maybe I can phrase it another way then. Once you reach volume scale on some of these clients that are in the pipeline, what would you anticipate gross margin – this is before corporate overhead allocation – as per your financial statements and the notes, what do you think gross – could this be 70% business?

Yeah. I mean, it's going to be of that kind of order. And again, it's all down to volume and product mix, but that's where we're aiming at, absolutely.

Okay. Okay. And just one final question, and then I'll let somebody else jump on. In terms of just G&A, in the quarter, it looks like it was around just under CAD 2.1 million versus CAD 1.2 million in Q3 and CAD 1.4 million in Q4 2011. Is that head count additions or what – is there something that we should know about there? Or is that the new sort of – you expect a run rate of CAD 8 million a year now? So, where do you...

No. I certainly don't expect G&A to run that kind of CAD 8 million level, Doug. I think, in Q4, there were a few things that we kind of put through the P&L in the quarter that were really down to kind of affordability and, obviously, things became more affordable to us as we got into the fourth quarter and strengthened the financial position of the company. I would anticipate that the kind of CAD 5 million, CAD 5.5 million range is where we're going to go. I mean, we have an infrastructure. That infrastructure is capable of supporting much more kind of top line growth and we don't anticipate growing that significantly.

So, even with the buildup of the Laval facility, you don't anticipate significant head count additions?

Not at the G&A level.

Right.

There will be head count additions that are directly related to...

Captured in R&D sort of thing?

Yeah. They get captured in R&D. They get captured in cost of goods. So, but in terms of pure G&A and admin support, there will not be a significant growth.

Okay. Great. Thanks, guys. Good quarter. Thanks.

Okay. Good stuff. Thanks, Doug.

Our next question from the line of [ph] Jim Belen (52:32) from Aldebaran Asset Management. You may begin.

Hi. Hello. There's a loan that a senior officer obtained that's due by March 31. And I see that the term was changed to March 2016 subject to shareholder approval. Has that been received yet?

Hi, [ph] Jim (52:54). It's Bruce. That shareholder approval will be sought at the forthcoming annual meeting.

Okay. What happens? I mean, that's going to be after March 31 or is it just the parties have agreed to defer from any action on acting on the loan?

Yeah, that's correct. I mean, this is something that's been reviewed by our Board of Directors. And their recommendation is that this is deferred. Correct corporate governance procedure requires that this gets tackled by the AGM. But you're right, this is just – having reviewed the circumstances, everyone believes it's in the best interest of the corporation if this gets deferred for a future period to 2016.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Pleasure. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question from the line of Roger Bensen from Number One Corp. You may begin.

Hi, Pierre.

Good morning.

Really wonderful call; it is very, very informative. A couple of questions on the orphan drug stuff. Can you give us a guesstimate as to what the plasminogen product might do in revenues once it's going? And the other question would be, how many more of those might you have working in the next few years?

Okay. Well, this is two good question, Roger. I mean, plasminogen, given the number of patient affected with the Type 1, the most severe, and if we just focus on the Type 1 most severe, the ballpark range of annual revenue that we could speak of, and again, it's a range, it will depend on market penetration in Europe, as well as the U.S., well, you're looking at a product that could achieve, say, CAD 40 million, CAD 50 million, it's sold at reasonable pricing. There's been all kinds of pricing successfully secured by some biotech company. And I'm thinking of a company like Genzyme, who had successfully marketed a product for Gaucher disease and fetched over $1 billion revenue per year on, I think, on the back of 4,000 patients.

So there's a range out there that will be depending on what is the cost saving that that product provide to the patients and the Medicare. But you could look at easily a CAD 25 million, CAD 50 million apiece just for the U.S. per small orphan products like that. And that's where some of those value that were provided in the slide that I had before suggest an NPV that is higher than this. And we know we can achieve some other products. I mean, the number, Roger, is very difficult to predict. I think that it's safe to say that we have several other products in mind to advance. We got to pace ourselves, make sure that we don't go too fast in trying to build a pipeline and not unreasonably develop carefully each one of them.

So, it's going to be a planning process that look at opportunity, but also, I would say, ease of manufacturing. This is the most important thing is what it is that we can easily manufacture, at the same, will be quite a significant decision factor here. And there's a lot of those. That's the comforting note here is our platform enables the manufacturing of several of those without disruption. And I look forward to update our shareholders as soon as we land new more orphan drug designation. And some may not get orphan drug designation but may be entering the market faster because we bring a new improved prion-free version that the FDA deem to be a superior product. So, lots of activities to be expected from that side of the business.

Thank you very much.

Our next question from the line of Albert Lemieux with ACS Prevention.

Yes. Good morning. Hi. Two major questions. I'm quite concerned about the numbers of the shares on the market which closely 0.5 billion. Do you have in mind to increase that numbers of share? And the other one is do you have in mind to make a reverse split one of these days as a strategic plan?

Well, reverse split have only worked in situation where companies have a firm denominator for everyone to base value such as earnings per share. At that point, whether you make CAD 0.10 a share on the 500 million shares or you make CAD 1 per share on 50 million shares, it doesn't make any difference anymore. And if or whatever upticks a reverse split make sense, then these are the only conditions that that would work. Too many companies have done reverse split that basically just managed to wipe out significant market cap valuation for the shareholder and achieve nothing.

So we're staying away from any thought right now. We know that the value of the business and the revenue will drop a significant value down to the bottom line. And this is we're not talking a distant future here. So we look forward to the shareholder realizing the – or that the number of shares right now should not be overly of a concern. I certainly don't expect to increase the number of shares significantly as we are now well funded, and our plan obviously is to keep on growing the business with our organic growth and our revenue growth. And some special projects may arise from time to time that the board will be examining. But right now, we're in a best position we've been for in the past four years or five years.

Thank you very much, and have a safe day.

Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Sanjay Jha with Hybridan. You may begin.

Gentlemen, sorry, I joined in the conversation a bit late, partly because I confused EDT and EST. So, apologies if this question has already been asked. A couple of things, if I may ask. First of all, how much capacity do you have to take on more partnerships? I mean you did quite a few deals last year. If you had four or five more companies who wanted to come and do more development deals, can you take them on? Do you have the resources to do it?

It's a good question, Sanjay. And I think a bit like Mr. Bensen asked earlier on, there are the typical partnership that would be totally complementary to what it is that we're executing on right now. And such partnership is almost we can reason limitless in terms of numbers. For sure, we can look at partnering with additional players for the current product that we're developing. If you're considering for example that AM-Pharma and ProMetic is developing two biopharmaceutical products relying on our platform, well, there's some geographies that are still available for partnering on that same product.

So that's – these are type of partnering that do not require any additional resources from the company. On the country, they enable us to drive and monetize more revenue sooner and crystallize international reach for those product opportunities. There are some products that are perfect companion. If you look at one of the slide where I showcased the grid with commodity product derived from plasma and orphan drugs, straight from our backbone, we have the ability and already have developed some processes for a lot of routines that could be partnered today, and with little to do in terms of development. So, we will be looking at partnering and taking those to the clinics. So, when you start making a batch, you can make several products at the same time for different partners including your own pipeline. So, it's quite a versatile platform adding 5 partnership and 10 partnership is something that is feasible with our current capacity.

Okay. So, just one more question, if I may. The plasma manufacturing facility -- can you just remind me of the timetable there? When do you expect commissioning now, and how do you see that developing?

Well, we're looking at Q4 making the first GMP batches. And you can just imagine around that time or just following quarter, we should be looking at ourselves and/or partners to file their INDs, enabling them to commence the clinical trial, the bioequivalents clinical trials. So, a lot of work ramping up to the plant to be ready toward part of the year and start shipping GMP bulk actives to the clients. Right now, we're making – we're going to be making products non-GMP for a while, and then transfer back to our own facility to make the same product under the same process, but this time in the sterile viral-free zone.

Would you expect significant sales from this in 2014? Or are we sort of – should we assume 2015 as being kind of more realistic commercial...

Well, the plant will be busy supplying GMP-clinical-grade materials to a lot of clients. So, there is a level of revenue that does not exist today that we'll be adding to our revenue mix. It is still pale in comparison to actual sales of those product once approved for sale, right? So plasminogen may receive approval in a much shorter fashion given its orphan drug designation. But I can't comment on this until we have a regulatory pathway, totally defined and approved and followed with the like of the FDA. But some of the guidance that you have been providing and you report were quite astute to some products that will generate revenue to clients and others that won't generate revenue as we sell ourselves to market. So it's going to be a blend of those two cycles on revenue.

Okay. Thank you.

Mr. Laurin, we have no further questions at this time, sir.

Well, thank you very much, Franz, so the closing memo here. And we really wholeheartedly wish to thank all of our employees and collaborators for their dedication for the shareholders and their support over the years, the board of directors for their valuable guidance throughout this trying time. And we're really, really pleased with 2012 and excited about what 2013 is set up for ourselves here. We look forward to updating you on an ongoing process, achievements and milestones as we are building a stronger company. And thank you again for participating in this call today. Thank you, operator. Franz?

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude the conference call for today. Have a great day, everyone.