Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Hybridan LLP
Margaux Berry — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.'s 2013 Fourth Quarter and Financial Year End Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:29-00:54)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Thank you very much and good morning, everyone. Before we start this presentation, I have to remind you to consult slide number 2 where we remind everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and businesses that involve risks and uncertainties.

Let's move on to slide number 3. From day one, our goal was to leverage our unique proprietary technologies and know-how to build a company that would ultimately bring safer, cost-effective and more convenient therapeutic products to largely underserved patient populations in both existing and emerging markets.

I'm very pleased to report that 2013 has brought us closer than ever to making this vision a reality. 2013 was a clear year, where – during which we successfully progressed in our transition towards becoming a vertically integrated specialty biopharmaceutical company with a rich product pipeline targeting unmet medical needs, conditions, and rare disease opportunities.

In order to put ourselves within close range of accomplishing this vision, the strategic decision to develop more of our own assets ourselves and to an advanced stage prior to partnering was made. And we believe that this would allow us to retain in the process a greater portion of the high-value profile products and assets we're currently developing.

By exercising a greater control and ownership over our own technology called platforms rather than predominantly enabling third parties with it, we strongly believe that we will significantly increase the value creation for all our shareholders.

The transition of developing the technology using our financial resources rather than those of partner manifested the benefit of our shareholders and the reduction in our requirement to share future commercial revenue with external partners.

This corporate strategy resulted in lower than originally anticipated yearly revenues for 2013 and especially evidenced by the lower level of associated licensing revenue, but we, however, expect this situation to be short-lived and anticipate a return to revenue growth in 2014 and beyond. And on that note, I will ask Bruce Pritchard, our CFO, to go over the financials for 2013.

Okay. Thank you, Pierre, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we can move to slide 5 of the presentation. I remind listeners that as part of today's webcast is based on the financial information for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2012 as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st of December 2013. All those statements were prepared under IFRS, and the full annual financial information for the group will be found online at sedar.com.

Finally, all sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or if we otherwise indicated.

So, on slide 6, I'd like to start my part of this morning's presentation with a high-level overview of the results. This will then form the basis of a more in-depth look at each of these matters. Revenues for the year were CAD 20.6 million and the net loss for the year was CAD 17.4 million. Although at first glance this loss is large, it's worth noting that CAD 8.9 million of that loss is attributable to non-cash accounting adjustments in respect to the Thomvest warrant liability and stock-based compensation charges, more of which shortly.

Importantly, during 2013, we've strengthened the balance sheet with additional equity and debt financing to the tune of CAD 34 million, resulting on us finishing the year with CAD 49.9 million in total assets and CAD 18.6 million in net equity. This provides us with an opportunity to deliver on some very exciting projects, which Pierre will expand upon in his strategic outlook later in this morning's presentation.

Finally, I'll make comment regarding the recently announced repayment of the Invhealth loan, which is not only a material part of the numbers presented, but also something that several shareholders have requested details on.

On slide 7, I want to deliver two key messages regarding revenues. Firstly, I want to make the observation that the underlying product and service revenues have again risen over the previous year, this time by CAD 1.1 million or 6.5%. Secondly, I wanted to highlight that license revenues were CAD 3.8 million lower than in previous year. But this is in line with the strategic decision taken associated with the 2013 financings to keep greater control over products so that we can retain more of the future upside for our own shareholders.

If we move now to slide number 8, I wanted to recap on the reasoning behind the most imperial of the non-cash accounting costs impacting the P&L account, mainly the fair value variation on the warrant liability. Shareholders who listened to the quarter three earnings call will be familiar with the background. But given the material nature of the figure, I wanted to explain again, particularly for the benefit of those shareholders who have joined us during the fourth quarter.

So, during the third quarter, the company entered into a loan transaction with Thomvest Seed Capital. This was a favorable transaction for the company with no cash repayments for five years and the possibility of the loan being repaid by the exercise of a warrant whose price was calculated by reference to twice the market cap of PLI at the time of the deal.

The transaction was made up of a number of components, and as a result of the features of those components, has led to complicated and, frankly, counterintuitive accounting under IFRS rules.

Given the impact on the financial statements, I wanted to take a few minutes of the call today to explain the accounting presentation. And in order to do it, it's worth reminding ourselves of the components of the transaction, which I've labeled A, B, and C on slide number 8, so that we can follow through on the next two slides.

So, part A was the loan of CAD 10 million, which bears interest at 9% per annum, which accrues monthly. That loan is repayable after five years in cash or by exercise of warrant number two, and there are no repayments on that loan until year five.

And part B is warrant number one, which is an option to acquire 1 million common shares in the company, and an exercise price of CAD 0.52 per share and that warrant had a term of eight years. And then, finally, part C was warrant number two, which was an option to acquire a maximum of 20.276 million shares in the corporation at an exercise price of between CAD 0.77 and CAD 0.79 a share.

Now, this deal closed on the 10th of September 2013. And at that time, the share price of PLI was CAD 0.54. If we move to slide number 9, this is how we accounted for the transaction on the first day. The graphic illustrates that the overall transaction is broken into the three parts, A, B, and C that I've just described. It also illustrates that IFRS required us to deal with the constituent parts in the order of C, A, B.

So, firstly, we were required to compute the fair market value of warrant number 2 and this was achieved using a standard Black-Scholes-type valuation tool that was cross-referenced for reasonable method against other similar models including a Monte Carlo-type simulation. The exercise provided us with a valuation of CAD 3.8 million on day one.

Now, given some of the features of this warrant, particularly the variable exercise price, IFRS requires us to position this instrument as a derivative rather than equity and, therefore, has to be shown on the balance sheet as a liability. It's worth noting that this is a non-cash liability in the sense that it will never have to be paid out by ProMetic in cash. And perversely, we'll actually receive cash when the warrant is exercised.

Now, given that Thomvest have the option to exercise the warrant any time, the liability gets classified in the current liability section rather than the long-term liability section of our balance sheet. Given that this instrument is now classified as a derivative, IFRS requires us to re-value our [ph] marketable (09:19) instruments to market on each period that we make our financial report.

Next, IFRS required us to evaluate the one component of the transaction and this was done taking into account the value of warrant number 2 and was calculated using a discounted cash flow model and an imputed interest rate. That resulted in an initial valuation of CAD 6 million, which also appears on the balance sheet as a liability but this time, it's classified as long term on the basis that the loan is not repayable until the end of year five.

The figure disclosed on the balance sheet is net of the transaction cost attributable to the debt portion. And that portion does not get reevaluated each quarter but does grow as the interest costs are added.

Finally and by calculation, we arrived at the value of the final warrant. The valuation is simple arithmetic, deducting the CAD 3.8 million of the derivative and the CAD 6 million of the loan from the overall CAD 10 million paid by Thomvest, resulting in a CAD 200,000 value being a [ph] strike (10:17) to warrant number one. And that instrument is classed as equity because of its fixed-for-fixed structure and does not get revived on a quarterly basis.

Okay. So, moving on to slide number 10, just an update then on the periodic accounting impacts I have outlined in Q3. The graphic shows elements A and B grayed out as these do not get reevaluated each quarter. And element C, the second warrant, however, does get reevaluated using the same methodology that I outlined on the last slide.

Now, the biggest single value driver of change in that value is ProMetic share price. And essentially, if the share price rises, the value to Thomvest rises so the notional cost of ProMetic rises. That difference is taken through the P&L account and is adjusted against the liability on the balance sheet.

Specifically in the third quarter, between the 10th and the 30th of September, ProMetic share price rose from CAD 0.54 to CAD 0.76, causing the derivative to rise in value by CAD 2.6 million, which appeared in our Q3 numbers as a cost. And the initial warrant liability on the balance sheet rose from CAD 3.8 million to CAD 6.4 million.

Again, in the fourth quarter, ProMetic share price rose from CAD 0.76 to CAD 0.93, causing the derivative to rise again in value by CAD 2.9 million, which appears in our Q4 numbers as a cost. And the warrant liability on the balance sheet rose again from CAD 6.4 million at the 30th of September to CAD 9.3 million at the 31st of December.

So in summary, we have a CAD 5.5 million P&L charge in the year relating to this warrant instrument solely because our stock price improved.

Again, I'm reminding listeners one more time that this is not a liability that we'll be paying in cash and, indeed, the warrant is to be used to either provide cash for the company or repay the loan. In terms of the loan itself, it has and will continue to increase in size by the interest charge at the imputed rate for the period in question and warrant number one will not have any change.

So, I apologize for the complexity of the explanation but I think, again, it's necessary just to allow listeners to understand the peculiar presentation and the strange P&L impact of this transaction. My final comment on this matter is that we are working with our colleagues at Thomvest to find a way to amend the instruments slightly in order to remove this quarter-to-quarter variability. It will, however, still lightly impact the first quarter of 2014.

So, if we move on now to slide number 11 and an analysis of the underlying business results, I'm reviewing the EBITDA performance of each business segment. At this point, I've chosen to analyze EBITDA as it excludes these non-cash costs associated with the derivative and the options in RSUs, and allows us to see the true picture of what has happened in the business during 2013.

So firstly, looking at Protein Technologies, which is the business segment that combines the activities of the bioseparations business and the plasma products, EBITDA remained positive at CAD 800,000 compared to positive CAD 9.4 million in the previous year, and the reduction is attributable to three things. Firstly, as I've described earlier, licensing revenues are down on the back of the decision to retain more of the future value of our products for our own shareholders rather than licensing early. Secondly, as a consequence of this, we have invested more of our own resources in R&D expenditure for plasma products. And, thirdly, we've invested in the operating costs necessary at the Laval plant to bring it closer to the cGMP accreditation.

So, next and looking at the Therapeutics business segment, the part of our business that focuses on small molecule drug development such as PBI-4050, investors will recall that we've been advancing the compound through the clinical program and have, therefore, increased our R&D spend in this area explaining the difference.

And lastly, looking at the corporate segment, that contains all of our administration and compliance activity. There's been an increase in costs of around CAD 0.5 million, which can be, by and large, attributed to the costs associated with the various financing initiatives during 2013.

So, in summary, and looking at the underlying business, the results and costs are entirely in line with the strategic direction outlined at the time of the financing. And the investment has set the company out with an exciting pipeline of opportunity, which Pierre will discuss in the coming few minutes during his strategic outlook section of the presentation.

Transitioning now to slide 12 and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the fourth quarter and full year, revenues for the quarter were CAD 5.1 million compared to CAD 8.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 with year-to-date revenues of CAD 20.6 million compared to CAD 23.3 million for 2012. As I mentioned earlier, product and service revenues are up CAD 1.1 million or 6.5% for the year, and licensing revenues are down CAD 3.8 million on 2012.

The slight increase in product and service revenue impacts on cost of goods, which amounted to CAD 6.6 million for the year compared to CAD 5.3 million in the previous year. But the other thing that's impacting the cost of goods is the mix of products sold in 2013, which was biased towards slightly lower margin products than in the previous year.

Total research and development costs have increased over the same period in 2012. However, as I've mentioned on previous slides, there's been significant development of the core value drivers of our plasma-derived therapeutics, specifically bringing the Laval plant towards operational launch, and as well as investment in the PBI-4050 program, bringing into the clinical program. Certain of the costs associated with the Laval plant are not capable of being capitalized under IFRS and therefore, appear as research and development costs here.

This context and given my explanations when we discussed EBITDA by segment, total research and development costs were CAD 6.2 million in the quarter compared to CAD 3 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total research and development costs to CAD 18.6 million for the year compared to CAD 10.4 million for the year-to-date 2012.

Administration costs rose in the fourth quarter primarily as a result of stock-based compensation costs, making cost in the fourth quarter of 2013 CAD 4 million compared to CAD 2 million in the same quarter of 2012. The gain on recognition of loan receivable relates to the sums due to the end of December 2013 from InvHealth. This sum became recognizable due to the value of the collateral being held by the company being of sufficient value to make the recoverability of the loan virtually certain at year-end. And I'll discuss this later on in this morning's presentation.

Finance costs are slightly higher year-on-year, consistent with the level of financing activity undertaken. And finally, the fair value adjustments of the warrants that I explained earlier impacted Q4 to the tune of CAD 2.9 million, bringing the total charge to CAD 5.5 million for the full year. Year-to-date EBITDA, as I mentioned on the last slide, shows a loss, CAD 8.7 million versus a profit of CAD 3 million for 2012.

Overall, the group returned to net loss of CAD 7.5 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to a profit of CAD 1 million or CAD 0.00 per share in the same quarter of 2012. That brought the full year loss for 2013 to CAD 17.4 million or CAD 0.03 per share compared to CAD 400,000 or CAD 0.00 per share in 2012.

Moving to slide 13 and the key features of the balance sheet at the end of the year. Cash stood at CAD 17.4 million compared to CAD 1.2 million at the end of the previous year. Accounts receivable were CAD 14.2 million compared to CAD 4.7 million at December 2012. And within that figure, trade receivables have increased by CAD 5.9 million and tax credit receivables have reduced by CAD 400,000 since the year-end.

The increase in trade receivables is partly in line with the increase in product and service revenues and specifically, some of those were invoiced just prior to the end of the financial year. Also included in accounts receivable was the CAD 3 million relating to the loan repayable by InvHealth as described on the last slide.

The share subscription receivable of CAD 9.8 million at 2012 year-end from Shenzhen Hepalink was received in the first quarter of 2013. Capital assets have risen by almost CAD 8.6 million since December 2012 representing mainly the investment in the Laval plant.

Bank and other loans were fully repaid during the year following the drawdown of the Thomvest loan in the third quarter. And trade and other payables are up slightly at CAD 7.9 million taking into consideration items bought for inventory, which will result in product sales during 2014.

Deferred revenues were down CAD 1 million compared to – down to CAD 1 million compared to CAD 2.4 million at the 2012 year-end, with a reduction being equal between product and service revenues.

The warrant liability of CAD 9.3 million has been explained earlier and I, again, remind listeners that this is a non-cash item.

Furthermore, the long-term debt provided by Thomvest shown here at CAD 6.2 million, will also likely be repaid by the exercise of these warrants. Long-term debt provided by shareholders have reduced from CAD 4 million to CAD 3 million by the end of 2013 as a result of repayments made in the year.

If we can move now to slide 14, I wanted to take a moment to review the cash position in light of the activities that I've just highlighted. CAD 41 million of net inflow from investing activities was received during 2013. Of this, CAD 17.1 million was used in operations, which includes however, a significant amount of cash tied up in accounts receivable that I've just described which is either already now been received or will be received in the coming weeks.

In addition, a further CAD 7.6 million of cash was used in investing activities related to capital assets and CAD 200,000 was attributed to foreign exchange charges. So, those movements when combined with the opening balance of CAD 1.2 million resulted in a closing cash position of CAD 17.4 million at the end of 2013.

So, wrapping up on the financials, results for the year clearly continued to demonstrate our investment in the future value of the company. However, this strategy comes at cost which together with the non-cash P&L adjustments relating to the warrants and stock-based compensation have affected the overall reported net loss position.

On the last two slides, I wanted to talk briefly about the recent repayment of the InvHealth loan. This clearly, has had a material impact in the 2013 numbers and I know has resulted in questions from a number of shareholders. The loan between ProMetic and InvHealth was originally contracted by the parties in 2008 and was subsequently amended and restated in March 2010, and then approved at the May 2010 AGM by ProMetic shareholders. The loan was originally intended to be repaid by InvHealth by the 31st of March 2013.

As a condition of the original loan, if the common shares have traded at a price per share equal to or higher than CAD 0.90 for 15 consecutive trading days, the corporation would have requested that InvHealth repay all of the outstanding amounts within 30 days of such a request. These conditions were not met by the 31st of March 2013 and the loan was not repaid. So, consequently, the loan was further extended on the same terms by three years to the 31st of March 2016, and this was granted approval by our shareholders at the May 2013 AGM.

The original purpose of the loan was to reimburse ProMetic for its payment as guarantor of amounts owed by InvHealth from a third-party lender, Camofi Master LDC. InvHealth has contracted its loan from Camofi on December 4, 2007 to, amongst other things, finance the purchase of approximately 1.7 million shares of ProMetic issued by way of a private placement, a premium, and market price.

The sum due to ProMetic by InvHealth was repaid in March 2014 following discussions initiated by ProMetic's board of directors which were led by the Chairman, Mr. Kym Anthony. The existence of legal conditions for early repayment of the loan based on the 15-day trading price above CAD 0.90, as described above, as well as the opportunity for the corporation to access non-dilutive capital to further advance its orphan drug pipeline in the clinics led to the mutual decision of the parties to repay the loan at this time.

ProMetic received CAD 3.2 million, being CAD 2.1 million of loan principal and CAD 1.1 million of interests. CAD 3 million of this sum is accounted for in the period to the 31st of December 2013, and the remaining CAD 200,000 of interest received will be accounted for in the first quarter of 2014. These funds were raised by InvHealth through the sale of approximately 2 million shares in ProMetic.

So, I hope that the background and a reminder of the details of the transaction has provided a useful reminder and insight into the timing and decision making behind the recent repayment.

So, that's all from me on the 2013 results, and I'll now hand back to Pierre for the strategic outlook.

Okay. Thank you, Bruce. I will invite everyone to move on to slide 18. ProMetic has been historically known for its world-class expertise in bioseparation and specifically, large-scale purification of biologics and the elimination of pathogens to a growing base of industry leaders. And ProMetic has also leveraged its affinity technology to develop highly efficient extraction and purification process for therapeutic proteins derived from human plasma. And the objective here was to develop best-in-class therapeutics and orphan drugs, targeting unmet medical conditions and rare disease.

More than a decade ago, ProMetic started developing, in collaboration with the American Red Cross, the Plasma Protein Purification System, or PPPS. The process rapidly allows [ph] for decision (25:22) targeting and removal of multiple high-value protein from a single plasma sample at unprecedented activity levels and using and leveraging our Mimetic absorbent technology. So, after years of refining this process, ProMetic has successful developed a robust and scalable manufacturing process, evidenced by some pictures on slide 19 where you can see some of our operators producing plasma-derived products using our platform technology.

So, ProMetic BioProduction Inc. or the name for our plasma purification facility based in Laval is now starting to develop best-in-class plasma-derived products and is a site where our first products will be administered to patients in the coming weeks and months.

ProMetic is also actively pursuing what could very well turn out to be the ultimate level of value creation within ProMetic with its small-molecule drug discovery division, and I would invite you to go to slide 20 to see how those two activities converge. On one side, PPPS providing a rich pipeline of plasma-derived biopharmaceutical and ProMetic Bioscience, bringing small molecules, drug candidate leading the pack here being PBI-4050. And the combination creates a synergistic value and position the group as a specialty biopharma, targeting lucrative market with unmet medical need.

Slide 21 highlights the therapeutic area that this pipeline enables. And you can see that over time, ProMetic will end up developing a very strong franchise in pulmonary disease, liver disease, renal disease, and blood disorder. Whether the product comes from PPPS and plasma-derived or it's a small-molecule becomes irrelevant at that point, as the company focuses on opinion leaders and factors influencing medical conditions as a driver to decide which product is [ph] prioritized. (27:48)

Moving on to slide 22, again, this is a slide indicating how the PPPS platform technology enables the development and manufacturing of several drugs and orphan drugs. You have on that slide, plasminogen as our first orphan drug and Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, our second orphan drug. NantPro product, or product being developed within NantPharma for and under the JV, NantPro LLC, as well as other orphan drugs and other products that follow.

And these proteins – what's very important to understand from that slide is that these proteins are all sequentially recovered from the same leader of plasma as it moves to kind of a cascade of affinity filters. And this means that more orphan drugs can be manufactured at an affordable price. I mean, this is one of the big advantage that ProMetic will have is the ability to bring additional orphan drug that does not require to start from scratch from a manufacturing point of view. It will enable ProMetic to address unmet medical need but also cost-containment pressure.

So, let's perhaps go – take some time and go over some of the products that are progressing in this developing program. And on slide 23, let's start with plasminogen. Very pleased to report that we completed successfully our pre-IND meeting with the FDA for the treatment of hypoplasminogenemia, and therefore, the clinical path going forward is outlined and agreed with the agency. The GMP production to provide clinical material is in process and we're expecting to be in patients in early – in the second half of 2014, early H2.

The clinical program is relatively straightforward and includes an initial safety and pharmacokinetic assessment in six patients, it's called the Phase I, which will then progress to a Phase II/III study involving 12 to 15 patients treated for three months. And the primary objective of this study is to determine the optimal dose regimen to provide an adequate plasma level of plasminogen. The basis of that, we expect, ideally, could be filed in 2015 with a market entry in 2016. And there's possible compassionate use of the product in 2015 as this product is not available at all, and some patients could – are obviously in desperate need. So more to come on that front but progressing as planned, and very, very happy to be the first company to provide a solution for those patients.

Following on page 24 or slide 24, Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, the clinical and regulatory pathway is already very well-defined for this product. The GMP production to provide clinical material is schedule for the second half of this year as a bioequivalent clinical trial that we have to perform here to compare our product to a brand in the market and demonstrate the non-inferiority. And this clinical trial is expected to commence early next year in Q1 and expecting, ideally, filing in the second half of 2016 and the market entry in 2017.

NantPro product identification will be disclosed before the AGM. We've kept this project very close to our chest for reasons that may become obvious as we proceed and at the AGM. But the pre-IND meeting with the FDA is actually taking place tomorrow. The clinical pathway is already very well defined. So, it's more a question of agreeing with the agency about the GMP production to provide the clinical materials scheduled for Q2 2014. And therefore, we expect to be in patients just a few quarters thereafter, and this product also is expected to enter the market in the second half of 2017. So, a nice sequence of plasma-derived product here being enabled by this facility in Laval.

On slide 26, I'm pleased to say that there's two other orphan drug that will be enabled in 2014. And as ProMetic manufacturing team is producing the GMP material to support the commencement of the trial for plasminogen and NantPro product, it provides for the opportunity to advance two other orphan drug that have been earmarked for development this year.

Again, I remind everyone that because these therapeutic proteins are sequentially recovered from the same leader of plasma, from which plasminogen, NantPro drug and Alpha-1 Antitrypsin are produced, ProMetic can further leverage its core competencies and manufacturing capabilities to advance these additional orphan drug candidates at an affordable price. Again, always investing unmet medical needs and addressing cost-containment pressure on the market.

Let's move on to the small-molecule here and an update on PBI-4050 on slide 27. We've completed successfully our pre-IND meeting with Health Canada for the treatment of diabetic patients with chronic kidney disease. Acronym you'll see is either chronic kidney disease, or CKD; or DKD for diabetic kidney disease. Well, the clinical pathway confirmed for this primary indication and the pre-IND meeting with the FDA is expected to occur in Q2 2014.

There's also other orphan indications that are being targeted and will be disclosed following our pre-IND meeting with the FDA. I mean, you all recall that we had very positive results in pulmonary fibrosis model, and this has been disclosed and there is more data that will be forthcoming and disclosed at three international conferences in April, including liver fibrosis. So, there's exciting options that we have before ourselves here. But where Phase I is expected to be completed in the next quarter, the objective of this randomized study double-blind placebo-controlled first-in-human study is a single-ascending dose to investigate safety and tolerability in pharmacokinetics administered – pharmacokinetics of 4050 administered orally once daily.

The Phase Ib2 is expecting to be in patients in second half of 2014, early second half of 2014. In addition to monitoring the safety and tolerability in patients for three months, the study is really designed to monitor very early if the biomarkers that we've seen move in animal models can be also translated to human and at what dose.

Let me explain further on slide 28. For example, we have generated very impressive data in a animal model of human type 2 diabetes. In those animals, there were changes in biomarkers after just few weeks of treatment with PBI-4050, such a reduction of glucose in blood and reduction of inflammatory markers in blood and inflammatory markers in urine, as well as reduction of protein in urine.

So, the Phase Ib2 trial is really to confirm whether PBI-4050 affect those biomarkers in human in the same fashion and to define those range that we could achieve this. So, it becomes a proof-of-concept data in human. It provides information on dosing. It set the stage for Phase II/III studies.

So, I was asked often the question about fibrosis. Well, fibrosis is the ultimate results of such conditions not being treated. For example, if you go back on the left side of that slide, over time, the non-treated diabetic mice lose kidney function as normal tissue is replaced by collagen and this is what you see on this image. These are histological pictures of slice of kidneys taken from animals whether non-treated, the first two, top two pictures, or treated with PBI-4050.

And as you can see on the slide, whatever is colored in blue means that it's becoming non-functional. It's full of collagen and something you actually don't see on the slides where these kidneys are actually taken from mice that were treated with PBI-4050.

So, there is two messages here. First, there are means by which we can demonstrate the proof-of-concept data in human without having to wait for the ultimate fibrosis reduction. And the ultimate fibrosis reduction would be addressing the CKD, DKD type of disease which you may recall affects tens of millions of patients in the U.S. alone. But it also opens door for other orphan indication. So, stay tune for more information on this. But very exciting time for PBI-4050 as we have now a very defined path forward to generate proof-of-concept data in human.

So, in summary, if we look at our clinical programs on slide 29, as you can see, we're currently in Phase I with PBI-4050, and PBI-4050 Phase Ib2 starting in H2 will have another – will have two other products, plasma-derived plasminogen and NantPro, entering Phase I, Phase I/III for the NantPro product early in the second half of 2014. And as you can see, as we get to the first half of next year, almost same time next year, we should have six drug candidate, product asset in clinical trial, really contributing to enhance the value of the company going forward. And all of this is enabled with our PPPS technology and the plant in Laval, as well as the previous investment we've made in the PBI-4050 fibrosis program.

In summary again, on slide 30, in 2014, we expect that our base case bioseparation business will continue to grow, partnering deals to provide market access and further manufacturing capacity, several drug candidates to advance in the clinical phase that we just covered and, finally, additional orphan drugs to be enabled and orphan drug designation to be granted. Again, wrapping up for what I believe 2014 to become a very exciting year again.

So, to wrap up, 2013 has proven to be the year during which we were finally able to put together the last missing pieces necessary to successfully undertake the transition toward becoming a specialty biopharmaceutical company. None of this would have been possible without the hard work and dedication of our employees and collaborators as well as the continued support and loyalty of all our shareholders. And for all of that, we thank you all and look forward once again to a very exciting 2014, as ongoing progress and milestone achievements are delivered in the coming weeks.

And on that note, operator, I think we could open the floor to questions period.

Certainly. [Operator Instruction] Your first question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open. Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity, your line is open. Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway with Paradigm Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the questions. Maybe just a bit of a bookkeeping question, guys, on the changes on the estimates for rechargeable and non-rechargeable R&D expense and how that impacted, in particular, the fourth quarter. Could you, maybe, walk through how those estimates have changed? And is this – is the cost that have been – it looks like there's been costs reversed and moved into non-rechargeable. Is that due to work that's already been done? And how does impact some of your agreements?

Yeah. Thanks, Alan. Yeah. I mean, you're right. There was an adjustment between the two in the fourth quarter. I mean, as we go through the year, we – as you can probably appreciate, we have to make accruals at the end of quarters relating to expenditure that we're incurring with – or we anticipate incurring with third-party suppliers. Sometimes those accruals don't quite balance out, so we have to make adjustments for those.

And also, in terms of some of the programs that we're working on, we make estimates in terms of the amount of staff requirement that's on there, so salary costs can fluctuate between the two. And lastly, there are, as we've said, there have been some changes in some of the programs that we've internalized them over the course of the last quarter. So, these things all just kind of impact to make that adjustment. The best thing to do is look at these – the figures for the year as a whole.

Okay. And then maybe again another question for you or maybe Pierre could answer this. But when you guys signed these partnership agreements or collaboration agreements under which the service revenue ends up being billed, how much flexibility is there in those contracts for these changes to occur as you move forward?

Well, it's a very good question. Unfortunately, though, it would be on a case-by-case basis. I think that there may be adjustment for relationship that we have entered in the past, and I think that our statement about [ph] or having (43:02) the ability to take better control of the development will be evidenced in the coming weeks. But there's also a more of a reality when you look at the number of product that are being added on the pipeline and taken into the clinics by leveraging our platform as opposed to seek for a partnership to even get there.

This is really what we mean now.

I mean, there's been – in part to your question and the answer from Bruce, indeed, there's a lot of work that goes on ahead of time before somebody sees an asset pop on a clinical trial grid. There's been a lot of work to prepare those products ahead of time. So, one can expect to continue seeing ProMetic entering into different type of agreements. But if we bring ourselves the product to the clinic, then you'd be looking at a different structure deal, maybe participating in the clinical trial. But we need to reassure our shareholders here that these type of deals would be much more looked at from a strategic gain as well, not just cash consideration but are we gaining a market access.

Is it facilitated, for example, Europe. We know Europe is a lucrative market potentially but also a very complicated market. Emerging markets are great, if you can get in there but you'll need strong partners to actually facilitate that – monetization of those market opportunities. So, I think that when we're talking about partnering and advancing those type of products, Al, we really refer to partnership that will not only contribute to development cost but also strategically.

Okay. And maybe just one more follow-up on this and then I'm going to jump back in the queue unless some other guys ask some questions. So, NantPharma was obviously, a large component of the service revenue in 2013. As far as some of the other partners such as the agreement with Hematech on plasminogen and Hepalink on their – on the development of their product, are any of those deals running through the service revenue line or do they hit somewhere else? And I'll jump back in the queue. Thanks.

Well, that's a good question. The – and you will see that we refer very often to product sales and probably – and Bruce can step-in here. But in term – not necessarily from a financial reporting, but when we address the Street, we tend to bundle milestone licensing service revenue to differentiate them from product sales being the filters.

So, for instance, we expect a couple million dollar from Hematech this year, and as a relation – in relation to progressing plasminogen in the clinics. And this would – this is like described as milestone payment. So, each deals have their own structure. We have Hepalink as well as a partner that we hope to see some interesting movement this year, and several others that have been progressing towards successful regulatory approval. All of these impacting our growth, as you know.

Your next question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open. Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open. Your next question comes from the line of Sanjay Jha with Hybridan. Your line is open.

Hi, gentlemen. Just a couple questions if I may. You talked about the base case bioseparation business. Should I assume that CAD 18 million as base case or if the – are we just looking in [ph] product (47:46) sales?

Your question is in relation to the overall product and service revenue? Is that...

That's right. Yes. I mean – so, is the sort of – is CAD 18 million like your base case for bioseparation?

The CAD 18 million is a combination of both product and service revenue, Sanjay.

Right.

So, it includes products and service revenue associated with the bioseparations business as well as service revenue associated with sort of the development contracts on the plasma therapeutic.

Right.

To say that in 2013, CAD 18 million came from bioseparations would not be [ph] right. (48:27)

Correct.

Otherwise, as we've indicated – or we anticipate that the bioseparations business will continue to grow, and we expect that to be the case.

Can I go back on the question on the R&D? The non-rechargeable R&D, do you expect that to sort of increase further this year as you're doing more of the Phase I trials?

Again, that's a good question. I mean, the non-rechargeable is – you're right. That's the stuff that sticks with the business. It's the stuff that – our internal programs. The run rate this year of CAD 13.5 million includes a variety of things as I've described. It includes our costs on the clinicals, it includes our internal costs of some of the other plasma programs that Pierre highlighted in his presentation, as well as the cost of the Laval plant.

We may see some modest increases there as we have more concurrent clinical programs running together.

Right.

I think you'll see from Pierre's presentation that the scale of the clinical trials that we're looking at particularly for the plasma programs, we're not looking at 300-patient trials here. So, if there is an increase, there'll be a proportionate increase in that number.

Well, if I may add to what Bruce just said. It is important to flag that very important point. The clinical trial required to advance, as you said, those plasma-derived products are – and the reward is an amazing ratio unlike PBI-40 as a new chemical entity.

So, what we are pursuing here is a relatively small proof-of-concept study and, in itself – for PBI-4050 and in itself, will not be sufficient to gain market approval. I think everyone understands that. And it's very likely then that once we've had a good proof-of-concept data that we could attract a partnering relationship of greater value.

With regard to the plasma-derived protein, it's a different story. Very small investment required to actually secure a market approval. And in some cases, products that we will market ourselves because you have a handful of opinion leaders in a given market that actually address this kind of medical conditions.

So, what you will probably see over time is that some products that address millions of patients are best partnered eventually with multinationals who have the wherewithal to pursue such type of development, where orphan drug indication would be totally controlled by ProMetic including marketing and sales when the product are approved.

Okay. Thank you, gentlemen.

Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway with Paradigm Capital. Your line is open.

Hi, guys, and thanks for taking the follow-up questions. First maybe just on what you were just talking about on the R&D side. So, I know that a number of the costs at Laval that cannot be capitalized under IFRS run through that line. Could you maybe quantify some of those costs for us and give us a little bit of an idea of how much of that is non-recurring?

Okay. So, I mean, we've – in terms of ballpark numbers, you're probably in the kind of CAD 2 million range, Alan. I mean, we've not been very specific about that but that's the right kind of ballpark. Those costs, quite a lot of them are recurring. If you can imagine what we have in Laval is an infrastructure that needs to be operated in order to keep the plants running and to carry on with the accreditation.

So these costs are things like – it's salaries, it's consumables, it's the cost of the facility, that kind of thing. There are costs that will vary depending on throughput through the facility. But as we've heard in the presentation this morning, what we're doing in Laval right now is relatively sort of small batch production for clinical trials rather than full-scale manufacturing.

So, you're going to consistently see a base case number for the Laval plant, which will be CAD 2 million and then – or thereabout, and the numbers will increase with throughput. What will happen, though, as we kind of move into the full-blown production phase is that this will actually commute on the face of the P&L account – of R&D and into cost of goods.

Sure. Sure. Sure. Of course. Okay. So, on a year-over-year basis on the R&D line, would you guys expect spending to be higher this year than last?

Well, slightly, probably as a result of full year of clinical trial on 4050 as opposed to just a quarter of activities last year but again not a dramatic jump, Alan. There is also one aspect here that is on our to-do list is that the Laval facility is also a facility that will produce products for, and generate revenue as well.

So, it is, for now, 100% R&D but it will actually provide products for third party. And therefore, there're certain activities that will kind of wash the cost as we go. And this, as we said all along, is a profit center for the group. But as you set it up and you launch those clinical programs, it hit the R&D line.

Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks. And then last question from me, again, back to the service revenue. If I think about this on an annual basis year-over-year, do you guys think service revenue will be similar to the 2013 levels, or are you going to be doing or anticipate doing more work for some of these agreements this year and would that number potentially be taken higher? And I'll leave it at that. Thanks.

Well, we – on the bioseparation side and the group in the UK will continue to have similar type of activities, developing special applications for clients. And depending on how deals are structured, Laval and Rockville will enter into agreements, which will generate cash whether they will be license fees, milestone payments or service revenue.

As you can imagine, going forward, the company will have, what I would call, three basket of revenues. Product sales being the resin, the affinity resin, and it will continue providing development services, always – not as a CRO, but always in relation to its technology and long-term relationships. So I put another basket, service revenue milestone licensing fees, these are kind of soft revenues that may or may not recur compared to product sales.

And then the proteins. The plasma, the right proteins that we manufacture create a new product line that will grow as Laval produces more of those, shipping products to third parties but also as soon as plasminogen gets approved, and followed by Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, the NantPro product and two other orphan drugs.

As you appreciate, that product line explodes and dwarves in terms of proportion the resin sales coming 2017-2018. But all of those product line revenue are important but also strategically intertwined, as you know.

Your next question comes from the line of Margaux Berry with Beacon Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is Margaux from Beacon Securities. Sorry Sorry. So, you partially answered some of my questions. I was looking at the top revenues with [indiscernible] (57:40). You mentioned at the beginning of the conference that you were looking for – going back to growth in 2013. Would you mind walking me that quarter to quarter, what we should expect seeing? You obviously said that the sales of goods was the key driver. Could you confirm that, and do you think you're going to go back into positive growth for the next quarter?

So, Margaux, it's Bruce. I think, as Pierre said, we anticipate, on an annualized basis, seeing growth. We are always very cautious about not disclosing quarter-by-quarter revenue targets mainly because there are so many factors that can sort of impact each quarter. And the quarters are very kind of lumpy as you have seen from our past history. So, we've certainly not given guidance, and we don't intend to give specific guidance about the quarterly numbers. But we do anticipate a growth in revenues next year. And that will come across – we anticipate all areas of the business as Pierre has already outlined.

All right. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

[Foreign Language] (59:09-59:15) There are no further questions at this time. [Foreign Language] (59:21-59:22) Presenters, back to you.

Well, again, I thank everyone involved on the call and thank you for the questions and your interest in ProMetic. We'll look forward again to update you as we progress an exciting month coming with a lot of news on PBI-4050 and its international conferences. And we look forward to meet some of you in person at our forthcoming AGM, which will be May 14 and look forward to announce further progress and milestone at that point. Thank you again for participating to the call today.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. [Foreign Language] (01:00:07-01:00:10)