Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Roger D. Bensen — President, Number One Corporation
Amanda Ierfino — Research Associate, Paradigm Capital
Sanjay Jha — Analyst, Hybridan LLP
Robert James McWhirter — President & Portfolio Manager, Selective Asset Management, Inc.
David Llewellyn — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc. 2013 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Operating Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Laurin. You may begin, sir.

Thank you very much, operator. Good morning, everyone. I'll bring you immediately to slide number 2 with regard to this typical presentation containing forward-looking statement about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involve risk and uncertainties.

Today's presentation is summarized on slide 3. We'll have Bruce reviewing some of the highlights in terms of the business performance during the quarter, and as well as the financial. And then, we'll carry on with the forward-looking business update and, as the operator mentioned, just open the floor for questions and answer.

But I'll bring your attention to slide 5. And before Bruce provides an overview on the numbers for the second quarter, I will ask Bruce to also provide an update on the progress against 2013 key corporate objectives. This will provide a context for the numbers of the quarter. And more importantly, should provide an insight as to the exciting development that have occurred over the past few months. Bruce?

Thank you, Pierre. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Moving on to slide 6 and starting with the key business development objectives. We said that we would endeavor to broaden our existing client-based leverage, our existing relationships and secure new business opportunities, at the same time as increasing our recognition of our technical advances within the broader industry.

We believe that we've made progress against each of these during the second quarter. Specifically, we entered into a major strategic alliance with Sartorius, which we'll see Sartorius contributing equipment to ProMetic's Laval facility and will see ProMetic and Sartorius co-marketing our PPPS technology on a global basis. ProMetic will also gain access to Sartorius' established distribution and marketing infrastructure in the Far East, allowing us to accelerate marketing of our products and technology in these emerging markets.

We also continue to develop our relationship with Octapharma by securing a new order worth CAD 4.8 million for our prion removal resin. In addition, another existing relationship with a global leader in the biotherapeutics industry was successfully expanded into our licensing and long-term supply agreement, which is anticipated to generate annual revenues in excess of CAD 6 million as we move forward. So, it's clear that good progress was made on expanding the underlying business during the second quarter.

On slide 7, we deal with objectives relating to our plasma-derived therapeutics. We aimed to have PDP, our Laval plant, operational. And we intended to commence commercial development of a pipeline of in-house high-value, low-volume products and meet various development milestones for our clients.

So far in the year, our plasminogen development program remains on schedule and our Alpha1-antitrypsin program has produced results which exceeded our own original target, achieving a 220% yield enhancement over the industry average, causing us to identify Alpha1-antitrypsin as the next product for development in commercialization.

Preparations at the cGMP plant in Laval is on target with key personnel having been recruited and many already started their employment with us and our client-funded development programs are also on track against our plan at this time.

We've negotiated and are ready to close a debt facility on favorable commercial terms. The funds from which will be utilized to finance the equipment and preparation of the Laval facility.

So, summarizing, the objectives in relation to the plasma-derived therapeutics business operation are also all being met at this time.

Moving on to the final slide of the key objectives related to the small molecule therapeutics. PBI-4050 is progressing as planned towards the clinical stage with the Phase I trial on schedule to be executed in quarter four 2013. And we'll be announcing new and promising data relating to the efficacy of PBI-4050 in pulmonary fibrosis at the upcoming European Respiratory Society Annual Conference in Barcelona in September. And we're particularly excited that PBI-4050 has been selected for five presentations at that conference.

So, summarizing the last few slides, I think it's fair to say that the company has made excellent progress towards achieving its 2013 key objectives. But, clearly, this progress comes with associated cost, which I'll discuss over the next few slides to address our Q2 financial information.

Moving on to slide 9. As usual, I'll remind listeners that today's webcast is based on the unaudited financial statements for the quarter-ended June 30, 2013 and June 30, 2012, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended November 31, 2012. All of these have been prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. If you want [ph] to view the (06:07) financial information for the Group, it can be found online at sedar.com. And all sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or if we otherwise indicate it.

Moving to slide 10, before getting into the details of the quarter's results, there's one very important dynamic worthy of special attention. In the first half of 2012, so last year, CAD 3.5 million of the CAD 7.3 million total revenue was derived from licensing transactions. Licensing revenues generally have no cost of goods associated with them and therefore impact directly on both the top and bottom line. The first half of 2013 has not yet seen any licensing revenues accruing. We do anticipate that such revenues will accrue in the second half, but the first half revenues have not had the benefit of this boost to the bottom line.

However and probably more importantly, the first half of 2013 has seen product and service revenues grow by CAD 5.8 million over the first half of 2012, increasing by 153%, resulting in an overall product and service revenue of CAD 9.6 million in the first half of 2013. Now clearly, there are cost of goods implications associated with such an increase in revenue and I'll explain this as we move forward.

If we move now on to slide 11 and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the second quarter, revenues for the quarter were CAD 5.2 million compared to CAD 6.3 million for the second quarter of 2012. Year-to-date revenues of CAD 9.6 million, up CAD 2.3 million or 32% on the first half of 2012.

As I mentioned in the previous slide, the increase in products and service revenue impacts on cost of goods, which amounted to CAD 1.8 million in the second quarter of 2013, compares to CAD 1.3 million in the same quarter of 2012.

Total research and development costs have increased over the same period in 2012. However, as I said in my introductory slide, there've been significant development in the core value drivers of plasma-derived therapeutics. And specifically, bringing the Laval plant towards operational readiness, as well as investment in the PBI-4050 program bringing it towards entry into clinical phase. [ph] Certain of the (08:35) costs associated with the Laval plant are not capable of being capitalized under IFRS and, therefore, appear as research and development costs here in profit and loss account.

In addition to all of this, there's been an increase in revenues associated with the provision of client-funded development services. And associated with that revenue are certain third-party [ph] pass through (08:55) costs, which appear as part of our total research and development expense line. So, with this context, research and development costs were CAD 4.4 million in the quarter, compared to CAD 2.5 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total research and development costs to CAD 7.7 million year-to-date, compared to CAD 5 million for the year-to-date 2012.

Administration costs remained consistent year-on-year, and half one amounted to CAD 2.7 million, the same as 2012. Our finance costs have reduced slightly as a result of lower levels of debt within the group this year.

So, overall, the group return to net loss of CAD 2.5 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the quarter, compared to a profit of CAD 800,000 or CAD 0.00 per share in the second quarter of 2012. But in summary, the main reasons for the variance are the lack of licensing revenues, offset to some degree by the increased contribution from products and service sales, as well as the investment in our key value drivers.

I move to slide 12, and the key features of the balance sheet as of the end of Q2. Cash stood at CAD 5.7 million compared to CAD 1.2 million at the end of the year. And as I mentioned, some of this cash has been to used to fund the investment just described during my analysis of the profit and loss account. In addition, it's been used to pre-pay certain expenses and to buy equipment, which I'll talk about shortly.

Accounts receivables stood at CAD 4.2 million, compared to CAD 4.7 million at the end of the year. But within that figure, trade receivables have increased by CAD 700,000 and R&D tax credit receivables have reduced by CAD 1.2 million since the year-end. The increase in trade receivables is in line with the improving revenue position.

The shares subscription receivable of CAD 9.8 million at the year-end from Shenzhen Hepalink was received in the first quarter. And prepaid expenses, as I mentioned, have increased by CAD 1 million over year-end, with that increase being attributable mainly to deposits paid for equipment for the plant. Similarly, capital assets have risen by almost CAD 700,000 representing the investment in equipment that already arrived at the plant.

Bank and other loans have reduced by CAD 1.1 million associated with the receipt of the R&D tax credit claim that I mentioned a few minutes ago. And trade and other payables remained consistent at CAD 5 million year-on-year. Deferred revenues are CAD 2.7 million, compared to CAD 2.4 million at the end of the year, with the main increase being associated with service revenues received in advance.

The long-term debt provided by shareholders has reduced from CAD 4 million to CAD 3.4 million, partly as a result of the repayment of a promissory note and partly associated with the change in accounting treatment for the debt renegotiation in the first quarter.

The advances in revenue from a supply agreement remain consistent quarter-to-quarter. So, overall, we have a net equity of CAD 4.6 million at the end of the quarter and a balance sheet total of CAD 19.9 million.

So, wrapping up on the financials, the results for the quarter clearly demonstrate that we've been making investment in the future value of the company. But it also shows an underlying growth in product and service revenue. So, overall, a very satisfactory quarter.

So, Pierre, I'll now hand back to you for the forward-looking business update.

Well, thank you, Bruce and I say that as we move to slide 14, I trust the shareholders will agree that this is very exciting times for ProMetic as it's preparing its Laval facility to be operational in Q4 this year, and this will enable ProMetic to supply biopharmaceutical products to its licensees and to advance its own orphan drugs to the clinics.

So, slide 15 has been also a further illustration of how this GMP facility will become a true enabling platform to generate biopharmaceutical product sales and create significant value with high-margin orphan drugs. The benefit of PPPS, or our Plasma Protein Purification System, is well-summarized on slide 16. For some of you, it's not news but I'll reinforce again some of the key factors, and again, improve economics over the industry average as exemplified by yesterday's press release with Alpha-1 antitrypsin. I'll cover more about this one.

But improved recovery yield and a smaller footprint for the same manufacturing output is one of the key benefit. But on top of that, we do have additional features such as improved purity and safety for the finished product that is manufactured through our process. And as you well know, it's starting to generate the promise of delivering high-value, protein-targeting rare disease. So, quite exciting about the prospect of PPPS delivering and the plant enabling this to be done at a GMP scale.

So, we're systematically implementing our process. And as you can see on slide 17, the production yield advantage of PPPS over the industry is quite significant. And this has been updated now. That slide that you've seen in the annual report has now been updated with Alpha1-antitrypsin now at 220% above industry average. Very, very satisfying performance from the group in Rockville during the past month.

But that table now translate to what is on slide 18. I've been asked by many people, what's the potential revenue that you can derive from the plant. And yeah, we could express it by thousands of liter. But more significantly, let's look at how much value can be derived per liter of plasma. And that's the trick in this industry.

The plasma fractionation industry average is about CAD 360 per liter of plasma. So, the output of different proteins, commodity products sold by a plasma fractionator per liter, according to various analysts' report, is in the range of around CAD 360 to CAD 400 per liter of plasma. Now, as you can see on this table, our yield advantage on commodity products, plus the ability to fetch and produce high-value orphan drugs, enable us to produce at much higher value output per liter of plasma processed.

And this is where you can just imagine a plant, such as Laval, that can process 100,000 to 150,000 liter multiplied by over CAD 2,000 value per liter is – it has – it provides ProMetic with a significant growth opportunity, let alone that as we license out our manufacturing process to other players, such Hematech or CNBG, then that output is further enhanced several-fold. So, very promising growth creation with that platform, enabled now with the facility that Bruce explained in terms of investments and getting ready.

Slide 19, therefore, has been prepared to illustrate the fact that the facility like the one we have in Laval can run ramp up significant value. Difficult for us to provide precise guidance on the revenue that can be generated because of the blend of sales of products to our licensees versus products that we would sell ourselves. Of course, as we sell product ourselves, the value per unit is much higher. When we supply bulk active or products to our licensees, then we make a margin or a fraction of the total value of the product. But blended, you can just see where Laval can actually contribute to the overall ProMetic technology segment, a significant value driver, revenue generator.

Slide 20 and 21 are there really for review. You don't need me to provide much explanation to it. It's self-explanatory. Suffice to say that there's more and more healthcare analysts realizing that the net present value of orphan drugs are quite substantial. And the reasons for that include the fact that it takes less time to market. It requires a much lower number of patients to – in the clinical trial, to get approval, and they all represent relatively high value compared to other type of products, mainstream products.

So, exciting time for ProMetic having the ability to generate significant amount of orphan drugs derived from plasma and leading to what was granted not so long ago, a few months ago now, on slide 22, the FDA granting ProMetic with the orphan drug designation for type 1 plasminogen deficiency. I'll remind everyone again that plasminogen is a naturally occurring protein that is synthesized by the liver and circulates in the blood. And plasminogen converts into plasmin that is therefore critical protein involved in wound healing and tissue remodeling. Net-net, if you don't have enough or any of that protein, you will develop all kinds of clinical problems.

Slide 23 provide an indication of what it is we could expect from that orphan drug designation market. To begin with, the incidence of type 1 plasminogen deficiency is about 1.6 over a million. That would be that the patient does not carry any genetic information to make that protein. So, that's type 1 plasminogen deficiency. We're more used to hear about type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. So, a type 1 diabetes would a person that needs insulin, does not make insulin. Type 2 diabetes would be somebody who still have insulin, however, problem with its glucose level. Well, here, type 1 plasminogen deficiency is an individual that cannot – does not have any plasminogen level at all. And, therefore, have significant clinical consequences.

If you apply that incident worldwide, you're looking at 10,000 patients. But if you focus on the developed market, you're looking closer to 2,500 patients. And here, just as an indication, I'm using an example of orphan drug pricing that have been published recently for that type of product or that type of incident and severity with no alternative treatment. And being conservative here, using a CAD 30,000 to CAD 50,000 of cost per year, you're looking at that single product for that indication could yield for ProMetic, CAD 75 million to CAD 120 million per year of revenues.

Now, I've been talking about Type-1 plasminogen deficiency, and that's the orphan designation grant that we received from the FDA. But if you switch on slide 24, you'll appreciate that those patients that actually have Type-2 plasminogen deficiency are numbered now in hundreds of thousands. You're looking at 700,000 individuals in the U.S. alone with various degree of plasminogen issues. So, again, a multi-system disease that would affect all kinds of tissue in the body. And without having a plasminogen product on the market, physicians, specialists cannot treat either Type-1 or Type-2 plasminogen deficiency.

Suffice to say that Type-1 in itself represents a significant opportunity for us. And you can just imagine that over time, it can cross over to Type-2 plasminogen deficiency, therefore, a much even bigger market.

I've tried to translate that into a slide that then position – slide 25, position that revenue potential contribution from plasminogen back into that original slide where we were showing the capacity of Laval and what kind of revenue it could generate. At the same time, that slide is providing an indication of when the plant is expected to be operational. That's late, well, in Q4 2013, enabling, therefore, the filing of the IND and the commencement of the clinical trial, leading to the filing of a BLA, which suggests during our current meetings with various consultants that we could be in position to file the BLA in 2015, and therefore, could even see the sales of plasminogen possibly even on a compassionate-use basis, because there's no alternative out there for those suffering patients.

So, this is a near-term development. The clinical trial is going to involve a very little number of patients who are looking predominantly at a pharmacokinetic type of trial, which means – demonstrating how many injections a month a patient has to receive to maintain the plasminogen level to the normal physiologic level. And we're talking about a treatment that's going to be used for life. Just as one that does not make insulin, we have to receive insulin, synthetic insulin, here is the same situation.

So, very promising. We're very proud to be a company bringing forward the solution for patients in need, but also very pleased to deliver the kind of return to our shareholders, and promising future for the platform and the plant.

Slide 26, I'm using as a space holder here to emphasize, again, our recent announcement just yesterday. We're very proud of that achievement with Alpha1-antitrypsin. It's a CAD 750 million revenue global sales right now, and slide 27 provide a bit more background as to how those sales have been progressing.

But, I mean – listen, this is again, the Type-1 deficiency of Alpha1-antitrypsin, with – lead to emphysema in many cases if you're looking at prevalence of 100,000 in the U.S. alone. And if you do the math, it's less than 10% of those patients that are actually treated.

The reimbursement for this product is around €70,000 in Europe and $120,000 per year per patient in the States. So, it's like, again, a very unique situation with Alpha1-antitrypsin. We're looking at an orphan drug. This is not an orphan drug designation, by the way. This is an orphan drug in the sense that it's dealing definitely with rare disease, rare conditions. It qualifies for an orphan drug designation, but actually, Alpha1-antitrypsin has been around for many years. But its main restrictions for growth has been existing manufacturing process not having a great yield, and limited awareness in the medical community and the general public about that condition.

In fact, if you go on the Alpha-1 Foundation website, you see that the specialists on that patient association estimate that 3% of the patients of – suffering with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and this is 20 million patients worldwide, as much as 3% of them could probably have a [indiscernible] (25:57) Alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency. So, there again, taking those numbers in the context of much bigger than the 100,000.

But putting things in perspective, again, everyone, if you look at slide 28 and how Alpha1-antitrypsin would pan out in terms of our pipeline and Laval-generating revenue, if you put Laval and our partner in Taiwan expected capacity together, you're looking at top line of CAD 150 million for ProMetic. So, again, a significant return, but that CAD 150 million of revenue will probably enable to treat 2,000 patients, still well short of the amount of patients that are in dire need for such therapy.

And now, the medical community is coming up with new potential indication and use for that very potent anti-inflammatory product. So, just to say, this is huge growth opportunity again for ProMetic, and very pleased to be able to advance this in a very, very time fashion. You're looking again on that slide 28 at our expected IND filing in 2014. The clinical trial, again, involve a cross-over non-inferiority comparison against a brand. Need to show that your product is as good as another one out there, and the BLA filing could then follow fairly quickly.

So, a very promising product with growth, high demand, established reimbursement policy, established regulatory pathway, very interesting complement to plasminogen. You combine those two products and we'll start blowing our original little graphic out of proportion here.

And that's why I put slide 29 there, because when you look at that slide, one can ask yourself, why are you so interested and excited about plasma protein? Well, look at that graphic. I mean, there is a lot of proteins out there and – for which a deficiency is well understood and related to some clinical problem. So, replacement therapy, which is an easy thing to do from a clinical trial perspective, opens up the door for so many different products that can be brought forward.

And 75% of all global revenues are currently generated with just four proteins, albumin, IgG, factor VIII for hemophilia and Alpha1-antitrypsin. On top of that, 74% of those revenue only use the 16% of the population between North America and Europe.

So, I'm excited about the Plasma Protein business, our ability with PPPS to really take advantage on – capitalize on these opportunities for three fundamental reasons. First, growth opportunities with established proteins produced with more efficient process. That's PPPS.

Secondly, look at all those new proteins with established clinical use that we can effectively fish out, extract, purify and bring to the patient community. And three, huge growth market in emerging markets. I mean, look at the following slide, which serves to exemplify the same thing. But, I mean, you look at Asia Pacific representing 50%, 60% of the population, using less than 10%. And if you exclude Japan and South Korea out of this mix, it's even more an amazing gap between supply and demand. We're partnered with some of the most prominent players in that region. And therefore, you can expect ProMetic to benefit from both the growth of emerging markets opportunities, plus those new and exciting orphan drug opportunities that we would bring forward.

The last point I want to make sure I've covered with our shareholders is on slide 31. That slide simply serves to explain that a plasma-derived protein often undergo a much faster clinical development process because the IND that we would be filing, for example, for plasminogen in Alpha1-antitrypsin are, in fact, conduct Phase I/III trial.

When we address a replacement therapy, the trial aims to demonstrate that the product and the dose regimen achieved a normal physiology of concentration. This is not about a new cure for prostate cancer. This is just like, [ph] Mrs. Wiggins (30:41) should have the following level of protein, and this is the frequency of administration to achieve that objective, so, much faster approval process.

And more importantly, as you file and execute on this trial, you are at a much higher probability of success. In fact, I'm not aware of any plasma protein projects that were advanced by [ph] serious (31:06) companies that have ever failed clinical trial because it's designed, made by human to be given to another human. All you want to make sure is you don't translate any pathogens as you make that process. And our process, as you all know and the industry overall, has made huge improvement in terms of safety on that front.

So, very exciting field, exciting time, two orphan products with growth opportunity, Laval being readied to execute on this promised value and revenue creation, very exciting. But let's not forget in this moment, on page 32, what our small molecule can actually also contribute in terms of value creation, especially our lead drug candidate, PBI-4050, targeting unmet medical need, and I'm talking about fibrosis. Again, providing for our shareholders one slide or two slides just to illustrate, when we're talking about fibrosis, how huge this is.

I made people laugh during the annual meeting when I said we had a T-Rex by the tail. This is pretty simple. This lead drug and few other analogs and back-up compounds have now demonstrated the ability to reduce, and in some case, reverse fibrosis in the liver, in the lung, in the heart, on skin, and in the kidney. And you look at that chart on page 33, these are all different types of conditions/indications that we could pursue, choose to enter into a market with the path of least regulatory resistance.

We shared with you before, some market size, but there's another statement that we extracted from another reputable website, and that was a statement that I couldn't help sharing with you guys. Nearly 50% of all deaths in the developed world are associated with some type of chronic fibrotic disease, and that's what it is. It's a T-Rex by the tail. If we can slow down the progression of condition such as those leading to patients requiring dialysis or needing an organ transplant, you have a winner. And winner it is. On page 35, very proud to share with you, at a very high level for now, but this will be, as Bruce indicated, fully presented in five presentations in Barcelona in the forthcoming European Respiratory Conference, the ability of our lead compound to actually reduce pulmonary fibrosis in a very challenging model.

And in this slide here, a very high level summary of – on the index. On the left, you see a fibrosis index of lungs of mice that have received a very caustic product in the lungs and are treated seven days after. So, the first, on the left, we have no bars, is obviously normal animals who do not have fibrosis in their lungs. And in red, it's the pulmonary fibrosis non-treated animal. Their lungs are totally destroyed, fibrotic, full of collagen, scarring tissues. And our product did very well. We repeated this experiment several time, and consistently, our product really reduced significantly, the scarring tissue.

And we're quite proud of our performance. Again, the only other commercially-approved product out there and the combination thereof, which is exactly what a regulator would like to see if you file an IND. You'd like to see and tell the regulator, sir, we think we have a better drug. And in any case, when you combine with the existing product, it provides even better results. Let's move into the clinical trial.

So, lung fibrosis could very well be one of the indication that we choose to advance this promising anti-fibrotic compound, but there's other options as well. And our advisors on the board and our scientific advisors are here to guide us and help in defining the path of least regulatory resistance in terms of bringing this asset as fast as possible in humans and in the market.

Slide 36, you've seen that slide before, but I'm reinforcing that we're executing on the plan that we said. We're investing about CAD 1.5 million gross this year to bring our asset into clinical phase. This is met with R&D tax credit. We're probably looking at CAD 900,000. So, this is not a huge investment, a huge bet to bring that asset to a much higher value, derisking the asset as we finish the GLP tox. And so far, what we've been reporting in previous releases that it's going very well, and the product is performing well as expected. And we're very – we're getting ready for filing the IND and commence the Phase I trial, and prepare ourselves for the Phase II – Phase Ib2 that would only start early next year.

So, again, slide 37, summarizing that we've been executing on all of those systematic steps to make sure that we have an asset that moves into the clinic and successful so far on all fronts, ranging from the GMP manufacturing scale-up to the toxicology program that is going extremely well and on plan, and therefore, expecting to start in September, the clinical program, with a Phase I to be executed in Q4, leading to our possibility of starting the Ib2 in patients in Q1 next year.

So, exciting time on all fronts with our value driver. And on page 38, a summary, again, presented before. We're maintaining our guidance for this year. H1 is ahead of last year, as Bruce indicated, by CAD 2 million plus. And we have extremely exciting H2 events that will drive our 2013 number to meet guidance already provided.

And as you can see, our revenue stems from the recurring bioseparation products and affinity filters, this is the bottom part, as well as our licensing milestone payments and product development services revenue, the middle part. And, of course, kicking in on top of that, as of Q4, but more significantly, in 2014, the plasma-derived protein biopharmaceuticals manufactured and enabled by the Laval facility, and eventually, other plants and other licensees kicking in, contributing to that growth. And a very exciting time with these three elements growing and bringing our total potential revenue mix on top of the base case to a very significant curve here.

And that still, on this slide, discounts completely, the small molecule and what it could contribute in terms of both licensing revenue, as you imagine, when we partner such asset, where you can – as soon as there would be up-front licensing revenue, milestone revenue, although those are not recurring, they simply accelerate, they become catalysts for share value appreciation.

So, all in all, a very interesting mix of solid base case revenue, growth opportunities with our plasma-derived therapeutics, the orphan drugs moving forward, and our small molecule program that can top it all up right now, no guidance provided on this. When it happens, we'll all be pleased to report it. And I'm sure we'll be on a conference call to cheer about it.

Maybe, operator, we could open the floor to questions-and-answer period?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (39:33-39:54) [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Roger Bensen from Number One Corporation. You may begin.

Hi, Pierre.

Good morning, Roger.

I was really thrilled of yesterday's announcement about the AAT. And just looking into the market for it and so on, it seemed to be that in a few years' time – and you've covered a lot of this in your presentation, which was very good. But again, going back to my analysis of yesterday, it seemed that in a few years from now, we – and that product alone could be generating much greater revenue than our current total market value. And that seems to be pretty easy to me. Now, maybe I'm too [ph] overly (40:33) optimistic on it, but – and that doesn't tie into the last slide that you put up with the projections, but that is such a big market, and we've got such an advantage on it. We could certainly have more revenue, I don't know, just how many years down the road, but not very many than our current market value. Is that correct or am I too optimistic?

No, no. You're not too optimistic at all. And again, I appreciate you bringing this point forward, because this is not blue sky research, right? I mean, this is, again, bringing, as I keep saying, Mrs. Wiggins' Alpha-1 antitrypsin to Mr. Smith, who doesn't make enough of it or doesn't make at all any. So, yes, I mean, the approval is predictable, demand is huge. And in fact, quite frankly, if you put all the industry together, right now, we couldn't supply all the demand. So, it's like – it's almost an open-ended abyss that you just sell everything you can make. But if you can make it far more efficiently, then you're really – yeah, you're talking big numbers.

The other point that I think is worth mentioning, I'm trying to be – to pace myself here, because in itself, these are big revenues for – compared to where we are right now. But indeed, you can expect that other plant will be coming forth with our technology, and therefore adding to the top line. So, it's more of – with regard to Alpha1-antitrypsin, the capacity is the rate-limiting factor for the sales. If we have another Hematech, you double the sales. So, it's as simple as that.

And as we will proceed gradually, we will look into entering into partnering agreements that have that capacity and enable us to go and get even bigger market share in this growing market. But I completely agree with you. It's – that in itself is a reason to be excited on the share price value.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, Roger.

Our next question is from the line of Amanda Ierfino from Paradigm Capital. You may begin.

Hi, Pierre. Hi, Bruce. Thanks for taking my questions. My first question is on the gross margins on the resin business. This quarter and last, they were quite a bit lower than in the past. And I was just wondering, is it fixed cost in the COGS that aren't being effectively absorbed by the level of sales or is it to do with some specific contracts that might be lower margin or something really different?

Hi, Amanda. It's Bruce here. You're absolutely right. It's do with the margins on the product. So, we have a number of different products as you know and some of them are lower margin than others, and it just so happens that over the past couple of quarters, there have been more of that type of product sales in the mix.

Okay. So, just that – like a product mix?

Yeah. Exactly.

Okay. And then my second question is actually about the clinical program for the AAT. Will it be a single trial and how many patients are expected to be enrolled?

Yes, Amanda, it's a single trial. It's a Phase I/III trial crossover study. You're looking at roughly 40 patients. Patients are enrolled on the brand or ProMetic's brand, treated for a few weeks and then crossed over. And it's a non-inferiority comparison in terms of plasma level of Alpha1-antitrypsin. And at the end, there's additional clinical parameters examined, but it's a fairly short study. And, of course, every company that receive approval on that basis post-licensing, there is a commitment to continue monitoring patients a bit like an open Phase IV study. But the primary trial required to get approval is a single trial Phase I/III for about 40 patients.

Okay. And I guess my last question would be have you had any discussions with the FDA about the product yet or is that upcoming in the near future?

Yeah, upcoming. I mean, this one in particular is a bit like download the following protocol on the website of the FDA and proceed. There's not much discussion to be added. There would be discussion if one wants to go into, for example, a supplemental or augmentation therapy, as opposed to replacement therapy. Here, we're talking about, here's a patient, its problem doesn't have any Alpha1-antitrypsin. So, that replacement therapy product call is well-established, have been performed by the like of Baxter, Kamada and it's just like we're another one coming and doing the same thing.

But if you say, oh, I want to use Alpha1-antitrypsin as a potent, anti-inflammatory to treat post-myocardial inflammation, then you'd really need to sit down with the FDA and agree on what would be the acceptable clinical endpoints and so on. And these are possible orphan indications that one can go for. But, right now, the plan is to go for that primary indication, which commands for a very high demand, totally unsatisfied and very simple trial to execute on.

Okay. All right. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, Amanda.

Our next question is from the line of Sanjay Jha from Hybridan. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Sorry. Good afternoon from London. Just a couple of questions. My first question is for Bruce, I think. Bruce, you mentioned that you cannot capitalize the expenditure on Laval facility. Is that right?

No, not all of it, Sanjay. There are just some bit that we can't capitalize. So there are some...

So, could you tell me how much cost has been taken through the P&L for Laval so far?

All right. So far, it's probably in the region of CAD 450,000 to CAD 500,000.

CAD 450,000 to CAD 500,000. Okay. And how much do you expect now to – sorry, how much more expenditure do you expect on Laval facility now and sort of the [ph] commission? (47:16)

In total...

Yeah.

...yeah. I mean, there's probably another CAD 3.5 million to CAD 4 million of new expenditure. As I said, we've got a bit of a mixture in the financials right now. Some of it is already capitalized. Some of it, we pre-paid, but not yet booked through the P&L or balance sheet, other [ph] stuffs in order. (47:43) But CAD 3.5 million to CAD 4 million of new stuff that's not yet ahead.

So, is that going to be likely to be the debt that you might raise, that your refer to?

In terms of the value of the debt? [ph]

No. Year-over-year. (47:57)

Well, no. Because, I mean, we've already expended quite a lot of effectively operating cash on effectively advancing money already for the Laval facility. So, the level of [ph] effect (48:15) is likely to be higher than that.

Okay. Okay. That's sort of explains that. My next question is kind of more surrounding the facilities in sort of China and Taiwan. When do you expect the Hematech facility to sort of to be ready. Because you've mentioned future facility, I'm just wondering, do we have a sort of a timeline?

Well – yes. Yeah, we're looking at 2017, Sanjay.

Okay.

The plant construction is being synchronized with product development. The blueprint, the footprint, engineering design of Laval, and the one that actually are even more advanced in China helps reducing a lot of the typical timelines that is required to set up a new plant. So, Taipei will benefit from having – or Hematech and Taipei, should I say, both benefit from having access to all those blueprints when it breaks ground. So, they have a very formidable track record of having built and validated the first EMA-approved vaccine facility in Asia in about two years. So, I trust that they will be operational in 2017 and will be contributing to the capacity for some of those promising products.

Okay. All right. Thank you, gentlemen.

Thank you, Sanjay. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from the line of Bob McWhirter with Selective Asset Management. You may begin.

Hi, Pierre. On the Laval facility, the capacity, you talked about 100,000 liters per year. Is it 100,000, the result of potentially – I think Bruce mentioned of more than that on the conference call.

Yes. I mean, depending on the product mix that you make there, we could crank up this place to go as high as 150,000 liter. But then, if you do that with a view that you want to address commodity products, it generate a value of, say, CAD 100 million. But I may just need 60,000 liter to generate CAD 250 million doing just the orphan drugs. So, I mean I would rather talk about value per liter that comes out of the facility. And because I'm not an accountant and using 100,000 is easier, if I multiply 100,000 times 2,500 per liter, I easily get to the CAD 250 million which is more palatable output objective for that kind of facility. We will try to enable others to build bigger plant for the commodity products, this ideal-size facility for orphan drugs, ultimately.

So, as we progress, we'll make these commodity products supply to our clients whilst they're building their own facility, but you can imagine that Laval will gradually switch on to manufacture almost only high-value products such that the small footprint will provide a huge return on capital – on CapEx.

Great. And then turning to PBI-4050, you talked about the success against fibrosis, reducing lung-scarring tissue. And can you talk about who makes the current lung fibrosis drug and how big is the current market?

Well, yeah, I mean the current drug is provided by the company InterMune. The drug is called pirfenidone. And it's approved for sale for the treatment of fibrosis in Europe and in Canada. I don't think it received approval in the States although they have been in discussion with the FDA and/or continued additional trials. Pulmonary fibrosis has been a matter of interest by many companies. It's a multi-complex factorial disease, and we're very pleased that our product seems to be switching on the right switch to tame that condition. And happy as well that the combination seems to be very, very promising.

The market size, I've seen different numbers. I think you're looking at, again, the total global patient population in developed market of over 200,000 patients. So looking at a reimbursement policy in the range of CAD 50,000, CAD 60,000, I believe that's public domain in terms of what pirfenidone would be getting in terms of reimbursement. You're looking, again, at CAD 1 billion-plus market just for that fibrosis indication in the lung.

Okay. And then turning to a financial question. Can you talk about the potential proceeds of all the current in-the-money options/warrants were exercised?

Well, you're looking at north of CAD 25 million, CAD 27 million, I would say, the range.

Excellent. And one last one. Slide 27 for the kind of AAT market. My wet finger guess suggests that about in the last four years it looks like it's grown about 12% per year. Do you think that kind of rate might continue over the next couple of years as well?

In fact, I believe it will accelerate, Bob, in the sense that there is now – this is a unique situation. This is a condition that very few people had any incentives to find patients because they didn't have the treatment to treat them. So when you start aligning more capacity to supply products reliably, high-quality products, you'll start having an incentive for those patients to be actually identified and diagnosed and treated. So, I think that, that in itself – that great growth will accelerate albeit being capped by manufacturing capacity.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Bob.

Our next question is from the line of Dave Llewellyn with RBC Dominion Securities. You may begin.

Good morning, Pierre and Bruce. Congratulations on all that you've accomplished, particularly over the last 12 months. I've got two questions. I'm not sure the market fully appreciates nor perhaps do I, the significance of our alliance with Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong and there certainly haven't been any disclosures on this front for quite some time.

So, could you reframe for us the nuts and bolts of our relationship with Dr. Soon-Shiong, what it pertains for ProMetic and rough time lines and perhaps also clarify the terms of its warrants. Thank you.

Okay. Well, Dr. Soon-Shiong is a large shareholder in ProMetic through California Capital. I believe his position is around 7%, 8% of shares in ProMetic and he does have CAD 20 million worth of warrants at strike price of CAD 0.47. Patrick Soon-Shiong is also a significant shareholder of NantPharma partnered with Blackstone, who are in partnership with us for some plasma-derived products.

So, some of the information, Dave, is public for anyone who wants to dig and I just kind of highlighted the feature here. But at the same time some of the, not just unique to Dr. Soon-Shiong, but the same thing applies for most partners that we are co-developing products with, we're some time very limited as to what we can say from a confidential or strategic point of view.

And I hope that the fact that we're advancing our own orphan drugs, for example, our PBI-4050 and we will be able to be much more at ease to disclose our progress and market size and so on without any confidential limitation, on like projects that we're partnered with, will help people appreciate the value that is being created.

Relationship with CNBG, that you just mentioned as well, is progressing as planned. And we all look at all of those partners, contributing significantly off balance sheet as well to provide an impact on the share value of ProMetic. Just take Hematech, for instance, where they would be building the plant in Taipei, enabling us to sell more of the Alpha1-antitrypsin. All these investments made by CNBG for the Chinese market, all of what is happening in different companies' own backyard, advancing prospective and joint projects that indirectly ultimately impacts ProMetic's performance and value. All of that is coming together. But sometimes, and frustratingly, we're not at liberty to comment as much as we would like on the progress specifically for each of those projects. But Patrick Soon-Shiong is very much involved still, big shareholder, and warranting the money right now.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, David.

Mr. Laurin, we have no further questions at this time. I'll be turning the conference back to you, sir.

Well again, thank you very much for participating to this conference. We are very, very pleased with our performance in the first half of this year. Ahead in revenue by CAD 2 million compared to last year. Maintaining our guidance for this year, the revenue exceeding CAD 20 million, CAD 28 million. And therefore, strong second half to be expected. And with a lot more update forthcoming on our lead compounds, small molecule PBI-4050, and our plasma-derived program, we're sure going to throw a big party and opening ceremony when Laval facility will be up and running. So, a lot of excitement still expected for the second half of this year. And I just can't wait for the future webcast in 2014 when all this unfold nicely to generate the promised revenue and the value.

So, again, thank you for your interest in ProMetic, your participation to this webcast today, and look forward to more updates in the coming weeks.

Thank you [indiscernible] (59:40)

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you all for your participation and currently ask that you please disconnect your lines.