Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President and Chief Executive Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Philip Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Lala Gregorek — Analyst, Edison Investment Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences Incorporated Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:00:27-00:00:53)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Bruce Pritchard and myself will cover this call – this morning and will as indicated on slide 2 cover first with Bruce the financials for Q3 2011. We'll move then to the business review with a summary and outlook for 2012. I have to remind everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involves risks and uncertainties, and the statements are forward-looking because they are based on our current expectations about the markets and – that we operate in, and various estimates.

On that basis on slide 4, as you know we are very, very excited about the company's prospect, four opportunities in one company, and you'll see throughout the presentation that we are on good grounds to be optimistic about the future of the company and will first let Bruce cover Q3 before we crossover to the plan going forward.

Bruce?

Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On slide 6, I'd like to remind listeners that in addition to the information on the financials for 2011, the information that I will discuss during my part of this morning's presentation is based on the statutory financial statements for 2010, which can be found online at sedar.com. All sums in the following tables are presented in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share remains or otherwise indicated.

So moving to slide 7, revenue analysis. I'd like to remind listeners that the financial statements for 2011 are now prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. The 2010 comparative numbers in this presentation have therefore been restated where necessary to accommodate IFRS.

Total revenues for the third quarter of 2011 were CAD 3.3 million. This is up 61% from the CAD 2.1 million for the third quarter of 2010. Of the CAD 3.3 million, CAD 2.7 million came from product sales compared to CAD 200,000 in the previous year. This increase is due to the supply of products under the follow-on order relating to a long-term supply agreement [ph] established (00:03:26) this year, and those supplies will continue into the fourth quarter of 2011.

Service fees in Q3 amounted to CAD 0.6 million compared with CAD 1.8 million in the same quarter of 2010. And there are no revenues in the third quarter associated with the transaction with Celgene announced earlier this year. However, those are anticipated in Q4, and you'll hear more of those later.

Looking at the figure for the first nine months, the same pattern is repeated with lower product sales offset somewhat by increased service revenues. Overall though revenues for the first nine months were down slightly on 2010 but this trend is expected to reverse by the end of the financial year. And an update slides which will follow Pierre will provide a flavor of where the business is heading with regards to performance of each of the areas of revenue.

Turning now to slide 8, I have provided the usual analysis of the quarterly operating costs and provided comparisons of the same quarter of 2010 along with similar figures for the nine-month year-to-date position. The purpose of this slide is to provide evidence that the cost control measures spoken about in earlier updates remain in force, and clearly the cost of goods sold have increased based on the proportion of turnover relating to product sales.

Research and development costs for the quarter were down significantly over the same quarter of 2010 and for the year-to-date position also. Administration costs continue to remain consistent compared to the third quarter and overall first nine months of the previous year. Exchange rate movements provided a loss of $0.5 million in the quarter versus a gain of CAD 300,000 in the same quarter of the previous year, resulting in an overall similar exchange loss for the year-to-date of CAD 182, 000 compared to CAD 155,000 for the first nine months of 2010.

Moving on now to slide 9 which analyzes the business unit performance. It can be seen that for the third quarter, the Therapeutics division performed in a similar way to the third quarter of 2010. However the Protein Technologies division generated a profit in the third quarter as a result of the strong product sales onto the supply agreement mentioned earlier.

The loss associated with corporate activities was up from the same period of last year predominantly due to the adverse exchange variance that I mentioned on the previous slide. In terms of the year-to-date, the total loss of CAD 6.6 million in 2011 compares to CAD 7 million for the nine months of the previous year.

Moving on to slide 10, I'd like to reemphasize the core figures from the profit and loss [ph] again (00:06:16). Revenues for the quarter are up significantly on the same quarter of 2010 due to the large scale order that I mentioned, and this combined with the ongoing cost control resulted in a year-to-date net loss of CAD 6.6 million compared to CAD 7 million for the nine months of the previous year. This results in a loss per share of CAD 0.01 for the quarter and CAD 0.02 for the year-to-date, both figures consistent with the previous year.

Moving now to slide 11, I want to highlight a few of the material items impacting the balance sheet. In the quarter, the company obtained a total of CAD 1 million in non-diluted loans and private placements from long-term support of shareholders. Of the CAD 1 million, the company secured CAD 0.5-million loan from Les Castels de Vaudreuil Inc., a company managed by its President and current ProMetic Board member, Mr. Benjamin Wygodny.

That loan bears interest at the rate of 12% per annum and was originally scheduled to mature no later than October 31, 2011. This loan has subsequently been extended indefinitely by the lender. And as consideration for providing the loan, ProMetic shall pay the lender the principal amount, the interest and a fee which will vary depending on the term of the loan.

The company also announced the receipt of a CAD 700,000 advance from Investissement Québec as part of a unique program to finance the 2011 Tax Credit. ProMetic will be eligible for an additional CAD 0.25 million under this program in Q4 of 2011. The company also confirmed the receipt of an CAD 800,000 working capital grant from the Isle of Man Government's Department of Economic Development to support the expansion and revenue growth from export of products and services to key international markets.

So for further observations on the balance sheet and on the operations, I'll now pass back to Pierre for the remainder of the presentation. Pierre?

Bruce, thank you very much. And I know you'll be around for the question period. But let's move on to slide 13 if you want. And I'd like to discuss a table that was prepared for me. In late 2008, we gave a commitment to finance the company using the least diluted means possible. That promise was made before anyone could have predicted the global economic crisis that followed and its associated impact on our business. However I have to say we've stuck to the principle as far as possible. Some shareholders have voiced their concern to me over the number of shares that we issued making that promise. And I thought that it would be useful to provide some background.

On December 31, 2008, we had about 317 million shares which by close of business on September 30, 2011 had risen to 381 million shares, an increase of nearly CAD 64 million shares or about 20%. The issuance of those shares raised around CAD 7.9 million, and on average the shares were issued at CAD 0.11. However when you look at the operating losses between the same period, between December 31, 2008 and September 2011, these operation losses totaled CAD 27.2 million.

Had these all been funded by issuance of shares, we would have resulted at a further 247 million shares to be issued. On that basis, although 63 million shares actually issued since 2008 is a large number, it is nowhere near as large as it may have been. However, following the strategy of not diluting the company to that extent has resulted in a significant amount of additional debt burden.

So, let's talk about the debt on slide 14. In this slide, I hope to demonstrate how we plan to alleviate some of the liabilities on the balance sheet between now and year end. The recent issuance of equity in mutual had reduced the advances from shareholders to a level that will sustain through year-end, so you see that we have CAD 1.5 million that was invested in mutual and the shares were issued in mutual reducing that advance of CAD 1.5 million on the balance sheet, that's item A.

Significant progress has been made towards the achievement of the last milestone associated with the Celgene transaction, and we're still very confident that by year-end releasing $6 million from deferred revenue in the liability section of the balance sheet into the revenue line on the P&L account. And continued progress is being made to repay the working capital grants provided by the Isle of Man Government from the proceeds of product sales from the Isle of Man business. The long-term debt is CAD 3.9 million from shareholders is currently scheduled for repayment in July 2012, but the potential exists to negotiate extended terms should the need arise.

So finally on this slide, the advance on revenues under a supply agreement from Octapharma will begin to erode as we begin shipping products as announced just a few weeks ago. So, overall, we expect a significant lightening of the liability situation by the end of this financial year to the tune of CAD 7.5 million just on the basis of the previously described activities.

Another very important point that you will have to follow on with the subsequent slide, and I would describe it as revenue predictability at slide 15. The key to the future success of the business lies in the ability to build a strong predictable stream of revenues from repeat customers. I've said on many occasions in the past that quarter to quarter comparison of revenues is difficult.

This slide I believe demonstrates the point quite vividly, taking three customers with whom we've had announced major orders in the past few months and mapping out their impact on revenues over time clearly showed that in late 2010 and 2011, we suffered from a gap in orders. This is in the red circle. As these customers' products proceed down the commercialization path, their need for more of our products grows and thus the a reliance on our technology.

Despite not being able to yet provide revenue guidance for 2012, I can give an outlook based around what we know these customers have indicated to us recently. I have of course labeled these as estimates and this – and at this time however, it is clear than 2012 the potential to be a year which sees multiple customers providing repeating business is now within reach. This provides much needed regular cash inflow and begin to improve further the balance sheet position while we work on the value drivers of the business which themselves can make significant further impact.

On that note, let's move on to value driver one, that's slide 16. We announced that one of our clients gave us a CAD 4-million follow-on purchase – purchase order and CAD 2-million worth of products have been shipped and invoiced in Q3, and the remaining CAD 2 million has already been shipped and invoiced and it will therefore be recognized as revenues in Q4.

And the previously announced multi-ton biopharma deal that remain anonymous for strategic and confidential purposes had provided us CAD 800,000 in revenue this year, it's anticipated to make it to the next phase of development. And this would translate into a much more significant service revenue impacting early 2012, and would lead thereafter to a long-term supply agreements with annual revenue ranging between CAD 3 million and CAD 5 million.

We also anticipate as we mentioned before the recognition of the remaining of the CAD 6-million deferred revenue from Celgene. This transaction is expected to be recognized following the last administrative milestone achievement by year end.

If you want onto value driver two on slide 17. We are very enthusiastic about Octapharma resuming the production of OctaplasLG, which leads to the resumption of the prion capture resin supply starting in Q4 to the first CAD 730,000 order. And then we announced just shortly thereafter the binding forecast for Octapharma for an excess of CAD 2 million worth of PrioClear resin in the first half of 2012 in addition to the order for Q4. So this means deliveries to be around CAD 3 million between December and June of next year.

With all this commercial activities now taking place, we anticipate that the [indiscernible] (00:15:24) additional European countries, and this would include the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Sweden and Finland. Again, P-Capt filter – well as you know the PRISM study completed in March 2011, and the final report is expected to be tabled to SaBTO for their consideration in 2011 and – December 2011, that's next month.

And as you know, that's the same expert committee that recommended back in 2009 to implement the adoption of P-Capt filter at least for the pediatric population. So with a good performance during the PRISM study, we certainly expect SaBTO to come up with a positive recommendation, there again, but the UK Ministry of Health decision is expected early 2012 as it was reported in the House of Commons exchange earlier this year.

Moving on to value driver three and the Plasma business, I have to say that the expansion of our strategic relationship with China National Biotec Group, CNBG, has enabled us to scale up our PPPS process with the investments made in China. We effectively reduced our own financial requirements to set up the production in our own nuchal facility.

I'm also very pleased to announce the successful scale up of the first therapeutic protein [indiscernible] (00:16:51) confirming two major things. First, that the process is robust and complete linearity when we start scaling up from bench to larger scale, and our technology transfer and training program is effective. It works. The process works in other people's hands and that's very important as well.

So based on timelines provided by our partner, we expect [indiscernible] (00:17:14) operation in China in 2012 in their facility of CNBG in Wuhan, and we're also expecting that CNBG will initiate the bioequivalence trials in 2012 targeting several products simultaneously. That's a very exciting time. This project is moving forward. Financially, nobody sees anything going to our books but all of these investments are made in China [indiscernible] (00:17:40) advancing the value of this project in China and also impacting back in such that everything that is being done at scale in the facility in China will be transferred back in our own facility. And this has all been financed by our Chinese partner.

So we have several other agreements for plasma derived biopharmaceuticals at final stage of negotiations. Each of these deals are adding strategic partners that provide cash up-front and ongoing product development funding.

Let's move on to slide 19 and the driver – value driver for the new drug candidates and analogs to PBI- 1402 have been predominantly developed to target unmet medical need in the field of renal disease. I stated before that there's 26 million patients in the U.S. alone that are diagnosed with chronic kidney disease or CKD. And patients with severe CKD Stage 3 and 4 often develop anemia before they require hemodialysis, and CKD patients still at the pre-dialysis stage could greatly benefit from neurally active drug demonstrated to treat anemia. But we're – and more importantly, we focus recently is the fact that these CKD patients will experience over time a gradual loss of their renal function as the disease progresses. And this is fibrosis in the kidney that is the underlying cause that ultimately leads to the loss of the kidney function.

Just a few days ago, new and exciting data was presented to the American Association of Nephrologists Annual Meeting in Philadelphia. In gold standard animal models simulating renal failure in humans, the animals treated with PBI-4050 for instance had their renal function improved threefold compared to non-treated animal as well as significant reduction of their blood pressure, correction of their anemia, improvement of all aspects confirming that the renal function was improving, and very specifically reduction of proteinuria that is a major, major sign and ways to monitor how a patient's renal function deteriorate.

In slide 20 for example, this is an extract from four presentations made during the annual meeting. These abstracts have been posted on our website and they can be downloaded and reviewed. But we're very excited that we're one of the few products that the nephrologist reported to have a clear demonstration activity on renal function by reducing the protein leakage in the urine and slide 20 exemplifies how drastic that effect is over time. You have to realize that the animal in red on that graphic are not following treatment and they're not on obviously dialysis machine either. And you can see that the drug at much lower dose than the ones we have to use with PBI-1402 if you recall. PBI-1402 required dose to achieve such activities. We're in the range of 200 milligram per kilogram. This is 10 milligram per kilogram. This mean that a drug like PBI-4419 could be given to humans once a day to treat their chronic kidney disease, delay progression of the disease, taking a pill of roughly 50 milligram to 100 milligram once a day. Very exciting moment for the company and taken together, these results suggest that both our lead compound PBI-4050 and PBI-4419 offer the potential as a novel therapy for chronic disease by reduction of fibrosis and sclerosis and thus delaying the disease progression.

And as I mentioned before, PBI-4050 offers the added benefit of being able to also correct anemia. It's a condition that affects several patients with CKD or renal failure. So, as you know, the company reduced its R&D spending and allocated most of its effort to support partnering and IND-enabling activities. What does that mean? Well, it means that through various activities, we've been able, and through partnering activities and discussions with potential partners, we've been able to define a clinical and regulatory pathway that would enable us now to bring these valuable drug candidates in clinical trials during the second half of 2012. And I'll be pleased to report more as we go forward with this plan this year.

Let's maybe wrap up on the summary and outlook on slide 23. We've announced that back in August that there will be substantial increase in revenues for PBL in second half of 2011. We also announced then in August there would be more than CAD 6 million in product sales and revenues and service revenues expected during that period. Well, we've already delivered CAD 3.3 million in Q3 and over CAD 2 million of products have already been shipped in Q4. So this CAD 6 million should actually be beaten. CAD 6 million of deferred revenues of Celgene transaction to be recognized by year end, so we're expecting if you combine all this, extremely strong second half, extremely strong Q4.

The resumption of supply of PrioClear for the manufacturing of Octapharma prion-reduced plasma is also impacting significantly our H1 2012 to exceed CAD 3 million and Octapharma expecting regulatory approval in European countries, all of this will materialize into significant sales in 2012 and I refer back to the profitability, not profitability but predictability of our revenue rather I'm sorry with our revenue stream. And Octapharma if you recall was [ph] the cause (00:23:59) for $8 million worth of revenue delays for the past 15 months and we're quite pleased to see that this is now resuming.

Also, I mentioned earlier that the $800,000 service agreement from previously announced multi-ton biopharmaceutical product is expected to be expanded significantly and this isn't expected to impact this quarter but also all of 2012 and to lead to long-term supply agreement, ranging in the $3 million to $5 million a year.

The last slide on the summary outlook before we wrap up and open the floor for questions is obviously related to our plasma-derived therapeutics and our small molecule therapeutics where we're expecting agreements involving upfront cash and ongoing funding and the advancement of program into clinical trials, so they can actually become more valuable, get them to more analyst radar screen and create more traction to our share price and valuation.

And we spent some time today to cover with you the balance sheet that is expected to improve in Q4 and throughout 2012, the cash position should improve from strategic deals involving upfront cash as well as growing revenues, the debt is to be substantially reduced with reimbursement of DTI working capital, gradual recoupment of advances from Octapharma with the supply of resin and the revenue recognition of Celgene last portion of the license fee reducing deferred revenue by CAD 6 million.

I think we should pause here for questions for the audience. And again Bruce and myself are available to address those. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (00:26:06-00:26:25) The first question comes from the line of Lala Gregorek from Edison Investment Research. Please proceed.

Good morning, gentlemen. I have a couple of questions for you. I was hoping that you'd be able to provide a bit of an update as to the situation with NewCo with respect to what sort of timeline you're looking at for it to validate, validation operational? And you previously mentioned that you were looking for the third party funding there and I wanted to get an idea of what process has been made there. Secondly, on the therapeutic pipeline, you mentioned previously that you were sort of hoping to potentially have partnership talks by year end, so one or more of your programs, and I wanted to see whether you are on track with that. Obviously, it's great to see that progress has been made with the development in the regulatory pathway, but I just wanted to get a sense of partnering execution. And lastly with respect to your multi-ton agreement with a biopharma company, you mentioned that you're hoping for that to lease your long-term supply agreement. And I was wondering if you could give some source of indication of when that might commence whether it's something that would be in the next couple of years or nearer-term or indeed a little further away from that.

Well, Lala, thank you very much for the question and for participating to our call. I took down the question, so I'm glad I did because it was a long one. The first one on NewCo, we are expecting NewCo to be operational and enable the filing of INDs later in 2012, in the second half of 2012. We have gone through a very exhaustive review with our licensing partners to make sure that the NewCo facility would actually meet the most stringent regulatory requirements. That means that the requirements of the FDA, the EMEA and Canada would be taken to account. They're not the same. So by taking the box on the most stringent one, you comply with everyone and that impact at the end the delay – not the delay, but rather the design, the floor print and the design of the facility during – in the area of the GMP process. We have to read between the lines as well in the sense that what we have decided to do given that our Chinese partners were investing massively to scale up process and to undertake a lot of the work that would've otherwise had to take place in NewCo. This allowed us to still move the program forward without having to finance it ourselves and in fact mitigate a lot of the risk associated with those scale up. We worked with our Chinese colleagues. There's been over 35, 40 people, scientists, engineers involved in this process and all of what is done there becomes where the blueprint starts and the blueprint transfer back into our facility. So we have been able to progress the whole thing, but somewhat I would say, of balance sheet, Lala, and the...

Okay. Funding?

The funding for NewCo will come from two front. Additional equity that is being considered with various parties that we're talking to, NewCo have an interesting model and value proposition that is interesting, different parties as well as support from government in terms of patient debt and grant that could be matching the equity investment and most importantly the sponsoring from our licensees which need that facility and it's cheaper for them to actually hire us and provide that service than build a pilot plant for themselves. So all of those three sources are going to make NewCo fully funded and operational as of second half of 2012.

With regard to the partnering activities, well, lots of progress, it's interesting opportunity to have compounds that have multiple shots at the goal. Quite frankly, it's challenging in the sense that you got to choose and pick the right one, not necessarily the largest and most lucrative market may make sense in terms of first regulatory pathway to get the product approved. There's been careful evaluation of certain niche indications that could grant us orphan status and probably fast track denomination. There's been extensive interactions with potential partners, each one having their views as to how we could move the compound next and we're narrowing those choices. We're narrowing those possibilities and avenues. And whilst I can't predict specifically when this is going to happen, I can say that the probability of this to happen has increased significantly and that the two lead compounds are likely to be scaled up, PBI-4050 and PBI-4419 as they themselves represent different clinical path, clinical – address different clinical needs and can therefore be positioned differently and potentially and most likely with different partners as well. So it's quite exciting.

It started with one compound. [ph] It started (00:32:37) with one platform. It has taken a lot of time to get there. But when you address chronic kidney disease and fibrosis, the issue here and the challenge is that these disease takes a long time to develop. So you need to really focus on the patient population that would give you the most informative data in the shortest amount of time from which then you can drive your pivotal Phase 2 and Phase 3 program. So that's where we are now and that then define a budget, define timeline, and define our ability to drive this program along with the likely to be partners.

The last question you have has to done with the multi-ton project. It's too bad that we can't name the company. Eventually, we will. But for now, we are just saying it's a multi-national, multi-ton project. So what can you do? This is the nature of the B. When I say substantial increase in service revenue, it should exceed CAD 2.5 million to CAD 4 million in 2012. And the long-term supply of revenue, this would follow in 2013 in the range of CAD 3 million to CAD 5 million annually. So a nice scale up of revenue for us in 2012 and followed with the long-term supply [ph] given (00:34:00) 2013. So that level of revenue from this company combined with large pharma that we're shipping large quantities of resin to plus Octapharma are amongst three key clients that you can see in the revenue predictability, Lara, that they consolidate much stronger 2012 revenue base for us and that makes it much more predictable for our shareholders to follow.

Great. Thank you. That was very clear.

Thank you, Lara.

[Foreign Language] (00:34:37) Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Ray Clark (00:34:42), private investor. Please proceed.

Morning, Pierre and Bruce.

Good morning.

Good morning.

One of the paragraphs you've got in your financial highlights which is a [ph] low leg (00:34:56) is a paragraph suggesting that the inclusion of current liabilities is a CAD 4.3 million debt to current suppliers. And in that paragraph, you've also got that based on management's plans to maintain the business as a going concern, I'd like you to explain that particular phrase as well as how you plan on dealing with suppliers that you're going to require more product from to supply these future orders that we anticipate getting when you're not current with them. So, if you can address those two concerns, I'd appreciate it. Thanks.

Thank you, Ray. Very good questions. Bruce, you want to start?

Yeah, okay, let me start with the last one first, Ray, and I mean clearly, although the numbers appear to be kind of relatively static on a quarter-by-quarter basis, of course, what was masked in there is the fact that there's a kind of continual cycle of invoicing and payment with our suppliers. We do have a very good relationship with the majority of the suppliers of our products and we are reasonably current with most of them. Those that we are behind with, we are in regular dialog with them. They understand the situation and of course we link our supply of [ph] star (00:36:25) payment cycles with the kind of revenue flows that come in from our supplier – from our customers. So there is a kind of ruling program of keeping things going. Of course, we do have to work to ensure that we stay on top of that. And it's a difficult challenge right now with the cash position the way it is. But I would say that the relationships are good at this time. Your other question was in relation to the statement on going concern. Could you just remind me of the specifics of that question?

Yeah, it says based on management's plans to maintain the business as a going concern, the company is confident that it will later during the second half continue to make progress toward bringing supplier accounts current. What are the options for not maintaining the business as a going concern? It doesn't sound very positive.

Well, I mean I think – so there are two, I guess, two aspects of that. I mean one is the kind of, the statutory aspect that goes with how we prepare the financial statements. And obviously, the financial statements that are presented as we explained [indiscernible] (00:37:35) are prepared on a going concern basis because the management and the board of the company are very confident in our ability to trade our way out of the current situation. So that's why we continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis rather than on some sort of basis of being an insolvent company being prepared for winding up in sale. I think clearly you highlight yourself, there is a challenge we have to work very hard to ensure that we maintain the business in that state and that's why it's very important to us that we remain very close with our customers and are able to begin to protect the revenue flows going forward into the latter part of this year and into 2012.

I think as Pierre demonstrated during his part of the presentation, the business has certainly been stronger for us in the second half and that regular cash flow that comes from the strength of the product sales pipeline provides us with the opportunity to work at chipping away at those balances. So we're still very confident that we're in that position particularly as we reach out now into 2012 and can begin to see with some of our customers, their willingness to [ph] lock in (00:39:04) sort of longer-term larger contracts for us. I think the other thing to bear in mind is that of those contracts and of course Pierre only picked the sample of three, it's not all of the contracts that we're looking at. They're the bigger ones. And some of them are product sales; some of them are service driven. And the service-driven contracts tend not to require us to buy significant volumes of raw materials, which have then kind of manipulated through our process and turned into [ph] end (00:39:41) products. But rather it's the sale of kind of development services, which are provided by our research and development staff. Now these are costs that we carry anyway in the form of human resource cost. And ultimately, those are recharged through the service contracts. So, not all of them require us to be sharing significant sums of cash to be able to service that as revenue.

So, as I say, I think we're very confident that as we go forward, we will prove ourselves right at the situation. It's not a pleasant situation to be in, but...

Bruce, maybe you could also address, in the highlights just have mentioned that there's CAD 5 million private orders then booked, I guess, in the third quarter of 2011. How much of those have been received in the quarter? And when do you expect to receive the balance? And roughly how much would that be over the next two or three quarters?

Okay. So, again, I think Pierre's probably covered some of that in the slides that he's referred to. Mainly, the CAD 5 million includes some of the numbers that we've spoken about, like the supply to the major biopharmaceutical company.

As Pierre mentioned, in Q3 around half of that particular order had been delivered with, I think – or just over half have been delivered with the balance to be delivered in the fourth quarter, the second part of the second half. And in terms of going forward, we would anticipate the majority of that CAD 5 million to also – to have been invoiced in the second half. So, some's already in Q3; the balance will be in Q4.

Thanks.

[Foreign Language] (00:41:40) Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Hank Master (00:41:44), private investor. Please proceed.

Good morning.

Good morning, Hank.

I have a couple of questions. They were already asked and answered. But I do have one that still hasn't been taken out and relates to the status of the agreement made back in 2008 with then Abraxis. Now, I guess, Abraxis, Celgene, however you want to call them at this point, with some estimated $290 million in revenue stream projected at that time. Could you tell us what's happening on that front at the moment?

Yes. Good question. I mean it's a complicated story, so I'm glad that you asked the question. And I'm juggling down some quick numbers here, as I'm going to provide you with some aspects of the answer. As you know, we enter into this agreement with Abraxis. Abraxis agreement called for to develop into four products. Of course, you never tackle four products at once. So, we started sequentially the development of initially two products.

In total, when you look at when this relationship was directly with Abraxis, we generated CAD 7 million – I'm just adding the numbers here, CAD 7 million of initial investment premium, roughly CAD 8 million of service revenue, another $3 million, so probably CAD 4 million by that time of equity and $10 million of debt. So, assuming it's all at par, which is not the case, you're looking at close to CAD 30 million of funds that came from that relationship by way of investment, patient loan, and revenue.

Then, everything slowed down significantly when Celgene acquired Abraxis. And as you all know, there was one aspect of the relationship with Abraxis that remained active with Celgene, which led to the expansion of the relationship, a license agreement triggering CAD 10 million license fee, which we then were able to apply against that loan, so that, that loan would not convert going forward in shares. And this is well in its way to be executed.

With regard to certain projects that were non-core to Celgene, they are currently being re-routed to another organization that is owned by the previous majority owner of Abraxis. This is being restructured as we speak. And we look forward for a formal announcement to define better how the relationship is going to be restructured. But between this event, Abraxis and Octapharma, you're touching straight into the nerve of why there was some serious delays on the top line. But nevertheless, I have to say that relations with Abraxis did provide some significant income and in cash flow.

And we're very confident that both with Celgene for one project of extreme value for us, and with call it, spinoff activities that we pursued by the Dr. Soon-Shiong, the owner of Abraxis, in the new corporation identity will continue driving value for us.

Did I understand correctly that the expected CAD 290 million or so million revenue stream is going to be restructured into Dr. Soon's coming contract, or that's not the case?

Well, it's a complicated mathematical equation, because you have some value out of – when you say CAD 295 million, I remember exactly that press release, and it breaks down service revenues expected to be paid to ProMetic to bring products to market. It included the regulatory milestones and sales milestones. So, all this put together represented the quantum in the press release. And part of that now stays with Celgene, another part is being rolled out.

And how exactly the net amount will emerge, and whether this net amount will stay as is or be restructured through different deal arrangements favorable to ProMetic, I mean, that remains to be disclosed. We're working on that. And we're quite confident of likely outcomes on that front, but can't disclose until it's totally formalized.

Is that expected to be formalized fairly soon?

Well, quite frankly some of the deception that we all share with our shareholders. There are certain things that should have happened, and they're lingering for some time for valid reasons, another time for nonsensical reasons. And that's very frustrating for shareholders, who have bought a ticket, and they're looking at the show, and some of the activities are not moving forward. So, I completely sympathize for this. But we are confident that this, amongst many other things will happen and drive the show.

We're not relying on it. We're counting on it. We are planning accordingly. And we have still our working relationship with Dr. Soon-Shiong, staff and himself, and it's going very well on that front. But it needs to be formalized as Mr. Soon-Shiong has purchased assets back from Celgene, including, as you know, the shares that were owned originally by Abraxis that are now owned by Capital – what was it called, California Capital Equity.

And so, different assets that was purchased, including the ownership in PLI and few other rights. They need to be restructured in new corporate entities. So, all of that is taking its amount of time. And we're collaborating with the parties on the other side to make it happen and create value for shareholders, at long last.

Thank you. And I hope your efforts become fruitful.

Thank you, [ph] Hank (00:48:29).

Mr. Laurin, there are no further questions at this time, please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.

Well, again, I thank you very much for those extremely well-pointed questions. I think that we've managed to minimize what could have been much worse. And understandably, we would like to make sure that our shareholders feel comfortable and confident as we are on our ability to turn this situation around. And we look forward for the predictable revenue to hit and impact our balance sheet and for events to unfold to reduce the liability, so that everybody feels more confident in our ability to actually execute on the promised value drivers.

And thank you again for your call and question this morning, and look forward to forthcoming announcements and additional webcast and conversation exchange with our shareholders. Thank you again.

[Foreign Language] (00:49:38) Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Have a great day, everybody.