Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President & CEO, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Robert James McWhirter — President & Portfolio Manager, Selective Asset Management, Inc.
Roger D. Bensen — President, Number One Corporation

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc. 2013 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be recorded and will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

[Foreign Language] (00:41-01:10)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you very much, operator. Welcome, everyone. ProMetic is actively participating in the World Orphan Drug Conference in Geneva right now, and this is where Bruce and I are calling from. And this is also why the webcast was scheduled at 2:00 today, so we could also accommodate an otherwise busy schedule at this international conference. Very exciting time for ProMetic.

And before start, I will remind the participant that this presentation contains forward-looking statement about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involves risk and uncertainties that were explained on slide 2.

On slide 3, the agenda for today's call will start with me reviewing key events for the third quarter. Bruce will then step in and cover the financial results. And I will come back to discuss some exciting aspects of our growing business going forward. We will then have our customary Q&A period.

So, if you don't mind, let's move on to slide 5, where slide 5 summarize some our key objectives that we have set for ourselves in relation to the plasma business. And you'll be pleased to know that by year end, and actually in a few weeks from now, the Laval facility will be operational. We know the Thomvest loan secured was very instrumental for funding the equipment and the refurbishment of this plant. And this was done at commercial terms. I'll cover that later and Bruce will expand on that as well in his section.

We've hired key personnel that – with vast experience, and this was quite an important task. Our Human Resource Department performed extremely well here. And we hired key personnel successfully to perform technology transfer for the process. And the plant validation has been initiated during the quarter. And as you know, the ongoing Sartorius contribution is not insignificant as well, contributing equipment at a significant reduced price, so contributing income into the project.

During that quarter, we also continued to advance plasminogen to prepare it for clinical trial starting early next year, and the same for Alph-1 Antitrypsin that we announced as the second runner-up for the -- [ph] our (03:34) plasma-derived products. And we also advanced other products, one of which actually we're looking forward to announce will join the pack as very high-value products to be manufactured in Laval and also be developed in 2014.

We also reached during the quarter significant milestone with Hematech, and that bodes well for the relationship going forward.

Slide 6 summarizes the advancement on our small molecule program, namely PBI-4050. As you know, the clinical stage has started for that product. We have been successful in scaling up the GMP production for the bulk active ingredient, and the final formulation has been also successfully achieved, as well as the GLP tox program enabling the start of the study in humans.

We've presented exciting data at the Barcelona conference regarding the efficacy of the product in some animal models for pulmonary fibrosis and also later on post end of the quarter, but still nevertheless very close to that conference. I'll talk to that later with regard to the data in liver fibrosis, heart fibrosis and kidney fibrosis.

And of course, we keep on being in discussion with various partners with view to progress clinical trials past proof of concept that we hope to execute early next year. And we're very, very active with ongoing discussions with the FDA and [ph] DMA (05:21) with regard to potential indication, orphan drug designation and so on.

So, busy, busy quarter. But let's move to slide 7, because I want to make one comment regarding the financing with Thomvest. The Thomvest deal is a very favorable transaction that provides working capital for five years. So, no cash repayments for five years and very high probability, in fact, for the loan being repaid by the exercise of warrants whose price, I remind everyone, was calculated by a reference [ph] of two times (05:59) the market cap of PLI at the time of the deal.

So, this cash injection came into the company when we were trading at nearly half the current share price. That's a very, very favorable transaction that we've entered into, and more importantly, is what this cash injection enabled us to do. And as simplified on slide 8, Sartorius contribution and the funding from Thomvest are enabling us to get the plan started in the coming weeks. So, by the end of November, beginning of December, our skilled scientists will start making plasma-derived products in our facility, which will represent, as you agree with me, I hope, a significant milestone achievement.

Moving on to slide 9 and subsequent to the quarter's end, we closed an equity financing transaction for a [ph] total gross proceed (06:52) of nearly CAD 24 million. And why was this done? It's very simple. We have top-tier institutional accounts interested in ProMetic, but also interested to become significant shareholder of ProMetic with a significantly strengthened balance sheet, and improve our ability to advance orphan drug pipeline and PBI-4050.

So, as you can see on slide 10, and some of you have seen this slide before, clearly this financing enables us to create more value for our shareholders. That was the whole purpose of this funding. And that it enables us to retain greater portion of the ultimate value of these assets. We will continue to secure development services and license revenue going forward. I don't want anyone to think here on the call that we are now saying, "Oh, we're going to spend all of that money and develop the drug and no more service revenue." That's not the point, but we are now with a stronger balance sheet, allowing us to consider partnership but at better conditions.

So slide 11 serves as a reminder of how we are uniquely positioned to leverage our manufacturing platform to not only generate resin sales, but also develop and manufacture valuable biopharmaceuticals. And Laval enables that as well. I will expand further during the call today.

But before Bruce covers the financial result, I also want to bring to your attention the fact that ProMetic, whilst it's continuing to provide enabling technology and products to pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies is gradually positioning itself to also be recognized as a biopharmaceutical company itself. And strategically positioned to provide products and solutions, targeting specific medical specialties, namely in the renal, pulmonary field and liver disease. I will expand on this after Bruce's slide.

And, Bruce, perhaps you could move on and cover the financials for the quarter before we go over the business review.

Sure. Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we can move to slide 14 of the presentation. I'd like to remind everyone that as part of today's webcast, I'll be referring to the unaudited financial statements for the quarters ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, as well as the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. All of these statements are prepared under IFRS, and the full annual financial information of the group can be found online at sedar.com. Finally, all sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars, except for [ph] partial (09:28) amounts or otherwise indicated.

So, on slide 15, before we get into the detail of the quarter's results, there's one major transaction worthy of special attention. During the quarter, the company entered into a loan transaction with Thomvest Seed Capital. And as Pierre mentioned earlier, this is a favorable transaction with no cash repayment for five years and the possibility of the loan being repaid by the exercise of a warrant. This price was calculated by reference to 2 times the market cap of PLI at the time of the deal. The transaction was made up of three main components, and as a result of the features of these components, has led to some fairly complicated and, I dare to say, counterintuitive accounting under IFRS rules.

So, given the impact of the transaction on the financial statements, I wanted to take a couple of minutes of the call to try and explain the accounting presentation. So, in order to do it, [indiscernible] (10:36) remind yourselves of the components of the transaction. And firstly, there was the loan itself, which was a CAD 10 million loan with interest at 9% per annum accruing on a monthly basis. The loan and the interest is repayable after five years in cash or by the exercise of warrant number two, and there is no repayment until year five.

The second part of the transaction is what we call warrant number one, which was a straightforward warrant with an option to acquire 1 million common shares of ProMetic at an exercise price of CAD 0.52 a share and the warrant had a term of eight years.

And then, the third part of the transaction is warrant number two. And as Pierre mentioned, this is really the vehicle that's intended to be used as the vehicle for repaying the loan. That's an option to acquire a maximum of 20,276,595 common shares of the company at an exercise price ranging between CAD 0.77 and CAD 0.79 per share.

There's a maximum term of eight years on that warrant, but that reduces to five years if or when the PLI market cap exceeds CAD 3 billion within the first five years from closing the transaction. So, that's the outline of the deal. But if we move on to slide 16 and how we have to account for the transaction, I'll talk first of all about what we had to do on day one. And the graphic at the top of this slide illustrates that the overall transaction was broken into three parts, which have labeled A, B and C. It also illustrates that the IFRS standards required us to deal with those in a very particular order. In fact, we had to deal with element C first, followed by element A, and then lastly element B.

So, firstly, we were required to compute what's defined as a fair market value for the second warrant. And it was achieved using a standard set of valuation tools and cross referenced against one another. And that exercise provided us with the valuation of CAD 3.8 million.

Given some of the features of the warrant, particularly the variable exercised price, IFRS has required to position this instrument as a derivative rather than as an equity transaction. And therefore, it has to be shown on the balance sheet as a liability. I think it's worth just focusing at the moment that this is a non-cash liability in the sense that it's not something that we have to pay for. But it does get recorded on the balance sheet in the liability section.

Furthermore, given that Thomvest have got the option to exercise that warrant at any time within its lifetime, the liability gets classified as a current liability rather than as long term. Given that this is now classified as a derivative, IFRS has a further requirement on us to revalue or mark-to-market that particular instrument every accounting period.

We then have to evaluate the loan component of the transaction. And that was done by taking into account value of the warrant number 2 I've just described. But it's calculated using a discounted cash flow model using an imputed interest rate. And that resulted in an initial valuation of the loan of CAD 6 million which also appears as a liability on the balance sheet. But this time, we were allowed to classify that as a long-term liability on the basis that the loan is not repayable until the end of year five.

And then, finally, by deduction, we arrive at the value of the final warrant. And the valuation is just simple arithmetic adopting from the CAD 10 million overall investment by Thomvest, the CAD 3.8 million associated with the derivative and the CAD 6 million associated with the loan results in a CAD 200,000 valuation being scraped to that first warrant. That instrument is classified as equity because it's a fixed -- for fixed instrument and it doesn't get reevaluated on a quarterly basis.

So, that was day one and if that wasn't complicated enough, it gets a bit more involved on a period-by-period basis. So, on slide 17, I'll try and explain what happens going forward with each of those elements. And in the graphic, you'll see that I've grayed out element A and B, and that's basically to signify that these are kind of locked in and they don't get reevaluated each quarter. However, the warrant number two gets reevaluated using the same methodology as the original valuation, but with the parameters updated at the end of period date.

The biggest driver of value change is ProMetic share price. And essentially, if the share price rises, the value of that warrant to Thomvest rises, so therefore, the notional cost to ProMetic rises. And the difference between those valuations gets taken through our P&L account and adjusted against the liability on our balance sheet.

So, specifically in the third quarter, between September 10, when we did the deal, and September 30 when we closed our book, the ProMetic share prices rose from CAD 0.54 to CAD 0.76 causing the derivative to rise in value by CAD 2.6 million. And that appears on our Q3 numbers as a cost. It's not a cash cost, but it does go through our P&L account. And that had the impact of increasing the warrant liability on the balance sheet from the initial CAD 3.8 million to CAD 6.4 million as it's finally disclosed.

I would say that's the non-cash liability and, indeed, the warrant perversely is actually intended to be used to provide cash to the business or at least till we pay the loan. The loan itself will just increase in size by the interest charge at the imputed rate on a period-by-period basis, and there will be no change to the accounting for warrant one.

So, there you have it. I hesitate to call it a description of the accounting logic because I think that's probably a bit an oxymoron for this transaction. But it has been very complicated and it's led to some unusual presentation. But I hope that the last couple of slides gave you some flavor as to why things are presented that way.

So, if I move on now to slide 18, and really [ph] these are meat (16:56) of the numbers for the quarter, that slide shows that by the end of the third quarter, underlying product and service sales were up 47% on the year-to-date 2012 and finished at CAD 14.1 million. But the licensing revenues are almost CAD 4 million less than for the same period last year.

So, translating that into the impact on EBITDA, at the end of the third quarter of 2012, EBITDA was CAD 900,000 to the positive. This year at the end of the third quarter, it's CAD 5.4 million to the negative, an adverse swing of CAD 6.3 million. Now, that CAD 6.3 million is made up of the CAD 4 million of loss than – or of licensing revenue that we've not yet accrued for this year.

And the balance is the increased cost of goods associated with the increase of – increased product sales. The investment that we've made in the OpEx associated with preparing the Laval plant for its operational launch, the expenditure on the clinical program for PBI-4050, and on some costs associated with the various financings.

If I move into slide 19, we get a little bit more granularity on the numbers, and the key figures from the profit mostly came from the third quarter. So revenues for the quarter were CAD 6 million compared to CAD 7.7 million for the third quarter of 2012. But year-to-date revenues of CAD 15.6 million, up CAD 600,000 or 4% on the first three quarters of 2012.

As I mentioned on the previous slide, the increase in product and service revenues impacts on cost of goods which amounted to CAD 1.5 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to CAD 1.2 million in the third quarter of 2012.

Total research and development costs have increased over the same period in 2012. However, as Pierre said in his [indiscernible] (19:03) slide, there's been significant development in the core value drivers of the plasma-derived therapeutics, specifically bringing the Laval plant towards operational launch, as well as the investment in the PBI-4050 program, bringing it towards entry into clinical phase. Certain of the costs associated with the Laval plant are not capable of being capitalized under IFRS, now therefore, appealing as research and development cost in our financial statements.

In addition to all of this, there's been an increase in revenues associated with the provision of client-funded development services. Associated with that revenue are certain third-party pass-through costs, which appear as part of our total research and development expense line. And with this context, research and development costs were CAD 4.6 million in the quarter compared to CAD 2.4 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total R&D costs to CAD 12.3 million for the year compared to CAD 7.4 million for the year-to-date 2012.

Admin costs rose in the third quarter primarily as a result of the legal and professional costs associated with the financings, making costs in the third quarter of 2013 CAD 2 million compared to CAD 1.2 million in the same quarter of 2012. The finance cost themselves are relatively consistent year-on-year. And then, finally, we have the fair value adjustment on the warrants that I explained earlier impacting Q3 to the tune of CAD 2.6 million. So, overall then, year-to-date EBITDA shows a loss of CAD 5.4 million versus a profit of CAD 0.9 million for year-to-date 2012, and that difference is made up of CAD 4 million of licensing revenue and the balance of the additional investment and the value drivers that I've described.

So, overall, the group returned a net loss of CAD 2 million or CAD 0.01 per share compared to a profit of CAD 3 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2012.

If I move on now to slide 20 and the key features of the balance sheet at the end of the third quarter. Cash to the CAD 8 million compared to CAD 1.2 million at the end of the year. Accounts receivable were at CAD 6.6 million compared to CAD 4.7 million at year-end. And within that figure, trade receivables have increased by CAD 2.6 million. Tax credit receivables have reduced by CAD 900,000 since the end of the year. And an increase in trade receivables is in line with the increase in product and service revenues and specifically some of those revenues were invoiced just prior to the end of the quarter. The share subscription receivable of CAD 9.8 million at year end from Shenzhen Hepalink was received in the first quarter, as you know. The capital assets have risen by almost CAD 3.6 million since year end, representing mainly the investment in the Laval plant.

Bank and other loans have been fully repaid following the drawdown of the Thomvest loan. Trade and other payables are up slightly at CAD 6 million taking into consideration items bought for inventory which will result in product sales in the fourth quarter. Deferred revenues were down to CAD 1.6 million compared to CAD 2.4 million at the end of the year with a reduction being equal between product and service revenues.

The warrant liability of CAD 6.4 million, which I explained earlier, is included for the first time on the face of the balance sheet. And again, this is a known cash item. And furthermore, the long-term debt provided by Thomvest, shown here as CAD 6 million, will also likely be repaid by the exercise of the options. Long-term debt that's provided by shareholders has reduced from CAD 4 million to CAD 3.4 million partly as a result of the payment of a promissory note and partly with the accounting treatment of the debt we negotiated in the first quarter.

Advances in revenue from the supply agreement were adjusted by currency fluctuations over year end. And effectively, the result of all these things is an overall net equity of CAD 0.6 million at the end of the quarter and a balance sheet total which has increased to CAD 27.4 -- total assets, sorry, which increased to CAD 27.4 million.

So, wrapping up from the financials, results from the quarter continue to demonstrate the investment and the value drivers of the company. However, the lack of licensing revenues to date, together with the non-cash P&L adjustments, have affected the overall net loss position.

So, Pierre, I think that's it for me. I'll hand it back to you for the forward-looking business update.

All right. Thank you, Bruce. Bruce will be there for the Q&A at the end. But let's move to slide 22. This slide was prepared to illustrate several key messages. The first is that our involvement in the business of developing proprietary affinity resins and proprietary processes is growing and will continue to grow. But our expertise and capabilities have now reached a point where there is even greater value that will be derived from our high-value orphan drugs, enabled by our own manufacturing, unique manufacturing platform. Our strategy will continue, therefore, to grow both segment of activities and to capitalize on the synergies.

Another important message in this slide is the significant off-balance sheet contribution to that growth. I have put only two names of partners on the slide. We have mentioned before how instrumental our partnership with CNBG, or China National Biotec Group, has been for us. It is hard for shareholders to fully appreciate [ph] such confusion (25:18) as their contribution has not yet been measured by means of tangible revenue on the P&L. Yet, CNBG's significant investment in China has been a major boost to our program.

All the experience gained in scaling up our process, all the people over there, hired and trained by our own folks in Rockville, and developing engineering designs, specs that has enabled us in turn to implement this is in our own facility at much reduced risk and costs and, eventually, in other licensees' facilities as well. I put the logo of Sartorius there because Sartorius' contribution, again, to the facility providing equipment at costs or even subsidized by Sartorius does not show up on our balance sheet, yet this is all adding to the value of our Laval facility and reducing significantly the cost that would otherwise be required to start up such GMP facility.

I will take a few minutes to expand on those slides on another key relationship contributing significantly to our growth story, and this is Hematech. If you go to slide 23, I received a lot of questions from shareholders after a announcement of achieving a milestone with Hematech. And it was quite interesting because some of those comments were smack in line with our going-forward strategy which is to partner at better value later. And some shareholders ask, all of a sudden when they realized how valuable plasminogen as an asset – product asset could become, how is it that we decided to share 50% of net profit on plasminogen. And I decided to put those slides together to really go over the relationship because in the case of Hematech, it's – there's more than meet the eye here.

First of all, it's an interesting signal for me because this deal was explained last year. And obviously, when it was disclosed last year, there were less people that cared. And now, there's more people that care. There's more people that realize how valuable some of those plasma-derived products are, and all of a sudden becomes more, should we say, easy for shareholders to realize that it could be less dilutive actually to raise money if the company is worth more than to dilute in the sharing the profit on those products.

Plus, the Hematech deal has two components. First, Hematech fund the plasminogen development. Hematech has committed CAD 10 million [ph] fund income (28:06) toward the development of plasminogen, plus the funding of the production capacity earmarked to happen and be operational around 2017 in Taipei. Now, only the portion related to the funding of the development of plasminogen goes to our book, obviously.

As you can see on that slide 23, the deal has been structured where they pay us under milestone achievement and it's also kind of sequenced, such that there's about CAD 2 million to CAD 2.5 million contribution annually, which is contributing to the funding of our operation and the development of plasminogen. This slide also give you the time line of plasminogen, but I will cover that in a couple of slides from now. The point I wanted to make sure everyone understood is that how valuable Hematech partnership is to us goes beyond that.

Hematech funding of the construction and operation of a dedicated facility to implement our platform in Taipei is worth a lot to us, but it will be again an off-balance sheet exercise. They will build a facility in Taipei capable of manufacturing over 300,000 liter of plasma using PPPS. So, that brings additional production capacity, Hematech acting as a contract manufacturer partner to ProMetic and ProMetic licensees.

So, Hematech, with regard to any proteins other than the plasminogen, will derive a manufacturing margin. And it does have exclusivity for the small Taiwan market, where they could sell in Taiwan and pay us a royalty. But the real economics here and the benefit to ProMetic is Hematech funding a facility that will be a bigger copycat of Laval facility to manufacture and provide additional capacity to the group, such that, again, on slide 23, between Laval and Hematech facility, we're looking at a greater than 500,000 liter capacity for a contribution of value derived from different proteins.

And let's use, on slide 24, Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, as an example. You've seen that slide before, but I just want to remind that the value to us is obviously kept by capacity. So, with Laval, we could produce so many liters – process so many liters of plasma, and therefore produce so many grams of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, and therefore treat so many number of patients. By adding the capacity of Hematech, we're able to capture three, four times more revenue, three times [ph] four (31:06) more market share.

So, you just can see how the relationship with Hematech however structured to fund the development of plasminogen is also providing capacity that enables us to derive even higher value with other proteins, and more will be announced going forward. But as way of example, the one that has been disclosed, thus far, is the Alpha-1 Antitrypsin.

So, on slide 25, if you expand on that logic and you look at the combined capacity of Laval and Hematech facility, you're looking at north of 500,000 liter of plasma and roughly our yield extraction is north of 0.7 grams. So, using conservative number, you're looking at 350,000 grams of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin. Current market value of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin is above CAD 400 a gram. So, you can just see that Hematech is enabling us to tap into that market, provide people that are looking actually to be treated, CAD 140 million top-line contribution, significant margins given our yield advantage and Hematech deriving and manufacturing margin. We are not sharing profit with Hematech on other proteins other than plasminogen.

But with regard to plasminogen, if we go to slide 26, plasminogen and the type 1 plasminogen deficiency probably can be addressed at least in the early years of the launch with Laval capacity only. If there is other indications for which we receive approval going forward for plasminogen, then, of course, Hematech can contribute to providing additional tonnage. But initially, we foresee that Laval will be able to supply most of the capacity required to treat type 1 plasminogen deficiency and, therefore, Laval derived a manufacturing margin and ProMetic share on the net profit after deducting those manufacturing margin and SG&A.

On the plasminogen, therefore, we could look at revenue again exceeding CAD 150 million a year, and you have here the time line that we've executed on where the process was scaled up, and we are now few weeks away from the plant being operational, and we'll start making material in that facility and filing an IND early next year to run a clinical trial and file the BLA that will enable us to start providing the product to needy patients.

Slide 27 is, therefore, a very interesting slide as it combine, actually, everything that I've been saying so far with regard to us leveraging our manufacturing platform. And what you see in yellow here is the contribution of our manufacturing platform enabling us to manufacture plasma-derived therapeutics.

And you can see that targeting specific areas and putting ProMetic into the orphan drug biopharmaceutical players here amongst them, and you can see that both our small molecule and our plasma-derived therapeutics really contribute to positioning the company as a biopharmaceutical, pharmaceutical company specialized in some niche area and focused, really, on renal disease, pulmonary, heart fibrosis.

And the positive effect that we reported earlier, and I'll expand on that in slides on PBI-4050 on liver as well, could provide for opportunity to address liver disease. But it's quite interesting to see how both the small molecule and the plasma-derived orphan drugs kind of merge all of a sudden, enabled by our platform manufacturing technology, enabled by Laval, and now recently enabled by a recent financing that position the company in a completely different scheme of things.

Slide 28 is really summarizing a significant achievement that the group in the small molecule therapeutics under the leadership of Lyne Gagnon has achieved. We have now disclosed to the world, the ability of our compound to reduce fibrosis, targeting four key organs being the kidney, heart, liver, and lung. And given that the fibrosis mechanism by which an organ kind of lose functionality over time by keep – by repairing itself after either injury or chronic conditions, repeatedly kind of heal itself with non-functional tissues, scar tissue, is universal to all tissue, all organs. But obviously, we're very proud to see that our compound has performed in every model that we've been tested and challenged for.

And recently, quite pleased with the result that we've presented at the American Society of Nephrology. And I've extracted only four slides from the numerous presentations that were done by our scientists at those conference. On slide 29, this is an interesting finding, and this is looking at the score of heart lesions in rats that have been nephrectomized. 5/6 nephrectomized rats as explained on the title of that slide mean that rats have their – two-thirds of their left kidney removed, and seven days later, the right kidney removed; leaving only one-third of the left kidney or one-sixth of the overall renal function intact, well intact, and in fact, inflamed because after surgery, there is repair. And that model simulates what's going on with humans going to late stage four or stage five pre-dialysis renal disease. It's the – it's a gold standard model that – it replicates this progression of the terrible condition that 26 million Americans are afflicted with.

Now, the late stage are more dramatic because they are losing functionality more aggressively and leading to the need for dialysis. But the point of that study was, again, to reconfirm efficacy, but this time around, in addition to that study, these animals had catheters inserted in their femoral veins.

And here, we're showing data where the animal, if they're nephrectomized, and that's the red colon Nx, nephrectomized only without catheter, and those who had catheter had far more heart lesions. And this simulate, more or less, what a lot of the patients that goes on dialysis is going through, getting catheters before a fistula is actually surgically prepared.

If you look at slide 30 and 31, it simply shows that in addition to the improvement on the renal function, we were also able to show that the drug, PBI-4050, in these animals reduced significantly, the cardiovascular damage that was induced by those catheters. So, I mean, this is amazing result, and this was on slide 32. Again, evidence with – when you look at the slide, the two pictures on the left where you have blue – well, the blue is a coloring technique that highlight the presence of collagen.

And you can see between those muscle cells on the left, non-treated animal have a lot of collagen, which lead to the stiffness of the muscle, and – otherwise called chronic heart failure in human. But the animals that were treated with PBI-4050 were protected.

So, very interesting data that was presented at the American Society of Nephrology, along with – on slide 33. I mean, you folks know you can download those presentation now from our website, but I just put here to highlight the fact that there was also a lot of interest around our data confirming, again, that when you treat diabetic mouse, not only did we have improvement on the renal function, but we also had significant reduction of the consequences of diabetes on the liver as well. And that bodes well for the positioning of PBI-4050 as we go forward.

And I took the liberty to reproduce some of the quotes with – that we put in the press release just a few days ago by our board member, Dr. Raymond Hakim, ex-Chief Medical Officer of Fresenius; and John Moran, and their respective comments relative to the data that were presented at the American Society of Nephrology Meeting in Atlanta.

And Dr. Hakim, two quotes. I mean – and again, serve almost – I put there as a wrap-up of our preclinical program as we move to the clinics. I mean, Dr. Hakim basically said this study, the one that I referred to before with the heart and the catheter, is of particular importance because it provide a potential mechanism for reducing the cardiac injury that many patients who use catheters as a vascular access while on dialysis may experience. That's quite profound and far-reaching in terms of how patients are treated on a dialysis machine.

And it continues. Patients with advanced chronic kidney disease conditions, whether or not dialyzed, present a very complex medical profile often involving hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular complication. And the preclinical data that we developed so far strongly suggest that PBI-4050 could provide a novel approach to modulate the process that leads to gradual loss of the renal function to these patients. And Dr. Moran added to this that these new findings add significant weight to our ultimate strategic positioning of PBI-4050 going forward. Any beneficial clinical effect in diabetic patients with chronic kidney disease ought to be part of a clinical mindset when evaluating the performance of the drug.

So, again, just wrapping up, excitement shared by those two seasoned clinicians, nephrologists, who have joined the board of ProMetic believing in the future of PBI-4050, and their decisions are well served now with good data, product moving into the clinical trials, and looking forward to report more on that front.

So, just before we turn it to questions, the Q&A period, I just remind you, everyone, that the outlook on the few slides for 2013-2014, of course, one major milestone I just said, we're a few weeks away, is the Laval facility becoming operational, and we are still expecting new large orders for affinity resins this quarter and continuing in 2014.

We're also expecting milestone licensing and partnering deals this quarter and throughout 2014. Whether they will be recognized this quarter or early next quarter in terms of revenue recognition is going to be up to IFRS evaluation treatment, but very important, very, very important is the filing of INDs that is now enabled by our Laval facility and plasminogen, Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, and the non-disclosed number three plasma products will be in Phase I/III same time next year, and PBI-4050 will be a Phase Ib/II asset; significant value contribution as those products are advanced to the clinic.

So, on slide 36, I insist on reminding everyone that the increase of level of in-house development of our targeted orphan drugs, in order to retain greater value and value for our shareholders, does not mean we are no longer going to secure development service revenues. We are going to continue to have those service revenues. But with a stronger balance sheet now, we are able to consider partnership at better conditions or different structure.

Anyway, so this is likely to result in a slight reduction of our revenues in 2013. But the revenue in 2013 is still expected to exceed CAD 22 million, again, subject to revenue recognition on expected license-partnering deals impacting Q4. But more importantly, where – as we advance those assets, we significantly increase the potential partnering deal size going forward.

And another thing that you've seen before but now slightly modified is this slide 37 on the potential revenue mix. As you see on the pale blue in the bottom, you have the growing revenue of affinity resin to our existing client. And we continue to have licensing milestone payments and product development services as part of our revenue mix. It's not insignificant contribution, but over time, [indiscernible] (45:10) proportionately. And we're very, very proud to see that our plasma-derived protein biopharmaceuticals – I've put some arrows here – we will, as we move forward, be able to provide better guidance. But suffice to say that as these products come online and hit the P&L, we'll have to change the scale on the left side here. I mean, the scale is completely disproportionate to the potential revenue that Alpha-1 Antitrypsin and plasminogen together can bring. You're looking at almost CAD 300 million just with those two products hitting the P&L. So, obviously, bear with us, we'll provide guidance as we move forward and advance those assets, but future looks very, very bright for ProMetic.

Operator, I'll close on those comments and open the floor for question-and-answer period.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway with Paradigm Capital. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, guys. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Pierre, maybe you guys could talk a little bit about the status of some of the plasma products that you have partnered as far as where they are in the plan. In particular, I guess, this quarter, the service revenue was a little bit below what we were looking for.

And I'm just wondering, have there been any changes on the NantPharma front as far as how quickly those products are being pushed forward? And also, maybe if you could comment on the status of some of the R&D with Hepalink. We were expecting, I guess, some milestones, and we haven't really heard about anything on that front in a while.

Thanks for your question, Alan. I would like to comment with a general statement that all our plasma-derived protein projects, whether sponsored or in-house, are advancing as planned.

The bottleneck in terms of being able to turn those into a clinical asset has always been Laval. So, debugging Laval with the remaining financing required to start up Laval is with the bottleneck to bring the previously disclosed product asset, being plasminogen and recently, Alpha-1 antitrypsin, to the clinic. And – but I'm proud to say that throughout the year, we're on target with regard to the timing of development, which would bring at least three plasma-derived product in the clinic by the same time next year.

And I label them, Al, and I'm sure you label them Phase I/III, meaning that they're safety PK type of studies, meaning that they're lower risk in terms of execution and involving a small number of patients to show bioequivalence to the brand.

The Hepalink relationship is going forward, but there has been some delays in terms of executing on that program. Nevertheless, we've been able to catch up and we'll – we should see an impact on some of the expected contribution as of Q4 and going forward. But that's one of the culprit that has contributed to a reduction of service revenue this year.

It's difficult to articulate, but obviously, as we explained during the call, and hopefully, this is clear, when we were at CAD 50 million cap, there was no other way but to enter to agreement sooner because the revenue stream was deemed to be more valuable by our shareholders compared to dilution at CAD 0.10 a share. And now, Al, as soon as people realized that the net present value of each of our plasma-derived product could exceed the market cap of the company, it become now more sensible that whatever we can do to advance those product aggressively – that doesn't mean we have to partner when partnership means – make sense, but not to solely wait on the revenue stream from partnership to develop those asset. That's a huge transition effect for us to have completed that financing, and hopefully, it will be gradually recognized by our shareholder base.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. Maybe sort of along the same lines, but could you provide an update on CNBG and sort of where they are with their manufacturing facility? Have they brought the large plant on line yet? Do they have products in the clinic? And when do you think you might start being able to book some resin sales out of China? And I'll leave it at that and go back in the queue.

Yeah. Okay. Well, resin sales are expected to impact 2014. They have decided to go at larger scale than we even anticipated originally. They've made some changes to their design to go at bigger scales, which meant that we were expecting some revenues this past quarter in Q3, and this is the bad news. But the good news is that we could now expect triple – the level of revenue that we were anticipating in Q3 to impact in 2014 because they decided to go at bigger scale. They would put three products in the clinics. They have to go through the same process that we have to go to in the U.S. or Canada, which is a bioequivalence clinical trial with their own FDA.

The difference here that CNBG would compare the product with the new process compared to their own product with their old process. So that's ongoing. And again, I would say that already, despite the fact that we haven't seen any significant contribution to the P&L, the benefit to us is measured in tens of millions of dollars from CNBG relationship. So, we look forward to more and more tangible this time around with sales of resins in China and eventually, royalties collected on the sales of their own product. But so far, I mean, I have to say that we're very proud of that relationship contribution to our progress.

So, maybe just a quick follow-up. So, when you say three times the size, are you talking about while they're manufacturing for the trials, or do you mean sort of over the long term that they've re-engineered things so they'll be running three times as much?

Well, it's just a good question. And we're – I'm dancing around the pole here not so much because of not wanting to disclose, but not being able to disclose everything. Suffice to say that they've – they're really excited and they've decided to not only manufacture at a scale that would support the clinical trials, but also readily use the plant – the commercial plant such that when they get approval, they could be online in commercial.

So, it's like instead of like us in Laval, using a smaller scale then decided to go at bigger scale, right from the word, go. Because they've gained so much confidence in their process themselves, they realize how robust it is. And so, it's all positive, Al, but it's one of those things where what happens in China stays in China, not just what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas, but what we can bring into our own facility and allow our other licensees to benefit from is quite significant. And we look forward to have several licensees and plants online. I mean, the Hematech facility is going to be substantially bigger than Laval.

So, I mean – so, you have now CNBG, Hematech, our own Laval facility, other licensees coming on line, as well as we're negotiating agreements right now. And combine with the growth of the resin demand for – from Octapharma and several other FDA-approved products relying on our processes, you can just see how this will drive our resin sales going forward as well.

So, it's – with those long-term project and investment they have to make, it's quite interesting to see how it impacts so significantly, our growth, but have not – we have not booked any of those significant revenue to our P&L yet.

And our next question comes from the line of Bob McWhirter with Selective Asset Management. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Pierre. On slide 23, there's the description of kind of Hematech and the funding of the plasminogen, et cetera, but it also describes a total of 500,000 liters of capacity. And my understanding was you said that the Hematech plant would be 300,000 liters, which then implies 200,000 liters production capacity at Laval. You also suggested that the total of the 500,000 liters could produce a large quantity of 350,000 grams at CAD 400 a gram, which should be CAD 140 million sales. So if I take slide 23, then it's assumed that Laval is 40% of the 500,000 liters, therefore, it would be 40% of the CAD 140 million sales, which then implies CAD 56 million worth of sales potential capacity out of Laval. Is that a reasonable expectation?

I mean, I would only correct, Bob, your calculation because on slide 23, I put greater than 300,000 liter of plasma. And, quite frankly, once you've put the plant in place that can accommodate that kind of tonnage, a plant like that can do anywhere between 300,000 liter to 500,000 liter of plasma. It's a question of whether you do 200 batches or 250 batch.

Laval is a smaller facility. As we said all along, Laval will be perfect for high-value, low-volume and 150,000 liters, the maximum we could handle. However, the value of Laval will have to be measured by what is the output per liter.

And if it goes north of CAD 2,500 per liter for various proteins, then the value of Laval could be exactly that, north of CAD 300 million in revenue just for Laval. So, Hematech is greater than 300,000 liter. It could – capacity envisaged there is going to be, in itself, ranging between 300,000 liter to 500,000 liter.

But I've used for conservative's sake, 500,000 liter or greater than 500,000 liter just to facilitate the calculation of the Alpha-1 Antitrypsin potential revenue on slide 25 using a flat number of 500,000 liter for the Alpha-1 Antitrypsin.

Okay. Then turning to the kind of INDs that are going to be filed in early 2014, talk about the cost of that and also the potential timeframe as for how long from filing through to potential approval.

Right. I mean, again, these products are not new chemical entities, so they're nowhere near as expensive to bring to market. We're looking at an early 2014 for plasminogen, and we're looking at about a year of clinical trial and reporting. So, on slide 26, we have what is expected to unfold here, where we would be in a position to file a BLA toward mid to end 2015. And again, being an orphan drug, the BLA review could be quite fast. So, it's not impossible that we even have compassionate use allowed for that product in 2015. And we're looking at 2016 as an approval for plasminogen.

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin would more or less be lagging a year behind in the sense that the clinical trial involving a small number of patients, about 40 patients, 45 patients, is – be designed to demonstrate that our product is not inferior to a brand on the market. So, it's, again, pharmacokinetic trial that compare our brand to a brand on the market, patient receiving both brand over a period of time, and then you have to report that and file your BLA. So, they're a fairly low-risk trial, each costing about CAD 5 million over a period of a couple of years.

So putting – I mean, when you look at the return for such kind of investment, it's significant and of low risk. When you file for an IND for a plasma-derived product and your IND is granted, you're, at that point, almost at 90% probability of having approval given the fact that the protein made by [ph] Mrs. Wiggins (59:44), as I keep saying, is going to do what is expected to do to [ph] Mr. Smith (59:48) if Mr. Smith's condition was due to the fact that Mr. Smith was missing that protein.

So, it's a very interesting model. And when people say, well, how is it possible to make so much money with only such small investment going forward? I'll remind everyone, some of whom are – don't need to be reminded, that there's CAD 0.5 billion dollar that has been invested in ProMetic's platform. Some – about half by equity and half by partnership. So, it's like finally, the final stretch to bring those valuable therapeutics, leveraging our platform technology.

Given – go back to the review of the AAT, if I understood correctly, you were able to extract 0.7 of a gram from a liter of plasma, is that correct?

Yes.

All right. And then – and therefore, that 400 grams, so the value of the AAT is CAD 280 from, again, approximately 100 bag of plasma. Is that [indiscernible] (01:00:51) summary?

Yes. That would be – yeah, an average output for a liter of plasma processed, yes.

Okay. Then on the plasminogen side, what would be your guess as to the kind value of the product...

Well, it's in the range of [ph] one lot (01:01:04) magnitude higher, okay? I'm being prudent here, Bob, because we – unlike Alpha-1 Antitrypsin where reimbursement policies are already in place and the reimbursement program are already in place. And we're not ruffing the [indiscernible] (01:01:57) card here, we're just supplying patients that are not yet been supplied by any players. And there's a fair amount of individuals out there that may be carrying deficiency and undiagnosed, and this is going to be part of the program when you launch Alpha-1 Antitrypsin. With regard to plasminogen, we're the first one out.

And so, the pricing and value of plasminogen relative to what kind of saving you bring forward, quality of life, reduction of need for surgery, hospitalization and so on, this will become part of the pricing of plasminogen. And – but if I use it to sum up the pricing example I used in past slides, you're looking at something that is far more valuable than Alpha-1 Antitrypsin.

Okay. And then the last one was, you've given us the bare shoulder tease of an orphan drug number 3 relative to the value of AAT per bag of plasma. Any guess as to what orphan 3 might bring if it was eventually approved?

Well, I would not necessarily call it orphan 3, but call it plasma number – protein number 3. And it is of even greater value than Alpha-1 Antitrypsin per liter as well. So, you can just see that with those three combined, we will – we would be deriving north of CAD 1,000 per liter out of the plant, right? With just those three in there, we have the ability to add on more, as you know, so it's exciting times.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, Bob. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Roger Bensen with Number One Corporation. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Pierre and Bruce. Nice to hear from you from the other side of the world.

Thank you, Roger. Good afternoon.

Interesting times in the last few days here. The stock has been going down either because of misunderstanding of the third quarter results and – or because of misplacement of the equity offering and so on. But at the same time, you put forth the slides that you put out for other people, so the medical people, to see at the liver conference and the kidney conference of the past two weekends. And from my not-practiced eye, the liver data look very good and the kidney data look very, very great. And it's such a huge market out there that one can – one takes the time to read these slides, you could say, this could be the biggest drug of all time, and we own it. So, have you formulated how you're going to approach the registration filings for the drug?

Well, thank you for the question. I do share your enthusiasm, although I have to pace myself. It's like I'm very, very proud of the results generated, and also proud of the quality of the high-profile clinicians that have decided to embark and join ProMetic with that next phase of bringing those products to humans.

Let's put it that way. There are various avenues that we could pursue in order to secure a regulatory approval. Rule of engagement usually is to secure a clinical development that follows the path of less regulatory resistance. There is a tremendous burden on Medicare worldwide, and in U.S. in particular, with regard to chronic kidney disease. And when you start looking at the beneficial effect of the drug that has been now monitored, both – looking at the chronic kidney disease model, but affected by diabetes and/or different type of injuries induced to the models, and you realize that PBI-4050 is performing in a manner that would improve overall clinically.

And that's what Dr. John Moran is basically stating as well. And I'm quoting him again because he obviously quoted in the press release, he is looking at this and said, my god, those chronic kidney disease patients, they have everything. There's – a lot of them are diabetic, a lot of them have hypertension. They will develop cardiovascular complication. And because the fibrosis is a universal situation that affects all organs, we're extremely well-positioned to venture in the clinical program with regard to those chronic kidney disease patients with diabetes.

I would say that, that's probably the favorite clinical indication right now. It's obviously, by all means, not orphan because it's 26 million Americans that are affected by this condition. So, it bust the orphan drug designation by two logs. But at the same time, this is a condition that cost America over $150 billion a year of Medicare cost. So, suffice to say there is a lot of momentum with regard to that indication.

The second one that is also raising a lot of eyebrows is pulmonary fibrosis. This would be an orphan drug designation. The PBI-4050, Roger, is a product that has composition of matter patent, both in U.S., in Europe, in Japan, in all – most jurisdiction. That's a new chemical entity. And the orphan drug designation does not provide additional protection, but could help in securing a pathway that favor fast tracking with the FDA. However, pulmonary fibrosis is an indication that does require a fairly long time to show efficacy.

So, as we debate between those avenues and others that have not been disclosed yet and that we have efficacy, and it's quite exciting that we have all those options, I have to say that – those two indications, but chronic kidney disease with diabetes is probably the favored one right now. No exception to the fact that we do have two nephrologists on the board. And obviously, they know full well what this could mean to their patients and what it could mean to the shareholders.

Thanks. And my last question or comment is, as I recall, we have our resins in with several large pharmaceutical companies who have filed BLAs or NDAs and so on with the FDA that probably are going to get approved in 2014. And some of these could be very, very substantial drugs, so we should look to considerable increase in resin sales next year. Should we not?

Yes, we are looking at – if we keep repeating, I believe Bruce could comment on this, but we try to tell people this is going to be lumpy. Not lumpy because it's a weak business model, but this is not like disposable things that you use and throw away every batch. A company can buy a large amount of affinity resin and use it for a certain amount of period before it needs to reorder. Over time, these start accumulating. And you'll see in 2014, an increase as a lot of those start ramping up.

So, we have – the most visible client that people and shareholder have been able to witness has been Octapharma. We shipped about CAD 4 million worth of resin last year, will be north of CAD 7 million this year and growing the following year. And it doesn't apply to the same extent to all players, but the growth is consistent because this client launched or get their product approved and their demand for our resin increase.

So, 2014, 2015 and going forward, shareholders can expect systematic growth of our revenue coming from that source of the business. And as I explained in my graphic, even though that is good in itself, I see even more value driven by the goodwill derived from that core competency, because if we can solve manufacturing issues for big pharma products complicated to manufacturer, you can just see how we can leverage this for ourselves.

And we're doing both, then creates this kind of safety net for shareholders because revenue is growing, driven by orders from blue chip companies and the contribution to – from our own products that we enable in our own platform technologies that has been validated by big pharma. So, it's pretty interesting model, I would say.

Thank you very much. It's exciting to be involved.

Thank you, Roger.

And at this time, I'm showing no further questions. I will turn the conference back to you.

Well, thank you very much for participating in this conference call. Bruce and I will go back and join the participants in this World Orphan Drug conference. And we look forward for more exciting news in this quarter and look forward for continuing, growing and expanding on our platform technology. Thank you very much, operator.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.