Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shrinal Inamdar — Manager-Investor Relations & Communications, Liminal BioSciences, Inc.
Bruce Philip Pritchard — Chief Executive Officer, Liminal BioSciences, Inc.
Patrick Sartore — President, Liminal BioSciences, Inc.
Murielle Lortie — Chief Financial Officer, Liminal BioSciences, Inc.
Yasmeen Rahimi — Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Edwin Zhang — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Douglas Loe — Analyst, Leede Jones Gable Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Liminal BioSciences Inc. Second Quarter 2021 Results Conference Call. At this time, note that all participants lines are in a listen-only mode. But following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Also note that the call is being recorded on Tuesday, August 17, 2021.

And I would like to turn the conference over to Shrinal Inamdar, Investor Relations and Communications Manager. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This recorded webcast will be accessible from the Investor Resources page on the Liminal BioSciences website and will be available for replay later on today. For those of you dialing in, you can find a copy of our presentation slides on the Webcasts section of the website or via the conference call portal.

Moving on to slide 2, I'd like to remind everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements today during the webcast, including remarks or current expectations concerning future developments of the pipeline, our ability to close any strategic transactions relating to our plasma-derived therapeutics business and/or non-core assets related thereto, regulatory plans, financing plans, our company, the impact of COVID-19 on our business, and possible changes in the industry and competitive landscape.

These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs on information currently available to us. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in our updated reports that we file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC, and Canadian Securities Commission from time to time, including our Annual Report on Form 20-F and our 6-K containing our press release of results for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, each of which we have filed with the SEC and on SEDAR that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please note that these forward-looking statements made during this webcast speak only of our expectations as of today's date, and Liminal BioSciences undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by law.

Moving on to slide 3, during this morning's webcast, Liminal's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bruce Pritchard and Liminal's President, Mr. Patrick Sartore will provide an update on the business highlights. Then Murielle Lortie, Liminal's Chief Financial Officer will present the financial and operational highlights for the second quarter or six months ended June 30, 2021. We will then follow with closing comments on the expected near-term milestones and a short question-and-answer period for financial analysts only.

I'd now like to welcome Liminal's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bruce Pritchard and our President, Mr. Patrick Sartore for the call, and invite them to talk about Liminal's key recent developments. Bruce, over to you.

Thank you, Shrinal, and good morning, everyone. So we have a number of updates to discuss today including the successful progress towards the execution of our strategy announced in January, this year to divest our plasma business and become focused on small molecule development.

Firstly, we were pleased to receive FDA approval of our BLA for Ryplazim as the first treatment option for patients with plasminogen deficiency type 1 hypoplasminogenia. Receiving our first drug approval was a milestone for Liminal, and for the patients, caregivers and physicians who have been with us every step of the way in this important research effort. With this approval, the FDA issued a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher to our subsidiary, Prometic Biotherapeutics Inc., who is the holder of the BLA. Prometic Biotherapeutics Inc. has subsequently entered into a definitive agreement to sell the PRV for gross proceeds of $105 million. Under the terms of the previously announced share purchase agreement entered into with Kedrion, Liminal BioSciences is entitled to retain an amount equal to 70% of the net sales proceeds from the sale of the PRV which should be approximately $72.5 million.

As we previously communicated, the company has been focused on strategic alternatives to divest the plasma related business and focus the company's activity on our small molecule therapeutics business. And today, we're very pleased to be in a position where we've already closed on the divestment of two plasma collection centers and our plasma derived therapeutics' manufacturing subsidiary Prometic Bioproduction Inc. to Kedrion.

Well, recently, we've also entered into an agreement for the sale of the PRV as announced on August 9, which will provide an important source of non-dilutive capital to advance the continued development of our small molecule pipeline. Patrick, perhaps I can pass over to you to talk through terms of the share purchase agreement with Kedrion, and the sale of the PRV in some more detail.

Thank you, Bruce. So, just to add to your comments on the FDA's approval of Ryplazim. This is a well-deserved milestone for everyone who worked so hard on this at Liminal.

Over the last two years, the manufacturing operations, quality assurance, quality control, and the process development team strived to address the gaps identified by the FDA in our first application. The clinical and regulatory teams also ensured that we presented the efficacy data to build on the initial evidence from the PK results. And all of this was delivered despite the difficulties and challenges resulting from COVID-19.

As you mentioned, we've already made significant progress in the divestment of our plasma derived therapeutics business. With the first transaction for the plasma collection centers located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and Amherst, New York, through our subsidiaries, Prometic Plasma Resources Inc., and Prometic Plasma Resources USA Inc. Having closed in May for a total of $17 million representing approximately CAD 20.6 million. This included an auction agreement with Kedrion for the right to acquire the remainder of our plasma derived therapeutics business prior to June 15, 2021. On June 15, Kedrion extended the option agreement for additional proceeds to [indiscernible] (00:06:29) of $600,000.

Under the share purchase agreement, Kedrion will acquire the remainder of the – of our business in two transactions. The first transaction for the acquisition of our plasma derived manufacturing business or PBP closed in early July for $9.1 million subject to adjustments, this was referred to as the first closing. While the second transaction for the divestment of Prometic Biotherapeutics Inc. or PBT is subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions precedent including the sale of the PRV by PBT. The sale of PBT is anticipated to close for a purchase price of $5.2 million, subject to working capital adjustments. PBT will use an equivalent of 30% of the net proceeds, it receives from the sale of the PRV to pay PBP for services rendered, which will result in PBT retaining an amount equal to 70% or approximately $72.5 million of the PRV net proceeds.

The net proceeds will be payable to Liminal prior to closing the divestments of PBT, also referred to as the second closing. The second closing is subject to customary conditions – closing conditions including exploration of applicable US antitrust clearance requirements. As a result of all these transaction, Liminal has received proceeds to-date of $32 million. And upon closing, the asset sale agreement and the share purchase agreement, Liminal is expected to have received an estimated total anticipated proceeds of $104.5 million.

Not only do these transactions allow us to achieve our objective of streamlining our operations to become focused on small molecule development going forward, we are particularly pleased that we have been able to do this in a way that puts Ryplazim in the hands of an established player in the plasma derived product space with the capability to ensure this important product gets rapidly to patients. We're also happy that we were able to reach our preferred outcome in divesting both the plasma collection centers as well as the Ryplazim related business to the same buyer. We look forward to updating you on all our progress on closing the sale of PBT with Kedrion and monetizing the PRV.

I'll now handover to Murielle to update you on the financials for the quarter.

Thank you, Patrick. If I could ask you now to move to slide 7 in the deck. As a quick reminder, this part of today's webcast is based on the unaudited consolidated interim financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2021. All figures are prepared under international financial reporting standards and the full annual information and other important information can be found online at sec.gov and sedar.com.

Our financial information is presented in Canadian dollars and all references during the webcast to dollars means Canadian dollars and all references to US dollars means US dollars. For simplicity, some numbers being discussed have been rounded.

On slide 8, I'd like to review selected information from our results from continuing operation. As the sales of plasma derived therapeutic segment was determined to be likely, results of the operations of the Ryplazim business and the plasma collection activity are presented as discontinued operations and the assets and liabilities were reclassified under the held for sale line presented in the current portion of the consolidated statement of financial position at June 30, 2021.

Research and development expenses from continuing operations were CAD 4 million for the second quarter of 2021, which were similar levels to the second quarter of 2020. The costs associated with the ongoing fezagepras Phase 1 multi-ascending dose or MAD study that started in December 2020 offset – was offset by a decrease in government grants, share based payment expenses and payroll related expenses as well as other operating expenses.

Administration expenses from the continuing operations were CAD 8.6 million for the second quarter of 2021, similar to the level spent in the second quarter of 2020. Finance costs were CAD 1.7 million for the second quarter of 2021, an increase of CAD 1.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. As a result of the long-term debt issuances in the third quarter of 2020 following the issuance of a secured and convertible debt in July 2020, and a term loan in September 2020 as we drew down our full line of credit with SALP.

Net loss from continuing operations net of taxes was CAD 12.6 million for the second quarter of 2021, compared to CAD 13.2 million for the second quarter of 2020. Gain on sale of subsidiaries was CAD 10.7 million for the second quarter of 2021 as a result of the sale of the plasma collection centers in May 2021, and the proceeds received to-date or to June 30 related to the sale of Ryplazim business. The loss from discontinued operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 was CAD 30.2 million, an increase of CAD 15.6 million compared to the corresponding period in 2020. Increase is mainly due to the recording of a provision for [indiscernible] (00:12:07) contract of CAD 20.9 million. Regarding a contract we have with the contract development and manufacturing organization or CDMO which is no longer required as a result of the plasma derived therapeutic segment divestiture. This was partially offset by lowering – lower operating expenses and mainly due to a reduction in production as we awaited the outcome of the FDA review of our BLA and our efforts to sell these businesses along with a reduction in costs incurred compared to 2020, when we were preparing for the refiling of the BLA. And since our R&D facility in Rockville, Maryland has been closed, since the end of 2020. The resulting net loss was CAD 32 million for the second quarter of 2021 compared to CAD 27.8 million for the second quarter of 2020.

Moving to slide 9, I'd now like to walk through major elements that impact your cash and cash equivalents throughout the quarter – throughout the year-to-date. These cash flows include both the operating – continuing operations as well as the discontinued operations. We started 2021 with CAD 45.1 million of cash and cash equivalents. CAD 29.6 million was used in operating activities, a decrease of CAD 2.3 million compared to the same period in 2020. The decrease is due to the reduction in R&D spending and the increase in government grants collected. CAD 6.1 million of cash was used in financing activities related to lease payments and interest on outstanding debt. This is a CAD 1.5 million increase compared to the same period in 2020, mainly due to the timing of lease payments and an increase on interest payments on the long-term debt as our debt balance has increased. CAD 21.1 million of cash was generated from investing activities mainly due to the proceeds of CAD 21.4 million we received in connection with the divestiture of the plasma derived therapeutic segments. These uses and receipts of cash resulted in a cash and cash equivalents balance at June 30, 2021 of CAD 29.6 million.

Moving to slide 10, at June 30, 2021, our net working capital was CAD 38.3 million which included CAD 29.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. On June 9, we received proceeds of $9.1 million for the sale of PBP. On August 6, we signed an asset purchase agreement to sell our PRV for $105 million which Liminal will retain an amount of 70% of net proceeds upon closing of such transaction. We also expect to receive $5.2 million for the sale of PBT subject to working capital adjustments once that transaction closes.

Given Liminal's main activities continue to be in the R&D stage, management has concluded that as of June 30, it did not have sufficient funds on hand to continue its operations for at least the next 12 months. In our cash management efforts, we've been operating at low spending level, [indiscernible] (00:15:26) our investments on new research programs and reducing infrastructure costs where possible while continuing to take steps to further transition our company to focus on the development of our small molecule product candidates.

Our liquidity resources are allocated in priority towards the fezagepras Phase 1 MAD study and our earlier stage 1 discovery programs for a selective GPR84 antagonist and OXER1 antagonist. Until the company closes the sale of the PRV complete the significant financing or can generate sufficient revenues to finance its future cash requirements. It may likely need to secure additional external financing, which may include public or private equity offerings, debt financing, strategic collaborations, asset divestitures or other [ph] sources (00:16:14).

Bruce perhaps you'd like to talk a little bit about the key expected milestones.

Great. Thanks very much, Murielle. So, [indiscernible] (00:16:23) could move on lastly to slide 11 on the small molecule pipeline, as many of you know, we recently announced an update to previously disclosed clinical activities for fezagepras.

Over the last year, we've been consistent in our disclosures on maintaining our decisions to move forward with any of our clinical activities would be purely data driven and based on interim PK results from the ongoing fezagepras Phase 1 multiple ascending dose clinical trial, we decided to stop our plans to move fezagepras into Phase 2 clinical study in IPF and a Phase 1a, 2b study in hypertriglyceridemia. And as we evaluate the impact of the PK data profile observed in that ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial, it is important to note again that no safety issues have been observed to date.

Every clinical trial provides us with more insights and currently the next steps for fezagepras are to complete that MAD study, evaluate the data and that that could potentially include other preclinical experiments before determining the choice of any other potential indications for future development of that compound. On our early-stage drug discovery portfolio, both our GPR84 antagonist program and our OXER1 antagonist program are currently at a preclinical stage and pending the outcome of our preclinical research and successful identification of a preclinical drug candidate, for both compounds, we plan to initiate preclinical IND-enabling program to support first-in-human Phase 1 single-ascending dose clinical trials for both candidates in healthy volunteers for safety and tolerability.

We expect to be able to provide more color on a potential new indication for fezagepras as well as more granularity on the development plans for GPR84 and OXER1 before the end of this year.

As always given the ongoing unpredictability of COVID-19, for our future operational objectives, we may need to amend guidance on the expected progress, the nature of our business going forward with an improved understanding of how COVID-19 may impact our future operations including ongoing and future clinical studies.

We continue towards closing the opportunities for the disposition of the non-core assets to provide additional funding for our ongoing operations and programs beyond 2021 and are focused on delivering our highest priorities for 2021 and 2022. So we now like to address any questions that any of our financial analysts may have. So, thank you very much, operator. And everyone on the phone, I expect you to open up now to the financial analysts Q&A section.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be from Yasmeen Rahimi at Piper Sandler. Please go ahead.

Hi, team. Thank you so much for the update and congrats on the PRV. I think it would be helpful to just maybe frame for how soon the PRV transaction would close and you would therefore be eligible for the proceeds of CAD 72.5 million, that could be really helpful. And then maybe a little bit color in regards to the pipeline, how soon could we be expecting an update [indiscernible] (00:20:02) about continued development? And I know you're being very thoughtful. But any color you can give beyond the comments made in terms of timeline and indications could be helpful? And thank you again for taking my question.

Perfect. Thanks. Thanks Yasmeen. I'll kick off on this and then I'll ask Patrick if he wants to chip in on any additional color. In terms of the closing of the PRV, as we've mentioned this is subject to certain closing conditions, they're predominantly driven by the US antitrust clearance review. Yasmeen, as you probably know, there is a standard timeline for that. We do have control over that timeline. But there is a standard process to go through. It's fairly well documented. So, we would anticipate that all being well with that, and we would receive the funds and certainly this year and hopefully before the time that we have the next analyst call for our Q3 results.

In terms of the pipeline and where we're going, again we're working very hard on this right now. As you know, the ongoing MAD study is progressing. We're almost at the end of that. And by the time we analyze the remainder of that data, look at the additional preclinical work that we're looking at the moment with fezagepras, we would hope that we are in a position to provide further granularity on both where we're going with the fezagepras program and indeed the timing. And I would look for both the GPR84 and OXER1 program in a similar sort of timeframe, so, certainly before the end of this calendar year.

Thank you so much. And we're very much looking forward to it.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Next question will be from Edwin Zhang at H.C. Wainwright. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Congrats on the successful divestment. And we look forward to the new development of Liminal. First question, I want to follow up on the new indication. We know the next indication for [indiscernible] (00:22:29) depends on the PK data analysis. Can you please comment more on how the PK data drive your decision? And what are the candidate indications and your current consideration? And what is your thought process here? Lastly, do we expect to learn your final choice this year? And then I have a follow-up.

Okay. And let me – let me tackle, Bruce, then – and then we'll get to your follow up question. In terms of – in terms of there's a limit to what I can say right now just given the nature of where we're going. But it was clear that when we studied the PK data for the drug, it was not going to be an appropriate drug for patients and the two indications that we were – that we were looking at. We are continuing to work with the compound. At this stage, it's not appropriate for me to disclose what the indication is that we're looking at. But it is, you know is something that we're working on both a commercial analysis and preclinical work to ensure that we fully understand the validity of that indication before we make an announcement. As I answered to Yasmeen, we would hope to be in a position before the end of this year to elucidate what that indication will be and what the [indiscernible] (00:24:03) go-forward development plans for the company will look like. But obviously, as I said that's all kind of pending [indiscernible] (00:24:11) positive outcome of the review of that – of that data that we're working on right now.

Great. Murielle, first, I want to thank you for your very kind help over the years. Best wishes [indiscernible] (00:24:29). May be a quick question for you on the PRV, are you going to recognize the payment in full of the deferred portion. Thank you.

Thanks, Edward. In terms of recognition of the payment when we receive the PRV, we know we haven't finalized our accounting position. But the intention is to, I mean we will have received the full proceeds of the PRV when we receive them is to recognize those cash proceeds.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Next question will be from Doug Loe at Leede Jones Gable. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks very much, operator, and good morning all. Just a quick question and just again on your GPR84 antagonist program. Bruce, just – it wasn't clear to me [indiscernible] (00:25:33) your commentary on your expected milestone slide whether or not the GPR84 drug candidate that you have identified is that – is it actual or conceptual as [indiscernible] (00:25:46) still a lead optimization phase or do you have you actually identified a candidate that you expect to move forward into preclinical IND enabling studies? And then just on a related theme, I wasn't sure whether or not the candidate notional or otherwise that you expect to advance into a preclinical testing is based on a fezagepras backbone i.e. are you taking advantage of all of the pharmacologists you would have learned from some of your legacy testing and metabolic disease? Or are there some novel chemistries that you're working on in the background? And I'll leave it there. Thanks.

Great, thanks. Thanks Doug. I will answer as much as I can at the stage. So, the answer to your first question, I think I may be covered in a narrative, and apologies. This is not very clear from the slide, but we're still at lead optimization for that particular drug candidate. Again we would hope to be able to update more about that in the next quarter's call. And on the basis of that it's probably too early to fully answer your question, your second question. Once we've got the candidate, we'll be able to elucidate further on that.

Fair enough. Thanks a lot.

Yeah. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And at this time Mr. Pritchard, we have no further questions. Please proceed, sir.

That's great. Thank you very much operator. Well, again ladies and gentlemen, thank you for taking the time to join the call. Again just echoing Edwin's comments, we'd like to thank Murielle for her time as CFO of the corporation, and we wish her well as she moves on to her new opportunity. Thank you all for joining the call today. And we look forward to updating you on the company's progress on our next call. Thank you.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again thank you for attending. And at this time we do ask that you please disconnect.