Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Philip Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Scott Ross — Portfolio Manager, RBC Dominion Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences Incorporated 2011 Year End and Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer.

For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice. As a reminder, this call is being recorded today, Tuesday, March 27, 2012.

[Foreign Language] (00:00:38-00:01:16)

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Laurin.

Well, good morning, everyone. Merci, operator, and merci beaucoup, and this morning, a reminder to everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statements about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and businesses that involve risk and uncertainties, and that disclaimer is fully described on slide 2.

And let's move on to slide 3, which is a capture of our cover of the Annual Report this year, taking a closer look at ProMetic. And 2011 was a crucial year and the groundwork was laid out to support the corporate growth that will encourage many to take a closer look at ProMetic, and for many reasons.

Let's move to slide 4 for example. Slide 4 has been prepared and will be used throughout the presentation as it points where we are coming from, and then more importantly, where we're heading. Despite delays, the trend is clear. We secured licensing revenue from Celgene, which compensated somehow for the lower product sales and service revenues due to Octapharma regulatory delays and Celgene's acquisition of Abraxis, that both impacted 2010 and 2011.

But we expect continued revenue growth in 2012 and beyond, both from licensing our proven manufacturing technologies and with stronger product sales and services revenues, some of which has confirmed by recent announcement. So, licensing and royalty revenues will continue to be part of our future revenue mix, along with growing customer base for our proprietary affinity resin.

But before we move into that, I'll turn the conference call over to Bruce, so he will first review the financial performance for 2011. Bruce?

Thanks, Pierre. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we can turn to slide 5, the information that I'm going to discuss during my part of this morning's presentation is based on the statutory financial statements for 2011 and from financial statements for previous years, all of which can be found online at sedar.com. All of the sums in the following slides are presented in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or where indicated.

I'd like also to remind listeners that the financial statements for 2011 have, for the first time, been prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. 2010 comparative numbers, which were previously prepared under Canadian GAAP, have been restated where necessary to accommodate IFRS.

So, if we can move on to slide 6 and the comparison of key financial data. Revenues for 2011 totaled CAD 17.6 million and were derived from product sales, development service revenues and licensing fees. This compares with CAD 11.4 million in the previous financial year, an increase of 54.3%. The licensing revenues of $10 million from the Celgene transaction were recognized in 2011 as a result of ProMetic competing the required administrative milestones to the satisfaction of Celgene prior to the end of the financial year.

Licensing revenues are a fundamental part of ProMetic's business model, and although a transaction of this magnitude has not been seen before, it's anticipated that others will follow in coming financial years. The remaining product and service revenues totaled CAD 7.6 million in 2011 compared to CAD 11.4 million in the previous year. As Pierre explained, this was primarily due to delays in client's projects announced throughout 2011. But much of this revenue will fall into 2012, and Pierre will provide further insight later in this presentation.

Cost of goods sold was lower in 2011 at CAD 1.9 million compared to CAD 2.8 million in 2010 as a result of the level and mix of products sold. Total research and development expenditure was also down by 10.4% from the previous year at CAD 11.2 million. This reduction is attributable to the ongoing cost controls in place and the focus on only those R&D efforts which are supporting business development activity.

Administration and marketing costs are broadly in line with the previous year, with the modest increase being predominantly attributable to the final IFRS conversion costs. And finance costs are down 23% as a result of the debt extinguishment early in the year. So, as a consequence, the company returned a net loss for the year of CAD 3.3 million or CAD 0.01 per share compared to CAD 11.3 million or CAD 0.03 per share in the previous year.

EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measure employed by the company to monitor its performance, improved significantly from a deficit of CAD 8.7 million in the prior year to only a deficit of CAD 526,000 in this current financial year. Details on how the company calculates its EBITDA are provided on the slide and also in the MD&A that accompany the financial statements.

Moving to slide 7 and the divisional performance, it can be seen that the Therapeutics division performed very consistently year-on-year. The biggest improvement was in the Proteins Technologies division, which as a result of the increased revenues returned to surplus of CAD 5.4 million compared to the debt of almost CAD 3 million in the previous year. Corporate segment performed slightly worse in 2011 over 2010 as a result of the professional costs highlighted earlier and also a foreign exchange loss in 2011 compared to a gain in 2010. Again, the net loss in 2011 reconciling to CAD 3.3 million compared to CAD 11.3 million in 2010, figures we saw on the previous slide.

Looking at slide 8, the financial highlights slide, and again graphically the revenues and EBITDA compared to the same results from previous years, shows that the company has returned once more to the improving trend seen since 2006. Clearly, 2010 was a disappointing break in this pattern for reasons which have been well-documented. The 2011's revenue performance coupled with the ongoing cost monitoring measures, have ensured EBITDA continues to track towards breakeven. More importantly, business activity in 2011, which did not leads to revenue in that year, created a foundation of opportunity for 2012 which Pierre will talk more about that shortly.

Finally, from me on slide 9, I wanted to talk about debt and equity. Clearly, normal operating debt has been stretched as a result of the difficult trading conditions in 2010 and 2011. But with robust revenues expected for 2012, all generating cash, it's envisaged that further progress will be made in 2012 through reducing our trade payables figure.

On a very positive note, however, the transaction with Celgene retired a $10 million obligation from the balance sheet, significantly reducing the amount of long-term debt due to be refunded to shareholders in the coming year. This coupled with the renegotiation of the remaining debt pushing payments into 2013 has relieved the company of further pressure on its near-term cash flows.

In late-2008, the company gave a commitment to finance itself using the least dilutive means possible and that promise was made before we could have predicted the global economic slowdown that followed and its associated impact on our clients' business and therefore our business. However, we stuck to that principle as far as possible, but a certain level of equity financing has been unavoidable. Some shareholders have voiced their concern to me over the number of shares issued since making that promise. So, I once again thought it'd be useful to provide some background.

On the December 31, 2008, we had 317.4 million shares in issue, which by close of business on December 31, 2011 had risen to 396.2 million, an increase of 78.8 million shares or 24.8%. The issuance of those shares raised around CAD 9.4 million. So, on average, those shares were issued at around CAD 0.12. However, when you look at the operating losses between December 31, 2008 and December 2011, these total over CAD 24.4 million and have those all been funded by issuance of shares at CAD 0.12 that would have resulted in a further 204 million shares being issued. On that basis, although the 78.8 million shares actually issued since 2008 is a large number, it's nowhere near as large as it may have been.

That concludes my high level presentation of the 2011 results, and I'll now hand back to Pierre, who'll provide some insight into the exciting opportunities for ProMetic going forward.

Well. Thank you, Bruce. And I would invite everyone to move on to slide 10. I could spend an hour just on that slide as it explains and projects a lot of things. But, let's review this. As Bruce mentioned before, delays with client development program did impact second half of 2010 and the first half of 2011 and this graphic, slide 10 helps illustrate how the trend in revenue would have continued to progress more steadily if indeed our work program with Abraxis had not been interrupted by their acquisition from Celgene and 18 months' worth of sales of prior period to pharma not delayed, but this is behind us and what I want you to focus on this graphic now is what's – what we mean by a stronger 2012?

There's been several announcements and I'm trying to do – help the shareholder here see the light at the end of the tunnel as we could – I could say. There's been announcement in relation to AptaPharma, namely their regulatory approval in Europe for OctaplasLG, and therefore, their purchase order totaling CAD 3.4 million in H1 2012 and this graphic suggest that it's not unreasonable to expect revenues of CAD 6 million for the whole year in 2012, that's the bar in green.

Then, we have also recently announced the signing of the follow-on agreement with a multinational, an existing contract that was expanded more or less, that's the bar in yellow. And, we've announced just few weeks ago, CAD 2.5 million of service revenue to be executed during the year. We already have in our books recurring sales and confirm purchase orders from existing clients amounting to CAD 3.5 million in 2012. And, in red, we're expecting one of our clients, a global pharmaceutical company, to – with whom we have shipped CAD 4 million product last year in the second half to reorder this year for about the same amount.

So, this represents a total of CAD 16 million of base case business that we expect to deliver on in 2012, and we're only in March, and this represent already more than double, our product sales and service revenues that's occurred in 2011. So, again, in a very good position as 2012 so far has confirmed purchase order, service revenue, recurring sales, and expected reordering to be confirmed very shortly that amounts already to CAD 16 million for 2012.

We also expect to close licensing agreements and secure more business to add on to this base case, and we may use this format again to communicate to our shareholders, and everyone integrate the information from various news release and consolidate into what does this mean to our business case for 2012. And, as we're – well – while, we're at it, I mean, we had some questions about the Celgene transaction and I want to remind everyone moving on to slide 11 and people can refer to it, to slide 11 and 12, that can be best used as visual aid as I go over the ProMetic business model, which include outlicensing rights to other companies for a specific use of commercial applications for a defined field and defined territory.

So, in the case of our Protein Technologies segment, our core business involves the long-term supply of proprietary affinity absorbent, which are embedded in our clients manufacturing process or medical device. I often refer to this as our Intel chip inside analogy. Recurring annuity revenues grow as our client gain regulatory approval for their own product. So, service revenues are in relation to either clients that need a solution, custom design and adapted for – from our proven technology and apply to their need – specific need, or service revenues can also be in relation to licensees of our plasma manufacturing platform, the PPPS platform, with whom we are developing plasma-derived therapeutics.

So, upon successful development of a custom design affinity solution, ProMetic can then expect product sales towards a long-term supply of affinity absorbent to the licensee. And again, depending on the nature of the project and the relationship, ProMetic may also be earning a royalty on the sales of this finished product, the biopharmaceutical and medical device enabled by ProMetic technologies. With regard to the plasma-derived therapeutics, it's far more complex here, because ProMetic is outlicensing a turnkey manufacturing process that involves not only affinity resin from ProMetic, but also all kinds of lot of technologies and including the prion reduction [indiscernible] (00:15:49) pathogen inactivation, all the necessary purification steps to deliver ultimately best-in-class therapeutics.

So, when we license applications for a plasma-derived therapeutic, it's a far more encompassing license, and therefore again, in some cases, ProMetic licensees will rely on ProMetic to provide the actual plasma-derived therapeutics as a bulk active that they can then put in the vial, and that's when NewCo comes into play. You have the picture on slide 12 here of our facility in Laval and you can clearly see that, indeed when we are dealing with plasma-derived therapeutics, the revenue stream can include providing to our licensees bulk active ingredient.

Therefore, at this time around now, using our own technology to provide even higher value goods to our client. So – I mean, this slide 12 actually is particularly important to understand what we're doing with CNBG in China and how it impacted our own facility, NewCo. I mean, you have picture in slide 13 of the plant of CNBG, one of the facilities in CNBG and one rather from the group, China National Biotech Group, and we announced in May last year that the expansion of the scope of our partnership with CNBG of China was following a series of successful milestone achievement.

And, we also announced in November that we have successfully scaled up the plasma protein purification system and – in China. And, I'm often asked, okay, what does this mean? Well, our collaboration with CNBG is proven to be very strategic for us. CNBG's commitment to implement our proprietary manufacturing platform for plasma-derived therapeutics has provided for many with a significant off balance sheet investment. The manufacturing process that has been successfully scaled up was done at the cost of CNBG and the exercise borne by CNBG's staff inside the CNBG's plant.

As a quid pro quo for the technical support and training that we provided to CNBG's staff, this relationship provides ProMetic with valuable process engineering data as the plant footprint and equipment used in China that will be the same used in ProMetic's facility in NewCo. But, all this work done by CNBG with our supervision will be transferred to ProMetic, and this will have helped to reduce the risk and lower the cost usually associated with the startup of this kind of manufacturing facility in Laval.

So, in essence, we have not incurred the cost yet in NewCo and we have not performed activities in NewCo which were instead performed in China at CNBG's cost. And when we'll be switching the plant on and begin the leasehold improvement on the facility to enable the startup of the GMP facility in Laval, it will have been executed at a much lower cost and much lower risk as a result of that relationship.

Let's move on to the Therapeutics and our small molecule here on slide 14. I've prepared just some bullet form to highlight the fact that in 2011, albeit, not as vocal as the other side of our business, a lot of progress was achieved as we focused on our activities to support partnering and prepare for filings of IND of our anti-fibrotic drug candidates. Fibrosis, as you'll see on the other side, is a very complex process in which inflammation leads to the deposit of fibrous material to repair the damaged area and this is the process whereby vital organs gradually lose their functionality as normal and functional tissue is replaced by fibrotic scarring tissue. So, in 2011, we generated additional and supportive data, the novel mechanism of action of our drug candidates and the link between the receptor and the regulation of fibrotic process. We've performed also preliminary toxicology data providing further evidence that our lead drug candidates have an excellent safety profile.

Additional proof-of-concept efficacy were done in different model, including some model where we actually are able to demonstrate that our lead drug candidate is actually performing better than the other commercially approved drug out there, and this is absent of having clinical data at the very least in the same gold standard animal model when you can show that your drug candidate outperforms, something that is actually used in the clinics right now; bodes well for how our drug is likely to perform in humans. And, it adds confidence to the file.

Again, I remind you on slide 15, how complex the disease is and the result that we generated with PBI-4050 and PBI-4419. Some data that were presented at the Annual Nephrology Society Meeting confirms that PBI-4050 and PBI-4419 in different gold standard animal models, simulating renal failure in humans [ph] suggest that they both have further (00:21:23) potential as a novel therapy to treat chronic kidney disease by reducing fibrosis and sclerosis, and thus, potentially delaying the disease progression.

So, that's even the more recent data have confirmed that PBI-4050, for example, offered the added benefit of being able to also reduce the diabetic nephropathies or diabetic complication. Diabetes is a known condition that affects hundreds of millions of patients, and this is known also to lead to chronic kidney disease and renal failure.

So, at PBI-4419, on its side demonstrated outstanding performance in some cancer models compared to the standard therapy used in humans. So, it's interesting to see that our compounds do have a lot of potential in terms of positioning, and slide 16 just illustrates how we actually can focus on a simple application related to fibrosis, for example, and different orphan drug indications could be highlighted and chosen, not necessarily for their inherent value, but in some cases, they may offer the opportunity for orphan drug designation and fast track approval, allowing the product to become commercial, and then you crossover to other indications performing phase IV studies post marketing.

But, in summary, for this Therapeutics division, we are currently reviewing different strategic avenues to further advance our most promising lead candidates in the clinic, and all these results generated in 2011 have impacted on the selection of the lead candidates and their respective positioning and development prioritization. The new results in 2011 have also impacted the original development strategies, originally contemplated between Allist and ProMetic. The selection of lead compounds, for example, and the optimal indications to pursue initially are being reevaluated as I've suggested some of them on slide 16, and this effects the design of the work program and this may result either in the execution of a new agreement with Allist or the suspension, termination of our relationship, and we'll know in the coming months.

But, let's look at slide 17, if we may, and – as a summary slide for the Therapeutics division in the sense that it is anticipated that the development program for the lead compounds would be funded via one or more combination of the avenues following the – either of the performance of our Protein Technologies business segment that could generate excess cash, and at that point, we could use some of it to advance our clinical trial program and create value. The partnering with other pharmaceutical companies is in the work as we know. We never can guarantee when this will occur and we're not going to sit there and watch this asset not gain value during the course of the year. So, funding via financial partnerships or special funding initiatives may also be a part of the combo mix here.

And, subject to the availability and the timing of the abovementioned sources of funding, I want to reassure the shareholders that PBI-4050, PBI-4419 are on state of readiness and ready to move into the clinic. And actually, if such initiative was secured today, they would be definitely in phase Ib/II clinical trial in Q4 this year. So, a program that actually can create a lot of value for our shareholders, and we're very committed as the other side of the business picks up nicely in terms of revenue growth to start looking at getting ready to build value now with our therapeutic program.

As a wrap-up slide, on slide 18, we have to say that despite the fact that some delays with our client development programs impacted our year, we have seen stronger sales, interest return in the second half, and we're starting to see an increasing number of successful manufacturing scale-up processes, based on our technology taking place, and this – some of which have been announced and form of the interesting base case that we have illustrated on slide 10 earlier.

The stage has been set for 2012 in the coming years and we're now poised to continue to build on our revenue progression and strategic initiatives. We anticipate our liquidity and financial position to improve as Bruce mentioned, intend to pursue relentlessly the achievement of the corporate goals within all our subsidiaries and we've summarized the key ones here on that slide 18. Broadening our customer base, both in territory and types and new programs and strategic alliance development which regard to our Protein Technologies, we expect our revenue growth in existing product and service sales to impact favorably this year and this would lead to improvement of liquidity, financial position; in fact, improvement on all key financial indicators. We also expect our operational launch of ProMetic's facility in Laval to kick-in and start impacting on revenue as of next year.

And finally, as I just described before, further advance of our various programs on the Therapeutics and close deal with strategic partners, be it financial and/or pharmaceutical partners. So, in line with our earlier comments, I think, Bruce did highlight the fact that we'll continue to tightly control cost throughout the business with a view to driving the company towards self-sustainment and profitability as rapidly as possible.

I'd like to sincerely thank all our dedicated employees and collaborators for their hard work and cooperation, our Board of Directors' valuable guidance provided as well as our shareholders and stakeholders for their ongoing support and loyalty as we keep building a very strong company.

Operator, we'll now move on to the Q&A period.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (00:28:20-00:28:46) One moment, please for the first question. Our first question is coming from the line of [indiscernible] (00:28:56) private investor. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Pierre. How are you?

Good morning. Fine, yourself?

Okay. We are – all of the investors obviously are waiting for good news, and we are hoping that it comes sooner rather than later. I have a couple of questions concerning the direction of the company. You seem to be indicating a couple of new things in the year-end output. For one, you mentioned in the documentation that you may be considering an IND, which sort of seems to be a shift from our search until now for partnering, do we intend or at least looking at the possibility of actually going it alone with an IND?

Well, the IND, as you know, is filing a request to initiate clinical trial. And, it's accumulation of all the data, which is – which include all the manufacturing data, how the drug is worked – is manufactured and packaged, it includes all the pharmacology, the pharmacokinetics, the toxics, the toxicology and so on, and to enable the regulatory agencies to grant permission to start clinical trial. So, that is not involving a lot of investment and filing in IND is not where to start ramping up. In fact, even phase I, phase Ib/II, you're looking at maybe investment of a CAD 1 million, CAD 1.5 million to perform such type of studies.

The clinical trials that we are known – are known to be far more expensive is when you get into the pivotal phase II trials that involve hundreds of patients or phase III clinical trials, which involve even more patients. And, we're clearly not signaling that we're heading that way. I'm just saying that the asset that we have is simply not sitting on a shelf, waiting for someone to think that it's a great asset. It's one asset that is moving, progressing, and every tick of the box that we're ticking is increasing the value of the drug.

Every answer that you – question that you answer, whether it's a regulatory risk removed because IND has been granted or GLP toxicity performed, confirm the drug is good to go in clinics. Every box that we tick creates less issue in terms of due diligence when you look at partnering and increase the value.

So, we are perhaps entertaining the possibility of phase I type trials that will not cost all that much?

Yeah, well, what we're considering at the board right now is a very interesting change of mindset which has been for the past two, three years, what to do next week to survive amid all this series of perfect storm lined up before us to all of a sudden, change a mindset and say, okay, well, now that the base case is growing and now that we expect the following things to happen, should they happen, what do we do here, and how do we ensure that we have the best plan to deploy any excess cash generated by a successful outcome on the Protein Technologies or share price appreciating because now the market appreciate that we're – our revenue is really growing and should we – should we do something to increase the value on the Therapeutics. So, we have not made the decision as of yet, but we are preparing for, and being on state of readiness at least gives the best chance possible to execute on the plan in a swift manner.

But, the plan is definitely and it's a partner with strategic, especially when you look at the size of the fibrotic market, it's huge and will require the involvement of much larger than us company, the question will always be, what's the optimal timing for such a partnership? You can have a very good one that is perfectly aligned with a very sound deal structure and we offer complimentary skills matched with the partner, the culture sets and that could be the best way to go, or it could be that, on the contrary, we need to bring the drug to a proof-of-concept result to optimize a value deal. The soft spot for big pharma is typically when you have a proof-of-concept in human. But, there are deals done at pre-clinical level and there are deals done at very late stage with a much higher value. So, there's a big range in between.

The future in this area certainly sounds very promising if we can get there, hope that we will.

Yeah, exactly. Well, I mean, we've – if I may, I mean, add to this, we've done, I think, the right thing in focusing on getting the business that brings this solid revenue in. It's frustrating that side of business had its own delays. So, it points to the risk of developing products. I mean, these guys are deep-pocket companies, and they are also affected by delays – regulatory delays. And, in a perfect world, it would have been that our Protein Technologies segment and P-Capt would have generated revenue enough long time ago to support the Therapeutics. That didn't happen. And what we're simply saying is that, as we believe that this will happen, we should now be ready to make sure that our Therapeutics has a chance now to prove its value.

Which brings me to my next question that has to do with Allist...

Yeah.

...have – where are we with them or what have they been doing over the last year-and-a-half, just basically looking at PBI-4419 and saying, well, why should we go ahead with what we have now or I'm sort of little puzzled...

Yeah.

...do we have any information that they've already worked on specifics and decided not to go forward or prefer the newer drugs or...

Yeah. The – it's a good question and thank you for that. I mean, the definitive agreement with Allist required that both parties agree on the work program. You may recall that pursuant to the construct of the contemplated deal with Allist, Allist was not providing money with – ProMetic with any money. It was securing its own rights for China by funding activities pursuant to a mutually agreed work program and we would have benefited productivities have they actually accomplished over the last year-and-a-half that we have benefited from.

Now, the definitive agreement was never reached, as we've never reached agreement on the work program and we're still in discussion. The impact on the field itself, which is a moving target, the results that we generate which then change the view of the original program, the original priorities back in 2010 were PBI-1402 targeting anemia and PBI-4419, and now the priority has become clearly PBI-4050 for CKD and PBI-4419 for possibly other indications, including CKD. But, this is not what was originally contemplated with Allist and there's no point having a work program done that is not going to serve our purpose and their purpose. So, it's not an obvious one.

And just to add another one, for example, EPO. Pretty much everywhere in the world now, EPO is no longer recommended as a certifying therapy to treat anemia in cancer patients; however, Allist realized that despite the fact that this trend is true around the world in China, there has been so many multiple entry of generic versions of EPO that this has led a lot of cancer patients to be treated on EPO. So, performing a clinical trial that they wanted to do in China with naïve patients on EPO which was believed to be an easy task initially, is now proven to be difficult.

So, how does Allist perform this trial in a market that now is like behind the track on the rest of the world using EPO for cancer when all you read about now is that it's no longer a first-line therapy. So, all those things put together, as you know, delayed agreeing on the working program, and per se, we have in-house advance on most of what was supposed to be done in China and hence the state of readiness for the IND. And, we're still evaluating the situation, discussion, and we'll see what is best to do, whether this relationship should evolve into a new form of work program and that will be updated when we're there. Right now, we cannot say more than that.

Okay. Could you also update us on the current status of our old contracts, such as the ones with Kedrion, Novozymes, [indiscernible] (00:38:55) Halozyme, P-Capt, you have mentioned, but perhaps elaborate upon that, as to...

Yeah, there's – there...

...where that's going?

Yeah. There are some that we certainly are at liberty to comment on. Halozyme is indeed one of the typical multiple clients in that blue box on slide 10 that I mentioned that reorders every year or so – every second year or so and that's moving along. The relationship with Novozymes is working very well. Novozymes per se is a company that has a proprietary manufacturing process to produce albumin – recombinant albumin and it has formed an alliance with ProMetic, so that when it license out it's upstream process or downstream processes and usually used by Novozymes licensee.

So, it's a collaboration. It's not sales that we get from Novozymes. It's more like we jointly market the platform, so that we increase the likelihood of a successful scale-up which is happening as you can see, and I mentioned before, there's been more and more of those anonymous, albeit – anonymous announcement, but a lot of this has to do with using a Novozymes platform. And, it's very frustrating and I can't just appreciate, you're out there, you bought a ticket and you feel like you're in the wrong stadium listening to the game and people are rowing or booing and then saying, I thought I bought a ticket to watch the game.

Whenever we're providing enabling technology, very often that enabling technology is hiding behind a product, and then we have to comply to minimum of confidentiality. Most often, believe me, is something that is not disclosed or disclosable, it has to do with strategic reasons that the – our client, our licensee can bring forward. And, most of the time, it would be prejudicial to our shareholders if it was disclosed.

So, it's a frustrating situation, but one that move fully as the revenue grows quarter-by-quarter, people will begin to appreciate and trust that, okay, there's truly a recurring revenue coming from a multitude of clients. And the good 80/20 rule should apply. We should be seeing some of the large clients drive more of the top line revenue in the coming quarters and that should be seen very positive.

You had questions about – I think you mentioned [indiscernible] (00:41:43) is also the last I know progressing nicely. Again, the revenue from these deals and their relationship are very small at this point in time. You're talking CAD 200,000, CAD 300,000 a year. They become material when that product of theirs become approved and then all of a sudden, it's a P-Capt potential, it's like. So, we're now maybe too much swinging the pendulum on the left side. As a result of what we suffered with the P-Capt delay, we're trying to not just brag too much about the value of what something could be until it gets close to the line, and we can start really talking real numbers, but the value of any service revenue from some of those clients generated right now is just the tip of the iceberg of potential value. But, it's difficult to find a right balance with this business.

You also mentioned that by the revenues that you've shown on the slides are only up to – for 2012, are only up through the current first quarter – part of the first quarter that we're in now and a lot of potential for the coming three quarters to increase that quite substantially. Do you think that there's a possibility that this year, 2012 will be our breakeven year?

That's certainly our target. What we have in the book and what we're working on is definitely heading that way. There's always uncertainties on those things, so that's why we were haring on being conservative, and saying, okay guys, let's just for now, and it's pretty impressive by all standards. It's disappointing because that graphics should have happened last year between you and I. We all know that. So, I mean, we're happy that we've been able to close Celgene deal and to close whatever, maintain up the PharmaLive and all this is finally happening.

And, even the shareholders will have to start looking at this with the new pair of goggles; hence, the title, take a closer look. The delays – actually with that delays, business didn't die, they were delayed and what it happened, well, those that I know very well, the company has an edge here to be positioned at the appropriate time. But, yeah, what we have on end looks very solid right now. And, as we move to the next weeks and months, we'll be adding to that graphic.

I will use that graphic, I think as a good visual aid to help people understand, okay, what does that news mean? Well, this means so much this year, and eventually, when people are more confident that this provides sound guidance, then we'll move back into providing guidance. We're going to earn that credibility, I think.

Thank you, Mr. [indiscernible] (00:44:46), at this time if you have more questions, please re-queue in order for you to be able to ask questions.

At this time, we will go to [indiscernible] (00:44:56). Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, Pierre. We spoke last year about NewCo and we were at that time looking at December 2011 startup and I don't know if I heard you right, but now, I believe, earlier on, you mentioned 2013 for NewCo, is this what the plan is now?

Well, the plan has always been to have the plant in line to supply our clients in time when they need the products, and our clients themselves have been delayed. And at the same time, what I've explained earlier is, the program in itself, the development program and everything that revolves around process and process engineering and coming up with all the blueprints and so on of what the cGMP section would look like, has all been performed, but at someone else expense, because that group in China has to move forward and design its own anyway and its own turns out to be exactly ours as well.

So, it's a good quid pro quo agreement that allowed us, let's put it that way, to maintain the course with our ability to supply our client. But, all of this expands and actual start of our plant has been shifted by roughly a year. When we said December 2011, I think, we moved in 2011 and it was with a view that we would initiate the leasehold improvement and bring the equipment in, all this took place in China. So, what we will do in NewCo, we're skipping a lot of this scale-up and the development phase, and we're going to move straight into a production modality, which means less investment required less risk, and ultimately a GMP status, I would say, in the first part of 2013 when we start shipping GMP products to our clients. So, we're still looking at a six- to eight-month period for reactivation of the plant, and then the plant being in a position to supply our client with GMP bulk active.

So, you're looking at production in the fourth quarter of this year then I would guess [indiscernible] (00:47:34)

Well, I mean, it can make product. I mean, it's always...

Okay.

...it's a small letter, GMP is a small letter that means a lot, right? That's what I mean more like in 2013 when the plant becomes able to the manufacture products for human use under clinical trials under an IND with the FDA. That's an interesting bar to cross and – but that's one that we're moving forward; leveraging our relationship in China.

Okay. And one last question. The UK were supposed to get the results from this PRISM clinical study, I believe, [indiscernible] (00:48:13) taken them a year-and-a-half to do a three-month thing for the third time, I think. But, however, they were supposed to be in November completed that, has they – have they had any discussions in the – obviously, very slow creaking, grinding wheels of the government about this product since this PRISM study has been completed?

All I can say is that there is movement. I am...

Frustrated.

...I don't know what to say. It's like as I have – it's – I've been standing there in front of a microphone with evidence in my hands, thinking...

Yes.

...that I was absolutely right in saying that we're expecting approval in this and that, and whilst the bureaucrats were saying something, the government decided something else, [indiscernible] (00:49:09) recommend that adoption, but then delayed. It's very, very difficult to provide any guidance and it's...

Yeah.

...by no mean dead and it's dangerous to build any...

Any hope on.

...any hope. It's like – it's one of those. I think we're doing everything we can to support Macopharma. And what's important here from our standpoint is the device performed exactly as it was designed to do. You're talking 904 – this is the first time ever in the history of a medical device in Europe that post CE Mark approval in Europe a device undergo such a clinical trial program.

[ph] It's been six years (00:49:50).

You're looking at over £20 million, this is like four years it took, you said three years, took four years to perform that study.

Yeah, right. Yeah, that's unbelievable.

Now, the report we receive is verbally has been a positive one and there's going to be more meetings with the government officials, and the risk is still there. They're still collecting blood and throwing their plasma away deemed to be risky, but still injecting the red blood cell unfiltered, and yet the infectivity is almost even between the plasma that they considered too risky, but the red blood cell, they don't consider risky. So, there's a lot of nonsensical debate there. Cost is always an issue. Governments are looking for ways to contain costs.

Of course, to save money. [indiscernible] (00:50:39)

So, it won't be a catwalk, but I suspect that they will consider seriously using this at least in the pediatric population.

Is that filter available to the general public if they wish to pay or is the UK system strictly a no-no for anybody to pay anything?

That's a very good question and we...

I mean, we're supposed to have Medicare here too, and every time I go to somewhere, it cost me an arm and a leg, and it's supposed to be free. So, I don't know if the same thing applies over there.

There is merit to your question. There is a cash market – we call it a cash market as opposed to reimburse market...

Yes

...and it applies in virtually every country. You look at Octapharma, which I didn't mention much about, but Octapharma has announced that they have filed their license application for OctaplasLG; this is plasma prion-depleted with the FDA, okay. So, there is a market in North America for such use. I mean, if you had the choice and you have the means, you would rather have something that is safer for a few bucks more, why take the risk.

So, there is a market for that definitely. I think here we're looking at a filter that is included in a bag set, right. So, this is purchased by the Red Crosses and used in the hospital. So, it's something that will be difficult not to use universally, even if you start saying, okay, let's make sure it's just for that patient population. It is not obvious from a logistical point of view how you contain just for a small group of patients.

I can see the logistical issue, but I also say that prion is just like hep C and – hepatitis C and HIV. It took a while for government to implement measures. The leadership was taken by plasma fractionators by – and you look at Octapharma right now, taking the lead, creating a new brand of product, and as more companies will use, amongst other things, our technology to create new and safer product, others have to follow suit if they want to maintain their market share and that creates further revenue for us. I mean, that's how we position it. I think there's value to it, but we're staying away from providing any guidance.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Bye-bye.

Bye-bye.

Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of [indiscernible] (00:53:23). Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Pierre. Sorry, I missed some of your explanation. I was just baking a cake for your birthday. Isn't your birthday, isn't it?

Yeah. Thank you.

So, first of all, I wish you an happy birthday.

Thank you.

And I would like to have again some explanation about the deal with Allist. Could you shortly explain to me where we are?

Well, okay, I mean this was, I hope, answered in detail with a previous caller. But if I can just recap, there's been a lot of changes during the year as a result of positive results that impacted the work program, and the work programs that we had originally set with Allist is still not been defined. So, we had to agree on the work program, which means what, which drug, which indication, what's to do next, what they would perform, and if we agree on all this then them performing on that would then secure the rights for China.

So, all of the point that I just mentioned have been shifting throughout the year. So, we'll update the market if we end up closing, terminating this relationship, because we can't reach an agreement on the work program or we are reemerging with a new work program agreeable. But at this point in time, we're very much focused to advance the asset regardless of that relationship, which I hope will work, but we're talking to many other companies as well. So, it's – should just focus on this one for now. Does that answer your -?

Yes. Okay. Yeah, thank you.

Thank you.

It did. But just to add – but do you think that if we close the deal with Allist, what is your – do you think that with the deal, we'll do some business in Montreal, do we – will we do some work with our laboratory in Laval to complete the work done with Allist?

Well, again, the – and if you look at enough balance sheet relationship that works, I point to the like of the relationship with CNBG, okay. This is the one that worked perfectly. That is, everything they do serves their purpose and serves our purpose. They would have to do it anyway. And by I've being involved at their facility, at their cost, with their people that we train and support, we had many objectives with the same budget totally funded by them.

We take the entire data pack. We come back home and we complete – not complete – we repeat what we've done in China with our complete understanding of what it is, because it's our technology, it's been our people training them. So, we can repeat everything that was done over there more easily at scale, all financial risk taken by them. This is the model we hope to achieve with Allist. Unfortunately, we have to agree on the work program to get there. And so, the whole point is when we get there, we'll see, and we're working on it as much as working on many other relationships to achieve the same goal.

Should we maintain our taskforce in Laval and should we develop this taskforce, should we improve our team in our laboratory to share the development with Allist or other company, if we sign another deal?

Well, it's a good question. I mean, the PBI has been – PBI, which stands for ProMetic BioSciences Inc. where the small molecules are developed, have in terms of number of employees and budget has suffered the bulk of our cost containment measures. I mean, the R&D budget went from CAD 6 million, CAD 7 million a year down to CAD 1.5 million, okay. It's like we've maintained core activities to support partnering due diligence, generating any data we need to support our IP patent filing, and slowly but surely prepare for the IND filing.

Now, that core group that we have is a very capable group and the next stage of what we need to do with the drug would be most of it outsourced, outsourced to contract research organization, be it Laval, Montréal and Sherbrooke, whatever, we had all the capabilities in Canada to actually advance the drug to phase II clinical trials. All of those exist, at one point you have to branch out and go international, especially in U.S. and Europe, but – and that's when this is done with big pharma.

So, I don't foresee having the need at this point in time to increase our group. But depending on the nature of the relationship that we would construct with a partner, such partner may provide either financial consideration that allows us to then take that group to another level or many other options could be considered. But the point was never to look at Allist to substitute our group, was to advance our compound to get into a state of readiness for clinical trial, and perform clinical trials in China that could have been used back in North America. And for our own filing in North America, it turns out that the medical practice in China is very, very different than the clinical trials cannot be performed as readily as Allist envisage. So, again, the group working to find ways, there's always solutions, and if we don't find solutions that's because we will have – with Allist, we will have found solutions with others. That's where we stand.

Thank you very much.

Thank you, [ph] Danielle (01:00:14).

Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Scott Ross with RBC Dominion Securities. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning, Pierre.

Good morning.

Pierre, can you maybe make few comments just in regards to what safeguards you have in place, so that the technology you have developed is not absconded in China?

Yeah.

And I guess, if I do might make one quick comment I guess for speakers maybe to limit the number of questions, so it doesn't become a personal call to maybe two or three per listener? Thank you.

Thank you for that. Yes. Scott, the – what we license to China is the use of our affinity resin in a defined manufacturing process. So, the licensee in China being CNBG does not know or need to know how our filters are manufactured, and that's very complex, very complex to reverse engineer and is not the know-how, the trade secret, and the IP is not what's licensed to our friends and partners in China. What we license to them is the use of.

So, it's a bit like the Gillette business model, where you license the razor and they have to buy the blades, and without the blade, the razor doesn't work. So, that relationship is well understood. We make our resins on the [indiscernible] (01:01:49) UK and we assemble many other components made in U.S. and Germany and Japan to combine an entire process. So, it's a multicomponent process and it's practically insane for anyone to try to, first, reverse engineer; and two, try to make all those components possible.

It's part of the licensing agreement, any derogation to the use of a process that has been designed then calls a breach, termination of the agreement, and then supply of the affinity resin would stop and cannot use the process anymore. So, there's been safeguard by virtue of how the business model is structured. So, all our clients are only able to use our resins, not make a resin, and it's a big, big nuance, so when we license out, and that would be different than the drug. For example, if you license a drug to a big pharma, they also can manufacture the drug, market and commercialize. In this case here, it's only the use of our affinity filters. I hope this help.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Scott.

Thank you. Our last question is a follow-up question coming from the line of [ph] Hank Manister (01:03:12). Please proceed with your question.

Hi, Pierre. I didn't realize; happy birthday and many more.

Thank you, [ph] Manister (01:03:21).

I wish we could go backward and catch up with some of the last years, but there you go.

[indiscernible] (01:03:25)

One sort of I guess common question and one actual question. We noticed there was a news release by an engineering company in the States about completing the new labs for ProMetic in Maryland, I think it was increased size, I presume from that we're anticipating much more business down there with the need for the increased labs.

Okay. This is an interesting release. We had mentioned as a – we didn't make it as a release ourselves. We mention it as a point of information and a previously disclosed update. When we secured a lease for our U.S. subsidiary that deal with developing products extracted from plasma, the original intent as we spun off from the American Red Cross – that group from the American Red Cross and made it a subsidiary, the original intent was that the GMP manufacturing would be done there. And the lease that we undertook was in a facility that actually had this capability, but it was more expensive and so on.

And with some restriction on the R&D space, the same landlord had another building that much better suited our need, given that we have now manufacturing capabilities in Laval and we didn't need that option to do GMP in the States, we could actually relocate and save about $0.5 million of cost annually and relocate realistically 0.8 mile away from the previous location. So, this is a better-suited premise for our group there, who's move now and is operational there, and to develop process with our partners and leaving the GMP manufacturing to the site in Laval.

Sounds good. The one last question was, last time you reported that you were in negotiations with Dr. Soon. Is there anything you can report to us, about progress on that score?

A lot of things, still confidential. Dr. Soon-Shiong has – it's been made aware and it's publicly available that part of the assets, such as the shares in ProMetic are now owned by a company who controls California Capital, and that there's ongoing programs that have either been now continued with Celgene evidenced by the transaction with them with Celgene and there's other business that will continue with Dr. Soon-Shiong's company is currently structuring these companies right now and I fully expect that some disclosures are underway later in the year on that front. And we're all eager to be able to communicate more formally that relationship, but it's very much alive.

It sounds like there's a lot of potential down that road.

Yes, indeed.

Thank you very much, Pierre.

Thank you, [ph] Hank (01:06:34).

Thank you. Mr. Laurin, there are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to you. Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.

Well, I thank you for all the questions and your participation to this call. We look forward to update you further again. We'll use this graphic to update our shareholders as to what this means this year and gradually move into a mode of being able to provide guidance when the market is ready to hear it. And so far, as Bruce and I just explained in this call, 2012 looks shaping up to be a very strong year. Thank you again and look forward to future calls.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does control the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.