Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Pritchard — Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
David C. Dean — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Neil Maruoka — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Doug Cooper — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.
Alan Ridgeway — Analyst, Paradigm Capital, Inc.
Roger D. Bensen — President, Number One Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc's 2014 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast.

I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period. You can ask questions in the language of your choice.

I will now turn our call over to Mr. Laurin.

Thank you very much and good morning, everyone. We'll follow the usual process here of having Bruce first review the financial highlights of the quarter and the first six months of the year, before we update our shareholders and analysts on the progress of the company.

But before we do that, the usual Safe Harbor statement has to be made as this presentation does contain forward-looking statements about our objectives, our strategies and our business that involve risks and uncertainties, and that disclaimer is presented on slide 2.

On that note, I will pass the baton to Bruce for the financial results of the second quarter. Bruce?

Thank you, Pierre, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask you to move to slide 4 in the presentation. I just want to remind listeners that this part of today's webcast is based on the financial statements for the quarters ended 30th of June 2014 and 30th of June 2013, which have been reviewed by Ernst & Young, the corporations auditor, as well as on the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2013. All of these statements have been prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards, and the new Annual Financial Information for the group can be found online at sedar.com.

All sums in today's presentation are in thousands of Canadian dollars, except for the per share amounts or where otherwise indicated.

So if you can move to slide 5, and before getting into the detail of quarter results, I wanted to provide a few of the highlights for the quarter, each of which I'll expand upon in turn during the remainder of my slides.

So revenue for the year-to-date was CAD 10.1 million, up 5.2% on the same period for last year. Research and development costs have increased in line with the increased activity involved in bringing products from both our plasma-derived and small molecule therapeutics businesses to the clinic. It also reflects the fact that the costs of NantPro are now consolidated in the results of ProMetic since we took control over that entity in the quarter.

I am reporting this quarter a net profit and for the year-to-date a net profit of CAD 14.8 million. This has been generated as a result of the NantPro transaction I've just mentioned and specifically from us recognizing the revaluation of our investment at the point it changed from being an associate venture to one over which we had control.

We've undergone a comprehensive exercise with the assistance of a professional firm of qualified independent evaluators to determine the value of the NantPro business. This exercise is substantially complete and the final report remains outstanding, which is why we described the current accounting treatment as preliminary. At this stage though, the company is confident that

the final valuation will be at or slightly above the levels included in these financial statements.

Accounting standards give us up to 12 months to finalize an accounting treatment for this type of transaction, but we are aiming to finalize it within the remainder of 2014. The valuation process itself does involve a triangulation exercise, reviewing internally and independently generated DCF models as well as comparing the results with market data such as analysts' reports. Notes 2D and number 3 to the financial statements provide full details of the accounting treatment.

From management's perspective, this gain appropriately reflects the significant value secured by ProMetic in getting control of NantPro and, specifically, the ability to sell IVIG into the U.S. market. IVIG currently represents a market of USD 4 billion in the United States and CAD 8 billion worldwide.

Just regarding these gains associated with NantPro, the business [ph] returned (05:00) an EBITDA loss of CAD 10 million for the year-to-date compared to an EBITDA loss of CAD 2.4 million year-to-date 2013. This reflects the area of commitment to increase the R&D spend to transfer products as planned and to retain rights to our products for longer before licensing so that any such deal could be done at better values. To this point, we've not seen any licensing activity in the first half but do anticipate delivering license revenues in the second half of 2014.

Finally on this slide, I just want to highlight the recent Thomvest follow-on financing of CAD 20 million. This occurred after the balance sheet date and is, therefore, not included in these financial statements.

So moving to slide 6, this reflects my earlier statement that revenue for the year-to-date is CAD 10.1 million, up 5.2% on the same period of last year. The split of revenue is, however, different. Product sales have continued to grow, with year-to-date product sales standing at CAD 6.3 million, an increase of CAD 1.8 million or 40% on the CAD 4.5 million reported in the same half of 2013.

At the same time, service revenues have fallen to CAD 3.8 million, down CAD 1.3 million or 25% on the CAD 5.1 million reported in the first half of the previous year. This reflects both the change in NantPro becoming a subsidiary, therefore eliminating any of the service revenues from that entity on consolidation, but also reflecting the fact that we [indiscernible] (06:34) the amount of external services provided to licensees so as to retain more of the value for the future for our own shareholders.

So, let me go on to slide 7 and some of the key figures from the profit and loss account for the second quarter. Revenues for the quarter were CAD 4.4 million, compared to CAD 5.2 million for the second quarter of 2013, with year-to-date revenues of CAD 10.1 million, up CAD 0.5 million or 5.2% on the first half of 2013.

As I mentioned on the previous slide, within this, there's been an increase in the product and service revenues which impacts on the cost of goods, and this amounted to CAD 2 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to CAD 1.8 million in the second quarter of 2013.

Total research and development costs have increased over the same period. And as I mentioned previously and Pierre will elaborate later during his section, there's been a significant progress made towards delivering on the filing of INDs for both plasma-derived and small molecule therapeutics.

In addition, with NantPro now part of the group, the R&D costs of that new subsidiary are also reflected as cost for ProMetic.

With this context, research and development costs were CAD 9.6 million in the quarter compared to CAD 4.4 million in the same quarter of the previous year, bringing total research and development costs to CAD 15.5 million year-to-date compared to CAD 7.8 million for the year-to-date 2013.

Administration and marketing costs in the second quarter were CAD 2.8 million compared to CAD 1.3 million in the same quarter of 2013, with that increase reflecting the increase in head count and associated share-based comp costs of our growing business.

Finance costs are higher year-on-year, reflecting the interest on the first Thomvest loan. And in this quarter, the fair value adjustment on the warrants associated with that loan that I've explained in previous webcast actually positively impacted the second quarter [ph] of 2013 of (08:40) CAD 1.8 million due to the reduction in the share price at 30th of June versus that at 31st of March 2014.

And finally, we have a few two gains which arise as a result of the change in the NantPro relationship from that of associate to that of subsidiary. As I mentioned earlier, this is based on the preliminary allocation of purchase price and we expect to finalize that valuation exercise this year but expect the results to remain similar or even to increase.

Year-to-date EBITDA, as I mentioned on slide 5, shows a loss of CAD 10 million versus a loss of CAD 2.4 million for year-to-date 2013. That difference is made up of the additional costs associated with advancing of the products to clinic and gearing up the business for commercial launch.

So overall, the group has returned a net profit of CAD 23.4 million or CAD 0.05 per share in the quarter compared to a loss of CAD 2.5 million or CAD 0.01 per share in the second quarter of 2012 (sic) [2013] (09:48).

If I move on now to slide number 8 and the key features from the balance sheet at the end of the second quarter, cash stood at CAD 2 million compared to CAD 17.4 million at the end of the year. But I remind everyone that this doesn't reflect the recent CAD 20 million received as follow-on investment from Thomvest, which came in just after the balance sheet date.

Accounts receivables stood at CAD 8.2 million compared to CAD 14.2 million at year-end. Within that figure, trade receivables have reduced by CAD 3.3 million, partly as a result of converting CAD 6 million of the NantPro receivable into our equity investment but also as a result of increase in product sales. And since the year-end, the loan to InvHealth has also been repaid in full.

Capital assets have risen by CAD 1.4 million, representing mainly the investment in Laval. Trade and other payables are down to CAD 6.5 million compared to CAD 7.9 million at year-end, reflecting payments made in the year-to-date. Deferred revenues increased to CAD 1.5 million, which represents the recent upfront payment from Octapharma on their latest PO [ph] again (10:58), which deliveries have not yet commenced.

The warrant liability stood at CAD 11.3 million, and just reminding everyone that that's a non-cash liability. The long-term debt provided by Thomvest shown here as CAD 6.9 million will also be repaid by the exercise of the warrants I've just spoken about. The increase in this figure since year-end is due to the accretion of the interest on the instrument. And the long-term debt provided by shareholders, which stood at CAD 3.2 million at the end of the quarter, has subsequently been repaid in full after the balance sheet date.

Finally, as a result of the gains made on obtaining control of NantPro, the balance sheet has strengthened significantly since year-end, with net equity standing at CAD 56.3 million, up from CAD 18.6 million at year-end, and total assets is up from CAD 49.9 million to CAD 129.9 million at 30th of June.

So wrapping up on the financial results for the quarter, continue to demonstrate the investment in product development and the value created by taking control of NantPro, both of which are positive indicators in my view of the potential returns to come.

So, I'm going to hand back to Pierre for the forward-looking business update. Pierre?

Thank you, Bruce. Apologize if you were here and participants on the call as we just realized that the PDF version that was filed on the website does not contain the appropriate pagination going forward. But I'll give the header of the slide as we proceed to facilitate synchronizing what I'm saying with the appropriate slide.

So moving on to slide 10, which is probably showing up as slide [ph] 40 (12:47) on your screen, but the header being PBI-4050 and development timeline, that slide is simply to indicate that we're totally on target as planned. The PBI-4050 Phase I was successfully completed, and we're very pleased that there was no serious adverse event reported at all even at the highest dose given to healthy volunteers. And then, we're now moving to Phase Ib/II, but we'll update everyone as soon as we have completed various analysis of how best to proceed.

And I have few more slides on this to expand on our program. But suffice it to say that we're designing the clinical program to both target appropriate indication, but also to generate proof-of-concept data in humans, confirming that all of the effect that we've seen in the animal – the early effect but not necessarily the fibrosis effect but the effect on profibrotic biomarkers in human both measured in blood and urine, and in some cases biopsy, could be confirmed as soon as possible. So again, PBI-4050 timeline on target.

And moving on to the following slide, which is slide 11, I've explained in here that we are looking currently at two orphan indications and chronic kidney disease – diabetic kidney disease as three indications for which we would move PBI-4050 asset in patients.

The first group, I would say, of patients that we would like to test would be done under open label studies and we would monitor the progress of those patients against a very well-established disease state baseline. These patients have either a combination of diabetes and fibrosis or a very well-established fibrotic state. And we believe that in a matter of a couple of months, we could already see signs of progress in those patients against their very well-established baseline.

With regard to chronic kidney disease and diabetic kidney disease, this would be a multi-center trial that would be a double-blind placebo controlled trial with three arms to two arms on two different doses of PBI-4050 and placebo arm. And the primary endpoint, again, would be to measure the effect on biomarkers for fibrosis and diabetes.

The duration of the study would be three months patient enrollment and duration of treatment for three months. And we'll disclose soon the sites in Canada and the U.S. that will be participating in this study. I have to say that, again, patients have already been identified, sites already been identified to pursue these programs. So we're very, very well advanced on the PBI-4050 program. And I'll come back with slightly more detail on what to expect in the second half of 2014.

If we flip to slide 12, this is now the plasma-derived drugs. Again, on target, all of them. Plasminogen, already enrolling the patients. We're not giving the drug yet because we obviously need the IND to be granted, but these patients are eagerly waiting to be treated and the sites have been identified and all lined up. So, it bodes well for the timeline on plasminogen.

IVIG in the same position. For IVIG, we have to wait for some stability data before we can file the IND. But on target, again, to be filed this year and start enrolling the patients, as planned this year.

So fibrinogen, we announced just a few weeks ago that we will be accelerating that program and shipping products as of Q4 this year. This is a Pharmacopeia grade fibrinogen, because fibrinogen, as you know, can be used as an excipient in many different medical applications.

Fibrinogen itself as a therapeutic, we'll have to undergo with some clinical trial. And more to come as this program unfolds, but we have already a pretty good idea on how to also qualify fibrinogen as a therapeutic, targeting a very well-defined condition. But suffice it to say that we'll start making sales out of the Laval facility manufacturing the GMP product fibrinogen, and there's significant demand for that type of product without having to undergo the regulatory clinical developments.

The Alpha-1 Antitrypsin was already previously described as earmarked to commence in the first half of next year, and again on target. And we also maintain two other orphan drugs that will be announced this second half of 2014. So by and large, both on the small molecule PBI-4050 and the plasma-derived program, on target and actually with some pleasant surprise where fibrinogen was accelerated by six months.

If you flip the other slide, which is labeled 13 correctly, this one, the global plasma business is exceeding USD 15 billion in annual revenue as of 2013 stats. And you can see, IVIG was almost half of those revenues and about USD 4 billion in the U.S. alone.

So, no need to dwell more on what Bruce already expanded. It has affected our short-term revenue, but I think it's a safe bet to move forward with a larger lion's share of the future revenue for the IVIG product that we're advancing. But that slide is also meant to show the tremendous growth potential of the orphan drugs coming out of plasma.

C1 there stands for C1 esterase inhibitor. Global revenue of C1 esterase inhibitor ranged to about USD 450 million now in revenue. And again, people have noticed the acquisition by Shire of ViroPharma, who sells just C1 esterase inhibitor, acquisition at USD 4 billion, 10 times sales.

So significant growth potential and value creation with the orphan drug that can be derived from plasma and permitted using its platform technology, intends to bring both the orphan drug to market as well as economically yield advantage to our process, providing safety feature advantage on some of the commodity products such as IVIG.

So, exciting time. Balanced business plan, because launching improved, call it, super generics is less risky plasma-derived protein have a very clear regulatory pathway and provide an extremely interesting risk/reward ratio.

Slide 14, which is not labeled 14, but on the top is, in summary and the key development regulatory milestones, I want to review with you what was successfully competed on the first half of this year and what we anticipate in the second half of this year.

So on PBI-4050, as you know, our Pre-CTA meeting with Health Canada led for a complete understanding of what to do next in terms of clinical program. We've scaled up PBI-4050 and manufactured GMP products. And we were granted green light to proceed for our Phase I in Canada, and we completed that Phase I with no serious adverse events.

In the mean time, we've been preparing for pre-IND meeting with the FDA for the proposed Canadian and U.S.A. multi-center trial for the chronic kidney disease patients. And we foresee enrolling those clinical sites and filing the IND and the CTAs in Canada and the UK and INDs in the U.S. for those Phase II studies and commence the patient enrollment this year.

We also expect to have orphan drug designation for PBI-4050 as we proceed. I mean, PBI-4050 has composition of matter patent protection already issued in U.S., with several other patents being layered on top of the original one already granted. But the orphan drug designation is not so much to provide market protection but more to crystallize a clinical a regulatory pathway with some indications that we find extremely interesting for a drug like PBI-4050, could most likely accelerate the commercialization of PBI-4050.

Plasminogen, well, successful pre-IND meeting with the FDA to agree on both the clinical regulatory pathway and the manufacturing process. We've scaled up the product and the process. We manufactured the GMP product and the package for the IND has been prepared. And we already started enrolling – recruiting the patients and screening the patients, along with the principal investigators.

So in the second half, the IND filing for Phase I, Phase II, Phase III and patient enrollments are the milestones to watch. And as expressed before, on-target to be in a position to file our BLA next year and hopefully commercializing plasminogen in 2016.

IVIG, the pre-IND meeting, as well, successful with the FDA. Agreement, again, on the clinical regulatory pathway and manufacturing process. We successfully scaled up the process and the product. We're preparing the IND package. Again, started enrolling the sites, preparing the principal investigators. And again, just like plasminogen but tracking slightly behind in terms of timing.

IND for bioequivalence trial. This time, this is a non-inferiority trial Phase I/III and patient enrollment. Again, good timing for us because a lot of patients available for our trial, and it bodes well for us having the projected timeline for a BLA filing early 2017; the launch, late 2017, early 2018.

On the following page, looking at fibrinogen where, again, [ph] third (24:12) product successfully scaled up, manufacturing GMP batches and preparing the technical specification such that we can launch this product for use in medical applications.

Fibrinogen is used to harvest and culture stem cells. It's used in wound-healing products. It's used in hemostatic bandages and various delivery systems. So, use for that product is going to generate some revenue for us. And as I explained before, we will be also looking at ways to receive a license for a therapeutic use for fibrinogen as well.

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, on the case of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, what's interesting here is we wanted to make sure that as we make Alpha-1 Antitrypsin, we do not unduly affect other orphan drug candidates, And that that was successful. We are now in a position to be announcing those orphan drugs that will follow on. And we're now in the preparation of the technical dossier to hold our pre-IND meeting with the FDA, and this should happen in the second half of this year. In a few months from now, we're again, just like the other product, we'll go through with the FDA on a process, the regulatory pathway, and this program should start, as planned, in Q1 next year.

And finally, the orphan drug, we maintain with even more confidence now, because of what we've been able to achieve in the first half, that we will be announcing two additional orphan drug candidates. We're already in the preparation of the technical dossier. There's some fine tuning to be done here before we disclose them. But expect, again, disclosure of those two new orphan drug candidates in the coming weeks, months.

So the outlook, again, for the second half of this year, also include slide 16 – which only shows in the bottom of your screen, unfortunately, 44, that will be corrected. But partnering deals, as we explained before, we had to make some investments in Laval and invest ourselves in scaling up and advancing those products, such that the partnering deals could be more lucrative.

And these deals are not just done to provide financial contribution, but also deals that provide ProMetic with improved access to some markets for both orphan drugs and emerging markets for some of the commodity products, but also, and very importantly, additional manufacturing capacity. So all of those at term sheet level right now, some of those will obviously close this year, and contribute both strategically and financially.

I would wrap, the last slide, before we open the floor to questions, to remind everyone that we're really well on our way to develop a focused company with some products, exciting products, proprietary – either proprietary because they are patented and patent-protected like PBI-4050, but also our process has created proprietary barrier-to-entries to some of those promising plasma-derived products.

With that, you can see – you've seen that slide before, but it's really clear now that we have a strong pipeline of products meeting unmet medical need in the area of pulmonary disease, liver, kidney and some blood disorders.

So, look forward to progress with this and create what will gradually be known as a very, very focused specialty pharma with a strong pipeline and revenue growth. Exciting times, gentlemen.

So opening the floor, operator, for questions, at this point in time. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of David Dean with Cormark Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the questions. You mentioned that you're going to be looking at biomarkers for PBI-4050 going forward in the next couple trials. I wonder if you could tell us what those might be, which ones are you thinking of.

Yes, good morning, David. There's consensus in the medical community that there's a well defined proinflammatory and profibrotic biomarkers, and they will include the standard one such as proteinuria, creatinine, but also involve now NCP1 in urine, involve IL-6, monitoring of various cytokines such as CTGF, TGF-beta and all kinds of other cytokines that are known to be up-regulated during profibrotic phases and evidencing that something is wrong with the patient and that there's disease progression.

That, in itself, is not enough to secure licensure. One will have to do a longer-term study to show that the effect in the targeted organs is actually met with some evidence – some clinical evidence, biopsy evidence – and this is why that these phase are usually to prove the point that what we've seen in animal, which first manifests itself with the appropriate movement of the biomarkers in the first weeks of treatment and it's followed in the animal with confirmation evidence of efficacy with the improvement of the organ functionality and histology and so on – of course, you cannot do histology in human so we have to rely on other techniques – but already showing that the biomarkers would be moving in the expected direction will bode well to confirm that the drug is likely to provide the same benefit in humans that we've seen in numerous animal models.

There is also a significant effect on glucose, and that also is a parameter that could be observed in a matter of weeks. So if we start seeing the glucose moving in patients that are diabetic in a matter of weeks, then obviously you can imagine that that will confirm as well, again, translation of data from animal to human. So, these are the type early monitoring that we're paying more attention in that [ph] service to proceed to (31:37).

And do you anticipate that the orphan indications will look at the same biomarkers, or would it be a little bit different?

No, the same biomarkers. Except that, as usual, when you talk about a specific orphan population, the attitude of the regulators is somewhat different. And you can expect, not that it's not a collegial relationship, but usually with the orphan situation there is more eagerness to actually accelerate the program for extremely needy patients. So, we look at some of those orphan indications very favorably because they are well monitored by specialists and, therefore, you can a little bit more rely on a strong data pack for baseline. Again, these would be at preliminary studies but they could perhaps give us an answer in terms of efficacy much sooner because they're open label.

Okay. And on plasminogen, do you have all the drugs supply you need to start dosing?

Yes, both for IVIG and plasminogen, the drugs are in the vial and they're ready to go.

Okay. And is there any FDA inspections of, I guess, specifically the Laval plant in the nearest future?

No, no. Usually, inspection is triggered by the announcement that we're filing a BLA. Then, you have the near BLA, post-BLA, pre-BLA inspection. So, we could expect a visit next year.

Okay. And just some clarification of something at around getting ready for enrolling of the plasminogen trial. It sounded to me like you've started screening patients. Did I misunderstand and you started to enroll sites and centers? Are patients actually being screened, waiting for dosing?

Well, it is an interesting question. And again, it's something that is somewhat different than when you're dealing with a new chemical entity. We've been interacting very closely with patients' association, principal investigators, patients, parents of patients, and upon announcing that maybe a life-changing solution is available, it's quite clear that all of a sudden the so-called screening of patients has started much earlier than usual. So, we already know who is going to be in the trial, they qualify. We already have a good medical history package. And the treating physicians are the principal investigators. So, all of that is facilitating the progress of the program.

In the case of IVIG, again, we're required to do a bioequivalence trial in primary immunodeficient patients. Again, very well-defined, very well-identified patient group, working closely with the usual clinical sites that performed those studies. So, we're not reinventing the wheel on that one. And again, we usually rely on the pool of patients that will voluntarily participate in those patients and those types of studies. So, it's a bit different than when you deal with a new chemical entity like PBI-4050.

And last question from me. How soon do you think you're going to – or when do you think the IND is going to be approved for plasminogen? But it sounds like plasminogen will be first, right?

Yeah, plasminogen will be first. We, like most companies, will typically announce when either the IND is granted and/or when the first patient enrolled or administered. I think that we'll probably have to adopt a rule of engagement here that applies to every product. But again, if there was anything wrong, we would have to disclose it. So far, there's nothing wrong. We're on target on all fronts.

But if you were to kind of put a ballpark on timing of that, what would you say?

Well, we're looking at September for plasminogen and October/November for IVIG.

Okay. Thanks so much, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Neil Maruoka with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Good morning, Pierre and Bruce.

Good morning.

Thanks for taking the question. A lot was accomplished in, well, the first half of the year in advancing your plasma-derived therapeutics towards the clinic, and that was evidenced by the higher R&D spend. But looking forward towards beginning to enroll patients into the trial for plasminogen, you would expect that your R&D spending is going to go higher. Can you comment a little bit around the directionality of our your R&D spend over the next few quarters, because it was a bit higher than what we were expecting even with the additional R&D spend on IVIG? And what other steps can you take to reduce that spend, or are there any other top line mitigating factors for your overall spend?

Right, I'll start first from the operational angle, and Bruce can add to the financial treatment. But one thing is for sure; when you enter into a clinical program, I would say that you have two big buckets – two large buckets of expenses and they're almost equal. The first bucket is generating your GMP clinical trial material. Now, that costs money because it all relates to your IND filing, all the package, the safety, and the plasma you need to buy and the manufacturing costs thereof. All of that goes into the bucket of the clinical trial. The clinical trial per se after that is, of course, investigators, CRO reports, statisticians and so on, and we don't incur any more of the clinical trial manufacturing of the product.

So, I don't see the overall clinical program costing more. It's more like you're now changing one bucket to another bucket in terms of cost for those programs. There are again low number of patients. And in the case of IVIG, we clearly identified those costs as being spread over 2.5 years. So, we've almost incurred more costs if you're prepping and generating all the necessary material for the entire clinical trial.

So, it's difficult to say. Maybe Bruce can expand on that, but it's obvious that as we get into 2015, 2016, and you start having orphan drugs and other products adding up, that the clinical program will be more significant. But in 2014 and 2015, this is not like a significant increase of cost. Bruce, do you want to add to this?

Yeah. I mean I think just specifically on the point that Pierre just raised about the materials, Neil, when we had NantPro as an associate, we were able to manufacture product and hold it as an inventory item. When NantPro became a subsidiary company, the inventory is not something that then sold to third-party and we ended up having to expense over in the quarter. So, all of the costs associated with preparing that clinical trial material have now hit the P&L, okay, and have taken the hit in the quarter rather than being spread over the life of the trial.

So I think Pierre is absolutely right, what we've got going forward into the second half of the year are actually [indiscernible] (40:13) costs of running the trial rather than material. So like Pierre, I do believe that we'll see a significant increase. We gave some indications, I think, in the presentation at the AGM of the overall likely costs of the trials are for plasminogen and IVIG, and I think we still standby those figures and the rough spread of them as well.

Okay.

And just to wrap up, on the comment you made, Neil, there's obviously top line contribution to be expected heading to second half of this year resulting from business development activities related to those products, right? So that's also another way to basically upset the cost going forward, but without losing value.

And are those sources of revenue included in the projection in your MD&A, that you have sufficient funding to operate the business for the next 12 months?

Bruce, you want to comment on that?

Yes, that's right. I mean [indiscernible] (41:20) analysis is two things. I mean, obviously, we look at it from the point of view of foot to the floor and best-case scenario, in which case these are all in there. We also look at the worst case scenario of what happens if these revenues don't come to fruition, what can we do with our existing cost base and the cash that we have on hand in order to be able to maintain [indiscernible] (41:44), which is 12 months from the statement base. So we look at it from both angles, but from our perspective we believe strongly that those [ph] AG (41:54) revenues are going to come in. We're going to keep our foot on the gas in terms of those R&D programs and keep the momentum up on the programs.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Doug Cooper with Beacon Securities. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just starting on the revenue line, the product sales in particular, can you talk about how many clients generated the revenue in the quarter?

I will take that one, Pierre. I mean, Doug, the product sales come obviously predominantly from the bioseparations business...

Yeah.

...and they are the major clients in there, and Octapharma is one of them and that's well disclosed. But there are many others, I mean probably in the region of 10 to 15, varying in size from the larger ones like Octapharma that then small guys laundering research, batches of products.

Right. So I'm just trying to get the handle on what do you think the potential growth from that is, because we haven't actually seen much year-over-year growth in that really to-date. I mean you're coming off a small base obviously, but how many of those clients have regulatory approved product, that they're in the reorder phase, for how many [ph] do you think we'll (43:24) be getting there in the next 12 months?

I think if my memory serves me correctly, we've got 14 or 15 that are approved, with 20 or more are in the process of approval. They're all very different scales. So from the big orders that we see coming through on a sporadic basis, those are products which are now approved and on the market...

Right.

...and we expect to see those beginning to normalize. And some of the challenges that we've got as, of course, these clients, they build up a pre-launch inventory of their product, and until they get their product on to the market and start to see how it performs, they're kind of cautious about their own inventory of materials. So we're still in that phase with some of them, so it's a bit early to predict year-on-year how we're going to see those panning out. But we certainly expect to see some of those beginning to reorder in the next few months.

Right. And I guess just looking back to the AGM, I think the revenue guidance for the company was in the range of CAD 40 million. I mean, are we still comfortable with that level? I'm assuming that a bunch of that is license revenue, but do you expect the ramp up in product sales as well in the second half?

Well, I think – go on, Bruce.

Okay. I was just going to say, I think if we look at the breakdown of the revenue illustrated at AGM, it was fairly kind of even split of product, service, license revenues. The product revenues, we would anticipate seeing running at broadly similar level as we move forward through the rest of the year.

Service, we may see – we'll see a bit of service but it's not going to grow. I mean obviously, a lot of the initial service revenue that we had in the first part of the year was based upon having NantPro as an associate and being able to do the revenue. Obviously, those services never internalized. You will see that. So by definition, there is absolutely licensing revenue in there in the forecast.

I think it's fair to say that based on the advanced negotiations that we have with a number of partners, that we believe that there's a good chance of bringing in revenue from a combination of those that will get us close to the guidance, where we'd be at the bottom-end or the top-end of the CAD 35 million to CAD 40 million range that we spoke about. I guess we'll probably be more at the bottom end at this stage based on where we're at with negotiations. We feel fairly comfortable that we're going to get there. And obviously, it takes two to tango and close the deal. And so, as such, we're kind of at the mercy of those third-parties in closing the deal and getting the control of the timeline. But as I said, as we stand right now, we're still pretty confident about that.

Okay. And just one other [indiscernible] (46:27) margins was 34.8% in the quarter. Is this just a volume scale? I would have thought – product margin, in the past, it's been as high as 65%. It's pretty volatile, but is it a volume thing that...

Yeah, you're absolutely on the money, Doug. I mean it's exactly that. I mean we've had a heavy emphasis in this quarter on sales of products which are lower margin than some of the others that we've seen in the past. That is something, that the volatility in that [indiscernible] (47:05) over time as we begin to get more regular orders all of these things going through.

Okay. But moving on, just you mentioned the NantPro being revalued in the quarter. License and I guess intangible assets went up by CAD 100 million in the quarter. But what was the valuation – I don't have a notes in front of me – what was the internal valuation for NantPro piece?

Yeah. So, the valuation that's reflected in these statements was CAD 99.5 million. So, that increase in the intangibles is entirely...

Yeah.

...attributable to the NantPro transaction.

Okay. And just... [indiscernible]

(47:43)

I was going to say, remind me how much of the NantPro you own now?

As of the balance sheet date, about 71% or thereabouts.

So for NantPro, the actual piece [indiscernible] (48:03) CAD 141 million, give or take, and this is pre – obviously, you haven't filed the IND in this business yet?

Well, no. So the value that we take, because it's a subsidiary and we consolidated the whole thing, that CAD 99.5 million...

That's inclusive of everything, the whole thing?

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Okay.

And as I mentioned in the webcast, we're almost there but not quite finished with the valuation exercise yet...

Right.

...a few I's to dot and T's to cross. So, it's possible that we'll see that move up a little...

Right.

...but I don't [indiscernible] (48:40) but there is possibly some more upward on that.

Good. And so, who did the valuation?

We've used an independent firm at this stage until we've got the final report. I think it's probably not appropriate to name them publically, but it's a reputable accounting firm of significant size and there are chartered evaluators that have been involved in the...

Who has a specialty in biotech or healthcare?

Yes, who's certainly have some experience in this area, yes.

Yeah. And just to circle back on the question of cash, obviously the Thomvest money came in post-quarter, you paid back CAD 3 million, you said I think there's no due to shareholders. Where does cash sit now? I guess let me start there, where does cash sit now?

Yeah, I mean, we're around about the CAD 17 million, CAD 18 million level, that kind of level. We've had some receivables and we've paid some suppliers, but it's around about that level.

Okay. And the burn rate in the quarter was about CAD 8 million or CAD 9 million. Do you see that getting smaller because of, say, top line growth or just the license revenue anticipated in the second half that's going to help you forward for next 12 months or so?

Yes, I mean that's exactly it. On the basis of the comments about revenue and revenue guidance, we're anticipating seeing some cash receipts coming in in the remainder of the second half, which are going to help offset that burden.

Okay. And I guess my final question is the first half was seen to be busy from a perspective of, I will say, behind the tangible evidence. I mean you guys talked about a lot of stuff you've done, but in terms of tangible evidence to let investors know what's progressing, maybe, wasn't quite as evident to us. In the second half, do you anticipate a lot more news to let investors know how you progressed along the clinical pathway?

Well, obviously – and I appreciate you picked up on that, because some slides really illustrated that you don't get into patients by just striking the magician hat with a wand, right? I mean there's a lot of work that goes in behind this, and we have at ProMetic two things to remember: what has been invested to-date is now a proven, validated CAD 400 million machine that can come up with a lot of products now sequentially and build an amazing pipeline; and we've now, I hope, demonstrated that every time we show up in the FDA, it's been positive, every time we scale up something, it works, and it should bode well for other expected timelines and milestone that we foresee.

So when you look at the window, second half is going to be news flow rich both from the development regulatory milestone, news flow rich from a partnering point of view. And I completely trust that the revenue mix that we have indicated at the AGM, which was almost evenly distributed between milestone, license, revenue, service and product, will be pretty much in line more importantly as we achieve this. And we have to keep our eyes on the short term as well, but hopefully the Street will realize what's also happening in terms of the growth potential for this company. It's quite substantial.

Okay. That's it from me, guys. Thank you very much.

Thank you Doug.

Thanks, Doug.

Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ridgeway with Paradigm Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Bruce, maybe I just wanted to start with you, because I think I missed it in your answer to Doug. What did you comment on as far as the resin sales in the second half of the year versus the first half?

Yeah, I mean I expect them to be broadly at the same sort of level.

Alan, we're looking at base revenue as projected to be in the range of CAD 20 million, CAD 22 million. And Bruce is saying there's been CAD 10 million in the first half and it should be roughly there. So, that's not far from we know our expected guidance. And then, as you may recall at the AGM, we said there's going to be another bucket of revenue that is a mix of license revenue and milestone payment.

So over the last 12 months, 18 months, you guys have signed and had a number of rather significant products that some of your clients pre-approved. But really, the resin business really hasn't benefited from that, at least to-date. Can you comment on sort of your visibility into when some of these larger type run rate order flow may start to hit the top line? As simple as we see Octapharma ramping slightly year-over-year. Last June, you announced a partner or a client that would be ramping up to CAD 6 million range. You just announced another type deal similar in size. When will these things finally start to hit the top line?

Well, I mean, a lot of them will start ordering this year for deliver in 2015. And so, gradually the base case of that resin business will see a significant pick up in 2015 and 2016. Then, the other thing that we have not modeled yet for the Street to understand is when other facilities that drive PPPS come online, then they'll need to order a lot of resin. Each plant is using a lot of the affinity resin.

So as you say and rightly so, some of the big movers in terms of product approved have not impacted yet. There is a particular client that has bought for nearly CAD 20 million work of affinity resin over the past six years or so. And as received approval and will be buying large quantities and they are lining up their own forecast in launching their products. So, this is not impacted our revenue yet.

So there's, yeah, there's growth potential in the baseline business of supplying resin to others, and it's the mix of both that make some very significant downtime protection. We know that those clients, now that they have approval, it's just a matter of time to the get the order in and so on. So, we'll be updating the market as we proceed. Sometime, as you know, we cannot disclose the nature and the name of the client, but [ph] there have been (55:57) people can simply follow the progression and track it on a quarterly basis or semi-annual basis.

A reminder as well how you will know that, but there's recurrence in those revenues. I mean a company would buy, say, a CAD 5 million, CAD 10 million order of resin, and that will allow them a certain number of batches, and that can be used in a 6-month period or a 18-month period. Until we have a better idea of the cycle, it's hard to make projections on this, but they are recurring. So, it's annuity revenue that is recurring and growing, and so far 15 clients, some bigger than others.

Okay. Just, okay, moving on then to the R&D line. R&D I think was materially higher than what we were looking for even when we sort of back out the inventory adjustment. And if I think back to the AGM and sort of the breakout of the cost of some of the plasma proteins going forward in 2014, when you look at that sort of CAD 7.2 million, ex the inventory, R&D spend, can you maybe talk to some of the other programs that really hit on that line? Was it a large hit from PBI-4050? Was it fibrinogen? Was it the orphan drugs? Where is that other spend coming from that we clearly missed in our numbers?

Well, Al, it's – and I'll let Bruce expand on the technical accounting aspect of it, but the inventory is one item. But when you have 40 warm bodies doing something that is useful for the clinical trial but is not invoiced anymore to a third-party, it's not just the inventory. It's that entire cost is in the R&D, because the activity of Laval right now, for example, is to supply and enable the clinical trial.

When you look at the clinical program for an IVIG, which is anywhere between CAD 10 million, CAD 12 million, half of that is manufacturing the clinical trial material. So what we put, for example, in terms of spreading the costs over the years, where the total costs, which include manufacturing, we've already incurred that. Now, you would be looking only at the cost of running the CROs and the sites, which is half of the entire clinical cost. So we took a bigger hit on the research program both by virtue of having incurred and manufactured those clinical costs, and then it so happened it's in the first of this year, but also in the case of NantPro this is converting what could have been a revenue into now a full expensed clinical trial costs.

So when we look at other than those kinds of movement and financial treatment, we're on budget. There's been no real deviation from our original plan other than, obviously, having to fully recognize costs on our P&L. And some of the cost, as we explained, related to running a bioequivalence trial that now been incurred as opposed to spread over two years.

So, okay. But if I just to clarify, because if I think about what you guys presented at the AGM for each program where you said CAD 1 million this year, CAD 2 million, CAD 2 million – and I apologize I don't have the numbers in front of me – as they're laid out for 2014, 2015, 2016, are you now saying that sort of half of that total was actually a 2014 number and I should take down my 2015 and 2016 expectations?

Well, the cost, certainly, as we outlaid, to explain to our investors these are incremental costs, okay? These are incremental costs to run the bioequivalence. In those costs, there is obviously a cost related to manufacturing the product. It would not necessarily be a straight-line half, but a good chunk of it is related to the product as it spread. So as we have a robust process and the confidence in the product and the stability, you take decision to be more efficient and manufacture at once some material so it will reduce those costs going forward.

Okay. Okay. And then, last question from me. So the plasminogen IND and the start of this trial seems to have slipped a bit from what you were talking about at the AGM. Can you maybe talk to the timing of that and maybe why it's taken a little bit longer to get this trial started given some of the commentary at the AGM? And I'll just leave it at that, thanks.

Well, slipped, yes and no. We wanted to go in maybe a month or two earlier in patients with a, call it, prototype version, Al, and which would have required to do a bridging study at the end of the trial to show that the finished formulation is equivalent to the prototype. Turns out that the finished formulation is now the one that we use for the entire trial and we do not have to do the bridging study. So, it doesn't affect at all the BLA filing and it reduces any risk of those bridging studies. So at the end of the day, the product development group outperformed our expectation and came up with the final formulation that is the commercial formulation used in the trial. So...

So, this final timeline to potential approval is still in line with what you guys have planned sort of all?

Absolutely.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Roger Bensen with Number One Corporation. Your line is open.

Hi, Pierre and Bruce. It's really wonderful to hear you guys being so enthusiastic about everything we got going in this company. I'd like to go back to the Annual Meeting as well. You did, Pierre, said that you wanted to concentrate on three of our projects. And they weren't the biggest things in the company, that's what you wanted to talk about. They were the first two orphan drugs in the IVIG program and you said that they had the potential among the three of them to, three years from now, do about CAD 600 million in revenue annually. Is that still good or have you raised your expectations now?

Well, good morning, Roger. Obviously, the easiest thing to point to is products that currently have market reimbursement established like IVIG and Alpha-1 Antitrypsin. And for the plasminogen, we're using a very modest price reimbursement estimate, combined with our resin sales. We still stand by these as base estimates. There's obviously other products that will come online between that time and these product launches. So, it really wouldn't surprise me that our revenue will be actually higher than that, yes. [ph]

That's it, (01:03:48), Thanks a lot.

Thank you, Roger.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Barry Taylor with Webco Management (01:04:00). Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. My question is on fibrinogen, which is coming on the market in the fourth quarter. What do you figure the annual revenues could be or the market is worth on that?

These are two very good questions. The market for fibrinogen exceeds CAD 600 million. It's hard to track in a sense that the sales that are reported through IMS or the usual culprit that track those type of sales, they usually track sales of the entity as a drug in a vial. It's hard to make a composite of all the other byproducts that are sold using fibrinogen in it. So our best guess estimate is that the actual potential revenue for a fibrinogen product, when you combine the industry, is probably closer to CAD 1 billion.

Now, I'm sure that's a gauge. Our product output capacity on the back of the most lucrative orphan drugs, so on the back of this and an estimated 500,000 liter, fibrinogen could contribute another CAD 75 million to CAD 100 million to our top line. The first sales do not require regulatory approval, so there would be B2B. That is we sell to other pharma companies, then use our material as part of their product. We'll be examining what is the return on investment to actually take fibrinogen to a simple clinical trial. And because the regulatory pathway is already laid out for that, we know what to execute on, we're finishing the numbers. And obviously, if we see that sales, could be tremendously improved doing this then we'll add it on to the bucket. And that's another product that could be ready to further impact beyond those levels.

Okay. I know we're looking at fourth quarter, fourth quarter is three months. So you're looking at the beginning of the fourth quarter or towards the end of fourth quarter? Because I'm going to think of the impact that it might have on this year's budget.

Well, I would say, on this year's budget, I wouldn't know my bread on this one. We're not trying to say that this is going to be a game-changer for this year. You have to look at this – and this is certainly a good question and here is how we'd qualify it: I think it's a significant manufacturing milestone to be able to say we've accelerated by six month the market introduction of the product. We'll be out there promoting this product as we speak, booking orders and so on. There will be sales in Q4. But I'm pleased to see that there will be a run rate in 2015, and going forward for that protein to top up our overall sales, in advance of regulatory approval of the other products.

So, that's what we're trying to do here, is to come up with some products that have revenue mix -that contribute revenue mix to further de-risk any or perception of any risk associated with the business plan. So, it's very promising. And having the ability to manufacture, again, higher-value products to partners is also in line with our business model. So, it bodes well. It bodes very well.

Okay, thank you very much. And congratulations, Bruce on your new position. I wish you luck.

Thanks, Barry.

Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Well, thank you, operator. Thank you very much for your participation this morning and to very good questions. We look forward to a very exciting second half, as you can see, with regulatory development milestones, partnering milestones, and this is finally the table turning for ProMetic.

So, I look forward to further webcast to update you on deals and our forthcoming quarter performance. Thank you again.

This concludes today's webcast. You may now disconnect.