Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — President and Chief Executive Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Philip Pritchard — Chief Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to conference call for ProMetic Life Sciences Incorporated First Quarter Results for 2011. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question and answer period. Please note that since we are expecting a large number of participant's, questions will be limited to two per participants and this on a rotation basis. [Foreign Language] (00:00:30-00:01:04) Mr. Laurin?

Good morning, everyone. This morning we will cover the financials for the group and then go over some business review and outlook for both the Therapeutic and Protein Therapeutic Division. On slide 3, again we will cover each of the value driver for opportunities in one company and throughout this presentation I am reminding everyone that this presentation contains forward looking statement about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involve risk and uncertainties. I would like to hand it over to Bruce to first address the financials.

Thanks, Pierre. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to the information of financials for 2011, the information that I will discuss during my part of this morning's presentation is based on the statutory financial statements for 2010, which can be found online at sedar.com. Well, sums in the following tables are presented in thousands of Canadian dollars except for per share amounts or when indicated and when where appropriate have been restated for any IFRS differences.

Moving to slide 7, for the first time this quarter the company is presenting its financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as required by market regulators. Certain of the comparative financial information contained within these – and within the quarterly reports has been restated and detailed reconciliations of the restatements have provided in Note 19 to the financial statements together with more details of how IFRS conversion has impacted on the reporting for ProMetic. The IFRS conversion process for ProMetic has resulted in a fewer changes to the financial statements than for other companies. The process of converting to IFRS, however, has been significant, complicated and time consuming. The financial statements presented here today have been reviewed by Ernst & Young, the company's auditors.

Moving to slide 8 and the revenue analysis. Total revenues for the first quarter of 2011 were CAD 2.8 million, this compares to CAD 3 million for the first quarter of 2010, a reduction in Q1 revenues of 6.1% when compared to 2010. Included in the 2011 first quarter revenues is a sum of $2 million or CAD 1.9 million relating to the transaction. If we temporarily exclude that sum from the service revenues for Q1, they become CAD 470,000 approximately versus CAD 370,000 approximately for the same period in 2010, so a modest upturn in the underlying service revenues for the first quarter. Product sales revenue in Q1 was CAD 407,000, compared to CAD 2.6 million in the first quarter of 2010. During 2010, the company was delivering on the first order under the supply agreement with a major pharmaceutical company disclosed in the third quarter of 2009. When the sales revenue from that order are excluded from the Q1, 2010 revenues, underlying product sales were CAD 290,000. So again, the CAD 407,000 for Q1, 2011 shows a modest increase in underlying sales.

Overall though the revenues are flat and reflecting the need highlighted at the AGM to continue to build the underlying critical mass of resin sales on an ongoing basis to support the crystallization of value from the plasma products in therapeutics groups. In his update slides, which will follow, Pierre will provide a flavor of where the business is heading with regard to performance in each of these areas of revenue.

So turn now to slide 9, I've provided an analysis of the quarterly operating cost and provided a comparison to the same quarter of 2010. The purpose of this slide, as ever is to provide evidence of the cost reduction measures spoken about and earlier updates remain in force. Clearly, our cost of goods sold has reduced based on the turnover figures that I've just described. Research and development costs and administration costs have remained broadly consistent compared to the previous year, and exchange rate movements provided a gain in the first quarter of CAD 261,000 versus a loss of CAD 147,000 in the same quarter of the previous year.

The cost therefore can be seen to be controlled. But as mentioned earlier, the focus there has to be on growing the top line. Moving to slide 10, which reproduces the table from the MD&A, it can be seen for the first quarter there are improvements across most areas of the business with the exception of Therapeutics. And these are expected to be maintained for the rest of the year. In 2010, the Therapeutics division benefited in the first quarter from a one off gain of CAD 251,000 relating to insurance claim and when we adjust for this the underlying cost of therapeutics for 2010 first quarter were CAD 414,000 compared to CAD 563,000 in the first quarter of 2011. Those increases due to the additional resources being expended in that division in relation to the ongoing business development activity.

Turning now to Slide 11. I'd like to just reemphasize some of the core figures from the profit and loss accounts. As I mentioned, revenues are down 6.1% on the same period in 2010. Based on my earlier analysis, the underlying business when adjusting for Celgene revenues and those from the 2010 sales to major pharmaceutical company are broadly flat. Ongoing cost control coupled with the favorable exchange gain have allowed us to reduce the Q1 loss to CAD 2.7 million compared to CAD 3.1 million in the same quarter of the previous year. This results in a loss per share of CAD 0.01 consistent with the previous year. Management as mentioned on a number of occasions has desire to finance the business using the least diluted means possible. And I think it is clear from the narrative I provided that the business is operating in a difficult climate. Expected sales have been delayed due to factors outside of the control of ProMetic, but efforts have paid off to keep the overall loss controlled. Financing that loss has been achieved using a mixture of debt and deals. And the number of issued common shares is only increased by 2.3% from the first quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of 2011, further evidencing the company's commitment.

I move now to slide 12, I wanted to highlight a few of the significant items from the balance sheet. And clearly, the lack of revenues coupled with the commitment to minimize dilution has left cash levels low. However, in the second quarter fundraising activity was undertaken and I will talk more about that on the next slide.

Included in the balance sheet is a figure in the liability section of CAD 2.24 million that's described as advances from shareholders. It's important to emphasize this is not a sum that is payable by the company, but rather a sum that reflects equity investments received for which the shares were not issued until after the end of the quarter.

Deferred revenues includes $8 million in relation to the extinguishment of the Celgene debt. As I mentioned already $2 million has been released in the first quarter to the income statement, a further $2 million will be released in the second quarter with the remaining $6 million anticipated to be released in the second half as the associated milestones are met.

As a result, the long-term debt figure, disclosed at fair value, has reduced from CAD 13.7 million as of 31 of December 2010 to CAD 2.9 million at the end of the first quarter. It's also worth taking this time to note that the advance from Octapharma, which is disclosed on the balance sheet, has also been adjusted to take into account the expected ordering schedule of Octapharma, which we expect to be commenced later this year.

Finally, as I move to slide 13, I'd like to highlight some of the post-balance sheet events. In terms of financing mentioned in the last slide, the company has raised CAD 2 million via private placement since the end of the first quarter and has received the working capital grant from the Isle of Man Government. The grant, which is for CAD 474,000 is interest free and repayable in six equal installments starting six months from the date of draw down.

Lastly, the company announced the granting of a number of restricted stock units to the management team as part of an incentive program, which aligns the interest of management to those of shareholders. It's important to take this time to highlight that these RSUs only become available to management on the achievement of objectives, which drive value in the business and should those objectives not be met, the RSUs will lapse.

At this point, I'll stop and hand back to Pierre, who will take us through the remainder of the presentation.

Okay. Thank you, Bruce. If you want let's move to slide 15 and let's deal with some of the exciting things going on with Therapeutics. At the AGM, we presented the three drug platforms that emerged from the original PBI-1402 program. PBI-1402 targeting cancer indications and anemia in cancer patients and then, which gave rise from our R&D program to PBI-4050 targeting anemia in renal patients as well as fibrosis and chronic kidney disease and PBI-4419 targeting fibrosis and acute kidney disease.

So, on slide 16, PBI-1402 remains lead drug candidate at clinical stage and partnering licensing activities are positioning the product in oncology. Data were presented recently at the American Association Cancer Research Annual Meeting in Florida and we presented the PBI-1402 on its own decreased pancreatic tumor growth in a dose-dependent manner on its own and when combined to gemcitabine, the leading drug used for the treatment of such cancer, we observed a synergistic activity. So, this is the top right graphic on slide 16.

The graphic below also show how EPO can exacerbate the progression of metastasis unlike PBI-1402, which actually reduces the metastasis progression also in a dose-dependent manner. So, you can clearly see that these two are examples of several other experiments that were done in multiple cancer tumor models, gold standard models, clearly showing that PBI-1402 has a future for certain type of cancer indications as well as providing an extremely unique safety feature for addressing anemia in cancer patients. And, we look forward to update the market on the progress on these two fronts.

Now obviously, moving to slide 17, on to chronic kidney disease. This is another ballgame altogether. Chronic kidney disease is a much bigger market with 26 million patients diagnosed with chronic kidney disease in U.S. alone. It's a complex condition. It is also related to many other medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular complications. And, fibrosis is a process that gradually replaces functional tissue in the kidney by fibrous tissue leading to kidney failure and the need for dialysis and kidney transplant.

So, as you can see on slide 18, PBI-4050 and PBI-4419 are clearly positioned to address this huge unmet medical need. PBI-4050 and PBI-4419 are new chemical entities that are also orally active but much more potent than PBI-1402. In fact, PBI-4419 is a thousand-time more potent with regard to its ability to manage fibrosis progression in the kidney. And as I mentioned, those two drugs are orally active and are at advanced preclinical stage.

So, with these two – these three products rather, we are talking about multiple partnering opportunities for several different indications in different territories. Some indications such as anemia in oncology has become more of a niche indication that interests specialty pharma group while indications such as fibrosis or diabetes, hypertension affect much larger pharmaceutical companies. So, we expect this year to be a pivotal year for the Therapeutics division and we will update you during the course of the coming weeks and months on the progress made in Asia and Europe with our program.

Switching through Protein Technologies business on slide 20, I would like to remind everyone that ProMetic technology is embedded in multiple processes and products developed by blue chip clients. And, Bruce explained the quarter-to-quarter and even year-to-year variations. Current level of product sales is still not indicative of the true potential annual recurring revenue from these companies. If you just take up the pharma, for example, Octapharma right now, if it hadn't been for the delay and the encounter with regulatory in the UK, should be averaging over CAD 2 million per quarter. So, this leads us to slide 21.

Slide 21 is an illustration of why we bet on prion with the American Red Cross and Macopharma. And CJD is taking a long time to become a health issue and but this problem is not going away. We're putting for ease of reference for you the latest extract of recent answers of written questions asked during the House of Commons sessions by Sir Paul Beresford. And, I'll highlight it for you some of the very interesting comments made by the MP, Anne Milton, amongst other things that the report for the PRISM study is going to be tabled at the end of 2011, for consideration by the Advisory Committee of Safety of Blood, Tissue and Organs, consideration in 2012; that's SaBTO, and I'll cover that in the following slide. But also, a comment made at the end that no test proven to identify asymptomatic vCJD infection is also an underlying reality for justifying the adoption of P-Capt.

Slide 23 basically highlight the ridicule of this whole thing. SaBTO in November of 2009 recommended P-Capt use for at least transfusion of pediatric patients; patients younger than 14 years old, and not to necessarily wait for the PRISM study results. Yet, they've decided to wait for the PRISM results, targeting 270 patients which ended up turning into 329 patients now transfused with 942 units and no serious adverse events have been reported. And as the report has been tabled, the government now is basically saying that they will be resending this report to SaBTO for their consideration whilst they actually had given their recommendation to adopt P-Capt two years ago.

So, we're following this file; it's far from being dead. In fact, it's going full circle to being implemented as we see it, albeit with [ph] an own (00:17:30) thinkable delay. But, the reality here is as expressed on slide 24 that the distribution of the prion infectivity in blood, spread between plasma and the red blood cell, and SaBTO recommended also in 2009 not to use their own plasma, but to import plasma from non-vCJD [ph] country (00:17:55) and / or use plasma that has [ph] met certain (00:17:58) plasma reduction step, and the only product that meet that standard is actually Octaplas.

OctaplasLG, on slide 25, is approved in four countries and we're fully expecting – well, we're anticipating Octapharma to make announcement with regard to the progress of Uniplas, universal plasma, using also prion depletion in Octaplas. These two products should lead the way to full use in Europe and on its own increase our sales revenue of CAD 2 million per quarter, just on the back of supplying prion capture resin for Octaplas.

So, moving on to slide 26. This slide covers a lot of very important data. As plasma is a very complex source of valuable therapeutic proteins and one liter of plasma contains water, mineral and proteins. And this pyramid in blue illustrates the relative abundance of different type of proteins in plasma; starting at the bottom with the most abundant one, albumin followed by antibodies at 8 gram per liter. And, you will notice in the other inversed pyramid that the value per gram is actually the other way around. And some protein can fetch millions of dollars per gram. And on the far right side, you can see the yield of the Cohn fractionation process and the yield realized with our technology, partly because when we started this project, we decided to focus and optimize the process on the most valuable therapeutic protein as opposed to Cohn that was already established for albumin, which is the least valuable therapeutic protein.

On slide 27, basically, a very critical stage that we've achieved in Q1, securing of this facility that now brings our project to a commercial stage. You will see our facility being in the center of more and more news. We've highlighted a few weeks ago, our enhanced relationship with Wuhan, which is part of China National Biotech Group, the largest group, largest biopharmaceutical group by a long stretch in China. And slide 29 and 30, 31, remind everyone for ease of reference. Picture of the plant in Wuhan where our technology is being implemented at scale and 31 highlight the enhanced relationship with Wuhan, who's invested investing a massive amount of money to make our process a full scale process to be used in the future for their growing need.

So, going to slide 32, as a wrap up, what we are implementing in NewCo and in those [indiscernible] (00:21:06) facility is a combination of our yield advantage, our prion capture advantage to create bulk active ingredient for various proteins that basically meet or exceed any of the current product out there in the market. So, very exciting prospect.

I would not let Q1 results and current sales lead to anyone drawing conclusion that business is slowing down. It is not. There's huge variations from quarter-to-quarter, and we can address more of any questions that attendants have in the Q&A. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (00:22:11) Our first question [Foreign Language] (00:22:54) comes from [indiscernible] (00:22:56), private investor. Please proceed.

Good morning, Mr. Laurin.

Good morning.

I'm wondering, if you could give us some idea as to your expectations for the second quarter as well as the – which is mostly, as well as your expectations for the second half? In terms of revenue, I mean.

Well, thank you for your question. The second half obviously is going to be much stronger than the first half. We had a weak second half last year. And I think that Bruce expanded on the key reasons that can explain 75%, 80% of that weakened revenue compared to expectation. Now, those issues around the pharma gaining additional territories for OctaplasLG, UniplasLG driving more revenue on resin pending programs resulting from delays associated with the Celgene acquisition as well as other programs that have been somewhat delayed and postponed into – from the first to – first half to the second half, will still give us a pretty interesting year, but very loaded in the second half.

So, we are also working on programs that are a game changer. We can use all kinds of terminology, transformational or whatever you call it, definitely driving and attracting some business that will attract cash to the company and will definitely change the landscape for the Protein Technologies. The Therapeutics as well is well poised. So, there's a lot of elements on which we're working that could change the revenue guidance dramatically.

So, on the back of product sales and service and so on, there's a lot of things resuming and it's still going to be a good year, but back-end loaded in very strong H2. And also, some deals bringing some additional cash and [indiscernible] (00:25:17) value that should top it up. And right now, we can't build those in any form of guidance. And the difference in the delta could be so huge that we're staying away from providing any specific guidance on the back of those potential events.

Thank you. I think that's quite reassuring that we are looking forward to a much better second half. I have another question that concerns the Long Term Incentive Plan on the stock sharing, on the RSU, units.

Yeah.

If that keeps referring the – I guess the discussion that was released just last night keeps talking about commercial objectives that would trigger the release of the RSUs or vesting of RSUs. Could you be more specific about what those commercial objectives are?

Yes. Well, they are...

[indiscernible] (00:26:16)

Well, you know, they did for good and valuable strategic reasons. Some of those objectives cannot be disclosed obviously because it wouldn't be appropriate with regard to confidentiality reason and so on. But let me reassure that what the board has come up with was an alternative to what was criticized in the past and outlining any such reward with the interests of shareholders. So, for example, certain product line have to achieve minimum annual revenue recurring of CAD 15 million or plus, so that's just one product line for example. Certain – there must be EBITDA positive cash deals done with the Therapeutics division.

All in all, when you look at how the RSU is allocated and waited on four or five major objectives if they are achieved we are trading at that log more plus than what we're trading at, and everybody's happy. So, it's like if those objectives, should I say rather, when those objectives are met, you know we're talking a completely different picture and a lot of the key value drivers promised to be delivered are actually delivered. So, that's what it means. Now, the specifics of those are actually broken down into quantifiable numbers, so there's no ifs and buts, and you know – so that they are very well measurable and translate into at a much higher share price than what we're trading at.

And the final question relates to the cancellation of the CAD 10 million loan from Celgene, debt to Celgene. CAD 2 million I understand has already been vested as assuredly canceled and the remaining CAD 8 million depends on certain goals need to be met. Do you expect those goals to be met all within 2011 and can you – are you still confident that they in fact will be met?

Well, there's already another CAD 2 million that have been met in Q2. So, we're down to CAD 6 million and we're extremely confident that it will all be met by year end.

By year end, super. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

And, best of luck.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (00:28:56) We have a question from [ph] Larry Taylor from Webco Management (00:29:14). Please proceed.

Good morning, Pierre. I just wonder if you give us an update on the progress on NewCo. Are you still looking for production starting in the fourth quarter?

The NewCo project will indeed start manufacturing products in the latter part of this year. It will produce in a larger scale in 2012 when it provides its clients with fully cGMP products for their clinical trials. And you know, there's certain type of deals that we're working on right now that may actually accelerate this. So, we're very excited about the leverage that this facility can provide.

Yeah. One more question on NewCo, and I assume you have sales staff lining up deals to keep this plant operated to capacity as soon as you can get it going to capacity, I would imagine that's already being worked on I'd assume?

Yes. It's an interesting situation where we've been having those [indiscernible] (00:30:25) for quite a while. And it's one of those where you – when you put it in place, the big advantage provided here is a heavily subsidized facility, which enables a low cost whilst our sponsors, partners and so on are getting their own regulatory approval for their product. It then can crank up higher volume very fast and depending on the choice of products that we will decide to keep on manufacturing in this facility. It can either be for certain products, be the production area aside for world demand on very high value niche products, but some commodity products like antibodies or albumin or coagulating factors will require much more capacity for any one of our sponsor to take greater marketplace – market share.

So, this plant will serve many purposes and I can almost say that in three years' time, when the BLAs are granted on those products, the plant is already too small. Right. And, technically it has to [indiscernible] (00:31:37) itself. And that's exactly what the plan predicts is that NewCo becomes the seed for additional layouts to be implemented in other countries. So, it's quite exciting. Proof is in the pudding, in the eating. So, scaling up this thing in China and scaling up in NewCo attracts more business, Larry.

So, the need is already there. It's just a question of fulfilling the need. It's not a question of cultivating new clientele and making sales and so on.

Yeah.

The need is existing. It's just a question of fulfilling the need.

In fact, the answer to this is a very short, yes, but I will compound this by saying that there was always an interest for the technology. The concern was well, we license the technology, but where do we make the product? And now that we can answer where we are going to make the product in NewCo, well then it's a whole thing easier to consider. So, it's a very interesting leverage tool that we have here.

Well, good luck on your acceleration program because obviously cash is something that would be obviously help...

Yes.

...help a great deal.

Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Larry.

Our next question comes from [ph] Paul Milo (00:32:51), private investor. Please proceed.

[Foreign Language] (00:32:56-00:33:08)

[Foreign Language] (00:33:08-00:35:26)

Okay. [Foreign Language] (00:35:27-00:36:04)

[Foreign Language] (00:36:04-00:38:26)

[Foreign Language] (00:38:26-00:38:29)

[Foreign Language] (00:38:29)

We have a follow-up question for [indiscernible] (00:38:35), private investor. Please proceed.

It's not really a new question. I would just ask if – for those of us less fluent in French, if you wouldn't mind translating the previous questions and answers? Thanks.

I will. The first question was in relation to the timing, since when we've been in discussion for partnering PBI-1402. I gave a rather lengthy historical reminder of what happened, what went wrong and what was done about it. So, we came out with Phase 2a results showing 92% response rate in anemia suffering from – in patients suffering from anemia induced by chemotherapy. We came up with those results in Q1 2008 and roughly at the same time the FDA and other regulatory agencies were concluding after looking at 10 years of use of EPO in those cancer patients that these erythropoiesis-stimulating agents or ESAs were actually increasing mortality, morbidity in their cancer patients.

So, we were concerned of being mislabeled in the black box of ESAs and we quickly went back to the lab and generated more data to illustrate the fact that PBI-1402 was operating to different mechanism of action and would actually be safe to be used in cancer patients. In doing this, what happened is we generated data that actually demonstrated anti-cancer activity for PBI-1402 because its mechanism of action is cell differentiation mechanism of action as opposed to a cell proliferation mechanism of action with EPO, which then caused cells to die or differentiate and not become a cancer cell anymore.

So at the same time we also noticed some very beneficial effect in the kidneys and when we sat down with the FDA at the pre-IND meeting, the FDA recognized that we had a first-in-class drug. It was not an EPO receptor drug that in fact we should consider looking at indications in addition to anemia but also look at the indications in cancer that our data was strong enough for that and fibrosis – reduction of fibrosis in the kidneys. So, coming out of this FDA meeting, we decided that we would not put all our eggs in the same basket. That is take the same drug for all those indication being PBI-1402, we should really focus PBI-1402 toward oncology and anemia and take some of the newly discovered [ph] sons of or (00:41:20) grandsons of PBI-1402 for anemia and renal patients and fibrosis and it turned out that in our subsequent and very recent analysis those new improved version of PBI-1402 for fibrosis is 1,000 time more potent and therefore even more suited for this chronic use in patient suffering from the chronic kidney disease for example.

So, [ph] partnering (00:41:44) discussions are quite recent for the new chemical entities and are being revived with the new data on PBI-1402, which clearly indicates that this compound actually can be advanced to – it's not only safe to be used in cancer patients that suffer with anemia, but [ph] it can (00:42:03) actually be used to treat cancer itself. So, we probably have a product that will be developed in an oncology field as opposed to just dealing with anemia in oncology. So, that was my long winded answer to the first question and the second question was – what was the second question? I forgot the second question. Maybe Mr. [ph] Milo (00:42:36) can dial it again and I will answer in English.

Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:42:47) private investor. Please proceed.

Yes. Thank you. I am a private investor and I'm with the ProMetic for the last 10 years, and I listen nearly to every conference call and what I'm concerned about is as a shareholder our values are not being taken in consideration. We have all these promises all of the time, but no delivery. Can you address that?

It's a very, very valid comment that we share – I share. I'm also a very long standing shareholder to have seen my own value shrink by 10 fold, 15 fold, but I can assure you I remain extremely confident in the underlying value in this company. I don't think that I'm the captain of a ship going down and in total denial that I'm at the bottom of the sea and that we're okay we're floating. On the contrary, there's outside validation constantly being witnessed here with more and more companies choosing to adopt. It's a very long and frustrating cycle from decision to adopt to conversion into a clinical trial to a regulatory approval, which then leads to greater revenue.

We've been plagued with a strain of bad luck in relation to the Prion, but I believe the Prion delay in adopting our filter is coming close to an end. The industrial processes using Prion capture are evolving and I know that Octapharma will likely prevail in Europe and get the whole of Europe approved. And which will drive our revenue, they will get other countries approved, which will further drive our revenue. There's 10 other players, industrial players, working right now to implement capture step for their own product to remove Prion. So, all of those will add on. We have over 38 licensees, 12 FDA products and another 25 in development using our technology as part of their process. All of that is for real, all of that is tangible. None of this is reflected in our current revenues, which makes [ph] and compound (00:45:22) frustration, which I share completely with you, but I can say that our game plan has been to stay the course, minimize dilution as much as we possibly can. We cannot allow the company to go bankrupt for that, but we will maintain a cash level that is sufficient to run the operation and service those opportunities and bring them to a point where value will be realized with a higher level of revenue and some deals that will have strong and significant cash upfront component that will fix once and for all the balance sheet. So, we are working on executing on this. There are some delays, but we are overcoming them one-by-one. It's a very tedious process. But, it's one that is on the way for good.

Okay. Thanks. It sounds very assuring, but I've one more question. You – let's say the revenue forecast will not materialize as you think, will you have to go into some financing or issuing more shares? Is it?

It's a possibility. We can't state it. We have resorted to various means of financing in the past. As Bruce mentioned, we've tried to contract debt as opposed to dilute shareholders. The debt has this pernicious effect of making the balance sheet look weak. Only those who take time to analyze these – the component of the debt realize that that debt is actually a friendly debt, but doesn't look – make the balance sheet look good. We've had partners who offered bridge money at 5% interest. We've had the government lending us money. We have this NewCo being heavily subsidized, I would say we're saving. We're having access to that facility and saving CAD 5 million, CAD 10 million a year easily if we were to afford this facility at full costs. We have partners that are existing off balance sheet in Asia and in other countries making program progress without having to dilute the shareholders. So, it's going to be a mixed bag of different ways, which I hope the shareholder realize. It doesn't make the story even easier, but this is something that we've been so focused because we care and because I'm one, used to be one of the largest shareholder, I'm still a very significant shareholder [ph] as in (00:47:50) diluted, but I think first as a shareholder before we take any action and really have the shareholder value at the center of any decisions we're making, at the board level and at the management level.

Well thank you very much. I hope like in my case I'm in for 10 years and I bought in a CAD 2.40 and I kept buying down, down, down. I've considerable amount of shares. I like to see the company moving ahead, moving upwards the share price. It's Very important because over the years you know we always hope next year, next year, next year and when we had the conference calls, it was always disappointment, it was a disappointment in general. It never came in as promised, it was always below that and I was really having high hopes and I recommended our company to some hedge funds since they were really excited. I'm embarrassed to talk with them now with the share price today alone 10% down. So, let's hope that we will move in the opposite direction and go upwards and realize for the investor some value.

Well thank you for your comments, and again, I share them, [ph] through (00:49:15) with them wholeheartedly and the fundamentals are right. There's no failure...

Okay.

...of technology and that's what will prevail ultimately.

Thank you very much for listening to my concerns. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks. Bye-bye.

Bye-bye.

Mr. Laurin, there are no further questions at this time. Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.

Well, thank you very much for the comments and the questions. They are indicating that we are all focused on the same issue, which is build value for the shareholders. And I can reassure all the shareholders that that's exactly what we are working on. We're not looking for excuses. It is what it is. There are some delays out there, value continue to be embedded in our technology, embedded in other peoples that have chosen us as partners for their own products. And we will prevail. We have the right fundamentals, the right business plan to execute on and create that value and we will stick to our guns and deliver. That's how we can commit to our shareholder. And thank you again for your questions. And then I look forward to forthcoming announcements that will make shareholder a bit more cheerful and proud of being holding paper in the company. Thanks again, and enjoy the rest of the day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines. [Foreign Language] (00:51:02-00:51:11)

Have a good day everybody.