Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Pierre Laurin — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.
Bruce Philip Pritchard — Chief Operating & Financial Officer, ProMetic Life Sciences, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. Welcome to the ProMetic Life Sciences, Incorporated Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast. I would like to introduce Mr. Pierre Laurin, ProMetic's President and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Bruce Pritchard, Chief Financial Officer. For your information, the presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer period.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurin. You may proceed, sir.

Thank you very much, operator, and good morning, everyone. Will direct you to slide 3 reminding everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statement about ProMetic's objectives, strategies and business that involve risks and uncertainties. Slide 5 is reminding everyone that, we'll cover after Bruce's review of the quarterly financials, the four value drivers that we are pursuing for opportunities in one company, but before I cover those value drivers and the progress we've made for each one of them and their impact for the second half of 2011, let's move on to Bruce to provide an overview of the financial information for quarter two 2011. Bruce?

Thanks, Pierre. So in addition to the information on financials for 2011, the information that I'll discuss during my part of this morning's presentation is based on the statutory financial statements for 2010 which can be found online at sedar.com. All sums in the following tables are presented in thousands of Canadian dollars, except for per share amounts or where otherwise indicated. Moving into slide 7, revenue analysis. I'd like to remind our listeners to this call that the financial statements for 2011 are now prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards 2010 comparative numbers in this presentation have therefore been restated where necessary to accommodate IFRS.

Total revenues for the second quarter of 2011 were CAD 3 million, which compares to CAD 5.2 million for quarter two of 2010. Of the CAD 3 million, only CAD 131,000 came from product sales compared to the CAD 4.1 million in the previous year. However, during the second quarter of 2010, the company was concluding delivery under a large order received in the latter part of 2009. Although we've received repeat business from the same client in 2011, the revenues associated with that order will not start showing through in the financial statements until the second half, making quarter-to-quarter comparison difficult. Service fees in Q2 amounted to CAD 2.9 million compared with CAD 1.1 million in the same quarter of 2010. Included in the 2011 second quarter, service revenues as a sum of $2 million which equates to CAD 1.95 million relating to the completion of a milestone associated with the transaction with Celgene announced earlier this year.

So looking at the figures for the first half, the same pattern is repeated with lower product sales for each one, offset somewhat by increased service revenues. Overall, full first half revenues were down in 2010, again mainly due to the impact of the large order booked in the first half of 2010. Although this will be corrected in half two, it reinforces the need highlighted at the AGM, to continue to build the underlying critical mass of rising sales on an ongoing basis to support the crystallization of value from the plasma products and therapeutics groups. In an updated slides, which will follow, Pierre will provide a flavor of where the business is heading with regards to performance in each of these areas of revenue.

If you turn now to slide 8, I have provided the usual analysis of the quarter, and half yearly operating costs and the comparison to the same quarter and half year of 2010. Purpose of this slide is to provide evidence that the cost reduction measures that we continue to talk about remain in force. Clearly, the cost of goods in the quarter and for the half year have reduced on the previous year based on the turnover figure. Research and development costs and administrative costs remained consistent compared with the same period in the second quarter and the first half of the previous year.

The exchange rate movements provided a gain of CAD 54,000 in the second quarter of 2011 versus a loss of CAD 357,000 in the same quarter of prior year, resulting in an overall exchange gain for the first half of CAD 316,000 compared to a loss of CAD 504,000 for the first half of 2010. So from here, we are to see that the costs are controlled, and as mentioned earlier, improvements in profitability will be driven by growing the topline.

Moving to slide number 9, which analyzes business unit performance, it can be seen for the second quarter there are improvements in the losses of both therapeutics and the corporate division. The loss associated with protein technologies in the second quarter is attributable to lower revenues when compared to the same period in 2010. In terms of the half year, the total loss of CAD 4.5 million in 2011 compares to CAD 4 million in the previous year. However in half one of 2010 revenues were some CAD 2.4 million higher than during the same period of 2011. Therefore, the improving costs within the divisions are continuing to impact the bottom line.

Turning to slide 10, I'd like to reemphasize the core figures from the P&L account. Revenues as discussed are down on the same period in 2010, and based on my other comments, the fact that a large scale order appeared as revenue in half one of 2010, but will not repeat until half two of 2011 partly explains this. Ongoing cost control coupled with a favorable exchange gain has allowed us to limit the half one net loss to CAD 4.5 million compared to CAD 4 million in the previous year, and this results in a loss per share of CAD 0.0 for the quarter and CAD 0.01 for the half year, both figures consistent with the same period in the previous year.

Moving on to slide 11, I wanted to highlight a few of the significant items from the balance sheet. In the second quarter, the company closed a deal with Celgene which subject to certain administrative milestones being achieved resulted in $10 million of debt being eliminated as part of a wider revenue generating transaction. Today, the initial milestones are being met allowing CAD 4 million of the CAD 10 million revenue to be recognized, the remaining CAD 6 million is included in the deferred revenue figure and will be released in half two of 2011. As a result, the long-term debt at fair value reduced from CAD 13.7 million at December 2010 to CAD 3.7 million at quarter-end.

The balance sheet also shows a figure in the liability section of CAD 1.74 million which is described as advances from shareholders. It's important to emphasize that this is not a sum that is payable by the company but rather that it reflects equity investments received for which the shares were not issued at the end of the quarter. During the quarter the company closed CAD 2.75 million of private placements of which CAD 2 million was received in April, and therefore disclosed as a quarter one post balance sheet event. These issuances were done at an average price of CAD 0.16 for an issuance of 17.6 million common shares of ProMetic, which are subject to a 4-month hold period.

Also during the first quarter, the company received a working capital grant for PBL, its Isle of Man subsidiary from the Isle of Man government. The grant which is for CAD 474,000 is interest free and repayable in six equal installments starting six months from the date of drawdown. Finally, on slide 12, I'd like to highlight some of the post balance sheet events. Since the 30 June, the company has obtained a total of CAD 1 million in non-diluted loans and a private placement from long-term supporting shareholders. The proceeds from the loans and private placement will be used for general working capital purposes. Of the CAD 1 million, the company secured subsequent to the quarter-end, CAD 0.5 million is a loan from the [indiscernible] (00:09:20) a company managed by Mr. Benjamin Wygodny who is a member of the board of ProMetic.

In addition, the company received a CAD 150,000 private placement from another investor. The company is currently in the process of causing a second repayable working capital grant expected to be in the region of CAD 0.8 million again from the Isle of Man government's Department of Economic Development to whom we are supremely grateful for their ongoing support. And finally from me and most encouragingly subsequent to the quarter end, the company announced the receipt of a CAD 4 million follow on order pursuant to a long-term supply agreement entered into with a major biopharmaceutical company in 2009. This CAD 4 million purchase order relates to the purchase of a proprietary Mimetic Ligand adsorbent developed and manufactured by ProMetic's UK subsidiary ProMetic BioSciences Limited and will be supplied during the third and fourth quarters of 2011.

So at this point I'll stop and hand back to Pierre for the remainder of the presentation. Pierre?

Thank you, Bruce. Thank you very much. And the management of the company use a color code to follow the status of prospective projects and negotiations, and all I can tell our shareholders is what we see in green lights flashing across our dashboard. During the second half of 2011 we expect each value driver to play its part and contribute to the group's growth. Let's move to slide 14 if you may, and starting with our UK division responsible for the manufacturing of our proprietary resin where previous announcements confirmed the follow on purchase order of CAD 4 million worth of proprietary resin that Bruce mentioned, and this is the same resin that we've already shipped for CAD 9 million worth for the past couple of years. So products for this CAD 4 million follow on purchase order will be shipped in this and the next quarter.

We also announced the signing of an agreement for multi-ton biopharmaceutical product which should also lead to a long term supply agreement of resin for the same order of magnitude. So these agreements combined with the initial CAD 800,000 of initial service revenues to be collected in second half of 2011, and these long-term supply agreements are going to provide this growth in our recurring product sales. There are groups in the UK, there's also several other irons in the fire, and expect our new contracts to impact the end half of this year with more than CAD 1 million of additional revenue. So the remaining $6 million of deferred revenues from Celgene transaction is also expected to be recognized this year, following the completion of the last administrative milestone.

On slide 15, the prion reduction remains an important value driver for the group, and will impact this second half again. The same is PRISM Study which was undertaken by the UK government to confirm the safety of P-Capt was completed in March 2011, and the final report is expected to be presented to the Ministry of Health by the end of December this year. For consideration by SaBTO, SaBTO is a UK scientific advisory board for organ transplant and blood transfusion, and it has already recommended to the Ministry of Health back in 2009 to implement the use of P-Capt for the pediatric [indiscernible] (00:13:03). So while this is not an event that as such will impact the second half of this year in terms of revenue, this is nevertheless an event that will impact 2012 onward. What is likely to impact the second half of this year though is Octapharma trying reduce Octaplas LG which is anticipated to gain regulatory approval in additional key European countries. And this again will translate to additional resin sales and resin orders going forward.

While the use of P-Capt is being debated in the UK and Ireland, several biopharmaceutical companies are taking prion seriously, and are developing with ProMetic new product versions, including prion reduction steps as part of their new improved manufacturing process. Each of these additional commercial applications for human and animal derived products at industrial scale will become public as each of our partners gain regulatory approvals for their respective new products. These industrial applications not only have the merit to drive prion capture resin sales for the group, but also to create a new quality and safety standard in the market that will attract also further business for permitting. The implementation of prion reduction along with our PPPS process for some protein derived from plasma serves the same strategy.

On slide 16 and talking of plasma, the plasma-derived therapeutics is really poised to attract a lot of attention this coming weeks and months. We're expecting to close follow-on financing and strategic agreements for NewCo and [indiscernible] (00:14:47) and this amongst other things driven by the fact that we expect to announce development milestones for two of our plasma-derived biopharmaceuticals in development in the coming months, and to close additional agreements for plasma-derived therapeutics during the same period. The transaction we are working on would provide significant cash inflow to the group.

Finally, on slide 17, our already active small molecule programs have been the subject of intense due diligence and discussions with potential partners. PBI-1402 as you know started as a lead compound and has evolved to become a comprehensive platform where follow-on new chemical entities have been discovered with higher potency for certain indications such as fibrosis. This can lead to multiple relationships for different geographies and different indications. PBI-1402 really focusing on oncology-related indications, cancer indications such as pancreatic cancer and anemia in cancer patients and PBI-4050 focusing on anemia and fibrosis indications in renal patients, such as patients suffering from chronic kidney disease or diabetic kidney disease or acute kidney injury, and PBI-4419 more of a pure play in fibrosis indication also for renal patients.

So an exciting second half, and let's move to slide 19 to summarize the highlights of what we foresee happening for the latter part of this year. To begin with more substantial increase in revenues for PBL in the UK, our divisions in UK in the second half, more than CAD 6 million of product sales and service revenues expected, and a CAD 6 million in deferred revenue from Celgene for [indiscernible] (00:16:37) to be recognized also by year-end. I mentioned before Octaplas LG to obtain additional European countries' regulatory approval would also drive prion capture resin sales. For the plasma-derived therapeutic, new agreements involving upfront cash and ongoing funding as well as follow-on financings for NewCo and we can expect also news about expansion of our activities in Asia as the program of [indiscernible] (00:17:07) things with CNBG is progressing very, very well. And on the therapeutics, we expect our ongoing activities to lead to a partnering deal by year-end.

So all-in-all an exciting second half of 2011, and on that basis, we'll open the floor for questions. Operator?

Thank you, Mr. Laurin. [Operator Instructions] Mr. Laurin, we have no questions at this time. You may resume with your presentation or closing remarks.

Again, thank you very much for attending this conference call this morning, and we'll look forward to update you with exciting news in the coming weeks. Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have a great day, everyone.