corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct 24, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MDC Holdings 2006 Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we


will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Joseph Fritz, who will now read the forward-looking


statements. Mr. Fritz, you may begin, sir.


Joseph H. Fretz, Secretary and Corporate Counsel


Before introducing Larry Mizel and Gary Reece, it should be noted that certain statements made


during this conference call, including those related to MDC's anticipated home closings, home


gross margins, backlog value, revenues and profits, and responses to questions may contain


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995.


These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may


cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from


the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


These and other factors that could impact the Company's actual performance are set forth in the


Company's 2005 Form 10-K and 2006 first and second quarter Form 10-Qs.


It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use


of non-GAAP financial measures. Should a non-GAAP financial measure be discussed the


information required by Regulation G will be posted on the Investor Relations section of our


website, richmondamerican.com.


I will introduce Larry Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of MDC Holdings.


Larry A. Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and welcome to MDC's 2006 third quarter conference call and webcast. The last


three months have been extremely challenging for our industry and our company. The competitive


factors prevalent throughout the first half of 2006 continued to persist during the third quarter.


In each of our markets, we experienced reduced orders for new homes largely attributed to


significantly higher cancellation rates and lower home buyer demand. Both consists – both of these


were driven in large part by increased inventories of new and existing homes.


Builder concessions and incentives continue to rise. Confronted with expanding inventories and


increased uncertainty, many buyers displayed a wait-and-see approach to purchasing a new home.


In face of these challenges, our priority has been and continues to be, to reinforce our investment


grade financial position. Almost 18 months ago, we tightened our underwriting standards and


began renegotiating our land purchase contracts. These actions have enabled us to keep our land


supply at a level more consistent with our two-year supply objective.


We reduced the number of lots we own and control by more than 25% since the beginning of the


year. Our investment in land decreased by almost $100 million in the third quarter alone, and less


than 3% of our shareholders' equity is at risk in connection with our 11,000 lot of options.
corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct 24, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our reduced expenditures on land allowed us to generate $71 million in operating cash flow in the


third quarter. Our debt to equity ratio declined year-over-year by 1400 basis points, and our cash


and available borrowing capacity increased by 25% over the prior year. Finally, our stockholders'


equity and book value per share grew by more than 20% over the last 12 months.


Our operating philosophy has often been criticized over the past few years as being too


conservative, lacking large supplies of lots, joint ventures, off balance-sheet financing and specific


performance contracts, and speculating in land. We did not do any of these. However, even though


we were perceived as being boring in some eyes, our strategy has been developed with more than


a century of home building experience shared by our three senior managers.


Through multiple real estate cycles, we have learned that the way to be successful in these difficult


times is to focus on our strengthening the balance sheet, generating cash flow, and preserving


capital for future opportunities. While we are proud of our progress in each of these areas, we also


recognize the need to prepare our company for future successes.


To that end, we are continually reviewing each component of our operations to identify and improve


inefficiencies. In doing so, we are directing our efforts towards reducing cycle times, controlling our


construction costs, streamlining procedures, and training our people to achieve their full potential.


Also, we are using this market transition to focus on creating greater value for our home buyers,


including the design of new products and launching of a new customer experience initiative aimed


at improving the home buying process. As the market continues to evolve, we remain confident that


our strong financial position, combined with the improvements we are making to our business, will


help us better serve our home buyers and prepare us for opportunities to grow when our markets


begin to return to a more normal condition.


I would now like to turn this call over to Gary Reece, our Chief Financial Officer, who will describe


more specific financial highlights of 2006 third quarter.


Paris G. Reece III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Larry. The third quarter of 2006 characteristically was similar to the second quarter in


that we saw our home building profits lower partially offset by higher financial services and other


profits and lower corporate G&A.


Our net income in the quarter was $48.7 million compared with $120.1 million in the third quarter of


'05, $1.06 a share versus $2.62 a share. Our revenues here in the third quarter of '06 were $1.083


billion compared with $1.168 billion.


We did have some unusual items in the quarter that we will talk about as we go through the various


segments. Starting with home building, our pre-tax net income for the home building segments


combined were $82.3 million compared with 211.3 a year ago.


We saw our revenues, home sales revenues, this quarter of 1.058 billion compared with 1.147


billion. The lower profits this quarter were really attributable to higher impairments and project write-


off costs, a decrease in home gross profit margins, lower closings, higher SG&A, all of which were


offset by the impact of higher average selling prices. As to the asset impairment charges, we took


impairments of just short of $20 million here in the quarter. These are primarily related to five


projects in California that saw slower sales pace and higher incentives.


In addition, we recognized just short of $10 million in project write-off costs that were spread pretty


much across most of our markets. These costs were included in SG&A. These are compared to