Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Kevin McCarty — Vice President of Finance & Corporate Controller, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Larry A. Mizel — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Robert Nathaniel Martin — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Alan Ratner — Analyst, Zelman & Associates
Paul Przybylski — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Will Randow — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
John Lovallo II — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Timothy Daley — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Christopher Shook — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Michael Jason Rehaut — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Alex Barrón — Analyst, Housing Research Center LLC
Andrew Berg — Analyst, Post Advisory Group LLC
Buck Horne — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. Thank you for standing by and welcome to M.D.C. Holdings Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the floor to Kevin McCarty, Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. Thank you Mr. McCarty, I hand the floor to you.

Thank you, Natania, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings 2017 second quarter earnings conference call. On the call with me today, I have Larry Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After finishing our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, at which time, we request that participants limit themselves to one question and one follow-up question. Please note that this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay. For information on how to access the replay, please visit our website at mdcholdings.com.

Before turning the call over to Larry, it should be noted that certain statements made during this conference call, including those related to MDC's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, and prospects, and responses to those questions may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from the results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the company's second quarter 2017 Form 10-Q, which is scheduled to be filed with the SEC today. It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Any information required by Regulation G is posted on our website with our webcast slides.

And now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Mizel for his opening remarks.

Thank you. I'm very pleased to announce our 2017 second quarter net income of $33.9 million or $0.64 per share, which is 26% increase over the prior year. We were able to achieve this improvement by better leveraging our overhead with another solid quarter of home sale revenues growth.

For the second consecutive quarter, we realized a year-over-year improvement in our backlog conversion rate, which helped drive an increase in our home sales revenue to almost $650 million. We achieved this improvement – improved backlog conversion rate based on stabilizing our build-to-order construction cycle times, which decreased sequentially for the first time in almost two years.

Our strong top and bottom line performance over the past year has driven significant improvements in our returns, which remain a key focus for us. At the end of the second quarter of 2017, our last 12-month return on equity improved by 340 basis points year-over-year to 9.3%. On a pre-tax basis, our last 12 months return on equity, not only significantly improved over the prior year, but was also the highest level since the 2006 fourth quarter.

Our active community count was down slightly year-over-year, this was partly due to the strong rate of sales activity we experienced in most of our markets over the past year. However, with our returns rising and our liquidity reaching nearly $1 billion, we have been able to focus increasingly on sourcing new projects to drive further growth in our community count.

In the second quarter alone, we approved more than 3,300 lots for acquisition, far exceeding the activity for any other quarter over the past three years. As a result, our lot acquisition approvals during the first half of 2017 exceeded the total we approved for all of 2016.

In addition, at the end of the quarter, our total lots controlled were 13% higher than a year ago. Our continued belief is that the first-time home buyer will serve as a significant source of growth for new home sales nationwide. Given the recent success of our Seasons product line, our acquisition activities have maintained a focus on affordability. To that end, at least 20% of the lots acquired in each of the last four quarters were underwritten for the Seasons collection. This product line is now selling in four states and accounted for just over 10% of the total net new orders during the quarter. We have remained committed to our build-to-order operating strategy with the vast majority of our starts in our overall construction activity being dedicated to units already sold to customers.

As a result, the percentage of our work in process units attributed to sold homes at the end of the quarter reached 92%, the highest level in the company history. Operating in this manner helps us to preserve our high quality balance sheet and allows us to operate more efficiently by dedicating more resources to converting the sold inventory into revenue.

As we turn our focus into the second half of the year, uncertainty remains at the forefront of the domestic political environment. Regardless, we continue to view the homebuilding industry positively bolstered by a solid macroeconomic environment and favorable dynamics of the balance between housing supply and demand.

I'll now turn the call over to Bob Martin, who will go over the specifics.

Thank you, Larry. Our home sale revenues increased 13% from the prior year to $648 million, primarily due to an 11% increase in closings. We achieved our highest number of second quarter closings in 10 years, driven by an 8% increase in beginning backlog and a 100-basis point improvement in our backlog conversion rate of 42%. This was only the second time in 12 quarters that we saw a year-over-year improvement in our backlog conversion rate, with both of these quarters coming in 2017.

The progress was driven mostly by the stabilization of our build-to-order cycle times which were flat year-over-year, as a big improvement in Colorado was offset by increases in several of our other markets. On a sequential basis, cycle times improved both for the company as a whole and in each of our markets.

Our third quarter backlog conversion rate will be impacted by the I-joists recall Weyerhaeuser announced in July. In total, we had 222 homes impacted by the recall, including 23 already closed and 199 under construction or complete, but not yet closed. All of these homes are in Colorado. Including the impact of the recall, we believe a reasonable goal for our backlog conversion rate in the 2017 third quarter is 36%.

Our average selling price for the quarter of $458,700 was up a modest 2% year-over-year. The increase would have been about 4% without our Seasons product, which comprised about 6% of our closings during the second quarter of 2017. In the same quarter last year, less than 1% of our closings is related to Seasons homes.

Our gross margin from home sales percentage was up year-over-year from 16.4% to 16.8%. The difference is mostly impairments and warranty adjustments. At the 2016 second quarter included $1.6 million of inventory impairments and a $300,000-increase to our warranty accrual. There were no such adjustments during the 2017 second quarter.

We are pleased to see improved operating leverage for the quarter as our SG&A rate fell by 40 basis points from 11.3% to 10.9% due in large part to our significant year-over-year increase in home sale revenues. Our total dollar SG&A expense was up $6.3 million for the quarter with a big part of the change driven by $2.8 million increase in commissions in line with our increase in home sale revenues.

Selling and marketing expenses increased by $2.6 million, partly due to the increase in our closing levels, but also due to an increase in the rates of our deferred marketing spend for home closed, and higher sales and marketing head count. We also saw a $900,000-increase in general administrative expense, primarily driven by an increase in our head count for our overhead departments.

The dollar value of our orders decreased 2% year-over-year to $710.6 million. The decrease was primarily due to a 3% decrease year-over-year in the number of units, which was mostly the result of a 4% decline in the number of average active communities. However, our absorption rate improved slightly to 3.4 net orders per average active subdivision per month.

Our Seasons collection accounted for 11% of total orders for the second quarter, up 300 basis points sequentially and 800 basis points year-over-year. The rollout of this product continues to be a key focus for the company. However, as I have stated previously, the increase in unit volume will be gradual, as many of the communities we have recently purchased for Seasons product need to complete the development activities and community setup procedures during the coming quarters.

We ended the quarter with an estimated sales value for our homes and backlog of $1.68 billion, which was up 4% year-over-year. The increase was both the result of a 2% increase in the number of units in backlog to 3,510 homes and a 2% increase in our backlog average selling price.

Our cancellations as a percentage of beginning backlog was down year-over-year from 14% to 10%, and as a percentage of gross sales from 21% to 17%. Active subdivision count decreased to 153 at the end of the 2017 second quarter from 159 a year ago.

We saw decreases in most of our markets, but the largest percentage decreases occurred in Maryland and Virginia where we previously disclosed a lower level of investment due to returns that did not meet our expectations.

Colorado was an exception, however, with a 57% year-over-year increase in active subdivision count. During the quarter, we had roughly seven fewer subdivisions in the category we call soon to be active than in the soon to be inactive category. In other words, we continue to be a little heavier in subdivisions that are on the verge of sellout relative to those that are just opening. That tells us that our active subdivision count could continue to decrease in the third quarter, relative to where we ended the second quarter.

However, the spread between soon to be active and soon to be inactive has decreased sequentially. And we believe we can increase our active subdivision count by the end of the year relative to where it was at at the end of the second quarter.

For the 2017 second quarter, we acquired 1,582 lots, up 41% from a year ago. This was also the highest number of lots that we've acquired since the third quarter of 2015. The second quarter activity occurred largely in Arizona and Colorado, though we purchased lots in four other states as well. We acquired the lots for $126 million, adding additional $69 million for development expenditures. Our total land spend for the quarter was $195 million.

The lots we acquired in the second quarter were in 30 communities, including 22 new communities and 44% of the lots are finished. Also, 25% of the lots were for Seasons product. Consistent with what Larry discussed earlier, we approved 3,342 lots for acquisition during the quarter, nearly every state was well represented in this total. We even approved a limited number of lots for acquisition in Virginia, where we have recently seen an uptick in sales activity.

At the end of the quarter, we controlled 17,094 lots, up 13% year-over-year and 16% sequentially. This represents a 3.1-year supply on a trailing 12-month delivery basis, which is down slightly from 3.3-years at the end of the same quarter a year ago, but up notably from 2.8-years at the end of our 2017 first quarter. With the significant amount of lot approvals during the quarter, the percentage of our lots controlled via auction increased to 30% at the end of the 2017 second quarter from 17% at the same point a year ago and 20% at the end of the 2017 first quarter.

Our last 12 months return on equity is up 340 basis points year-over-year and 40 basis points sequentially to 9.3% at the end of the second quarter of 2017. This demonstrates the strong impact of the operating leverage that we established starting in the back half of 2016.

It's also noteworthy that the increase in our return on equity occurred even as some of our key risk measurements improved. This includes net debt to capital, which decreased by 920 basis points year-over-year to 23.3% and our overall investment in unsold homes, which is down 42% to approximately $68 million. Additionally, our liquidity has increased by more than $200 million over the past year to almost $1 billion at June 30, giving us more than enough resources to fund new growth opportunities.

That concludes our prepared remarks. At this time, we would like to open up the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . And our first question comes from the line of Alan Ratner of Zelman & Associates.

Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. So, my question is on the pickup in land activity this quarter. You mentioned in the release the fact that your returns have improved, really gave you the confidence to go out and be a little bit more aggressive on the land side, I am curious as I look at that nice improvement you had in return – over the last year, a lot of it has been driven by some improvement in your backlog conversion and really delivering the large backlog you had, because if I look at your – your absorption rate, it's roughly flat year-over-year, your margins are pretty flat, and you are benefiting from SG&A leverage but I was curious is there something specific you are seeing in the market place today as far as demand is concerned that's giving you added confidence to go out and buy more land or is it really more just a function of the more of the improving companies specific metrics?

Well I think there is both, I think we're certainly encouraged by the improvements we have seen. Specifically we saw return on equity up 340 basis points, which is a great thing for our company, also up 40 basis points sequentially. But overall, I would say in most of our markets, we feel pretty good about where we're at, and I would say our confidence in those markets is further bolstered by the initial success that we've seen with our Seasons product, as well as some other product that we've developed to address the issue of affordability. So, with all those items in play, we feel really good.

Thanks Bob, I appreciate that. And kind of a follow-up on that point. So, you mentioned the Seasons rollout and being pleased with how that's going and certainly we see similar activity at the entry level. I guess I'm a little curious, if I look at your absorption rate basically flat year-over-year, I would have perhaps suspected that would have shown a little bit more improvement given the mix shift to more entry level which you've mentioned, typically are underwritten to your higher sales paces and your absorption rate is certainly very strong from a company-wide perspective. But is there something else that's holding that absorption rate back from really accelerating and should we expect to see that absorption rate improve on year-on-year basis as more of these new land deals star to open up?

Yeah, I think we're seeing higher absorption rates with the Seasons product. I think without it you would have seen the absorption rate be a little bit lower. Its only 11% of our net orders right now, so as you see some more communities come online with the Seasons product. If the experience is similar to what we've seen over the past couple of quarters, we would expect that continue to help our absorption rate. But all that depends upon where market conditions are when we get those communities open.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East of Wells Fargo.

Thank you. Actually, this is Paul Przybylski on for Stephen. You had mentioned that the lot purchases this quarter were pretty broad based. I was wondering if you have any more color where those occurred geographically and when they will translate into community count growth, and then what type of gross margin was assumed on those, and why the uptick from 1Q to 2Q in land buy?

Yeah. So in terms of actual lot acquisition, the most lots that we acquired was in Colorado, second was Arizona, then I believe as well we had four other states that were represented, some of the largest – larger in there were Nevada and California, I believe.

In terms of the overall lots added, the total number of lots approved for the quarter, a much larger number that was across – more across the board, pretty good representations in all of our markets. I think, Colorado was still the largest represented in that category but it was little bit less dominant in that representation.

What was the second part of your question?

When do you expect the lot acquisitions to translate into communities and what gross margin was assumed on those lots?

Okay. So in terms of when they come online, about 44% of what we actually acquired during the quarters is finished, those are the ones that would come online most quickly, even with a shot of selling, yet here in 2017. But as you will know that comes with a lot of things you have to do before you get those up and running. The remainder of the 56% of the lots represented would open in 2018, couple of those maybe a little bit later.

As far as the underwriting criteria, we really haven't changed our underwriting criteria, it is not static for every deal, it depends upon the risk metrics involved with each individual deal.

Okay. Can you remind me, what's the gross margin on the Seasons versus your traditional product, and then also, I think just that Seasons is in four markets, what incremental markets you want to take that – expand that product to?

In terms of gross profit margin, we haven't disclosed the exact number, but it is higher than our overall average gross profit margin. In terms of other markets, we would like to see it in that we have not yet seen sales in, we already have in the Arizona, Las Vegas, Colorado, and Florida. I think, pretty much every one of our other markets would be a target to some degree. California is one that has come up in conversation, Virginia has been one that's come up – that we're looking at.

We even look at markets like a Washington, for example, to see if it would work there although it's a little bit tougher there just because of the typical topography you have to deal with in that market, so it remains to be seen whether or not it's truly applicable to that market. Utah as well, is one that I didn't mention that we have our sights on. Even if we don't or unable to apply Seasons directly that exact product, I think in each of the markets where we maybe can't apply it lightly, we would still be looking for another answer to affordability.

That's great. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow of Citigroup.

Hi, and thanks for taking my questions.

Hi.

I want to drill into – you talked about labor improvement, but particularly in Colorado, is that something that you are specifically doing, or has labor market opened up there, and have you done anything specifically to improve cycle times, if you could elaborate on that?

Clearly, it's has been a focus of management, knowing that Colorado cycle times have been among the highest in our company, and it's sort of it's our home market, so it gets a lot of attention. I think we have seen a little bit of better subcontractor availability, but it's still very tight in the Colorado market.

We've also made an effort to improve our reporting on cycle times as a way of driving further accountability to our Colorado division. So, I think that's been helpful as well.

Thanks for that. And then just on the recall, you mentioned that's impacting, I believe, 222 homes, is there any risk of that causing supply disruptions going forward or if you could talk about that, that'd be great?

In terms of supply disruption, I guess there is always a risk but I have not actively heard of that as an issue. I think Weyerhaeuser has a product to put in our homes, whether it be for new starts or to address homes that we've already identified to have the issue.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo of Bank of America.

Yeah. Thank you for taking my call. First question is on the community count guide. Bob, I think previously you talked about maybe kind of flattish community count and now it seems like maybe it could be actually down a little bit year-over-year, I mean is that a fair assumption?

Yeah, I would say there is a higher risk for that. I think getting back to even is still a possibility, but there is a higher risk at this point is how I'd characterize it.

Okay. And then just to make sure I understood the answer to Alan's question. I totally understand that the improvements at the company you guys are – you're feeling good about that, but is it also fair to say that you are feeling perhaps better about the recovery in general in the industry? I mean, is there anything that's made you more confident as of late to kind of explain some of the land activity?

I don't know that there is much incremental, it's been a relatively good market for us from an absorption rate perspective for a while now. I think when we look internally at our return on equity and our gross profit margins, I think if you go back in time a year or maybe even two years ago, there was a wider spread between us and our peers and we see that spread collapsing, which I think we find encouraging. So, I think that gives us a little more confidence as well.

Okay. Thank you guys.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.

Thanks. This is actually Tim Daley on for Nishu. So my question, I wanted to dig a bit into the stabilizing build-to-order construction cycle times that were cited in the press release and the prepared statements. I was just wondering, could you put some numbers around, I guess, the trends that you've been seeing in these cycle times? And as well, could you break out the comparison for Seasons versus more traditional product, if there is a large difference?

Well, your first question – quantitatively, it's literally flat year-over-year 0% change on cycle times. Sequentially, we were down I believe about 3% overall for the homebuilding enterprise. As far as Seasons versus non-Seasons, I don't know that we've calculated it overall across the industry at this point at 6% – or across our operations at this point and that 6% of our closings, I don't know we have a whole lot of meeting right now, but I think when we see what the potential is for that product, I [indiscernible] (29:06) Colorado given that it does not have a basement and our other product does, you could see cycle times decrease by 40% or even more. But again, we don't have a huge number coming through our closings yet, so I think that will be a little bit more meaningful as we move forward in future quarters.

That's very helpful. And then, I guess, just looking into the cancelation rate, so down 400 basis points year-over-year, 100 basis points quarter-over-quarter to 17%. This 17% I think is the low that you've ever hit and just looking at a kind of two-quarter cumulative rolling average, this is the lowest you've ever hit.

What is going on, what's the difference here? Is it higher quality buyers? Is it the way that you're marketing to them? And as well, how should we think about the cancelation rate? Is this a new kind of lower normal or will it tick back up in the latter half of the year and going forward? Thank you.

I've always been cautious to call anything normal just because as soon as I do it changes to a new normal. But I would say – first of all, you look across our markets, in those four markets, prices are increasing. So, if you buy a house today and you're going to close three, six, nine months from now, likely that you're going to have built-in equity, so why would you walk away. I think, there's that element to it.

We've also done some things proactively to try to make sure that our buyers are serious about the investment in new home. For example, we have increased the amount of deposits that we're taking from our buyers, so a year ago we were probably at about, say, 1.5% of the sales price in terms of deposits from our homebuyers, that has increased to about 2.1% today.

So, in this market, we've found the ability to make sure that we're kind of further validating that consumer seriousness about buying their home just through some additional deposit.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim of Evercore ISI.

Good afternoon. This is Chris actually on for Steve. I noticed in the press release that there was a 24% decrease in California new orders and [indiscernible] (31:47) reduction in community counts. I was just wondering if that reduction is due to the reduction in community count or there is anything kind of market specific that you saw driving that decrease.

Yeah. You're right. I think 24% year-over-year, I looked at that, the 5.33% that you saw a year ago was actually a pretty high mark. The next thing I did is, I looked at Q1 of 2017 which was 4.1%. So, sitting close to 4.6%, it actually accelerated a little bit going from Q1 to Q2.

So, given that it's above 4% a month, in fact it's our highest absorbing market in the country. There is not much I really attribute to that, often times – we do have a situation where depending upon how many communities are coming up and going on, you may have something that's not actually included in the active subdivision count at the end of the period, that actually did contribute to sales. And so sometimes that can cause a little bit of volatility, but by everything I can see California seems to still be a strong market for us.

Okay. Great. And then I also noticed there was a significant increase in the percentage of your option land. I believe you're now at 25%, obviously up from 14% year-over-year. I was just wondering, do you guys have sort of a target for an own-option land ratio or kind of what's really driving this apart from improving inventory turns?

Well, I think part of it is timing. We ended up approving a lot of transactions during the quarter, so until we actually – from the time we approve them to the time we actually purchase them, they remain in the under option category. So since we had our biggest quarter in quite some time in terms of lot approvals, that drove the option number up quite handily for the quarter. That was on a sequential basis and year-over-year.

The number I had was about 30% of our overall lots controlled. As for a target, for option lots, really I wouldn't say there is one, we like to buy as many lots as we can in a option structure. It's just that the markets – depending upon the market it doesn't always allow us to buy in that manner, part of it depends upon the strength of our counterparty, our sellers and whether or not they can afford to roll those lots, and a lot of other different factors, and what the price of the land is, and other things.

So, while we'd like that percentage to be higher, we don't really have any assurances we can drive it that way.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. First question, I was curious just going back to the community count for a moment. Obviously you talked about given the soon to be inactive versus active may could drift down or touch more in the third quarter. It's kind of in contrast to what I was expecting just given the increase in lots approved for sale, the increased in lots controlled overall, et cetera, et cetera. So, I think you said that you are still – you are thinking maybe 4Q could get back to or above 2Q, but when would you actually start to see meaningful sequential growth? I mean obviously I think implies a little bit in 3Q, but still down year-over-year, so how are you thinking about 2018, particularly given just the step up in land activity that you've highlighted?

Yeah. First of all, I think when we say 3,300 lots that were approved, virtually none of the subdivisions associated with those lots – I think it was roughly 44 subdivisions that are associated with those 3, 300 lots, none of those would be included in the soon to be active count at this point, so many considered soon to be active if you have some level of construction activity actually going on. So much of that hasn't even hit at this juncture.

So that's the first thing that I would say, secondly with regard to the timing. As I indicated with seven more going off than coming on, that gives you an indicator that Q3 is maybe not likely to increase and could even decrease a little bit from at the end of Q2. And given my comment about still increasing by the end of the year, you would expect most of the growth to come in the fourth quarter. And I'll certainly tell you that driving community count in the fourth quarter is not the easiest thing in the world just given that it's our lowest quarter for sales activity, generally speaking.

However, I think probably the more important piece of the equation is that we get those subdivisions open as much as possible before we get to the 2018 spring selling season. Right now, it looks like we've got a good shot at doing that for many of the subdivisions that we hold right now.

Looking forward to 2018, certainly, if we continue to maintain this level of client acquisition and lot approval activity, we would have the potential to further increase our subdivision count year-over-year in 2018. But it's a little bit early to put any more specific numbers on that at this point.

Okay. That's helpful, Bob. And I guess, just going back to the – also the backlog conversion rate, you gave a number which is obviously very helpful around 36% for 3Q due to the issues with the Weyerhaeuser I-joist, is that something that we should think about that it's more of a one quarter phenomenon, I mean, we had late last week another builder talk about it potentially impacting a couple of quarters, just trying to think about 4Q and if we should expect a similar type of decline in backlog conversion, if this is more than just a one quarter fix?

Well, first of all, I think, it's unclear at this point what impact it will have on the fourth quarter at this point. I will tell you, we do have homes that were originally scheduled to close in the fourth quarter that are impacted by this issue. If you look at the factors, we highlighted the third quarter because that's the closest that we know a little bit more about what's going to happen in the third quarter.

But the fourth quarter, you may have some that you pickup that you didn't close in the third quarter, but you may still have some that's get pushed out from the fourth quarter into 2018. So it's not clear at this point, but we do have more time to deal with those units as we currently sit right here. So I don't want to mislead you and say that there is no impact on the fourth quarter.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón of Housing Research Center.

Thanks. Hey, guys. Just to, I guess clarify again, Bob, on the Joist issue. I heard a number of 222, was that homes in backlog that have this potential impact or was that the overall that you've closed and that have a potential issue?

That includes closed. There is 23 of that 222 homes that have already closed before we were aware of the issue.

Got it. And is there any financial potential impact about this where Weyerhaeuser picking up the bill for disruptions to those people that are closed already?

Currently we believe Weyerhaeuser will cover all the costs we incur related to the issue.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Berg with Post Advisors (sic) [Advisory Group].

Just a follow-up on the lot question or comments from earlier. When you look at the lots acquired or intended to be acquired in the quarter on slide 10 of 3,342 versus the actual acquired of 1,582 in the period. How should we think about that as you roll forward into Q3? I think last year you had a little less than 1,100 lots that you purchased in that quarter. Should we think of that 3,300 as fully capturing both 2Q and 3Q lot acquisition or should we think that those would be incremental to roughly 1,100 lots that you bought in 2Q – or 3Q last year?

Yeah. So I'm not sure if I fully understand the question. That 3,300 number is far in excess of where we were a year ago and I guess that would lead us to believe that our actual acquisition activity in the upcoming quarters would be higher than it was a year ago. I would say that the caveat to that is sometimes these closings get to be a little bit swirly, just some small detail that holds up the closing, so that can impact the timing in one way or the other.

Let me try asking maybe from a different way and clarify it. You acquired just under 1,600 lots, you approved 3,300, so there is roughly 1,760 lots that's a difference between the two figures. Should we think about 3Q as that sort of being the figure for lots to be acquired or would you still have a lot acquisition level still more aligned to that you had in 3Q last year and it would be incremental to that?

I guess I'm still not sure I understand it completely, but we obviously approved a lot of lots in the second quarter of last year as well. So, I mean I guess one way of looking at it is, you could look at the extent to which the number of lots that we put under contract, number of lots we approved is up year-over-year to get a sense for how acquisition activity might increase in the coming quarters, but that would just be an approximation. I think if you look at this quarter a year ago, just looking at the figure here, I want to say that we're on the order of magnitude doubled where we were a year ago in terms of actual lot approvals.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne with Raymond James.

Good afternoon. I wanted to dig in a little bit on Colorado, if we could for a second here just noticing that the absorption rate in Colorado declined, it looked like a double-digit percentage despite of the significant investments you guys have been making there and I realize there is probably lot of new communities opened, but maybe you could add a little commentary to what you're seeing on the ground in terms of demand in Colorado. Should we read anything into that 11% decline in absorption there?

It's always something we monitor, but I think, you hit it – talking about opening new communities. I think we have had a lot better coming online and just noting the 57% increase year-over-year in communities, getting some of those communities up and running. Colorado being somewhat of the test case for some of our new products, whether it would be Seasons or the products that we've – one product we mentioned in the past called [ph] Seascapes (44:59) there is certain logistical issues in getting those up and running. I think, we are still very encouraged in Colorado, just knowing that we've had a good response to that more affordable product. I think, it's still a very, very healthy market for us.

Okay. And going back to the Seasons product line just in terms of rollout there. If I heard you correctly, it sounded like you're getting higher margins on Seasons than the company average and it's also producing a faster absorption rate than the company average. So, the question I guess would be why wouldn't you be devoting a lot more of the incoming land acquisition spend to Seasons land, and if not, is that a function of the scarcity of land that's available right now for Seasons product?

I mean, I think, it is competitive. It's a very competitive space for the entry level product. I would also say, we're not ignoring the other segments of our markets. So, we're still continuing to make acquisitions in our more traditional product, we do have a version of our more traditional product that we call [ph] Landmark (46:19). So, it's a more affordable version of that traditional product.

In Colorado, for example, it still has a basement but is just a bit more affordable than we've historically seen. So, part of the answer is simply that we are continuing to invest more heavily in other segments of the market as well. But, I think it's a great thing that 25% mark of the lots that we acquired in the quarter is really a high watermark for the Seasons. We expect it to be a pretty big percentage going forward.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

I wonder if – given the lots that you've done in this quarter, given there is still – relatively the way we look at it's seasonal order trends at a pace quarter-to-quarter. Just thinking about like realizing you are not going give FY 2018 guidance, but the margin mix, given your – the Mountain did about 10% and the West the other 25% of EBIT is kind of in that [ph] six handle range varies(47:38). Could we expect your margins largely to be driven simply by your regional closings? A, and then could you discuss the perhaps gross margin differences you have within your different regions? Or if it's mostly just price driving SG&A leverage that defines the EBIT differential? Thank you.

That's a lot than one question, but I'll try to tackle it.

Sorry, Bob.

That's okay. I think we don't talk a lot about our margins on individual states, we don't talk about it really much of anywhere. I would say, we actively look at our closings, the results that we've experienced most recently and in all of our markets and use that as a guide to where we might want to invest in the future.

As we've indicated with Virginia and Maryland for example, we've decreased our investment in that market because the returns weren't as good as we expected. So we're always balancing moving our capital to markets that are experiencing better results to an advantage of being a builder with the lower supply of land. So that's really how we look at it, those divisions that are able to prove to us that they are able to get the returns that they put forth in their performance, in their approval packages we tend to give a little bit more capital to. Certainly, there are regional differences, don't get me wrong and we tend to perform in a lot of cases a little bit better where we start to see more volume, although that's not always the case.

The margin question is always a tough one in this environment, simply because yes we are able to increase price and I think that's one thing that gives us an opportunity to increase our margin. But then again we are faced with cost increases, more or less across the board, whether it be labor, materials, land, all of that are issues that we're facing with right now.

So, right now I think we're happy to be able to say that we've been able to balance, to cover our cost increases with price increases, still a risk for the future and overall the word for our margins is stability. That's what we've seen sequentially, year-over-year. Even if you look over the past nine quarters, it's really been a pretty stable margin environment for us.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.

Thanks for taking my follow-up. Just wanted a little bit more on the modeling side, just to get a sense, on the tax rate and share count more how to think about the back half of the year, your share count went up about 800,000 sequentially to 52.4 million is that a number that we should be using in the back half and similarly how should we think about tax rate for the second half and the full year?

Yeah. I think, on the share count, it's influenced by what the stock prices so you have to keep that in mind, so if our stock prices close to where it is right now, it probably more likely to be around that diluted share count that you are at right now, so I would give you guidance – that guidance on that part.

As far as the tax rate, I think, what you saw in Q2 is really what you can probably expect going forward except for – that is to say in both Q3 and Q4 except for there is one item in Q4 that we've talked about. It's a discrete item and it relates to the expiration of stock options and that would add about $2.7 million of additional income tax expense in the fourth quarter than would otherwise be implied by applying the rate that we have already disclosed in Q2.

Great. Now, thanks, it's helpful Bob. And then just secondly also kind of looking into the back half of the year, with backlog conversion implying closings looks like in the back half kind of flattish, which if you look at closing prices may be drifting up a touch would imply low single-digit revenue growth for the back half. As a result, should we be thinking about SG&A leverage being pretty minimal or marginal within accompanying minimal amount of revenue growth or would there be any other type of discrete items from a cost management or any type of other element that would allow you guys to still achieve some level of more meaningful SG&A leverage to the tune of what you saw in the second quarter?

I think the G&A rate specifically that we saw in the second quarter, that's probably as good of as any rate to use going forward, that amount of overall G&A that we experienced in the second quarter with the caveat that accruals and a lot of different things could move it up or down. But based on the information we have right now, it's a reasonable run rate for Q3 and Q4.

So, I think, in answer to your question for looking at single-digit increases year-over-year in revenue, by your math, then – then that would imply that there would be a lesser opportunity for SG&A rate improvement year-over-year. But it's certainly something that we're still focused on. We are getting down to levels that are much closer than to what we had in the early 2000s, which is a great thing.

But then, again, in terms of cost savings, we have to recognize that as much as we always are good stewards of our capital and try to keep our expenses low. In this kind of market with the home building business doing better, a big part of our overhead is cost associated with our personnel and that's not cost that's likely to go down in the short-term.

Thank you. At this time, I would like to return the floor for closing remarks.

Thank you very much. We appreciate everyone being on the call today, and look forward to speaking with you again following the disclosure of our third quarter earnings.

Thank you. This concludes today's M.D.C. Holdings second quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.