corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings' 2005 Third


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we


will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Joe Fretz, who will be reading the statements


concerning the forward-looking statements. Mr. Fretz, you may begin, sir.


Joseph H. Fretz, Secretary and Corporate Counsel


Before introducing Larry Mizel and Gary Reece, it should be noted that certain statements made


during this conference call, including those related to M.D.C.'s anticipated home closings, home


gross margins, backlog value, revenues and profits and responses to questions may contain


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from


the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


These and other factors that could impact the Company's actual performance are set forth in the


Company's 2004 Form 10-K


It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany these


non-GAAP financial measures. Should a non-GAAP financial measure be discussed, the


information required by Regulation G will be posted on the Investor Relations section of our


website, richmondamerican.com


I will now introduce Larry Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of M.D.C.


Holdings.


Larry A. Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and welcome to M.D.C.’s 2005 third quarter conference call and


webcast. We are pleased to announce growth in our operating profits and earnings per share for


the 13th consecutive quarter and for the 27th time in the last 28 quarters. A strong performance in


some of the nation’s largest and most land-constrained markets enabled us to continue to produce


exceptional operating margins and returns. These results were achieved despite the previously


announced production-related challenges we are facing in Arizona and Nevada, two of the fastest


growing markets in the country.


At the same time, we have maintained an investment-grade balance sheet with leverage ratios that


are among the lowest in all the public homebuilders. We have substantially improved our financial


flexibility as reflected in nearly a 90% year-over-year increase in our available cash and borrowing


capacity to almost $1.1 billion at quarter-end. This increase was enhanced by our July 2005


issuance of an additional 250 million of 10-year unsecured medium-term notes at a coupon interest


rate of only five and three-eighths percent.


Our conservative operating model governs our day-to-day business decisions as we make and


drive the strength of our balance sheet and financial position. In each of our markets, we require


strict control of spec inventories and backlog, a highly disciplined underwriting of every land


transaction and perhaps most importantly, a focus on limiting our control of entitled lots to a 2-year


supply in any market or subdivision in which we build. We have proven our operating model to be


extremely successful in the past few years of general market strength. We expect to be equally
corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


effective if certain markets become more challenging as some investors believe as it provides us


greater flexibility to change product price points, location and capital commitment in response to


changes in market conditions.


Based on activity in the 2005 third quarter, most of our markets exhibited strength relative to last


year as evidenced by increased traffic levels, decreased cancellation rates and higher net orders.


Our 21% increase in total home orders allowed us to accumulate a quarter-end backlog of over


9000 homes and a sales value of almost $3.3 billion, up 33%.


On the strength of this record backlog and our anticipated rise in average selling price, we expect to


report record 2005 fourth quarter, full year-end results. Further, given our year-over-year growth in


active subdivisions and available lots combined with anticipated contributions to our bottom-line


from our newer operations in Chicago, Tampa, Philadelphia/Delaware Valley, we believe we are


well positioned to continue to grow and produce new Company highs for home closings, revenues


and profits for 2006.


I’d now like to turn this call over to Gary Reece, our Chief Financial Officer, who will describe more


specific financial highlights of our 2005 third quarter.


Paris G. Reece, III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Larry. To begin here, we reflected a third quarter record in operating income of $120.9


million, which is 15% above our earnings of last year on revenues of $1.168 billion, up 14% over


last year. This produced an earnings per share of $2.62, which is 11% higher than the $2.36 that


we earned a year ago. These earnings per share were aided by a reduction in our effective tax rate


from 38.5% last year to 37.4% this year. That reduction added $0.05 per share to our earnings per


share this year. That reduction resulted from favorable adjustments to our effective state tax rate as


well as the benefits of the Section 199 production activities deduction, which we talked about in the


previous quarters. This is a benefit of approximately 70 basis points that will continue for future


periods and will be increased under current law in 2007 by an additional 70 basis points.


Our record results this quarter were driven by increased profits from our homebuilding business; we


earned $214.6 million from homebuilding, up 11% from last year. The – on home sales revenues of


$1.148 billion, up 14%. Primary drivers of this increase – these increased results were a 4%


increase in home closings, a $28,000 increase in average selling price and a 60 basis point


improvement in home gross profits. We saw increases to our operating profits in Arizona, Virginia,


Maryland, Utah and Florida primarily.


As we look at the closing levels, we closed 3686 homes during the quarter, up 3.6% from the 3558


we closed last year, primarily due to a higher beginning backlog, although we – our conversion rate


was relatively lower than it has been in the past at about 40%, primarily due to the fact that we had


delayed approximately 250 closings in Arizona and 200 closings in Nevada due to – in Arizona due


to delays related to certain subcontractors and suppliers and in Nevada due to delays in receiving


power for several subdivisions.


As you can see from the slide, our primary increase occurred in Arizona, despite these lost


closings, up 11%. We also saw significant increases in Florida and Utah. Lower home closings


resulted in California and Nevada due to lower beginning backlogs, but you will see here shortly


that that is a situation that has reversed itself here in the third quarter with strong orders in both


those markets.


Our average selling price in the quarter was $311,000, up 28 – up 10%, excuse me, from $283,000


a year ago. We saw increases really in every market in which we operate, with the largest


increases coming in the Mid-Atlantic, Virginia and Maryland primarily. We saw increases in Nevada,