Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Derek Kimmerle — Director of SEC Reporting, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Larry A. Mizel — Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Founder, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Robert Nathaniel Martin — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Principal Accounting Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
John Lovallo II — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Alan Ratner — Analyst, Zelman & Associates
Stephen Kim — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Kenneth Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Buck Horne — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Maggie Wellborn — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Trevor Allinson — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to M.D.C. Holdings 2020 First Quarter Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-old mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there'll be opportunity to ask questions. Please note that this event is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Derek Kimmerle, Director of SEC Reporting. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to M.D.C. Holdings' 2020 first quarter earnings conference call. On the call with me today, I have Larry Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After finishing our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, at which time we request that participants limit themselves to one question and one follow-up question. Please note that this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay. For information on how to access the replay, please visit our website at mdcholdings.com.

Before turning the call over to Larry, it should be noted that certain statements made during this conference call, including those related to MDC's business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, strategies and prospects, and responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the company's first quarter 2020 Form 10-Q, which is expected to be filed with the SEC today. It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Any information required by Regulation G is posted on our website with our webcast slides.

And now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Mizel for his opening remarks.

Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today, as we review our results for the first quarter of 2020, to discuss the current state of our operations and outline the steps we are taking to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.

First and foremost, I'd like to emphasize that MDC is taking the situation seriously, and we are using the CDC guidelines to protect our employees, subcontractors and customers. We have adjusted our business practices to do our part to provide healthy work environment in an effort to combat the spread of the virus. These are trying times for everyone, and I have been very impressed on how our company has been able to adjust to this new reality in such a short amount of time.

As evidenced by the results of our first quarter 2020, MDC was poised to build on the strong momentum we generated in 2019, thanks to a continued favorable economic backdrop, elevated consumer confidence and low levels of existing inventory. Demand for our homes were exceptionally strong in the period leading up to the escalation of the virus spread, as buyers responded positively to our home offering, particularly at the more affordable price point. This order momentum begin to deteriorate at the end of the quarter, as it became evident that we had a nationwide need to take unprecedented action to deal with this pandemic.

While the pandemic has caused a slowdown that is unlike any other in our industry has faced, many of the steps we are taking to adjust to this new reality are the same ones we have taken throughout the downturns in the past and ultimately [ph] strived (04:39). We have one of the most experienced management teams in the industry, a distinction that provides our company with the knowledge and history perspective to navigate challenging times such as this.

Although it is unclear what the full impact of the pandemic will be on our economy, I am confident that we have the right people and strategy in place to respond to the challenges we are facing. One of the keys to weathering any storm with how you – is how you are prepared going into one and MDC has always put an emphasis on being prepared for the unexpected. We consistently maintain one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry, and we believe this strength will be a considerable asset for our company during this time of uncertainty.

We ended the first quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 37% and a net debt-to-capital that was 25%. Total availability of liquidity at the end of the first quarter stood at $1.4 billion, including $452 million of cash and investment, and $959 million available under our $1 billion line of credit with low leverage, ample liquidity, and senior note coming due – not coming due until 2024, MDC remains one of the most financially sound and well-capitalized companies in the homebuilding industry.

MDC's first quarter earnings call points out the very exceptional point. MDC is well positioned from an operational standpoint to deal with the sudden slowdown this business model that adheres to a build-to-order strategy and limit speculative home production. While we acknowledge the building of new home inventory in anticipation of demand can improve asset turns in good time, but it can also lead to distressed sales and depressed margins, especially in bad times.

We believe the more prudent strategy is to have a buyer in place before building the home and that the opportunity to personalize a home is attractive to buyers. We also believe that a buyer who has been engaged in the homebuilding process [ph] is the selection of finishes (07:59) in their homes is more invested in the process and therefore, is less likely to cancel. Excluding models, approximately 90% of our work-in-process inventory balance, at the end of March, was sold and that the remaining – and that fact remains true even now as we've – through end of April.

Another way we have limited our downside risk is through our land management strategy, which targets approximately a three-year land supply. We feel that this level of land inventory give us an appropriate runway of loss to grow our presence in our markets, while limiting our exposure when conditions deteriorate.

We have additional flexibility with respect to our lot inventory, thanks to our use of option agreements to control land. Not only is this a more capital efficient way to manage our capital, it also gives us the ability and opportunity to renegotiate the terms of the agreement when selling conditions take a turn to the worse.

In summary, the housing industry and the broader economy are currently facing an uncertain future brought about by a global pandemic. And though there is still many unknowns on how this will ultimately play out, we believe MDC is well-prepared for whatever comes next to our seasoned leadership team, our solid financial condition and our risk adverse operation strategy. We run our business to be successful to the entire homebuilding cycle and we feel this mindset has made us better equipped to adversely handle all such issues. It has also allowed us to pay an industry-leading dividend to our shareholders, which translate to a 4.6% yield, predicated on yesterday's closing.

And with that, I would like to turn it over to Bob Martin, who will handle additional financial details and conditions and the state of our operations. Bob?

Thank you, Larry. I will keep my comments on first quarter information relatively brief this morning, so that I can focus more time on current market conditions, including the selected information for April that was published in our release this morning. During the first quarter, our homebuilding pre-tax income increased by 21% to $49.7 million, driven by 8% growth in home sale revenues to $697.1 million and a 100 basis point expansion in home sale gross margins to 19.9%. Our mortgage company was also successful during the quarter with a 65% increase in pre-tax earnings to $8.2 million.

However, the success of our homebuilding and mortgage operations was offset by unrealized losses on equity securities of $13.9 million, due to the severe impact of COVID-19 on the stock market whereas in the prior year, we had an unrealized gain on equity securities of $4.6 million. As a reminder, these equity securities form part of the investment portfolio held by our insurance companies, and the holding period of these investments is intended to align with the longer term nature of the underlying insurance reserves held by these companies. Furthermore, about a third of the unrealized value lost in the first quarter was recovered in April.

As a result of the unrealized losses, net income for the first quarter of 2020 decreased to $36.8 million or $0.56 per diluted share versus $40.6 million or $0.64 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2019. Our tax rate dropped from 27.1% to 24.3% for the 2020 first quarter. The decrease in rate was primarily the result of a windfall on non-qualifying stock options, exercised and lapsed restricted stock awards during the quarter, as well as energy tax credits related to homes closed during the quarter. These benefits were partially offset by a decrease in the amount of executive compensation that is deductible under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).

Homes delivered increases 14% year-over-year to 1,547, driven by an increase in the number of homes we had in backlog to start the quarter. We estimate that we lost approximately 50 deliveries during the first quarter to delays or cancellations caused by COVID-19. The increase in units delivered was slightly offset by a 5% decrease in our average selling price to about $451,000. This decrease was in line with our strategic focus on affordability, as a percentage of our deliveries from more affordable product collections rose to 56% for the first quarter of 2020 versus 49% for the same period a year ago.

COVID-19 has created numerous challenges to the process of finishing and closing our homes. But many of those challenges were addressed by using technology to supplement or replace in-person processes as needed. For most of our markets, residential construction activity is deemed an essential service, so construction activity has continued with precautionary measures in place, even during shelter-in-place orders.

Within our footprint, the most severe restrictions we encountered were in Washington State, which deemed residential construction as non-essential in late March. However, in late April, the Governor eased those restrictions, which has allowed our construction activities to resume with strict safety measures in place. Despite the ongoing challenges related to COVID-19, we still saw deliveries increase by 11% year-over-year in April.

As previously mentioned, our gross margin from home sales improved by 100 basis points year-over-year to 19.9%. This increase was due to a lower percentage of spec home deliveries in the first quarter of 2020, which typically have lower gross margin than our build-to-order deliveries. Gross margin for both our spec and build-to-order deliveries also benefited from price increases implemented during the second half of 2019. Naturally, there is a potential for pressure on gross margins, if difficult economic conditions persist and force home price reductions or increased incentives.

However, to-date, we have not widely adjusted prices or incentives and therefore, our backlog margins have not changed significantly since the start of the year. Additionally, to protect gross margin, we are negotiating with our subcontractors for reductions to labor and material costs, given a more uncertain demand environment.

Our total dollar SG&A expense for the 2020 first quarter was up $7 million from the 2019 first quarter. The increase is mostly due to higher general and administrative and marketing expense due to increased compensation related expenses, driven by a higher average head count during the quarter. Marketing expenses were also impacted by increased sales office expense and product advertising due to an increase in average active subdivisions.

Our general and administrative expense for the first quarter of 2020 includes approximately $800,000 of severance expense. Since mid-March, approximately 140 positions across the company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated, given the uncertainties presented by COVID-19. These reductions have amounted to about 8% of our total workforce. The dollar rate of our net orders increased 28% year-over-year to nearly $1.1 billion, driven by a 23% increase in unit net orders and a 5% increase in average selling price.

Our monthly absorption rate of 4.3% was a 16% increase from the 2019 first quarter. The improvement occurred both in more affordable and traditional product categories, and the largest year-over-year percentage increases were in Phoenix, Seattle, Utah, Nevada and both Northern and Southern California. Our first quarter net orders further benefited from a 6% year-over-year increase in average active subdivisions. The increase in average selling price for net orders was driven by a shift in mix to Southern California, which is one of our highest priced markets. The average selling price also benefited from price increases implemented over the past nine months.

On the next slide, we provided some detailed information on the monthly cadence of sales and cancellations including for April. As Larry, noted earlier, we experienced a significant decline in traffic and order activity during the second half of March and continuing into April because of COVID-19. As a result, the strong year-over-year increases we saw in January and February faded to a 53% year-over-year decrease for net orders in April. As you can see on the table, a large part of the decrease for net orders was due to elevated cancellations. We estimate that approximately 100 of 305 cancellations accepted in April were directly related to the impact of COVID-19.

Geographically, the largest year-over-year decreases in net order activity for April occurred in Washington, Nevada, Northern California and Florida. For gross orders, the year-over-year decrease for April was only 27%. Though this was still a significant decrease, we found it encouraging to see so many buyers writing contracts during such a turbulent time. Also, as many of our peers have already noted, order activity in the back half of April showed improvement relative to earlier in the month.

Additionally, the level of gross order activity was encouraging, given that we have not widely used additional incentives or price decreases to drive sales activity. Our patience in this area stems from several factors: first, the overall level of new and existing home inventory is low in our markets across the country; second, given our build-to-order model, we have a very low amount of unsold speculative inventory on our books, less than 400 units in any stage of construction at the end of March; finally, even after a lackluster month of sales in April, we have 4,487 homes in backlog, which was 18% higher than at the end of April a year ago.

With the impact of COVID-19 becoming increasingly apparent in March, we approved only 2,087 lots for purchase during the first quarter of 2020, which was a significant drop from the 4,756 lots we approved in the fourth quarter of 2019. However, total land spend for the quarter still was up almost 35% year-over-year to $225 million. I would expect our rate of spend to decrease in Q2, based on steps we have taken to reduce cash outflows during this time of uncertainty.

Specifically, we have worked with our land sellers to extend the closing date for many of the land purchases that were planned in the coming months. Additionally, for lots we own, we have adjusted or delayed planned development activities to decrease cash expenditures in the short-term. Our lot supply at the end of the quarter was 19% higher than at the same point in 2019 and 31% of the lot supply was controlled by option.

To sum up, I first want to make it clear that safety will continue to be a top priority, as we continue into the second quarter, even as we see some loosening of shelter-in-place restrictions. It is hard to take an optimistic view when COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause pain and uncertainty for so many people across the world. However, we are encouraged that low housing supply and interest rates continue to attract customers to our industry.

We take pride in our strong balance sheet and strategic market positioning, which have been developed over time based on the experiences of our most senior leaders and allow us to reward our shareholders over the long-term.

That concludes my prepared remarks and we'll now open up the line for questions.

We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] First question comes from John Lovallo, Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my questions and I hope everyone is doing well. The first question is, it sounds like you guys have been very disciplined on the pricing front, but have you seen any easing in kind of pricing from some of your competitors in any of your markets. Does any of the discipline across the industry begin to erode?

I think that where you have circumstances that some of the builders that have speculative inventory have probably become more inclined to have price adjustment, because of carrying too many specs. As Bob mentioned, our entire company from foundations to completion only has 400 specs and I think the completion amount of specs bubble, I have to comment, when I'm through is a reasonable amount. So, it's a matter of how did you run your business? And MDC always runs the business on a strong backlog. As we commented 90% of our WIP is all pre-sold, so the markets are specific and we compete by delivering a superior product on a competitive basis. And we have not followed that path.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. And then, in terms of – I think Bob you may have mentioned that, by the numbers right here, about 105 of the cancellations were directly related to COVID-19. Can you just help us understand, I mean, is that because if you have insight in this, is that because of job loss, mortgage contingency, any help there would be appreciated?

Yeah. I think we've scrubbed our backlog pretty hard just to make sure that we understood where each of our buyers were at. Yeah, as we always do and I think, a lot of it was just due to job loss. I think you had some that were just more nervous in this environment, given the uncertainty, so those kind of things that we're floating through.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Alan Ratner, Zelman & Associates. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Glad to hear you're both doing well. First question just on that – the last topic on cancellations, can you talk a little bit about what's going on in the mortgage market and in terms of if any of those cancellations occurred maybe not necessarily by direct job loss, but because your buyers couldn't qualify for the loan any longer, given tightening and the loan program doesn't exist? Maybe their FICO score was below an overlay cutoff. And more broadly, what you've been seeing in terms of the trends of credit tightening over the last couple of weeks?

I think what we've done is, we've looked at each one individually. And we all know there were some credit tightening, both on raising FICO scores and jumbos. As you saw, our average sales prices and most markets are all in a conforming nature. And the job loss, the fallout was felt by employment and I would say, not so much underwriting. We are conservative in our mortgage operation, so our backlog with quality buyers has been carefully vetted.

And what we have done is go back again and where there is any condition of selling their home or other unique circumstances that normally would have a lower risk, we've taken them out of backlog. We continue to dialog with people, but we don't want to be under construction on something we believe has a unreasonable risk of closing. We have been able to successfully close our backlog using remote activities and technology, as they say.

And, Alan, it's working out just fine and we're maintaining that backlog quality. And as Bob said, it's a large backlog and we're managing it as you would expect us on a very conservative, but aggressive basis as far as getting the job done.

That's very helpful, Larry. Thank you. So, just interpreting what you said, it sounds like a good chunk of these cancellations were on homes that you either haven't started construction on yet or perhaps they were early enough in the construction process, where you felt comfortable kind of scrubbing that backlog and making sure you can put additional dollars into the ground. Is that a fair characterization?

I would say, it's a reasonable characterization. We're not interested in building homes that don't have a real commitment, whether the commitment is from our own mortgage company or from others, where we had outside loan commitments in writing from others in our mortgage company. We evaluate, we have, and we are, and we will, the quality of those commitments and the information that they had, when they issued the letters. So, we're doing and you might say double scrub, relying on someone else, not so much relying on ourselves, of course. And so therefore, we're going through it in a proper way that makes it balance for getting that backlog, maintaining that 90% that was sold within WIP.

That's helpful. Thanks a lot. Good luck and stay safe.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Stephen Kim, Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much, guys. First question, I guess, talk a little bit about the end market. I guess, particularly in April, what I'd be interested in. I guess, you could talk about the inflation, but also just the gross order activity on your – across your portfolio these and/or some of the more move-up products. Do you see any change that was worth calling out between those various product types?

I think that what you see is probably the affordable, as defined and each market is different, has got more attention and it's a deeper broader market. As you know, every market is a little different in every product and subdivision. And as you know, Stephen, that we are focused on affordable product and we have a broad range of affordable product and we've been able to bring it into almost every market we're building in. And this has individual – in addition to being able to individualize the homes yourself, you're also able to get a new and now evolving more modern look on the products.

And as you can see from the disclosure, our model home have increased, and that is new and exciting product. But also, those – the growth in the subdivision count, we continue to move forward. And I think during these different times, we will be able to focus on expanding even more the depth of our affordable product offerings.

Great. Yeah. That's certainly a continuation of what you've been saying. Another area of difference is social distancing, and I'm curious as to two ways in which you might have seen that play through your business, if you could just comment on that. One is on the construction, the actual physical construction of the units. It didn't look like there was much of an impact in 1Q, maybe there's a 1% impact on the turnover.

Was curious as to whether you expect cycle times to increase in 2Q, would that be kind of a reasonable expectation or not? And then secondly, in terms of the sales, which are happening with a greater virtual content of that process, are you seeing any ability to – because of your greater interactions with customers virtually to reduce your co-broker commission?

First of all, in the construction side, we are very proud that we have implemented the handwashing, distances, disinfectant, mask as a requirement that we have on our subdivision. And I can say that there has been testing by different regulatory groups and some of the builders that didn't get the message quick and realize that if you're going to continue construction, you need to be in the compliant.

And we do have the handwashing stations, the disinfectant and the mask and do require social distancing. And I don't think it's been a big impediment. It took a little adjustment through the guys in the field to get the message. But if they want to work and they want to get paid, then they follow the rules and those are the rules when you work on one of our jobs.

Sales, it took a little bit of adjustment, but I think it's pretty awesome. Our skills, I would say, as others improved substantially our sales skills and has required the individual salesperson, the sales manager and the division managers to really, really focus on how valuable every lead is and every person that comes in through our portals, those are leads that are extremely valuable and they've learned to work them even better.

So, I would say when we look back on this period of time, we probably improved our skills by some factor by being forced to change. And in this case, in sales, I believe it will have a very positive effect on our capture rate vis-à-vis whatever the market might be, we're not going to lose any of them, because we didn't pay attention to one lead at a time.

Okay. But no specific outlook or what you're seeing on co-brokered commissions specifically?

On the co-brokered, we have consistently been in the brokerage community as a co-broker participant. There has been a few builders that have increased that first of all maybe didn't do co-ops. Now they're doing them and we've been consistent in pricing and stayed in relationship with the brokerage community, and our commissions are consistent with what they've been. And we welcome that brokerage community as we always have in all the markets. So, our application of that issue or experience with that issue is consistent with what we think is good business, which is to maintain whether good times or bad times that relationship.

Got you. Thanks very much, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Hello, gentlemen. I just have one question which is on – you're focused on backlog for margin preservation. I understand that. As you look forward on cost, so pricing with your vendors, because there's obviously more than one step to construction. Can you walk us through how you envision dialogs around price work, given that environment we're in right now or if it continues to be down, for example, framing versus installation versus spray paint and there's three different phases? Obviously, the house still have – you've been able to have discussions, or is potentially the trade is saying, look, too early, we don't know if there's going to be a bounce back in May as restrictions get out of Northern California, Washington, as opposed to what you're seeing in Denver. Could you give us some thought around how that might – that discussion might work out? Thank you very much.

The discussion has worked out well. We started asking for a price adjustment maybe six weeks ago. We've continued those efforts. We are receiving in current payment cycle. Many of the concessions that we received, we expect to and are being successful in reducing our cost in many of the areas across the country and expect that to continue with the reduction of apartments, reduction of commercial, and the overall reduction of residential.

Our trade partners understand that when they have the – some of them, not all of them had euphoria of last year of every month things were getting better, the reciprocal is working now, maybe every month we'll get a little slower and the trades are adjusting and they're responding by getting us in some cases the meaningful concessions. And we are using those concessions as applicable in enhancing what we're working on in the opportunities, the pricing.

The other thing that you didn't mention, but I will, is the land sale part of it. Most, not all, but most of the land sellers are extending time of performance out. They are extending, in some cases, pricing. And since our discipline of acquiring land is very conservative, we are never in a position that we have a meaningful amount of dollars invested that are at risk regardless of what happens. So, we've spread the risk in our contracting and the land developers I think are being very smart by extending – giving you time and in some cases, some price concession. They really enhance the relationships and they need the relationship with the large builders, because that's their source of cash flow and profit.

So, I would say purchasing has worked out well, and we're continuously working on it, and we're on this current pay period, many of the concessions we're realizing and that's kind of how thing been at this point on your question.

I appreciate that. Yeah. Was there any issues with your trade going bankrupt due to all these cash flow concerns? I know there's a lot of stimulus out there, but have you seen any of the contractors going bankrupt due to the lack of liquidity? Thank you.

Well, first of all, we always assume that they're in trouble even if they're not. So, to the maximum extent we could or can, we do joint checking to a person who provides labor and material. If it's meaningful, we joint check them. And we keep a very, very close eye on our trade partners and understand that that's a traditional risk. But usually the risk doesn't have an exposure greater than 30 days to payment, because one thing about the construction industry, no one shows up for work if you don't pay them through a little bit and a little bit could be a couple paychecks.

So, the labor part, we're able to nail quickly and the part that we watch and we document is the materials that are supplied to the subs when they provide labor. And at this point, we haven't found an issue that we were not on top of. And that's part of just running our business and staying on top of the credit issues with the trade partners.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Buck Horne, Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hey. Thanks. Good afternoon. Not to belabor the cancellation question a whole lot further, but I just want to understand if there was a timing differential between when you saw the most cancellations in April. Were there – with the fall out in March, I mean, did you see a surge of early cancellations immediately in early April, or was it more back-end loaded into the end of the month closings and how do you feel about the potential for a similar playing out of that in May? How does – how would May differ from what you saw in April?

Bob, do you want to answer that?

Sure. I'll start with cancellations. It's kind of hard to specify it week by week. I think, yeah, there was certainly a lot of uncertainty in the first part of April and the last part of March, and we talked about how our net orders improved in the back half of April. So, that certainly tells you something. I think we look at the backlog very hard and try to be conservative with our backlog, as Larry noted earlier, to try to make sure that we aren't starting houses that don't make sense to start.

So, every week, our division management meets, goes through the backlog and really evaluates it based upon kind of what was happening at that time. And of course, earlier on in April, I would say the uncertainty was a little bit greater to the extent that, that continues to get better, that we have less uncertainty here going into May and that may help our cancellation circumstance. But there's still quite a bit to be resolved in May. So, we'll wait for the next call to make reports on what's happened in May.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And maybe just – maybe focus more on the gross order trends through the month. I'm curious if you can give any extra color on how some of the – maybe more diversified markets like a Denver or maybe a Phoenix performed or started to recover relative to the more tourism-related markets like Orlando or Vegas for you? Were there any signs of improvement in some of those – in Orlando or Vegas or how did those compare and contrast versus some of your other markets?

Yeah. I would say...

Yeah. I would...

I would say your question is like on point. And so as you look at Orlando and Las Vegas, you have obviously the entertainment tourism business as the key element. And as you look at Phoenix and Denver, you have a broader base economy. And I think you'll see from all the builders, those two cities have a very good tone. And the first two cities you mentioned in Vegas and Orlando, needs improvement and improvement will come with the reengagement of tourism and gambling, which is tourism.

So, all these items are yet to be fully discovered. But every week, things have continued to have a better tone just like the stock markets. It's a little crazy. But when it's up $334 right now, you feel good. And a couple of days ago, you didn't feel so good. But our business has a good tone in those markets except dealing with tourism have continued to feel better every week, as discovery of where people's lives and their jobs are – have become more transparent, individuals become more confident to go through and have the opportunity to buy a home. And I think it's all good in long-term mortgages. $3 and change for 30 years fixed, wow.

We see that as a great opportunity to put people into affordable products at very, very competitive full payment that in most cases, most cases were less than the new apartments that are being built and opened. So, the millennials now have an opportunity to have a little space in the backyard, and I think it's going to work out as good as it could in light of the circumstances at this time.

Thanks, guys. I really appreciate the color.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. This is actually Maggie on for Mike. First, just a question on the incentives. I know that you earlier you said that you haven't really adjusted incentive levels yet, but I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you would have to see in the market for you to go out and start adjusting those incentive levels?

I think we look at it – I would almost tell almost every day. But we have quick communications between the sales office and the home office and we're able to see gross traffic daily, net traffic daily, and we're able to see gross profit margins daily, as they incur at the beginning of the sales process. So, Maggie, we will adjust specifically as we believe is necessary. And at this point, we've not found it necessary to have a substantial adjustment at this time. And remember, we're in spring selling season too. So, you've got the emotional and psychological recovery, you've got spring selling season, you've got lifetime historically low interest rates for a new mortgage. So, if you were ever going to buy one, Maggie, this is a good time to buy a home.

Okay. Thank you. And then following up on an earlier question on your affordable versus traditional products, and I apologize if I missed this, but can you talk about any differences that you saw during April in terms of the cancellation rates between the two products or even kind of the pace of improvement or any kind of improvement that you saw in the back half of April? Was it pretty steady across the board for all of your products or did you see it more so in certain pieces of your business?

I think that the general answer we saw kind of across the board, in those individual markets that are more towards the center, the Orlando, Las Vegas, I think a lot of these people are going to get re-employed. We were in a market that everyone that wanted a job, could get a job. And of course, we're looking at 30 million people unemployed in the country.

But as things reopen, so I would say it kind of was broad, but you will see a probably more growth than people expect as the economy reengages. And for everybody in every industry, I'm hopeful that that takes place. I'm confident it's going to take place for MDC, because we're at the right place at the right time with the right product and great financing. So, we expect to participate in that which is going to take place.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Truman Patterson at Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is Trevor Allinson on for Truman. Thank you for taking my question. And my first question is on option lots. We saw a nice increase there. Was that driven by a delay in purchasing land, given a demand pause, or is that done intentionally prior to the mid-March demand slowing?

That was done intentionally as a continued push that we have for optionality. And usually, the best rate of return we believe in inventory term comes from option lots if you structure the transaction properly, which is a reasonable deposit and enough timeline in order to absorb through the product. So we would always prefer to option land and hopefully finished lots or added lots. So, the closer you can tie up a parcel, in our case, we don't speculate land, we only buy lots. So our business objective is to push hard on optioning finished lots first and then whatever level that you're able to achieve it in order to improve your return on all levels.

Okay. Thank you. And then my follow up is around land strategy. Bob, I know you said – you talked that land spend might come down a little bit in 2Q. Well, I'm assuming you're probably seeing a little less competition there than you were previously. And so, would you consider maybe becoming more aggressive on your land spend from that standpoint that perhaps maybe pricing is a little more – you're getting a little better pricing now than what you were just a couple of months ago?

I think it's always tempting to step in, but I think what our strategy is. We have to deal with what uncertainty exists right now. So, I don't think it's an automatic that we jump in at this time. I think right now we're focused on making sure that we are in a position to generate cash, and then we would move forward with acquisitions at such time as we start to see a little bit more clarity in the market. At this point, I don't really think that a lot of sellers out there are wholesale, saying that they're going to take price concessions. It's more about really just pushing out the transactions for a period of time.

Okay. Got it. Thank you. Good luck.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. And I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

I'd like to thank you all for participating on our call. Our thoughts are with everyone as we continue to navigate through the COVID-19 pandemic. And we look forward to talking again after our next earnings announcement.

Thanks all of you.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.