corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 14, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings' 2005 Second


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we


will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the conference to Mr. Joe Fretz, who will read the statements concerning


the forward-looking statements. Mr. Fretz, you may begin, sir.


Joseph H. Fretz, Secretary and Corporate Counsel


Before introducing Larry Mizel and Gary Reece, it should be noted that certain statements made


during this conference call, including those related to M.D.C.'s anticipated home closings, home


gross margins, backlog value, revenues and profits and responses to questions may contain


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from


the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


These and other factors that could impact the Company's actual performance are set forth in the


Company's 2004 Form 10-K.


It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use


of non-GAAP financial measures. Should a non-GAAP financial measure be discussed, the


information required by Regulation G will be posted on the Investor Relations section of our


website, richmondamerican.com.


I will now introduce Larry Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of M.D.C.


Holdings.


Larry A. Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone, and welcome to M.D.C.'s 2005 second quarter conference call and


webcast. We are pleased to announce record quarterly operating profits for the 12th consecutive


quarter, and for the 23rd time in the last six years. Improving job growth, declining unemployment,


rising consumer confidence, low interest rates and a generally improving economy are providing


M.D.C. and other well-capitalized public builders with a strong platform for producing outstanding


results. However, our industry's superior performance over the past decade demonstrates an ability


to prosper in a wide range of economic circumstances. This has resulted in no small part from


forces driving the consolidation of the U.S. homebuilding industry in favor of M.D.C. and its public


peers.


M.D.C. has emerged as one of the strongest performers in this dynamic sector, as well as any


other sector in corporate America. Our recent recognition as one of the top six companies named to


the prestigious Barron’s 500 attest to this fact. Aided by our conservative operating model,


geographic diversification and strong financial position, we have produced record earnings,


revenues, operating margins and returns, including our 28.6 home gross margin in the 2005 second


quarter, and a 31.2% after-tax return on average equity over the last 12 months.


As we produce these record results, we remain focused on enhancing shareholder value, while


strengthening our financial position. Total stockholders' equity now exceeds 1.6 billion, and our


quarter-end ratio of net debt-to-capital of 0.30 is one of the lowest in the industry. We increased our
corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 14, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


June 30th cash and available borrowing capacity by nearly 60% from this time last year, and our


financial flexibility improved even more last week when we closed on the issuance of an additional


250 million in medium-term notes at a coupon rate of only 5.38%. To achieve our desired balance


in the allocation of capital between growing our operations and sharing our success with our


shareholders, we increased our quarterly dividend by 56% over last year, effectively tripling the


dividends we paid 24 months ago.


In our most recent quarter, we received more orders for homes than in any previous quarter, and


our quarter-end backlog valued at just over $3 billion, was at an all-time high, evidencing that the


overall demand for new homes has been strong. With 30% increase in our lot supply and active


subdivisions, and our highest ever quarter-end backlog, we are positioned to generate new


Company highs for revenues and earnings in 2005, and we look forward to a continued solid


growth in 2006.


I would now like to turn this call over to Gary Reece, our Chief Financial Officer, who will describe


more specific financial highlights of our 2005 second quarter.


Paris G. Reece, III, Executive Vice President, Principal Accounting Officer, and Chief Financial


Officer


Thank you, Larry. To begin with, and those of you following the slides, you can see from this slide


that we produced a record second quarter operating income level of $102.6 million, up 24% from


this time last year on record revenues of $1.046 billion, which is up 20%. This produces earnings


per share of $2.25, which is 20% above the $1.87 we earned a year ago.


One of the things that we benefited from in this quarter, I wanted to point out, you will note that our


tax rate declined from even sequentially from the first quarter from 37.7% to 37.4%, and is down


110 basis points from this time last year, primarily related to the new Section 199 production


activities deduction that we discussed last quarter, and the benefits of reduced effective state tax


rate. This helped our earnings per share this quarter by about $0.04 a share relative to last year,


and this is an effective tax rate that should continue for the balance of this year. And as many of


you noticed, production activities deduction is not just a 2005 phenomenon, it does continue, and at


an increased rate through the balance of this decade.


The results – the record results we produced were driven by record profits from our homebuilding


segment, primarily improved results in our growth markets in Arizona, Nevada and Virginia and our


new markets in Utah and Florida. We produced a record level of $187.6 million, up 23% from last


year on home sales revenues of $1.030 billion, up 20% from last year. The primary drivers of this


growth are a 14% increase in home closings, an increase in average selling prices of close to


$14,000 per unit, and 100 basis point improvement in home gross margins.


From a closing level standpoint, you can see from this slide, a stratification of our closing levels in


this quarter. You will see that the largest increases actually occurred in the state of Florida, followed


by Arizona and Utah. We closed 3,512 homes, up 14% from last year, largely attributable to the fact


that we began the quarter with a record backlog, which was up 11% over last year. And we did


convert about 44% of that backlog, which is fairly consistent with where we were in 2004.


From the standpoint of average selling prices, these prices were a bit higher than the guidance we


discussed in our last conference call and higher than we had anticipated, primarily due to the


closing of a greater number than expected homes in the higher priced California markets and fewer


homes as of the end of the quarter in the lower-priced markets in Arizona. We did complete the


quarter with an average price of $293,200, which is up close to 14,000 from last year. Every market


in the Company was up with the exception of Texas. And as this graph shows where those