Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Kevin McCarty — Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Larry A. Mizel — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Robert Nathaniel Martin — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Michael Jason Rehaut — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Stephen S. Kim — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Ivy Lynne Zelman — Analyst, Zelman Partners LLC
John Lovallo — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Will Randow — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Paul Allen Przybylski — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Jay McCanless — Analyst, Sterne Agee CRT
Nishu Sood — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Alex Barron — Analyst, Housing Research Center LLC
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. We are ready to begin the M.D.C. Holdings, Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.

I will now turn the call over to Kevin McCarty, Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. Sir, you may begin your call.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings 2015 third quarter earnings conference call. On the call with me, today I have Larry Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After finishing our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, at which time we will request that participants limit themselves to one question and one follow-up question. Please note that this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay. For information on how to access the replay, please visit our website at mdcholdings.com.

Before turning the call over to Larry, it should be noted that certain statements made during this conference call, including those related to MDC's business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, strategies and prospects, and responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the company's third quarter 2015 Form 10-Q, which is scheduled to be filed with the SEC today. It should also be noted that the SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Any information required by Regulation G is posted on our website with our webcast slides.

And now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Mizel for his opening remarks.

Good morning. This morning, we announced our 2015 third quarter net income of $14.8 million, or $0.30 per share. The industry demand continues to be supported by improving or already strong readings from many key economic indicators, such as employment levels, consumer confidence, household formation and income growth. In addition, anticipated interest rate increases have not yet materialized supporting affordability for our homebuyers even as prices rise. From a supply standpoint, both new and existing single-family home inventories have remained at historic lows. While the favorable supply demand dynamics are encouraging for long-term growth prospects, they also have hindered our ability to convert backlog into deliveries in the short term.

With builders across the industry continuing to ramp up production during the quarter, we saw closings delayed because of limited subcontractor availability, plus we are delivering more dirt homes now than a year ago, which has increased our overall sales to close cycle time. While the pressure on our subcontractor price should decrease over time, we expect that this dynamic will have a continued impact on our conversation rate at least for the next few quarters.

However, I am pleased to see that operational improvements in several of our key performance indicators for our business. Our pre-impairment gross margin percentage has continued in a positive direction, increasing notably both year-over-year and from the 2015 second quarter. Furthermore, when coupled with a robust increase in the average sales price of our homes delivered, our pre-impairment gross margin per home closed for the quarter was just over $70,000 per home, our highest level since 2006. From a sales standpoint, we experienced an 8% year-over-year increase in our monthly sales absorption rate. Despite the price increases, we have implemented many of our communities throughout 2015.

Our ending active community count improved only slightly from the 2015 second quarter, but further improvement is expected by the end of the year. The pace of our land acquisitions quickened during the quarter, as we spent $145 million in acquiring more than 1,800 lots in 45 communities. As a result, our lots under control at the end of the quarter increased 6% from the end of the second quarter in support of our long-term growth objectives. Our backlog at the end of the quarter reached nearly $1.2 billion, up 49% year-over-year. Even with the slowdown in our conversion rate, this level of backlog gives us good visibility to continue year-over-year revenue improvements for the upcoming quarters.

Thank you for your interest and attention. I will now turn the call over to Bob Martin for specific financial highlights.

Thank you, Larry, and welcome to everyone on the call. Turning to slide four; we delivered 1,080 new homes during the quarter versus 1,093 in the prior year. Our third quarter backlog conversion rate came in at 42%, which was lower than the 58% for the same quarter last year. As Larry already mentioned, the decrease is largely due to the intentional reduction of our spec inventory over the past year, which has increased the average time from sale to close for our homes. The conversion rate was also negatively impacted by limited subcontractor availability, which had a bigger impact on third quarter closings than we originally expected.

The subcontractor issue is having a significant impact on our Colorado market. As we discussed on our last earnings call, higher than average rainfall totals throughout the first half of the year in Colorado has pushed more construction activity to the back half of the year, placing more pressure on the already strained contractor base. Other markets have also been impacted, but to a lesser degree. In some cases, competition for qualified labor is coming from both single-family and multi-family construction projects.

Looking forward, our fourth quarter backlog conversion rate should increase sequentially, which is our normal seasonal trend. However, the magnitude of the increase is difficult to gauge given the subcontractor issues we have highlighted. Additionally, this will be the first quarter that will be impacted by the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure rule, which could cause additional delays that impact closings that may otherwise be completed by the end of the quarter. Recognizing those risks, I currently do not expect a fourth quarter backlog conversion rate any higher than 50%.

Our average price increased by 14% or $51,000 per home to $421,000, primarily the result of a mix shift to higher price submarkets, combined with some price increases that were implemented earlier in the year. The increase in average price more than offset our 1% decline in closings. And as a result, our third quarter home sale revenues were up 12% year-over-year to $455 million.

Next slide. Due to a $4.4 million impairment during the quarter, our gross margin from home sales decreased slightly both sequentially and year-over-year. However, our gross margin from home sales excluding impairments was 17.3%, which was 80 basis points higher than the 2014 third quarter and 70 basis points higher than the 2015 second quarter.

Both the year-over-year and sequential increases in our gross margin were primarily driven by the increased percentage of our deliveries coming from dirt homes, which typically have a higher margin than spec sales, combined with improved margins on the spec homes we did deliver.

Additionally, our interest in cost of sales as a percentage of home sale revenues decreased for both periods. Our margin progression continues to be hampered somewhat by an increase in both land and construction costs, but we have minimized the impact of these factors by increasing home prices. The impairments we saw during the quarter mostly came from a few communities in the Mid-Atlantic, which has been one of our weaker geographic areas over the past year. Our estimated gross margin in backlog at the end of the quarter moved slightly lower on a sequential basis. Q4 margins will depend on, among other things, the mix of units that pull through and the impact of specs that sell and close during the quarter.

Turning to slide six. On the SG&A front, our homebuilding SG&A expense rate of 12.6% for the 2015 third quarter was almost unchanged year-over-year. Looking at individual categories, general and administrative expense increased by $5.4 million year-over-year, which is currently due to additional stock option expense resulting from a grant to senior executives earlier this year. Also, due to a downward adjustment to potential payout amounts under our executive incentive plan last year, there was no accrual for this program in the third quarter of 2014, whereas we had a more typical accrual in the third quarter of 2015.

Marketing expense did not change year-over-year, but commissions were up by $1.4 million. That entire increase is attributable to our increase in home sale revenues as our sales commissions rate of 3.3% was actually down slightly from 3.4% the same quarter a year ago. Even though we did not achieve improvement in our SG&A expense ratio this quarter due to closing delays, our core homebuilding operating margins improved by about 70 basis points year-over-year to 4.7%, on the strength of improvement in our pre-impairment gross profit percentage.

Turning now to orders; our net new orders for the quarter were up 3% over the prior year, which represented our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year order growth, and our highest third quarter order level since 2007. Our monthly absorption rate of 2.37% was up 8% from the prior year period, a solid result given that we have increased prices in most of our communities during the year. However, the increased absorption rate was partially offset by a slight decline in our average active community count.

The dollar value of our orders increased 13% year-over-year to $489 million. The increase in dollar value was mostly the result of a 10% increase in our average order price to $441,000 due to the price increases I mentioned in most of our active subdivisions during the year, coupled with a shift in the mix of net new orders to higher priced communities. From a regional perspective, we experienced the most strength in our California and Nevada operations, with monthly sales absorption rates of 3.1% and 3.0% respectively for the quarter. California and Washington showed some of our largest average price movement, with increases of 35% and 21% respectively.

Our homes in backlog to end the quarter were up 38% year-over-year on a unit basis to 2,587 homes with a value just under $1.2 billion, which was up 49% year-over-year. Even with the potential for continued closing delays due to limited subcontractor availability, the magnitude of the backlog increase provides some visibility to revenue growth in coming quarters. We've not seen an increase in our cancellations for the quarter despite a much larger number of units in backlog, which is encouraging given the closing delays that we have seen. As a percentage of gross orders, our cancellation rate was down slightly year-over-year to 25% in the third quarter and as a percentage of beginning backlog, our cancellation rate for the same period was down 600 basis points year-over-year to 14%.

Turning to slide eight, our ending active community count was at 157, up slightly from where we were at the end of the second quarter. On the chart to the right, note that our soon-to-be active subdivisions still exceed our soon-to-be inactive subdivisions by 17. We still expect to see our year-end community count to be up compared to the 159 count that we had at the end of 2014.

And moving now to slide nine, during the quarter, we acquired 1,806 lots for approximately a $145 million. We spent additional $61 million on development costs, bringing our total spend for the quarter to $206 million. At the end of the quarter, we owned or controlled 15,777 lots, which represented about a 3.6-year supply on a trailing 12-month delivery basis.

This level of land acquisition was our highest since the third quarter of 2013, and it moved our total supply of lots owned and controlled up on a sequential basis for the first time in five quarters. We did not reduce our underwriting standards to achieve this increase in land acquisition activity, rather it's the culmination of several quarters of sourcing and due diligence from our land teams across the country. The bulk of the activity for the third quarter came in markets where sales velocity and returns have been among the company's highest, specifically California, Nevada, and Colorado. We continue to see a good pipeline of deals coming in for review, and we are carefully evaluating each one of the appropriate balance between risk and return.

That concludes our prepared remarks. At this time, we'd like to open up the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Thanks, and good morning, everyone. The first question I had was just going back to community count for a moment. We understand that your comments included an expectation for 4Q to be up sequentially – average community count to be up sequentially versus 3Q. But I think earlier you had talked about a year-end community count goal up 5% to 10%. Is that something that you still expect to achieve, or given some of the delays, we should be thinking something a little more modest relative to that number?

Hi, Mike, it's Bob. It's a good question. And you're right on the prior statements. I would say at this point, we still have an opportunity to get this somewhere around that 5% increased level, 10% seems a little bit too optimistic at this point. So closer to the 5% appears more reasonable.

Okay. That's helpful, Bob. Appreciate that. And also on the interest amortization in COGS, obviously this quarter on a year-over-year basis driving really I guess the improvement in terms of the reported gross profit margin, ex-impairment. So just trying to get a sense, given your current debt levels and inventory and perhaps we are looking a little bit into the future here, but how should we think about that trend into next year? I mean, would you expect that impairment, I'm sorry the interest amortization, to continue to come down and drive some of the improvement? Or would you expect improvement, if you expect improvement at all, would that be driven more through a pre-interest improvement around either mix or pricing or better land purchases?

Well, I guess on the interest in cost of sales for the third quarter, we were at about 280 basis points. On a historical basis, we've seen it a lot lower than that. So, I think there is potentially room for improvement in that number, but it does depend on velocity, both what we're experiencing currently and what we expect to experience. So, that one comes with a caveat. In terms of other gross margin improvements, we really don't forecast a number out there. Certainly, we've been very focused on balancing price increases with an absorption pace to try to see if there is additional room to improve the gross profit margin. And we will continue that focus as we move forward. As for the land purchases, as I indicated in my prepared remarks, and we've been very cognizant, we do not believe we've reduced our underwriting standards for the new stuff that we bought. So, we'll see how those ones turn out.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays. Your line is open.

Thanks very much, guys. First question related to a comment I think, Bob, that you made regarding your backlog in – sorry, your margin in backlog being little lower sequentially. I guess I was curious if you could shed a little more light into that. Specifically, because I would have thought that your backlog maybe would have had a bigger mix of Colorado units because you had mentioned that as the area where you had a lot of labor constraints. And you had also indicated that Colorado margins or returns, in that market are very good, I think when you were talking about your land spend. So, just trying to reconcile those two factors, why do you think your margin in backlog is trending down when you have that favorable tailwind?

Yeah. That's a good question, Steve. There's a couple of things. First of all, the comment was with respect to the margins in backlog at June 30 versus the margins in backlog at September 30, just to be clear.

Yeah.

And it's not a dramatic decrease, I described it as slight, Steve. There is a little bit of mix going on. You've got Colorado in there, but we've got fairly decent margins in Las Vegas and that moved down a little bit. So, that's part of it. We also saw spec margins move down just a little bit in backlog as well. So, those are two of the factors.

Okay. That's helpful. And then I guess second question would be related to the pace of sales in light of labor constraints, and it seems that your absorptions were pretty good, improved and it was just that you didn't have as many communities open. But I was curious, if the longer cycle times are encouraging you in any noticeable way to reduce the level or intentionally slow the pace of sales essentially either through raising prices or whatnot, maybe if you could just shed a little light on that?

Yeah. We commented in the second quarter specific to Colorado that we actually limited lot releases to slow down sales to a certain degree in that quarter. Third quarter and fourth quarter, the activity is not as robust [ph] NUS (21:37). So, it's a sub-division by sub-division look at things, certainly production levels and how many years we have in backlog come into account as we're talking about that. And I think as we get into the fourth quarter, but especially, as we get to Q1 and Q2, we'll continue to see how that story plays out, and how aggressively we want to increase prices. But it is a part of the equation, the level of backlog, no doubt about it, along with just our overall absorption pace, it's certainly a balancing act.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman & Associates. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good afternoon, guys. If you could just take a bigger picture view of the world and recognize, there seems to be a lot of panic in housing related equities right now, and some of that is related to misses on revenue, obviously constrained around labor, delivery and backlogs; we saw Pulte, now we saw you guys, and kind of curious just with respect to the inflation that you're going to see as a result of these labor constraints and really looking out and not putting a definitive number, but is this going to result in contraction in growth, enough that or moderation in growth that we won't even see growth. I think having some of your perspective, Larry to allow for some of that optimism that you spoke of at the beginning of the call with all the metrics, whether you cited they are pointing in the right direction, household formation, employment, affordability, I think people are running for the exits on the presumption that growth is actually not only going to moderate, but we're going to see contraction in housing, and I think, having some of your views as it relates to the constraints and what it will do to growth, is it something that is a structural change now, because we have unfortunately no longer illegal immigrants working for the homebuilding industry and therefore can't be fixed. Give us some of your perspective on what we can see for growth with these constraints or some perspective that will frame it for us, because I think a lot of people are panicking based on how the equity is trading. Thank you.

I think we're in a period of time that all the factors are coming together that I believe will signal a strong housing market. As to the numbers of whether you're going to do 600,000 sales or 800,000 or 540,000, it's not fully clear. But one thing is clear, the market has a good tone that the majority of builders have good demand that the mortgage market is certainly opening more and more every month. There is a new lender coming in. So, we're able to expand the prospective mortgage supply to the buyers. We see the aggregate unemployment rate in our country continuing to contract. I think the building business as an industry is going to improve on a very solid basis. There is not a lot of speculation going on. The markets that we're in are we're very focused. When you look at the West Coast, you look at the salient places, whether they're Colorado, Arizona improving; Nevada continuing to perform; Utah, you look at the unemployment rate, I think it's like three and change and we're expanding there; Washington, everyone kind of knows what's happening there; and California is pretty robust.

We are very pleased with our absorption rate. We're pleased that we've continued to expand our land acquisition in light of the fact that we have controls that take us in the level of three years to four years of land supply, and we're expecting to be able to meet those objectives. I think this is a unique time for the industry. Usually, it's not always where you have plenty of money, you have a good demand, there's no drama going on per se in the United States, other than maybe a Presidential election, which will be interesting.

So I would say individually and as a person in the industry, this is pretty good. And you give a time for execution over the next couple years, I think people will be very pleased with the performance of this industry as it regains its traction from a decade ago.

Well, that's helpful, Larry. But let me just follow up with one more question, just to drill in a little bit further, because with the labor constraints, and Denver is definitely a market where we appreciate the labor constraints are the greatest. Does this work itself out over time and do you see the industry figuring out how to bring in more labor? Is it about rotating out of where jobs are being lost into construction-related job? Is it something that will be an impediment for growth or is this just labor issue something that'll work itself out? And do the labor inflationary cost, are they going to negatively impact margins or are they offset with commodity deflation and home price appreciation?

I think that the home price appreciation will mitigate the labor supply. In all the years that we've been in the business, it's only natural that we have a labor shortage when we have a demand. Usually, we have too much labor when there is no demand. So does it work itself out? The one thing about labor in this country, even though there is a shortage in our industry, it follows pricing. And when you aren't able to get adequate labor at $18 an hour, maybe at $25 an hour, there is migration from other parts of the country to those parts of the country where there's demand factor and this is in several of the trades, but I think it's all good. It's better to have a labor shortage with a strong demand than to have something that was different that we previously experienced over the recession. So these are all good problems, and like everyone, we will solve them because that's what our job is.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo with Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Thanks very much for taking my call. First question is, can you quantify to what degree build times have extended on a year-over-year basis?

Gosh, on dirt builds, you're probably talking in the neighborhood of 5% to 10% just very roughly.

Got you. Okay. And then I guess my second question is if we think about just the progression of the quarter, just given the September print in new home sales, was there any decline in demand that you guys saw kind of throughout the quarter or how was the cadence throughout the quarter?

I mean, we really saw the opposite. We saw more activity towards the end of the quarter, both sequentially and year-over-year.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow with Citigroup. Your line is open.

Hi, guys, and thanks for taking my question. I guess in terms of when you think about potential for constraints on growth and waiting for – proactively I guess waiting for the labor issues to work themselves out, how do you think about the balance sheet? In a lower growth environment, maybe level off the balance sheet, think about potential stock buyback, increasing the dividend. And just what are your thoughts there in terms of how can you be proactive while the labor issue kind of sorts itself out?

We expect to be proactive on an active basis. So all the elements that one should be doing, we're doing. We have from a decade ago a authorization for buying back stock, and I think it's been – what year was the year that we bought back stock?

2003.

2003. So it's something that was thought of, but anyway it's a factor. The dividend, we're proud that we're able to maintain the dividend through a difficult period, and we are sensitive to making a return for our shareholders, and we're focused very diligently on the growth of the company and the profitability. And all the options are always on the table, and we will always evaluate them for whatever is the best for the shareholders.

And I guess just as a follow-up on the land market as well as some of the other building materials outside of lumber, which is pretty visible. What are you seeing; are prices backing off for good lots and good locations given the construction constraints or are there any other derivative effects to think about?

Well, one of the effects that no one really has articulated is the banks, the regional banks, have opened the credit market to land developers and where for many years all they had was problems, you're now seeing the development of land beginning to open up and to come to market. And I think that's really positive because its demand pulled; it isn't supply driven.

So we're able to see that this is an area that I believe will be properly supplied, and there is a reasonable amount of transparency. There's reports available from different public sources of availability of lots, finished lots, land, land in development. So over the next period of years, I

expect to see the supply of land priced appropriately. And the reason why it has to be priced appropriately, because if there's not a reasonable rate of return, the builders just won't buy it and these are factors for those people that are in the business every day – are pretty easily attainable as far as the information and the metrics of how one should transact.

And thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI. Your line is open.

Thank you. Actually, this is Paul Przybylski on for Stephen. The first question I had relates to your marketing expense. It was flat on a dollar basis, but last year I believe your community count was up nearly 27%, and this quarter it was down 8%. Can you add any color on that? Is that indicative of community growth? I mean, at 5% it didn't sound like it's too robust. Or what was driving that number this quarter?

Yes. The only thing I can really think of is our deferred marketing dollars per home has trended up over the course of the past few quarters, but it's not something we really focused on as a major driver.

Okay. And then Denver orders were a little bit softer than what we were expecting, and it doesn't sound like you were putting a governor on them like you did last quarter. Has the market overall slowed or is it a community count issue, anything you could add to that?

Well, I think for Denver, there is a lot of factors that come into play. I think they are managing it on a community-by-community basis. And depending on where they are at, they do some things that might slow down orders a little bit depending on the circumstances. But it didn't strike us as really anything in particular that's an issue in Denver. Obviously, prices have moved up quite a bit. That's always going to have some impact. But given that it's a third quarter, it's really not the time period that we hang our hat on. We're really just focused on the build cycle at this point.

And thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. First question I had, could you discuss how cancellation rates have trended at the beginning of the fourth quarter and how they compared to last year's 28%?

I don't think I'll comment on the fourth quarter at this point, especially given we haven't even been through a full month at this point. As I indicated, we were actually down slightly for the third quarter. I think that's a really good sign, because you had such an increase in your backlog – beginning backlog over the same period. Beginning backlog or cancellations as a percentage of beginning backlog were down 600 basis points.

Got it. The second question I had, could you discuss in percentage terms, or day terms, how much longer the cycle times are now versus where they were last year? And is M.D.C. having to pay out incentives to keep people in the backlog, to keep that cancellation rate from spiking higher?

Yes. I think I had answered the first one earlier. It's about 5% to 10% increase in cycle times, and the answer on giving extra incentives is no. We're not seeing that. We really don't need that to keep people in backlog.

Thank you.

And thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Thanks. First question I wanted to ask, there are some reports from the field that you folks are planning to reintroduce a first-time buyer product specifically. So just wanted to get your thoughts on that. What you're seeing that is driving that position? How has demand been amongst your current existing product that might be focused more towards the first-time buyer? And also, is that part of the increase in the lot count in the third quarter.

I think, first of all, one of the big factors that we look at is just the overall increase in sales price and it has gone up. For us it's gone up quite substantially across most of our markets, and that's partly a shift to the higher-end mix, and that consumer segment has been pretty good to us. So we can't complain about that.

At the same time, we do think it's wise to also have product available for more of that first-time buyer. And specifically, we're also aware that there is a millennial generation that's been delayed in coming to market that they're getting married later, having kids later. And I think the development of that kind of product is in response to that potential demographic becoming more active in the home buying process as well.

It's too early to say at this point how it's doing. We really haven't rolled it out broadly anywhere at this juncture, but it will go into production here in the next couple quarters. But certainly we are looking for land positions that support those kind of projects.

Got it. Great. I appreciate the color. And the second question, you mentioned the impairments being focused on the Mid-Atlantic market, and so a significant impairment. I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on what sort of communities and whether there are any further [ph] in line (41:15) from the Mid-Atlantic area?

And also against the absorption increase, if I remember correctly, for Maryland was quite strong. So did the impairment allow for pricing to drive absorptions? Were those two correlated because the absorption kind of stands at odds with – obviously as you folks described the relative weakness of that market compared to others.

Yes. There is a lot of questions in there. But, I guess, first of all, I'd be happy to give you a little bit more color. And with regard to any future impairments, we did a really thorough analysis for Q3 and that's how we came up with the $4.4 million of impairments. Any impairment in future periods will depend on the facts set in place when we update our analysis at that time. So I want to make that clear.

As far as the impairments go, again, most of it was on three assets in the Mid-Atlantic and it has been a weaker segment of the country for us over the last few quarters. There was a few other assets that were impaired, three more, but the bulk of the remaining impairment was just a couple assets that we had designated for sale for a couple different reasons, nothing very significant.

With regard to your comment on absorption pace getting a little bit stronger in the Mid-Atlantic, I think Maryland you said specifically, I don't think that's necessarily contrary to the story. First of all, it was coming off of a fairly low base. But, second of all, certainly in those markets, in certain subdivisions, including the ones that we impaired, we recognized the need to decrease prices to drive absorption pace. So to a certain degree that goes hand in hand in this case.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Thanks. Thanks for taking my follow up. I just wanted to kind of focus on the ASP for a second in your demographic exposures. Obviously in the $400,000s or mid-$400,000s depending if you look at ASP or price and backlog. Probably a bit higher than I would assume you guys ever thought you'd get to given your legacy in terms of more having a pretty strong focus on the first-time. So I just wanted to get a sense of, as you look at your demographic mix today, what's your percent of first-time versus first time move up and second time move up and maybe other you can put luxury or active adult in there. And within first time is it really more of that kind of better financed or higher qualified millennial that's waited 10 years or obviously doesn't seem there is like a lot of first time traditional which you think would be more on the entry level side?

Yes, I get the question there, Mike. I think first time in the quarter [ph] where it (44:45) was about 25% of what we did, and I would characterize that first-time buyer as maybe a little bit more on the higher end. There's another category of starter home I would call it, and we don't focus on that as much. You've about 50% that's in that first time move up category, and then the balance about 25% would be in that second move up category.

Okay. So, within the first time then, of that 25%, not much of that is really that entry level product that like a D.R. Horton is going after or that perhaps in the past that was more of a typical product for your portfolio?

I wouldn't say that's been typical in the past. I think we've always been tried to do a little bit of a nicer house than kind of the comparison that you brought kind of that express type of house. We've done, I think, a little bit better product than that throughout. But certainly, our mix has shifted towards a little bit more of a move-up type of house as we indicated based upon the increase in our ASP for closings and sales.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barron with Housing Research Center. Your line is open. Alex Barron with Housing Research Center, your line is open.

Yes. Thank you. Hey, guys. Sorry about then. This is more of, I guess, a higher level type question. I was kind of looking back almost 14 years, 15 years ago, what the last time you guys had similar type revenues. And it looks like the deliveries were roughly half of – I'm sorry, twice where they are today, prices were half of where they are today. But I was more interested in looking at the margins, so the margins before the housing bubble were in the 19% to 23% range, and today they are about 15%, 16%, 17% range. And I'm just trying to understand what is the difference I guess in the environment today? Or is it the lands that's higher? Is the labor higher? Or is everything just higher? I guess what I'm trying to get at is, where do you guys think normalized operating margins are going to be, and what's it going to take to get there?

Well, I think that it looks, first of all, it's tough to compare the analytics 15 years ago just off the top of my head. But to give a little tone of where we've seen the sales momentum is building, the price of course of everything over 15 years has certainly changed. I think the ratio of land to the sales price has increased as things have become more complicated in development.

So, as everything, the government's influence starting from the local city for zoning and tap fees, and all these various cost in the regulatory world, it's just like many industries, it's changed a lot, but so have the incomes. The affordability factor I think is one of the higher affordability factors in many, many years. So, these things are all balancing out as you see were gross profit margins. We are improving ours and others are adjusting as to the balance between land that had not been previously – or land that had been previously impaired in large parcels of land that has a speculative factor.

We're very focused on executing a plan, and the plan deals with appropriate absorptions, which I think the market is moving in that direction. And the rate of return to the shareholders is in line. Our objectives are in line with – that is reasonable within our industry, and we expect to do a little bit better, and we're on track for doing that. We've got more than adequate liquidity at this time for what we're doing. We are very pleased with the absorption rate. And when you look at Colorado, Nevada and California, we're able to attract – maybe a third of the lots are finished, two-thirds require development. And you put all those factors together, and you add to it, or be sensitive that our net debt to cap is around 34%, which is very healthy, which shows that we have an adequate balance sheet for growth, and that is what our desire and our objective is.

Right. And I agree, your balance sheet is very strong. But regarding the absorption rates, it seems to me they're roughly half of where I think most builders would like to be, which is roughly 4% a month and right now we're closer to 2% a month. So, you mentioned affordability; do you foresee that in the coming years the volumes are going to go back up higher? Or do you think because where ASPs are today that a lot of people with student debts and stuff like that are prevented from qualifying. Somebody was just telling me the other day that the FHA just passed some new regulations that are making it more difficult with people or with student loans to qualify; any comments on that?

Well, I think the absorption that we're doing is moving towards 3%. I think the industry is not much greater except in certain markets. The affordability is at an all-time attractive level. And the mortgage market is improving. I believe if you have a job, you have good credit and you have a down payment and you have a full set of documents, you're going to find a loan for the person. And the variable in some cases may be the down payment, but the mortgage market is opening up and it's opening up on a sequentially improving basis. More people are changing their credit requirements and even the government in some form is trying to help. In the underwriting requirements, there is some new regs that have gone into effect. But every one of us that are in the industry will comply and that's just part of the government world that we live in. We're in a regulated mortgage market for certain products and all of us are obligated to conform; to whatever it might be, we'll follow.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc. Your line is open.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon.

What I've started to do is look at the builders' margins by regions, and I wonder if you – obviously you've talked about the collective gross margin. I wonder if you could give a little flavor to your EBIT segment margins? I kind of just did it LTM. So you're basically running like 7% EBIT in the West and Mountain and maybe about 1% in the East. Could you kind of talk about how those regions, the EBIT that you guys reported in the Q, is different based upon gross margin and/or SG&A, which can obviously be impacted by price points? I would appreciate that. Thank you.

We don't comment on individual market gross profits at least at an absolute level. Our 10-Q will be coming out a little bit later today, and I think you'll see the dynamics in play in there in our MD&A section.

Okay. And then, Larry, you had mentioned how land prices ultimately need to move to a point that satisfy their customers' ability to be profitable and sustain themselves. How do you think you guys got impacted? Perhaps, does that imply 20% margin I guess for you all collectively? Would that be an assumption that we could make? And then second, how do you think builders that are forced or have made choices to go after land kind of distort that market given that pricing is strong, so there is – including yourself and some that reported last week have pointed to this labor issue. It doesn't really – I'm not sure how the land guys care about the labor issue if they have a limited land supply relative to what the builders might need to do given other inflationary elements?

Yeah. Well, first of all, on the land front, we don't know what will happen with land prices generally speaking, but it is going to be dependent upon what demand is out there. And if we do have more limited production capacity, I think you see builders who have bought land in the past may be anticipating higher levels of turnover, higher levels of overall volume in the short term will no longer necessarily be as hungry for that land going forward. So, I think that affects the balance on the land front. As for us, we continue to try to move our margin equation from a land acquisition standpoint asset by asset, and we're going to continue to be very careful about the underwriting.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. Presenters, I turn the call back to you.

Great. Thank you very much for being on the call today, and we look forward to being with you again for our fourth quarter earnings call.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.