corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the 2004 Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in the listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a


question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded. I would now like


to turn the call over to Mr. Joe Fretz who will read the statements concerning the forward-looking


statements. Mr. Fretz you may begin.


Joseph H. Fretz, Secretary and Corporate Counsel


Before introducing Larry Mizel and Gary Reece, it should be noted that certain statements made


during this conference call including those related to MDC's anticipated home closings, home


gross-margins, backlog value, revenues, and profits and responses to questions may contain


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Form Act of 1995.


These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from


the results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the


company's December 30, 2004, Form 10-Q. It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G


requires that certain information accompanies the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Should a


non-GAAP financial measure be discussed the information required by regulation G will be posted


on the Investor Relations section of our website richmondamerican.com. I will now introduce Larry


Mizel, Chairman of the board, and Chief Executive Officer of MDC Holdings.


Larry A. Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good Morning. Welcome to everyone to MDC's Fourth Quarter and full year 2004 Conference call


and webcast. 2004 was another great year for MDC. By far the most successful of our 33 years in


business. Once again we demonstrated our ability to capitalize on the factors underlying the


strength of the housing market. Last year, the economic climate was excellent for the home building


industry and MDC took full advantage of it. We ended 2004 with the most profitable quarter in our


history earning $3.17 per share, 109% higher than the fourth quarter of 2003. Full year earnings per


share increased by 79% to $8.79 and established MDC as one of the fastest growing companies in


the entire industry. Our 2004 net income of $391 million represents the seventh consecutive year


for record earnings and our total revenues of $4 billion marks our eleventh consecutive annual


record.


In addition, we achieved all time quarterly and annual highs for home closings and home gross


margins. These financial results demonstrate that our operating strategy is not only sound but also


enables us to excel within this industry. Our disciplined and conservative approaches to expansion


and capital allocation distinguish MDC for producing risk-adjusted returns among the highest of all


the home builders. In addition our 33% return on equity and 17% return on assets are among the


best in the industry and support our investment grade status. Strong demand from homes in most


of our markets in 2004, particularly during the first half of the year, led to our highest ever annual


orders for 14,248 homes. These strong orders enabled us to end the year with a record backlog of


over 6,500 homes valued at nearly $2 billion, representing a year-over-year value increase of 20%.


Our financial strength and flexibility put us in a position to grow and prosper in both an improving


and declining economy. Total stockholders equity at year-end exceeded $1.4 billion and our debt to


capital ratio net of cash of 0.19 is one of the lowest in the entire industry. Early in 2004, the term of
corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our homebuilding line of credit was extended for 5 – to 5 years and we increased our borrowing


capabilities to $700 million with the ability to further expand to 850 million with lender approval. We


expanded our shelf registration to $1 billion and earmarked $500 million for medium-term note


program. 250 million of 10 years senior notes were issued under this program in December, at our


lowest coupon ever of 5 and 3/8 %, These actions enabled us to end the year with more than $1


billion in cash and borrowing capacity. In 2004, we made great progress towards our primary goal


of enhancing shareholder value. We declared a 10% stock dividend in February and earlier this


week we completed a 1.3 for one stock split. Considering these actions and our intention to


continue paying quarterly cash dividends at $0.15 per share, we have effectively tripled the


dividend payment over the last 24 months.


In addition, we repurchased 155,000 shares of stock in 2004 at a price more than 30% below


current market, and we have 1.65 million additional shares authorized for repurchase. Clearly, our


achievements in 2004 further solidified MDC as a leader in the home building industry. On behalf


of senior management at MDC, I would like to express my deep appreciation to our shareowners,


employees, Board of Directors and business partners, who helped us achieve these outstanding


results during the past year. With our record backlog to begin the year, geographically diversified


operations and continued expansion endeavors, we are looking forward to 2005 with great


optimism. We have confidence that our disciplined operating model combined with potential job


growth, anticipated economic recovery, increased consumer confidence, and the imbalance of


supply and demand for new housing in growth markets around the country, will position us to


improve our record setting performance in 2004 with higher home closings, increased revenues,


and our 8th consecutive year of record earnings in 2005. I would now like to turn this call over to


Gary Reece, our Chief Financial Officer, who will describe more specific financial highlights of our


2004 fourth quarter and full year performance.


Paris G. Reece, III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Larry. What an introduction there. This has been a terrific year. From a standpoint of this


quarter, this was, as Larry said, this was the best quarter we have ever had. It was our tenth


consecutive record quarter, and 22nd in the last 23 quarters, so it has been quite a run. We earned


$142.6 million which is up 113% over last year; $3.17 a share which is up 109%. The – as far as


the year is concerned, this was our 7th consecutive record year, we earned $391 million up 84%,


$8.79 a share which is up 79%, and this is the first year in our history we've actually exceeded $4


billion in revenues, so it's quite a year for us. Now, our homebuilding operations were the primary


driver of these record results. We earned for the quarter over $260 million, 107% over the fourth


quarter of last year, on revenues of $1.316 billion in home sale revenues.


The primary contributors to these increases were a 28% increase in closings to a record level, a


$54,000 increase in average selling price and a 320 basis point improvement in our home gross


margins. For the year, we saw our earnings in the home building segment increase 83% to close to


$720 million on just short of $4 billion in revenues. The same drivers for the year, a 24% increase in


closings, $29,000 increase in average price and 360 basis points improvement in our home gross


margins. The closing levels as I mentioned were the – were really the largest contributor to our


increased profits for the year and for the quarter. We closed 4,323 homes in the quarter, up 28%.


The leading indicator of that was a 28% increase in backlog that we saw to begin the quarter. Every


division was higher in terms of closings. We saw that in terms of percentage increases, the largest


increase is coming from our new markets in Texas, Florida and Utah but also very large


contributions from our existing markets in the Mid-Atlantic, California and Las Vegas for both the


quarter and for the year. From an average selling price stand-point, every market saw an increase


in average price except for Texas.


Our average price in the quarter was just short of 305,000 per home and was 283,400 for the year.


As we mentioned in the press release, the largest increases came in California which saw its