corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentleman. And welcome to the MDC Holdings’ 2005 First


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we'll


conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Joe Fretz who will read the statements concerning the


forward-looking statements. Mr. Fretz, you may begin.


Joseph H. Fretz, Secretary and Corporate Counsel


Before introducing Larry Mizel and Garry Reece, it should be noted that certain statements made


during this conference call including those related to MDC's anticipated home closings, home gross


margins, backlog value, revenues, and profits and responses to questions may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from


the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.


These and other factors that could impact the Company's actual performance are set forward in the


Company's 2004 Form 10-K. It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain


information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Should a non-GAAP financial


measure be discussed, the information required by Regulation G will be posted on the Investor


Relations section of our website, richmondamerican.com.


I will now introduce Larry Mizel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of MDC


Holdings.


Larry A. Mizel, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. Welcome to MDC's First Quarter 2005 Conference Call and webcast. As


many of you know, our friends at DR Horton will discuss their latest earnings release shortly after


the completion of our call. To allow you to shift your focus, we will end our call today no later than


10:45 Eastern Daylight Time.


As for MDC, we're off to the best start in any year of our history. This comes on the heels of our


record performance in 2004, a year in which we established our company as an industry leader in


earnings growth and operating returns. MDC and the other well-capitalized public homebuilders


have benefited from historically low interest rates, improved job growth, and continued strong


demand for new homes to gain market share in important, land-constrained markets around the


country. In the process, these companies have produced results that have rivaled the best of any


industry.


This is not a new phenomenon. Over the last 5 years, our industry has delivered outstanding


results even in the face of unemployment, rising interest rates, the dotcom technological burst,


economic recession, terrorist attacks and the war with Iraq. As a result, it should be no surprise that


the homebuilding industry now has 11 companies ranked among the Fortune 500, 6 of which are


Investment Grade, including MDC. More importantly, Fortune magazine had stated that the


homebuilders have produced the highest returns to shareholders over the last 5- and 10-year


periods of any industry in America. We are especially proud that our company ranked among the


top 5 of all Fortune 500 companies in these return categories.
corrected transcript


M.D.C. Holdings Inc.
 
MDC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


We continued to build on our 2004 achievements during the 2005 first quarter, establishing a new


first quarter high in revenues and earnings. We continue to focus on homebuilding markets that


exhibit the important characteristics of strong demand for homes, significant job growth and a


constrained supply of available lands. This disciplined strategy has enabled us to improve our


home gross margins and produce after-tax returns on revenues, assets, and equity that rank


among the best in our industry.


We expressed increased benefits -- we experienced increased benefits from the geographic


diversification of our operations as the new divisions we established in the last 3 years contribute to


our results at an increased pace. The new markets we entered in 2002 and 2003 contributed more


than 20% of both home closings and home orders in the 2005 first quarter. As we continue to


expand in both our new and existing markets, we remain focused on our goal of maximizing value


for our shareholders, while maintaining one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry.


Total shareholders' equity now exceeds 1.5 billion and our net debt-to-equity capital ratio of 0.26 is


one of the lowest in the entire industry. Furthermore, we have enhanced our financial flexibility by


increasing our cash and available borrowing capacity by 77% aided in January increase in the


amount available of our homebuilding line of credit to almost $1.1 billion with no balance


outstanding on March 31.


In addition we continue to reward our shareholders as evidenced by the fact that we have nearly


tripled our quarterly cash dividend over the past 24 months. Our record performance during the


2005 first quarter, bolstered by strong demand for our homes throughout the country, combined


with significant growth in our active communities, and our record March 31st backlog, provide a


solid basis for achieving our goals to produce new records for revenues and earnings in 2005.


I would now like to turn our call over to Gary Reece, our Chief Financial Officer, who will describe


more specific financial highlights of our 2005 first quarter.


Paris G. Reece, III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Larry. We are very pleased today to announce our earnings for the first quarter which


represent our 11th consecutive record quarter and 23rd out of the last 24. We earned here in the


first quarter $84.6 million, which is up 39%. Over last year, $1.86 a share, up 35%. This $1.86 was


slightly better than we had anticipated when we pre-announced a little over a month ago, primarily


due to a little bit higher margins than we were anticipating as well as incorporating the impact of the


new Section 199 production activities deduction, which had a favorable impact on our effective tax


rate, effectively reducing it from 38.5% down to 37.7% with an impact of roughly $0.03 per share


impact on our earnings per share.


As has been the case over the last several quarters, our results have been driven by record profits


from our Homebuilding segment. We earned $162.5 million, up 43% on revenues of $916.8 million


which is up 23%. The primary drivers of this growth has been a $33,800 increase in our average


selling price, a 9% increase in our home closings, and a 220 basis point increase in our gross profit


margins. Also we received this year increased contributions from each of our new operations in


Jacksonville Florida, Salt Lake City and Texas as well. So we look at our closing levels, we closed


3,158 homes, up 9% over last year's closings of 2,910. We had a strong beginning backlog, which


was up 16%, so that certainly helped. And as I mentioned, we received significant increases from


our new markets, Florida was up over 300%, Texas up close to 150% and Salt Lake City was up


over 60%. Our closings were approximately 200 units lower than anticipated with a lower


conversion rate on our backlog than we’ve experienced in the past, primarily due to difficult weather


conditions in Southern California, Arizona and Las Vegas.