Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Derek Kimmerle — Director of SEC Reporting, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Larry A. Mizel — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Robert Nathaniel Martin — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
John Lovallo — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Alan Ratner — Analyst, Zelman & Associates
Stephen Kim — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Paul Przybylski — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Nishu Sood — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Jay McCanless — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Alex Barron — Analyst, Housing Research Center LLC
Buck Horne — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings 2018 Third Quarter Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Derek Kimmerle, Director of SEC Reporting. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Kate. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to M.D.C. Holdings 2018 third quarter earnings conference call. On the call with me today, I have Larry Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After finishing our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, at which time we request that participants limit themselves to one question and one follow-up question. Please note that this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay. For information on how to access the replay, please visit our website at mdcholdings.com.

Before turning the call over to Larry, it should be noted that certain statements made during this conference call, including those related to M.D.C.'s business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, strategies and prospects, and responses to questions, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the company's third quarter 2018 Form 10-Q which was filed with the SEC earlier this morning.

It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Any information required by Regulation G is posted on our website within our webcast slides.

And now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Mizel for his opening remarks.

Thank you Derek, and good morning to everyone joining us on the call today. I'm pleased to announce that M.D.C. Holdings posted another quarter of strong financial results highlighted by year-over-year home sales revenue growth of 31%. Gross margin expansion excluding impairments of 210 basis points and pre-tax income growth adjusted for gains on investments of 72%. We also continued to execute on our affordable growth strategy during the quarter with our lot purchase approval activity focused on more affordable product offerings which continue to be well-received in the marketplace. We believe that the affordable product segment offers the best return on investment in the housing market, thanks to pent-up demand from first-time buyers and the lack of available supply at these price points.

While some may fear that raising interest rates will turn these buyers away from purchasing a home, history has shown that consumers will move forward with a home purchase in a rising rate environment provided they feel confident in their employment status. Additionally, it is important to remember that the recent rise in interest rates has not occurred in a vacuum. Instead, it has largely been caused by the strength of the U.S. economy, which has spurred higher employment levels, increased wages and boosted consumer sentiment to an 18-year high. All of these factors are critical to a household formation, and they're much more impactful on the home purchase decision than the mortgage rates.

In the short run, however, the onset of rising interest rates has slowed new home sales activity in a number of our markets, particularly when coupled with significant increases in home prices that we've seen in many areas. We believe that this kind of slowdown is normal and rational response on behalf of the buyers as they reassess their purchase options. However, it does not signal the end of the current housing cycle in our opinion, which is why we continue to make investments in our operations around the country.

Periodic shifts in market dynamics are a natural occurrence over the course of a housing cycle and can prove to be advantageous for well-capitalized public builders such as M.D.C. Our seasoned management team has successfully navigated our company through a number of mortgage rate environments through the years, and we believe that we are in a great position to be successful in today's market as well. The future looks bright for our company giving the fundamental backdrop in our industry and the strategic investments we've made over the last few years to increase our product offerings to include a higher concentration of affordable home plans. We look forward to sharing a more in-depth look at our strategy and our company's future at our investor event scheduled for November 7 and November 8 here in Denver.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Bob who will provide more details about our results this quarter.

Thanks, Larry, and good morning, everyone. As reported, our pre-tax income for the third quarter decreased from $89.7 million in the prior year to $67.4 million this year. However, the decrease related entirely to a decrease in our gain on investments which was an extraordinary $52.2 million in the 2017 third quarter compared to a more typical $3 million in the 2018 third quarter. If those gains were excluded for both periods, pre-tax income would have increased by 72% year-over-year, from $37.5 million to $64.4 million.

Looking at net income, the decrease in pre-tax income was partially offset by a reduced tax rate which dropped from 31.8% for the 2017 third quarter to 20.8% for the 2018 third quarter. As was the case in the first two quarters of 2018, the decrease in rate was, in large part, due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

In addition, we booked a discrete tax benefit of $3.2 million or 480 basis points for the 2018 third quarter. This discrete benefit was related to the identification of additional homes that are eligible for the Section 45L energy efficient home credit. And it was the primary reason why our actual 2018 third quarter tax rate was lower than our previously disclosed estimate of 25% to 27%.

For the final three months of 2018, we are estimating an effective tax rate between 17% and 19%. This was lower than the estimates we have given in recent quarters as we are now expecting to recognize a onetime benefit in the fourth quarter related to certain changes in our tax methods. Our home sale revenues for the 2018 third quarter were up 31% year-over-year to $766 million due to a 20% increase in the number of homes delivered and 9% increase in the average selling price of these homes.

Our backlog conversion rate was 40% which was in line with the expected range for Q3 that we discussed on our previous call and higher than 38% from a year ago. Colorado had the most significant year-over-year improvement in backlog conversion as the prior year was adversely impacted by the joist issue we discussed at length in the second half of last year.

On the other hand, our Northern California and Phoenix markets had most significant decreases based on labor constraints that are increasing cycle times in those markets.

Looking forward to the fourth quarter, we estimate that our backlog conversion rate will be in the 45% to 47% range compared with 45% backlog conversion rate that we achieved in the fourth quarter of 2017. The year-over-year increase on average selling price from last year was driven both by price increases across our markets and a shift in mix to some of our higher price communities in our California markets. It's worth noting, however, that our average selling price has come down from a recent high of nearly $500,000. The decrease was due in part to the continued expansion of a more affordable seasons collection which grew to 17% of closings for the third quarter versus only 8% a year ago.

Our gross margin from home sales was up 140 basis points year-over-year to 17.7%. Excluding the impact of impairments from both periods, our gross margin from home sales was up 210 basis points to 19.2%. All of our homebuilding segments realized an improvement in their pre-impairment gross margin from home sales with the West segment showing the largest improvement and the Mountain segment showing the highest absolute level overall.

The impairment for the 2018 third quarter occurred almost entirely in Southern California in a single subdivision that has an average selling price at the high end for new homes in a submarket. Overall, we are seeing fewer subdivisions at risk for impairment as evidenced by the number of subdivisions tested for impairment in the 2018 third quarter which was approximately half the number tested in the same quarter a year ago.

Our gross margin and backlog to end the quarter remained healthy at the level that was roughly even with the 2018 third quarter closing gross margin excluding impairments of 19.2%. However, it should be noted that the gross margin level we actually realize in future periods could be impacted by cost increases, cancellations, impairments, reserve adjustments and other factors.

With home sale revenue increasing by 31% year-over-year, we're pleased to see our SG&A rate drop 90 basis points to 10.9%. Our total dollar SG&A expense for the 2018 third quarter was up $14.4 million from the 2017 third quarter. Similar to prior quarters, this was driven mostly by increased compensation costs as well as increased commissions expenses driven by a higher level of closings.

Our last 12 months pre-tax return on equity was down 70 basis points as reported. However, excluding investment sale gains which are not a core part of our business, pre-tax return on equity rose by 310 basis points year-over-year.

Because of the expansion of our gross margin and our improved operating leverage, our homebuilding operating margin, defined as our gross margin for home sales minus our SG&A rate, grew by 220 basis points year-over-year. Excluding impairment charges, the increase was 300 basis points.

The dollar value of our net orders decreased 3% year-over-year to $581.2 million, as a 2% increase in our unit net orders was more than offset by a 4% decrease in our average selling price. We continue to see our more affordable Seasons collection comprise a larger percentage of our overall net new orders, accounting for 22% of our total for the 2018 third quarter compared to just 12% a year ago.

Net order average selling price was also influenced by a shift in mix from California, which is our highest priced market, to Arizona which is one of our lowest priced markets. Our monthly absorption rate was a healthy 2.67 for the quarter although it was down 4% from the same quarter a year ago. Despite a slight drop in absorption rate, our unit net orders rose slightly on the strength of an average subdivision count that increased from 152 in the 2017 third quarter to 161 in the 2018 third quarter.

With a significant percentage of our new communities featuring affordable price points which have generally seen stronger demand in recent quarters relative to move-up communities, we are optimistic about maintaining a healthy order pace in future periods.

Our East segment experienced double-digit growth in absorption rates on the strength of improvements in both Florida and the Mid-Atlantic. Our Mountain segment experienced a year-over-year absorption rate decline due mostly to modestly slower activity in Colorado where we increased prices significantly in prior quarters in response to market demand, which allowed us to offset increases and improve gross margins.

Our absorption rate in the West was down only slightly as double-digit increases in Arizona and Nevada were offset by double-digit declines in California and Washington. In all markets, we continued to review pricing at a community level on a routine basis with an objective of making adjustments as necessary to maintain an appropriate balance between margin and pace.

We ended the quarter with an estimated sales value for our homes and backlog of $1.8 billion which was up 6% year-over-year, driven primarily by an increase in the number of homes in backlog. The average selling price of homes in backlog was down 1% year-over-year to $487,000, and down 4% from our peak of $507,000 at the end of 2017.

Active subdivision count was at 158 at the end of the 2018 third quarter, up 3% from 154 a year ago and up 5% from 151 at the end of fiscal year 2017. The Mountain segment accounted for the year-over-year growth, offset somewhat by modest declines in the West and East regions.

As you can see from the chart on the right, at the end of September, we reached a recent high for the number of subdivisions that we believe will soon be active and it significantly exceeds the number of subdivisions that we'll be soon selling out. This favorable dynamic gives us confidence that our goal of a 10% year-over-year increase in active subdivisions at the end of 2018 is still in reach.

For the 2018 third quarter, we acquired 2,489 lots, up from 2,004 a year ago. The heaviest concentration was in our Mountain segment, which accounted for 49% of the acquired lots. Our East segment accounted for 24% of the lots acquired, compared to just 10% a year ago. And the West accounted for about 27%. Approximately 47% of the lots acquired in the third quarter were finished lots. Lots we acquired in the third quarter covered 46 communities, including 27 new communities. From a product mix standpoint, 44% of the acquired lots, lots we required during the 2018 third quarter, are intended for our Seasons collection.

Acquisition spend for the lots was $154 million. After accounting for an additional $85 million of development costs, our total land's fund for the quarter was $239 million. We approved 2,878 lots for acquisition during the quarter, with 70% of the total coming from our West segment. Our Seasons collection represented 36% of these lot approvals. At the end of the quarter, we owned or controlled 25,011 lots, up 32% year-over-year and 37% of these lots are controlled via option.

Our financial position remained strong at the end of the quarter, as shown by quarter-end liquidity of $1.1 billion and net debt to capital of 26.1%. Additionally, we are proud to announce that just today we closed on an increase in our homebuilding line of credit from $700 million to $1 billion and added a year to the term of this facility, which now extends to the end of 2023.

With that, I will now turn the call back to the operator for a question-and-answer session. Operator?

Kate, are you still with us?

Just one moment while we figure out our technical issue here.

[Technical Difficulty] (18:11-18:50)

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from John Lovallo of Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one here is, Larry, you noted some softening in demand at higher price points in certain markets which is pretty consistent with what we're hearing. How would you characterize this demand for the Seasons product? Was that still pretty robust? And then maybe you could comment on October order trends, please.

I'm going to let Bob comment on order trends. But I would say the Seasons product has been well-received throughout all of our markets and we're very pleased with its performance and the market has received it well also.

Yeah, just speaking to October in particular, I would say our orders were softer in October. We're still seeing good traffic and writing a lot of contracts. We are also seeing some uptick in the level of cancellations. I think that's understandable as our customers digest the impact of higher home prices and higher interest rates.

The other thing I would note is you should keep in mind that last year we saw virtually no seasonal drop-off in net orders going from Q3 to Q4 which is very unusual for our business. So we are up against a very difficult comparison for net orders in Q4.

Okay, that's helpful. And then as a follow-up and I know this is going to sound like an odd question because we normally don't think about CapEx and D&A in this business, but it looks like both CapEx and D&A have moved up pretty significantly over the first three quarters on a year-over-year basis. And just kind of back of the envelope, it would imply that the D&A expense in the third quarter could be something like a 50 basis point year-over-year hit to gross margin. Are we missing something here or if not, what's driving this?

I mean, I think what you're seeing is the impact of 606 where we had to make a switch with our deferred marketing into PP&E essentially So, some of that expense switch is from deferred marketing to depreciation.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

The next question is from Alan Ratner of Zelman & Associates. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. So first one, you guys have been very active in the land market over the last year. You probably have put up the largest increase in lot count among your peer group. Obviously, I think a lot of those lots were probably underwritten in an environment that was stronger than the one we're seeing today. So I guess the two-part question here is, one, how does the – as these lots start to flow through to active communities, how are the economics looking versus when you originally underwrote them? And two, are there any situations on option deals where you've had success or are starting to go back to the land sellers and try to renegotiate? Thanks.

Alan, as you know, this business is a little cyclical and since our strategy is small parcels of land where we have a outlook of a three years to work through each of the parcels and each of the subdivisions are underwritten sequentially as they're done in light of the market. And as the market changes, we change in our assumptions. And I think this has been very opportunistic for us especially with the recent softening of the market with someone that has a very highly controlled land supply, we're able to cycle in and cycle out quicker than most of the other builders. And the one thing about the land sellers know that we're always in the market, and we are not shy in making sure everyone is aware of market conditions and the need for adjustments. And the strategy of what we've always followed on a short land supply has really worked in our favor with a slight slowdown in the market. And we expect that over the next period of time it'll even work more so. And the strategy of how we run our business with very few specs and the ability to have good pricing, Alan, will, I think, work in our favor in this transitionary period and going forward.

I appreciate that, Larry. And I think your comment on the specs is interesting because we have seen from some other builders that have made a similar push towards entry level like you guys but have done it from a different angle of really predominantly specs, I think the spec counts across the industry have really started to climb here. And I'm curious as you look at your entry level business which is more to-be-built, are you seeing a lot of incentivizing going on for builders that are maybe sitting on more products on the ground than they otherwise would like? And how is that impacting your ability to sell on the to-be-built side?

We compete with everyone every day. Whatever they do, they need to meet their objectives. The one thing that we have, with very few specs, we're able to have discipline and discipline in pricing. We've seen that in some cases our specs are bringing a little bit more gross profit margin than a dirt start because of where they are in the production cycle and we don't have the pressure to incentive the sale as aggressively as someone who has thousands of specs because they need to move that into inventory and as you've watched us over the years, we have a nominal amount of finished specs and gives us a lot of discipline on pricing.

Thanks a lot.

The next question is from Mike Rehaut of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi, this is actually [ph] Maggie Wellborn (26:27) on for Mike today. I guess, you said that about 70% of the sale on new lots came in the West this quarter and then can you kind of – consistent with what you've been saying in the past – before this year. What I was wondering is looking into 2019, will this trend continue kind of focusing on the West or are you looking kind of towards a different geographic mix?

Yeah. I mean, there is a little bit of volatility quarter-to-quarter in which deals get approved where. I think we're looking to grow in each of the markets that we build in. So, I wouldn't necessarily let this one quarter kind of define how we're thinking about it.

Okay. And also, last call you've kind of talked about the shift towards the more affordable lines and you said that you would love to see if you could get to 40% or 50% of sales in those. So, what I was wondering is, is there kind of time horizon on that? Is that still the goal and how are you thinking about that shift as you move into 2019?

Yeah. I mean, I think we're still thinking about that shift, getting into that, call it, 50% of our mix into that affordable range. We don't have a timetable for it. If you look at Q3, 17% of our closings were Seasons and you had additional closings on top of that that were in other products that have an eye towards affordability like our Landmark collection and our Cityscapes collection.

And further to that point, we also have some other products that we intend to release pretty soon that are intended for affordability. So, we are working on it from a lot of different angles and we do expect that to be our goal for that type of product.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question is from Stephen Kim of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks very much guys. Just wanted to follow up on the comment about the cancellations. I noticed that on a backlog basis, your cancellation rate was really pretty flat year-over-year, frankly. It was like 12% versus 11%, I believe, last year. Correct me if I'm wrong. And so, I was curious, your comment about October, as a percentage of backlog, is your can rate that you're experiencing noticeably higher than it was in the year ago period?

Yeah. A little bit.

And could you provide...

But we haven't...

...a little bit of color.

Yeah. Go ahead, sorry.

Sorry. Go ahead.

I was just going to say it's obvious – we were only one day in, so we haven't had a whole lot of time out to analyze it. But yeah, no, it is a little bit higher in October.

Got it. And I guess, providing a little bit of color on that in terms of are you seeing that more on the entry level side or are you seeing that pretty much across the board or is it more skewed to sort of the higher price points, a number of the builders have sort of talked about that being a little bit more on the higher end of the market, so anything there?

And then also I was curious if you could comment a little bit more about the land strategy. If I could just set that up a little bit, on one hand you guys aren't the first to get into the entry level and so one might think that the prices for land may have shot up there, but on the other hand right now, you're seeing a lot of folks who are perhaps cutting back a little bit on their land spend what we're hearing. And so I was curious if you were sort of the opinion that during this period of time you have an opportunity to make some opportunistic buys.

Well, I guess on the first part, I really haven't had a great opportunity to analyze in detail what happened in October other than, I would say, overall as we've indicated a few times on the call, we see that entry level at affordable price point is showing a little bit more strength. So not a whole lot more to add there in terms of where exactly the cancellations are coming from. We'll have more on that on our fourth quarter call.

I think in terms of the last part of your question about the land strategy, I think, really our set up, our strong balance sheet really does provide us with some potential advantages. The current sales softness may ultimately provide well-capitalized builders like us with better long-term opportunities that wouldn't otherwise be available if things were perpetually upward trending. So we tend to think that with a strong balance sheet, we control our own destiny.

Yeah. That's great. Thanks a lot, guys.

The next question is from Stephen East of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Thanks. This is Paul Przybylski on for Stephen. Wondering if you could give us some color on your incentives looking at orders versus closings and the type of incentive that seems to be most successful. And if you had seen the incentives accelerate in September and October and if that has had any negative impact on your most recent backlog margins?

Yeah. I guess, first of all, on the backlog margins through the end of Q3, those held up pretty well as we indicated. It's in line with where closings were in Q3. So we feel pretty good about that part. I do think incentives on orders were a little bit higher in Q3 than they were a year ago, even a quarter ago, might be 150 basis points. But then, again, that's against higher pricing too. So you have somewhat of a balancing effect there. So we certainly are willing to pull the levers as necessary to make sure we maintain a appropriate level of absorption rate.

Yeah. Thank you. And then, I guess, if you look at Southern California and the Pacific Northwest, it seem to be having the most meaningful pause due to rates and pricing. Denver has very similar dynamics. Is there something that sets Denver apart because it seems like demand there is holding much better than the West Coast?

Yeah. I mean, Denver has been a great market for us, clearly, because we've operated here for a long time and we know a lot about the market. It's not to say Denver is immune to increased pricing, but it is more affordable on a relative basis versus a lot of the West Coasts and it is a place where a lot of people want to move. It's got a great quality of life. We're seeing a lot of companies move in because of that. And I think that just is having just a little bit more affordability than you do on some of the coastal markets so I think that helps out as well.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question is from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Your guide for 4Q in terms of closings, the backlog conversion ratio. Second quarter in a row here we'll be up a couple of percentage points year-over-year. Can you walk us through what has been driving that. Has that been the move to the to the entry level? Obviously, a smaller product likely shorter construction cycles is it that? Is it something else? And would we expect that to continue as you increase the penetration of the entry level product in your portfolio?

Yeah. Well, I think the entry level certainly helps with that although it's still a pretty small portion of our closings, so I don't think that story is fully played out which speaks to the second part of your question. I think it can continue to help us as we move forward. The other thing I'd note is that a year ago in Q3 and Q4 we were dealing with the joist issue in Colorado so that had somewhat of a impact of subduing our backlog conversion rate in both the third and fourth quarter of last year.

Got it. And also 10% community count growth in 2018. You are sticking to that goal for 2018. I think that's the strongest amongst the public builders if you factor out acquisitions. Given that you're viewing the recent slowdown as a pause versus a turn in the cycle, would you be aiming for something similar in 2019 or does it merit a slower pace of growth in 2019?

I think that story has yet to play out. I think certainly we would love to see that in 2019. I think the work we've already done from subdivision approval to this point gives us that opportunity. But we're going to take a look at the market just like anybody else and make sure that that demand is there whether it's in Q4 – clearly, it's harder to see in Q4 since it's a seasonally slow period or going into Q1 of next year. So more to come on that, but I think we've, at least, done enough work already where that's a possibility for us.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question is from Jay McCanless of Wedbush. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. The first one I had on specs. It looks like total specs were up about 49% versus last year. Is that a function of community growth or there are certain areas where specs just aren't selling like they were this time last year?

It's really more a function of the strategic build of specs. We do have some circumstances where it makes more sense just from a construction standpoint, if you have one unsold lot in between two sold lots, if you have communities that are on the front-end. As you know, we're opening a lot of communities, makes sense to start a couple as you're starting up the community to show a little bit of construction activity. So, it's things like that that are driving that increase.

The second question I had. Just wanted to dig down a little bit more into incentives is, are the incentives that you're offering now, things like rate buydowns or an upgraded kitchen, something like that versus price cuts and are you seeing any of your competitors meaningfully start to cut prices to move some of their specs?

I think our incentives, they come in a number of different forms. I know offering money towards closing in whatever way, shape or form towards closing costs, that's something that we typically do. We do have a rate buydown program that we use for a lot of consumers. And then home gallery upgrades, sometimes we'll offer incentives for that. So there's a lot of ways to do it. I wouldn't say it's coming in a material way in the form of base price cuts at this point.

And I guess, in terms of the competitors and what they're doing on specs, it certainly seems that some of the builders if they're coming up against a reporting period do tend to offer a little bit more to decrease their inventory towards the end of the period. As Larry indicated earlier though, since we don't have a whole lot of spec inventory out there, yeah, we don't feel that pressure as much because we have limited inventory to start with.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

The next question is from Alex Barron of Housing Research Center. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. Larry, you've always been kind of very forward-looking when it comes to the cycle. And right now, I guess you indicated you're still buying land because it seems you still think there's room ahead. So, what would need to change in the market environment for you to kind of step on the brakes on land or at least on option land? What would you need to see changing?

I think we're in a strong economy. We have a high level of consumer confidence. I see that home price – home ownership itself has increased slightly. I saw the statistic of [indiscernible] (40:31). And it's a good market. You have limited availability of product. You have certainly affordable mortgage rates and there's not an overbuilt situation in the marketplace. I think we're fortunate. And that doesn't mean there's not pauses from time to time during a cycle. But I still believe we're early in the housing cycle and we're not – pricing may have gotten a little aggressive. Rates went up a little bit. But the demand is great if people can afford it.

So you say, well, how do you deal with affordability and the cost of mortgages? Those of us who have been around for a few decades, will remember when you had a 16% 30-year mortgage and you could sell all the houses you could build. But so today at 5-and-change-percent, sure the average sales price is higher, but I believe that housing will continue to remain strong.

It may be slower than it has been as an industry a little bit, but the pause has only been recent, meaning the last six months or so and look forward to getting through the end of the year. And I think it'll be a very robust spring selling season, might even be starting early. But we're usually the most cautious on the street and it's proven to give us the financial attitude to do what we do. But as long as we don't speculate in land and we only buy what we need and as long as we don't speculate with our work in progress which is about 90% of it is our work in process is pre-sales, I believe we're in a position to move with the market and at this point, I'm confident that the market is reasonable and reasonable is okay. It doesn't have to be spectacular.

In the building business, the guys that can last the longest usually end up making a good living, and we are part of that history and, as Bob commented and I'm not sure you got [ph] everything (43:57) was the last sentence of his prepared remarks earlier, in the day we filed an 8-K announcing we had concluded a new $1 billion revolver which would indicate that the financial institutions in our industry have confidence in us and we have confidence in ourselves.

Got it. Sounds good. And then Bob, like in terms of the impairment you guys took, just generally speaking, what is it that would need to happen to drive an impairment?

Well, on a technical basis, it's the undiscounted cash flows to a negative, so when you look at carrying value of your asset that's on your books at that point in time, you're not expected on a discounted basis to get that carrying value back and then at that point once you [ph] own to (44:59) a negative territory, you apply a discount rate to those cash flows and that's what ultimately produces the amount of impairment. So clearly, cost increases or price decreases or extra incentives, any of those kind of things from an operational standpoint could cause impairment.

Got it. Okay. Thanks a lot.

The next question is from Buck Horne of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hey. Thanks. Just a quick one, I was wondering if you had any sort of anecdotes or data points on early traffic indicators or early demand indicators like physical traffic into the communities or website activity through October. Just something on early stage demand patterns that you're tracking.

Yeah. Well, we don't have I guess a specific number on that. What I'm hearing is that traffic remains good in our communities. We're getting a good level of traffic through. I did mention we're seeing a little bit more on the cancellation side, but still good activity. But again, I would reiterate that we're up against a pretty tough comparison from last year given that there was no seasonal drop off from Q3 to Q4.

Okay. Thanks. And going back to the labor comments. I think you saw some cycle time increases in Arizona and California. Would you characterize that as the labor availability getting worse than it was last year or what's kind of driving that and what kind of labor cost inflation rates are you facing across the various markets?

Yeah. Arizona, Phoenix in particular and Northern California and I don't think it's less labor, it's just you've had more of a kind of onset of demand. Arizona for example is one of our stronger markets from an absorption rate perspective in the third quarter and I think with that increased activity you've got more starts and just more demand for that labor. The labor pool just hasn't had the chance to quite catch up yet.

And do you think is that something that's going to linger into next year and would it potentially spread to other markets? Is there a sense that labor is tightening up elsewhere?

Not really tightening, I think it's just a matter of it – once you get those kind of influxes in demand you just end up with a little bit of kind of a back-up with the trades. Whereas, they just have more to do and it just takes more time for them to get to the individual houses. So, it's really tough to tell whether or not that will extend to next year. Certainly, it's reasonable to think if you have a pretty quick increase in order activity and therefore an increase in starts. That just puts a higher constraint, higher strain on your subcontractor base.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question is from Ken Zener of KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Good morning. My question, you guys have talked about seasonal orders. And Bob, you mentioned obviously last year in the fourth quarter, you guys had an exceptional quarter with pace not slowing down. And we tend to model things quantitatively. So my question to you is this. Historically, long term and the last three years, you generally have a pace decline of about 20% sequentially, realizing your community count is going to be up about 10% year-over-year, is there any reason to think normal seasonal trends would not transpire? Not trying to focus on Southern California or these kind of weak spots, but just generally order pace tend to decline and that order pace decline is greater than your strong community count growth. Is it logical to assume that you might have kind of down orders even though you've had such good community growth as well as obviously improving gross margins. But just mechanically, is there any reason that your 10% community count is really not going to be overwhelmed by the usual kind of decline that we have in order pace in the quarter?

Well, as you're indicating, that rough number, that 20% decline is the norm. In fact, as I looked back at the last 20 years or so, I think last year was the only time where you didn't see a decrease. So just from a kind of raw quantitative analysis, that makes sense.

Just on the notion of the subdivision count, you'll note that that's a 10% increase by the end of the year. So right now as of 9/30 rather we stood at 158. So that would be 158 if we got exactly 10% going on to 166 by the end of the quarter. So all of those subdivisions aren't going to be in in full swing.

Right. [indiscernible] (50:24).

So...

Yeah. I'm just trying to think about it mechanically because you're obviously getting seasonal results. Your margins are good, as you know, despite what the headlines are. So I just didn't – I know you guys are going to be talking about perhaps some of these things at your Analyst Day. So thank you very much.

Sure. Thanks.

There are no other questions at this time. This concludes our question and answer session and also our conference. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may not disconnect.