Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Kevin McCarty — Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Larry A. Mizel — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Robert Nathaniel Martin — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.
Alan Ratner — Analyst, Zelman & Associates
Stephen S. Kim — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Nishu Sood — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Michael Jason Rehaut — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Stephen East — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
John Lovallo II — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Will Randow — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Alex Barrón — Analyst, Housing Research Center LLC
Andrew Berg — Analyst, Post Advisory Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. We are ready to begin the M.D.C. Holdings, Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. I will now turn it over to Kevin McCarty, Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. Sir, you may begin your call.

Thank you, Kelly. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the M.D.C. Holdings' 2016 third quarter earnings conference call. On the call with me today, I have Larry Mizel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Martin, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After finishing our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, at which time we'll request that participants limit themselves to one question and one follow-up question. Please note that this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay. For information on how to access the replay, please visit our website at mdcholdings.com.

Before turning the call over to Larry, it should be noted that certain statements made during this conference call, including those related to M.D.C.'s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects, and responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the company's actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from the results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.

These and other factors that could impact the company's actual performance are set forth in the company's third quarter 2016 Form 10-Q, which is scheduled to be filed with the SEC today. It should also be noted that SEC Regulation G requires that certain information accompany the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Any information required by Regulation G is posted on our website with our webcast slides.

And now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Mizel for his opening remarks.

Thank you. I'm pleased to announce 2016 third quarter net income of $26.4 million, a 78% increase over the prior year. Improvement was driven mostly by a 27% growth in the home sales with revenues more than $575 million. Generating higher returns has been a key focus for us. Looking at our return on equity on a rolling 12-month basis, we have now seen for four consecutive quarters of improvement. The 2016 third quarter, we increased this metric by 200 basis points over the prior year.

The expansion of our income, revenues, and returns are rooted in a disciplined philosophy focusing on strong execution of our build-to-order model. We believe that this approach gives us the best opportunity to sustain our operations through the inevitable cycles of the homebuilding industry while limiting our exposure to risk. Our build-to-suit model has allowed us to focus on construction activity on units already sold to customers, resulting in the percentage of our work-in-process units attributed to sold homes reaching 87% at the end of the quarter. Operating in this manner not only helps us to operate more efficiently by dedicating more resources to sold inventory, but also reduces the risk associated with our work-in-process units.

Our cycle times continue to increase during the quarter based on limited subcontractor availability in some of our larger markets. Improvement in cycle times will remain a key thing for the company as we close out the year. However, subcontractor availability issues were largely out of our control and unlikely to resolve quickly. So we're in the process of working on other initiatives to help our construction process.

The most prominent example of these efforts is the development of our Seasons Collection, which we have discussed in prior quarters. This new product designed with affordability in mind for the first-time homebuyers has a more simplistic design and a shorter construction time than most of our other plans. As this product becomes a more significant part of our business, it should have a positive impact in our overall cycle times. We believe that our Seasons Collection has been well-received by our customers. Already in the third quarter, our results include a notable contribution from this collection, even though it is still in the very early phases of its rollout.

In total, order results were positive as we recorded our tenth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in net new orders and an increase in our monthly sales pace by 15%. Given the initial success we have seen for the Seasons Collection, we have increased our overall spending on communities that feature this product. Overall, during the third quarter, we spent $150 million on land acquisition and development activities, including the purchase of more than 1,000 lots across our markets. Our total controlled lots supply was almost 15,000 at the end of the quarter, which we believe is sufficient to support our ongoing efforts to improve top and bottom line results.

As 2016 draws to a close, our outlook is positive. We're delivering higher revenues, income, and returns than a year ago with a balance sheet that remains among the best in the industry. Against this backdrop, we have continued to reward our shareholders with a strong, consistent dividend payment since 2005, with a yield that ranks as the highest in our industry.

In addition, we believe that our strong backlog to end the third quarter gives us the opportunity to continue delivering year-over-year improvement to our operating results in the fourth quarter.

Thank you for your interest. Now, I would like to ask Bob Martin for more specific financial highlights.

Thank you, Larry. Our home sales revenue increased 27% from the prior year, to $575.7 million, as a result of a 20% increase in closings, which was our highest year-over increase in closings in 12 quarters. We also had 6% increase in average selling price. Our third quarter backlog conversion rate was down year-over-year, from 42% to 38%. Although that decrease is narrower than what we saw in the second quarter, it still fell short of our expectations. Limited subcontractor availability in certain of our larger markets continued to negatively impact our cycle times, especially in Colorado, Southern California and Washington.

Without any clear signs that subcontractor availability will improve in the short term, we believe that our backlog conversion rate will continue to fall short of our prior-year performance in the fourth quarter. However, we do expect sequential improvement, with the goal of achieving at least a 400 basis point increase from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.

Our gross margin from home sales percentage decreased by 90 basis points year-over-year, mostly as a result of $1.8 million of warranty adjustments and higher land and construction costs in certain of our markets, most notably Nevada. Excluding impairments and warranty adjustments, our gross margin was down 50 basis points, to 16.7%. We took $4.7 million of impairment during the quarter, compared with $4.3 million for the same quarter a year ago. The impairment during this year's quarter was mostly related to one asset in our Virginia division. In addition, we have one more minor impairment in Florida.

Looking at the sequential trend, relative to the second quarter, our Q3 2016 gross margin from home sales, excluding inventory impairment and warranty adjustments, was flat. It's important to note that, even though our gross margin percentage is down year-over-year, the gross margin dollars we made per home close was flat, due to the gains we have made in average selling price.

We were pleased to see improved operating leverage for the quarter, as our SG&A rate fell by 180 basis points from 12.6% to 10.8% due, in large part, to a significant year-over-year increase in home sale revenues. Our total dollar SG&A expense was up for the quarter, driven by a $3.7 million increase in commissions and a $2.8 million increase in marketing. These increases were primarily due to the growth in our closings unit volume and home sales revenues.

The higher commissions and marketing expenses were partially offset by a $2 million decline in general and administrative expenses, primarily due to the lower stock-based compensation expense. Outside of SG&A, there were a couple of other variances on our income statement that I'll give a little additional detail on.

First, other expense for the third quarter was a bit on the high side, increasing by about $1.2 million year-over-year. The increase is related to the write-off of several option deposits in Virginia for projects we decided not to move forward with during the quarter. The impact of those write-offs was more than offset in several other areas. In particular, interest and other income was about $1 million higher for our third quarter versus a year ago, and our other-than-temporary impairment of marketable securities was about $2 million lower.

The dollar value of our orders increased 17% year-over-year, to $570.3 million. The increase in dollar value was due to a 17% increase in sales, driven by a 15% increase in our monthly absorption rate to 2.72 per community. As Larry noted earlier, this represented our 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year order growth, and our highest third quarter absorption rate since 2005.

Our affordable Seasons Collection is starting to become a much more significant part of our business. For the 2016 third quarter, this product offering accounted for 5% of total orders, despite being offered in only seven subdivisions across two of our divisions. In these two divisions, Seasons accounted for more than 10% of all orders in the third quarter.

The average selling price of our orders was almost unchanged from the same period in the prior year, at roughly $440,000. This is the first time in quite a while that we have not seen a year-over-year increase, and that's driven by a shift in mix to lower price communities that was partially offset by price increases in many of our communities, specifically, again our Seasons Collection is having a much bigger impact. Excluding the sales from our Seasons Collection, our average order price would have risen by 2% year-over-year.

Looking across the country, California and Colorado were our top markets from an absorption rate perspective, which we think is indicative of solid demand in these markets. Our most improved market was Colorado, which had a particularly strong performance from our Seasons Collection, as well as other products in more affordable areas.

Our homes in backlog at the end of the second quarter were up 33% year-over-year on a unit basis to 3,448 homes, with a value of $1.61 billion, which was up 37% year-over-year. We expect this backlog to be a primary driver of year-over-year improvement of home sales revenues in the 2016 fourth quarter. Our cancellation rate was flat year-over-year, at 25% for the 2016 third quarter. As a percentage of beginning backlog, our cancellation rate was down 100 basis points year-over-year to 13%.

Active subdivisions increased modestly year-over-year to 159 at the end of the 2016 third quarter. In Colorado, our active subdivision count was down 24%. However, this was driven by the timing of opening of new communities versus closing out older communities. And we still expect our Colorado community count to rebound. The decrease in Colorado was offset in part by Nevada, where our active subdivision count has increased significantly over the past five quarters.

For the third quarter, we acquired 1,056 lots for $81.9 million, a decrease from the same quarter a year ago and sequentially from the second quarter of 2016. The current quarter activity occurred mostly in California, Colorado and Nevada. We spent an additional $68.3 million on development expenditures, bringing our total spend for the quarter to $150.2 million. This is the first quarter that we purchased lots specifically underwritten for our Seasons' homes, with more than 20% of the lots that we acquired dedicated to this product.

At the end of the quarter, we owned or controlled 14,759 lots, which represented about a 3.1-year supply on a trailing 12-month delivery basis and a 6% decrease from a year ago. While our supply is down year-over-year, it is still in line with our strategic range. We believe that this supply is a strong starting point, as we look forward for the growth potential of our company in 2017. Beyond lots we are in control, we continue to see a healthy pipeline of land deals across our markets.

We're pleased to report that our key production metrics continue to improve year-over-year, giving us confidence that we can drive higher home deliveries in the 2016 fourth quarter. Our third quarter home starts were up 18%, marking the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases. Our homes completed or under construction, excluding models at the end of the quarter, increased 17% from the same period in the prior year. This increase is important, as these units make up a big part of what we can close for the remainder of the current year and during the first quarter of 2017. In addition, consistent with our build-to-order strategy, 87% of the work-in-process units you see here at the end of the third quarter are already sold compared to 76% a year ago.

We believe the high percentage sold also speaks to the quality of our balance sheet, with limited speculation in unsold units. Given where we stand from a backlog and production standpoint, we expect top line and bottom line growth during the last quarter of 2016, with a continued focus on improving overall company returns.

That concludes our prepared remarks. So at this time, we'd like to open up the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Alan Ratner of Zelman & Associates. Your line is open.

Hey, guys, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. First one, just thinking about the orders versus the backlog conversion dynamic going on here, you put up a great order number this quarter, but continuing to see pressure on backlog conversion and cycle times.

And I think one thing we hear from a lot of builders is they're reluctant to sell too far out in their backlog because, A, they don't have visibility into their costs in that situation; B, it increases the risk of cancellations. And I'm just curious where you are in that dynamic today, if there's any risk or is there any markets or communities where you're actually having to tell buyers or turn buyers away, because the backlog is too far extended. And if not, at what point do you hit that threshold?

Well, I would say, it is something that we look at and that we're concerned with. I mean it's not the dynamic where we're just letting demand go without [indiscernible] (17:46). We are doing things to respond to the fact that we are having positive results in our orders. One of them being, we are increasing prices. And in doing so, of course, that helps us cover future cost increases that might occur. In fact in the third quarter, we increased prices about 50% at our communities.

As far as stopping sales altogether, we haven't done that for the most parts. There are limited circumstances where that might be the case. But for the most part, we haven't completely shut it down though there are some cases where we limit the [ph] lot producers (18:31).

The other thing I think to realize on our order course for the quarter is that, some of that increase is related to the fact that we have increased our sales of our new Seasons product lines. So we're really reaching out and servicing a customer that's been largely underserved over the past few years. So we think it's a prudent thing to make sure that we are capturing that demand.

Thank you, Bob, for that. That's good segue into my second question on Seasons. So, it sounds like you guys are seeing a lot of good traction there. You mentioned the cycle times of the Seasons are shorter than the traditional business. So I was curious if you can quantify that.

And with the Seasons now representing, I think you said 10% of orders or – just curious, what's the margin differential on that product versus the traditional business as well? And should we expect to see any type of mix impact on the margin? You did mention the pricing power which is good to see, but is that going to be offset by the Seasons contributing a greater percentage of closings going forward? Thank you.

Yeah. I think for Seasons, first of all, as it relates to cycle time, it depends by market. We've got it in Colorado right now and we've also got it in Arizona. Colorado right now, cycle times are 9 months to 10 months. We could see it being closer to, say, five months for the Seasons product. Now, you have the caveat that we haven't closed a whole lot of those yet. So there's that caveat out there, but we do have that kind of potential. In an Arizona market where the cycle times are already much more compressed than that, the differential is much less.

As for the second part regarding the margins on the Seasons product, so far we have not seen any deterioration on the gross margin percentage really. And keep in mind, we've mostly released it right now in subdivisions where we'd previously been operating. So, when you compare it to our traditional product versus bringing up the new Seasons product, we have not seen gross margin degradation. But certainly, we will update you as to what we're seeing as it becomes more prominent in future quarters.

And then the last thing I want to say is, just to make sure it's understood that Seasons product was 5% of our overall quarters for the entire company. And it was north of 10% in each of those two markets I just mentioned, Colorado and Arizona. So just to clarify there.

And your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim of Evercore. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thanks very much, guys, and thanks for all the info here on Seasons. I guess, when you talked about the fact that you are increasing prices in certain markets, I think you said 50% of your communities, as a result of backlog being a little far out there, I was wondering if this makes you feel a little different about the potential waiting that margin can play in your ROE initiatives going forward. Last quarter, for example, you were pretty clear that you felt that you're sort of going to move the focus much more towards turns and away from margin, but just was curious if you could revisit that.

Yes. I'd be happy to, Steve. I think you've got it – got it ice-cold on what our mindset is. But we have to be sensitive to margins to a degree because it does filter into discussion on profitability. But I do think that making sure we've got a good [indiscernible] (22:36) on unit volume, it is perhaps even a little bit more important as we look at that returns and there's a couple of reasons for that.

If you're hitting unit volume, you've got a better potential to turn your [indiscernible] (22:53) more quickly, which has a positive impact on your return on equity. If you look at even gross margin itself at higher absorption levels, our gross margin tends to increase to some degree simply because you're leveraging things like interest and cost of sales, your construction overhead and things like that more efficiently. So for reasons like that, I think it's prudent to have a little bit of a tilt towards that unit volume.

And as for the gross profit margins, really what we've seen there is stability. If you look over the last six quarters at our gross profit margin, there is really not that a whole lot of variation, about 70 basis points once you take out impairments and warranty adjustments only about 70 basis points from high-to-low over that six-quarter period. So we still feel pretty good about where we stand from a margin perspective.

Okay. Great. I appreciate that color. One area where you did better than we were expecting was actually on the SG&A line. And in particular, I think you went through and I didn't hear anything that sounded of a one-time nature, but I thought I'd revisit it and ask. Was there anything there that you think if we were to sort of peel the layers back, we would say, well, that's something that may not recur in the fourth quarter and beyond?

The biggest reason for the change in our absolute level SG&A was stock-based comp, which decreased year-over-year. In terms of one-time items, there's nothing that comes to mind, in particular, that's very significant. And I always like to give the caveat that you can always have things plus or minus in future periods, adjustments to reserves and one-time items on legal and things of that nature, but there was nothing really like that in the third quarter.

All right. Excellent. Well, thanks very much, guys. Appreciate it.

Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Thanks. So, on the Seasons product, I mean the way you've configured it, it's a shorter cycle time, simplified product. I think most people would assume that from a marketing perspective, that would be attracting the entry-level millennial or first-time buyer.

In a lot of cases, I think builders have found some move down, some affordability-driven buyers, given the price appreciation on the closure in areas. What have you found so far in Arizona and Colorado on the product? Is the buyer set as you expected from a marketing perspective, or have there been any variations from that?

I think it's a good question. And I think, for the most part, we see a lot of appeal from that, that first-time buyer. I do think you've hit on something there though, in that we do see that it does serve double duty to a degree. You do have people who want a smaller home, and these houses in the initial release are really kind of from a 1,400 square foot to 1,800 square foot range. You've got some nice [ph] range (26:40) plans that are smaller that appeal to an older consumer, a move-down type of consumer. So we have seen some of that as well. It's really a great story for us, because it can serve both purposes.

Got it, got it. Second question I wanted to ask was on the conversion – I'm sorry, the backlog conversion ratio. So at the beginning of the year, you folks, I think, and many others, had expected some improvement in backlog conversions and cycle times. Some builders have seen that. I think on balance, they're kind of flattish year-over-year.

I just wanted to dig into the specific drivers. I think Denver had been a big part of it, but your Denver numbers are actually I think flat, flattish on a year-over-year basis. It looks like in Nevada and California, the problems were a little bit more pronounced. How would you characterize it? Is this in certain communities? I mean, is it a widespread problem across your communities, where it's kind of – some delays in all of your communities? And I mean a difficult question to answer, but what do you see happening? And obviously, it's an area of focus for you for 2017, but what do you think it will take to get those problems to ease, as you're seeing it across your portfolio?

Yeah. I think, in terms of how widespread it is, I don't think it's the same in every market. And I do think that in a market like Colorado, it's a little bit more widespread and Colorado's the place where you've seen really the lowest backlog conversion of all our markets. Clearly, it just happens to be our biggest market. So it has a relatively bigger impact upon our operations relative to our average peer, I would imagine. So, there's that dynamic to it.

As you get to some of the other markets, I would say, we'd also mention Southern California and Washington being impacted, and maybe a little bit less so than Colorado. And then Phoenix and Las Vegas, to a certain degree we saw it, but I would say that was a little bit more isolated, where we saw that occur.

And of course, as you look at what happens when you have those labor issues, you tend to get bunched up in other places as well. If you've had an issue with framing, maybe you get bunched up somewhere down the line. And there's other things that have been a little bit of a challenge for us, even things like getting appraisers on site on a timely basis, something as basic as that isn't as easy as it used to be, just in terms of the time it takes to get those people on site for appraisal. So there's a variety of different things, but that's really the overview.

Great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. First question I had was just, wanted to – a little bit more on some detailed thinking about the fourth quarter. I believe last quarter, Bob, you outlined or shared an expectation to end the year community-count-wise, at around 169, if I have that right, and maybe seeing just slight growth in the third quarter. So – you're about flattish in the third quarter from a quarter-end standpoint. Do you still expect the 169 by year-end? And with lots down year-over-year, how should we think about community count growth for 2017?

Yeah. As far as the 169 goes, I think last quarter I described that as really a feeling for where we could expect to be by the end of the year, and figured 159, and given that we're in the fourth quarter where order activity is typically the lightest, it's tough for me to commit to 169. I think a lot of it depends on how quickly some of the orders come through in Colorado, where I've mentioned we're down about 24% year-over-year. But we think that's somewhat temporary, it's just a matter of whether or not those new subdivisions come on line in the fourth quarter, or if it ends up being the first quarter of next year.

As far as next year's average community count growth potential – I think there's potential still there. I'm not ready to give a range at this point. I think we still have some time here in the fourth quarter to influence what happens there, and it's a little bit more [ph] impactful (31:58) for us, what happens in the fourth quarter, just given our lower level of land just by overall.

Okay. That's helpful. And I guess secondly, just going back to Seasons for a moment and there's a question earlier on the impact of gross margins. Just wanted to clarify there, I mean you said I think that in Colorado, Arizona, it hasn't had a deteriorative effect on gross margins, but obviously it's just a very, very small portion of closings.

So I wasn't sure if you were referring to that, because I think the bigger question is, just the product itself, typically this type of product carries a lower gross margin versus, let's say, the corporate average or the move-up product. And just wanted to be clear what exactly you were referring to, because I think you kind of said it's similar, but – there was really no impact, but I wasn't sure if that was just because of such a small piece of the business, if you were to look at it apples-for-apples.

Yeah. No. I get your question and let me just clarify that I'm talking about gross margin percentage here.

Yeah.

And based upon the full body of information I have right now, whether that's closings or backlog or sales, just overall I'm not seeing that they're coming in a lot lower than other product in the subdivision, if that makes sense. So, other stuff with the same land [ph] base has been in (33:45) some cases.

So, I think right now we don't see that based upon the information we have out there, our experience that it has any degradation to the gross margin percentage. But again, I caveat that where this is all in subdivisions that we had previously operated in with other products, it doesn't include yet subdivisions that were specifically underwritten to the Seasons products, and it is still pretty limited experience overall. Even though it's increasing, it's still only 5% of our orders. So as we expand the footprint of the Seasons Collection, we'll see if that continues to hold through.

Great. If I could just squeeze in one more, just a couple of housekeeping items. How should we think about the tax rate for the full year? This quarter is a touch under 31%. Just thinking about the full year and maybe what the run rate would perhaps be for next year.

And when you also refer to the stock-based comp in 3Q and the SG&A line being lower year-over-year, just curious if that's something that would carry over as a benefit into 4Q, or if that was one of the drivers in the really good leverage that you had in the quarter compared to the last couple of quarters.

Sure. So in terms of the second part of your question, first. On stock-based compensation, we had a relatively high charge going through there related to, A, option grants that occurred in May of 2015 and that expense was going through for really the third quarter of 2015 through the second quarter of 2016. So, after the second quarter of 2016, that expense is done. So, third quarter of 2016 was the first time we didn't have that in a year. So, there's nothing else out there right now that directly substitutes for that. So, all else equal, we would not expect that expense to recur in the fourth quarter.

And on the other part of your question – I'm sorry. What was the other part of your question, Mike?

I'm sorry. The tax rate.

On the tax rates, it was a little bit lower in the third quarter, and that was – there was a discrete item that came through. But I think for the full year, you can look to the nine-month information to see the expectation for the full year. I think we're right around 32.5% for the nine months. So that's really indicative of what we expect going into Q4. We would expect the same rate unless we get additional discrete items that we have not yet identified at this time.

And your next question comes from the line of Stephen East from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

Thank you. Bob, turning back to the gross margins for a minute, could you tell us what's the gross margin in the backlog? And then on your warranty and impairments costs. On the warranty, what was going on there? Any more to come on that? And same thing on the impairments.

Sure. In terms of backlog gross profit margin, we actually stopped giving out that information a few quarters ago. We really just thought it wasn't being useful to our users. So that's not a number I'm going to give out.

I would reiterate that as we look over the last six quarters, the delta between high and low on our margins before impairments and warranty adjustments has only been about 70 basis points. So we would characterize the gross profit margin as pretty stable.

In terms of the warranty adjustment and the impairments, I guess, taking the warranty adjustment first, we do an analysis of our warranty adjustment every quarter. Naturally, for every closing that we book, we are booking warranty expense there, and we do an overall analysis and it really involves some very complex calculations and a lot of different factors. So where we end up at the end of the third quarter is where we expect to be. Short term, there's always a potential for adjustments up or down in future quarters, but none that we can point to as of the end of the third quarter.

Impairments is a similar kind of thing. We review it every quarter. I think the good news here is really it related mostly to just one asset in the Mid-Atlantic, and that's a place where we already have discussed that it's been a little bit weaker than some of our other markets, so it's not a widespread thing as far as the third quarter impairments go. But we'll evaluate it again at the end of the fourth quarter and go from there.

Okay. All right. Thanks. And then turning to the returns, could you tell us what you all are looking at when you talk about returns, how you define it, maybe watch your target? And then if your cycle times – I appreciate getting volume, but if your cycle times are extended and you're not able to deliver – you deliver at a slower pace than what you're selling, that's not helping return anyway. So, I guess, my question is why wouldn't you try to bump up price to at least match your delivery pace and your sales pace?

Right. Yeah. No, I think first of all return on equity is really what my focus is. I wouldn't say there's necessarily a particular target right now other than improving where we've been over the last 12 months, and that's what we saw – we're able to accomplish in Q3.

As far as the dynamic, I think it's a legitimate point on the price. And that's why we did increase price in about 60% of our subdivisions. We found that appropriate. We look at it every week, if not every day, where the pricing is going. And if we do see that absorption rates are starting to get up there in that particular community, we do increase price, and that decision is made on a community-by-community basis.

And your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo of Bank of America. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my call this afternoon. First question is, I think it just maybe semantics. But the last quarter you guys were talking about your backlog driving significant year-over-year revenue growth in the back half. I think this quarter you're talking about generating year-over-year growth. And you had a pretty strong quarter in terms of revenue growth, but I just wanted to see, A, am I splitting hairs here or are you incrementally more cautious given what's going on with labor and so forth?

Well, I think the backlog units is up 33% year-over-year and 37% year-over-year in dollars. So I think that gives us some pretty good confidence in the potential for year-over-year growth in Q4. I don't know if there's a huge change in tone there. If the backlog is higher, offset to some degree by a [ph] bad debt (42:13), we know our cycle times have moved up a little bit too.

Okay. That's helpful. And then moving on, we were under the impression that the federal NOL was exhausted in the second quarter of 2016. There appear to be about a $3.5 million deferred income tax add-back in the quarter. So I guess, the question is, is this driven by state NOLs? And if so, do you anticipate kind of a similar run rate in the fourth quarter?

I think it's just energy credits, maybe that you're seeing go through there. So, once all kind of nets out and [ph] awash (42:50), I think fourth quarter, based on what we know right now, [ph] and it's about (42:53) neighborhood of 32.5% type of number percentage for our tax rate. And then going into next year, however, we don't necessarily have those energy tax credits in 2017. So that could be a deduct with the caveat that they might announce – that the government might announce that those are back on the table. They just haven't done it yet. So, by 2017, you might see an impact those coming off the table.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow from Citigroup. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure.

I guess, in terms of thinking about cash flow from operations, it looks like you said you've turned positive this year. Just wanted to make sure that was the case and particularly looking to ramp up [indiscernible] (43:55) anytime soon. And similarly, what are your priorities for the cash flow from operations, assuming it does turn positive over the next year or two?

Yeah. Well, I guess, first of all, it's a little bit lumpy how the land acq occurs any given quarter. So I don't know that I can give you certainty one way or the other where the cash flow is going to be over the next couple of years. And we are trying to make sure that, in line with the mindset of increasing our returns, that where we are being thoughtful as far as the assets that we acquire, and making sure that we are operating them efficiently.

Use of cash in future periods, we still – if we are generating that cash flow, I think what we really want to do, first and foremost, is invest in the business, grow the business. I think that's very important for us. We've talked about the first-time consumer and how we think that the first-time consumer is really a consumer base that can grow, that can increase new home sales overall nationally. And we want to make sure we're participating in that level of growth, to the extent that it occurs.

I'd also just throw in there that we do have a dividend that ranks the highest in our industry, a dividend that's been very consistent for our company throughout the downturn, since 2005. So, that is something that we have put quite a bit of our cash flow into, that the number is nearly $500 million over the course of the past 10 years. So that dividend has remained a priority for us.

Okay. I have another follow-up to dovetail on the discussion of first-time homebuyer product. It seems like the pie is obviously big enough for all the participants that are stepping up their presence in the space. Can you talk about any experiences where you're stepping up your Seasons product for existing, I'll call it, other builders who are stepping up their first-time homebuyer product? If that's impacted price, absorptions or incentives in any way?

Okay. That's pretty limited, only seven communities across the country, and really just in two markets right now. So, it's a pretty limited experience set. What I will say is, I do think there is some uniqueness to our Seasons product, in that it's not just an absolute strip down model designed for only the entry-level consumer. It's a product that really has some unique features associated with it in the standard house. If you go through the models, if you ever have the opportunity, you'd see what I mean. Higher ceilings being one thing that you'd notice right away than other entry-level products. So I would say, on the margin, it's just a little bit nicer than what we see from the competition when they describe an entry-level product.

The other thing you get out of our products is really the ability to customize it, still build-to-order, even though it's designed for the first-time consumer. And I don't think that's as prevalent with some of our competition. So we think we have a little bit of an edge there, in terms of competitive prospects for the product.

Got it. Thank you for the time.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center. Your line is open.

Hey, Alex.

Hello?

Hey.

Hey, Alex.

Yes. Hi, Bob. Hi, Larry. I guess, going back to the issue of backlog conversions and labor availability, I'm wondering, I guess, to what extent can some of these issues – what's your opinion of, to what extent some of these issues can be solved, I guess, just by paying more for these subs? Or do you think some of this is more reflective of your change towards less specs and more build-to-order?

I mean, there is some to that. If you don't have as many inventory homes out there, it has an impact, and we've talked about that. But in terms of paying people more, taking other actions to try to fill the gap on the subcontractor side, that piece is really difficult to quantify. But I think it's a valid point, in that the best thing we can be doing right now is being very attentive to what's happening with our subcontractors, being very in touch with our purchasing personnel, that may be the case where they need a little bit more.

From a price standpoint, from a cost standpoint, in order for them to get back on our jobs, it may be something else that we need to give to them, just a little bit of a better visibility, in terms of less number of homes we have available for them to build. But staying really close to those subcontractors is going to be very key for us, even though it's difficult to quantify exactly what impact that will have.

Right. I guess I'm just trying to figure out how to model next year with all the moving pieces. Now, any other comments you can make as we move into next year? Obviously, with backlogs growing, your revenue should be growing. What do you think we can expect as far as further SG&A leverage? And also the interest flowing in cost of sales, is that likely to come down as a percentage of revenues?

Well, I think it's all kind of one and the same question because it all hinges behind is our ability to grow revenue. And part of the revenue story is whether or not we can decrease our cycle times. And like I said, I think it's very difficult to quantify at this point how much exactly we can or if we can at all decrease our cycle times going into 2017. I only say that because some of that is out of our control in terms of the absolute number of subcontractors in any given market. So, it does hinge around that. And I think the notion that we [ph] are at it (51:03) into the backlog that we are seeing still strong demand is an important point, too, because that also helps us to ultimately increase our revenues year-over-year.

Okay. Well, best of luck. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my follow-ups. Just a couple of quick ones here. Bob, you mentioned in your prepared remarks regarding the fourth quarter backlog you'd still expect that to be down year-over-year – the backlog conversion, sorry. But you said it should improve sequentially, and I thought you might have given a rough sense of the sequential improvement, or I thought I heard you say the word by a quarter. I would just – if you could clarify that.

Yeah. Sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter, we have a goal of increasing by at least 400 basis points.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And then also in terms of thinking about Seasons going forward, right now it's 5% of your orders, seven communities, two markets. How should we think about what that might become in 2017? Obviously, I would assume, directionally, as you've said – I mean, you've put out 20% of lots purchased in the most recent quarter at Seasons. Can it reach that type of a number in 2017 in terms of your mix? And kind of related to that, what is the typical absorption per month for Seasons versus the rest of your business?

I guess, I didn't quite get what target you were thinking about for 2017.

Well, you'd referenced the 20% of lots purchased in the quarter. So...

Yeah. I mean, it's a big move from 5% to 20%. And given that it's only in two markets right now, only actively selling in two markets right now, I think it's tough to say right now if we can get to that level, that 20% level in 2017, but we already went from 2% to 5% in the course of the quarter. So, I think that gives you an idea of the kind of emphasis that we put on the product.

As I look at absorption rates for the product, it's substantially higher than our more traditional product. And again, I have to caveat with it's a more limited set of information that we're dealing with here, only seven communities that we're talking about here, but it is substantially higher than our traditional product.

On that, Bob, obviously, again, appreciate it's only seven communities. But are we talking more like in the – I mean, right now, your corporate average is around a little under three for this quarter, three per month. Are we talking something like double that or above 10 per month or what's the degree of magnitude here?

Obviously, it depends on the individual communities, but versus three per month, I'd say we're [ph] offering (54:58) Seasons you go up to more or like, say, six a month or so. So, double is probably a good number.

Great. [ph]

Still wherever we go (55:06).

Great.

And your next question comes from the line of Andrew Berg from Post Advisory Group. Your line is open.

Thank you. Just going back to land acquisition comments you made before and discussion of free cash flow, can you give us some indication of where you see land spend coming out in 4Q and expectations for next year of land acquisition and development?

It's not a number we give out because it's difficult to time these interactions with the land sellers. I would say we're looking to – pending the development of the overall housing market, we want to grow as a company. So, we're not looking to necessarily spend less as a company as we move forward. So, we haven't put out any specific targets.

Okay. And then reasonably, the fourth quarter should replicate third quarter in terms of order of magnitude and the delta there and you spent less this year than last year. Is that just a timing issue?

Yeah. I mean, there's a – in the second quarter, we spent more year-over-year in the second quarter. And then it's down year-over-year in the third quarter. So, again, it's really just dependent upon the timing of some of these transactions. And then again, our outlook is positive. So, we would – all else equal, that will be adding assets to our portfolio [indiscernible] (56:40).

Understood. Thank you.

Thanks.

And there are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.

Very well. Thank very much for being on the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again after our fourth quarter earnings call.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.