corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corporation
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Macatawa Bank Corporation fourth quarter 2004 earnings conference


call. The Company released its earnings after 4 o’clock, January 17, 2005. Additional copies of the


press release are available by visiting the bank’s website at www.macatawabank.com or by


contacting the Company at 616-820-1435. Representing the Company this morning will be Ben


Smith, Chairman and CEO; Phil Koning, President; Jon Swets, CFO; and Ray Tooker, Senior Vice


President of Lending Administration.


[Operator Instructions] A reminder that this call may involve certain forward-looking statements


such as projections of revenue, earnings, statements on the plans and objectives of management,


statements of future economic performance and the assumptions underlying these statements. The


results of the Company’s performance may differ materially from any forward-looking statement.


The Company incorporates by referencing various risk factors as outlined in recent Securities and


Exchange Commission filings that could materially affect the Company’s financial results. The


Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this call. At this


time, I would like to turn the call over to Ben Smith. Please go ahead, sir.


Ben Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and a Happy New Year to everyone. Thank you for joining us for the


fourth quarter review. As you can tell from the numbers we had an excellent fourth quarter, a great


way to finish '04 and a nice start for '05. This morning we have with us Phil, Jon and Ray to share


some comments and to answer any questions that you have. With that why don't we go right ahead


and Jon will run over the fourth quarter results.


Jon Swets, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


All right. Thank you, Ben. Record earnings for the quarter, strong improvement in all our profitability


performance ratios, our asset quality ratios returned to favorable levels after the third quarter when


we had really good growth on both sides of our balance sheet. So great quarter in many different


ways. First off with net income it was 4,448,000 or $0.49 for the fourth quarter versus 2,975,000 or


$0.33 for the fourth quarter the prior year. Net income was up 50% and the earnings per share


were up 48%. The record earnings produced a return on equity of 13.76% that’s up from 9.78% for


the fourth quarter of the prior year. Improvement in these measures really largely came from growth


in net interest income but also to a lesser extent in non-interest income. So first off then with the net


interest income. It was up 28% in the fourth quarter compared to the fourth quarter the prior year,


due mostly to a 24% increase in average earning assets.


The net interest income was also – the increase was also aided by improvement in net interest


margin. Margin was up 12 basis points to 3.76% over the fourth quarter the prior year and was up


10 basis points on a consecutive quarter basis. The increase was due to the effect of the Fed rate


increases. As our balance sheet remains asset sensitive. After factoring in the effect of derivatives,


we have approximately 58% of our total earning assets tied to prime, variable rate loans. And so


that asset sensitivity positions us well for improvements in margin going forward as well.


We did have pressure during the fourth quarter to increase our deposit rates, which offset some of


the increase in asset yields. As I say, we do remain well positioned for improvement in margin


going forward. The provision for loan losses for the fourth quarter was 1,325,000, very close to the


same level in the fourth quarter of the prior year. So I won't touch on that unless there are questions


at the end.
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corporation
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Non-interest income for the quarter was 2,732,000 versus 2,151,000 for the fourth quarter of the


prior year, up 581,000. We had increases really in all of our components of non-interest income.


And also on a consecutive quarter basis, all of the components of non-interest income were either


at or above the third quarter levels. Deposit service charges were up consistent with our growth in


the deposit portfolio. The gains on loan sales were up nicely really despite an absence of


refinancing activity. We've gathered good new purchase business late in the year and certainly


during the fourth quarter.


And then other income increased by approximately 300,000. Almost two-thirds of that increase


relates to income earned on bank-owned life insurance. During the fourth quarter we did purchase


$20 million in bank-owned life insurance, actually late in the month of October. And it increased


certainly our non-interest income by more than the reduction in net interest income that it caused


and then certainly the favorable tax treatment improved the bottom line nicely in the fourth quarter


as a result of that bank-owned life insurance purchase.


Moving on to non-interest expense. For the fourth quarter it was 9,277,000 versus 7,851,000 in the


fourth quarter of the prior year, an increase of a little more than 1.4 million. 666,000 of the 1.4


million relates to increases in salaries and benefits and those increases compared to the prior year


really relate to the staffing increases I've mentioned in each of our prior quarterly earnings


conference calls. But then also in the fourth quarter our occupancy and equipment expenses


compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year were virtually flat.


So, really the – the other component of the increase in total non-interest expense came in other


non-interest expenses and in the amount 761,000. Really that relates to various items during the


fourth quarter with Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 compliance, some extra holding costs related to


repossessed and foreclosed assets, and then a few extra marketing dollars spent to – to really tick


things off nicely for 2005. So, a couple of these things are non-recurring kinds of things.


On a consecutive quarter basis, our non-interest expense was up only 344,000, as salaries and


benefits and occupancy and equipment expense were virtually unchanged compared to the third


quarter. So really the – the increase came in just some of those other operating expense areas that


I just mentioned.


The flat occupancy and equipment as well as a small increase in people cost reflect our effective


use of current – of our current capacity, which – which is translated into growth in balance sheet


and earnings and really what's that – what that’s done is it's improved quite nicely our efficiency


ratio. Efficiency is down to 54.03% for the fourth quarter, and each quarter of this year that


efficiency ratio has come down quite nicely. First quarter, we started at 60, then it was down to 58


in the second, 56 in the third, and now down to 54%. So, good improvement in the efficiency ratio


as we continue to grow into the capacity that we've generated in our branch network and with our


people addition.


Now on the balance sheet, good growth in loans and deposits for the quarter. Loans were up 35


million, deposits up 29 million, and if you recall, the third quarter was a record growth quarter for us


in both loans and deposits and much of that growth in the third quarter came late in that quarter.


So, if we looked at average loans and average deposits compared to the third quarter we actually


had quite a bit better improvement in those average balances on a consecutive quarter basis.


And then just to sum up for the year, total assets ended at just under 1.7 billion up 271 million or


nearly 20%. Total loans were nearly 1.4 billion an increase by 239 million for the year, nearly 21%


and in each category of our loan portfolio we had that 20% plus growth. And then, total deposits


ended the year at 1.351 billion, which was up 242 million for the year, or nearly 22% growth in total


deposits. We were very pleased with this growth and success in really all our lines of business.