raw transcript


Macatawa Bank Corporation
 
MCBC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Macatawa Bank Corporation first quarter 2005 earnings conference call.


The Company released its earnings after 4 p.m. April 18, 2005. Additional copies of the press


release are available by visiting the bank’s website at www.macatawabank.com or by contacting


the Company at 616-820-1435. Representing the Company this morning will be Ben Smith,


Chairman and CEO; Phil Koning, President; Jon Swets, CFO; and Ray Tooker, Senior Vice


President of Lending Administration.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder that this call may involve certain forward-looking statements


such as projections of revenue, earnings, statements on the plans and objectives of management,


statements of future economic performance and the assumptions underlying these statements.


The results of the Company’s performance may differ materially from any forward-looking


statement. The Company incorporates by referencing various risk factors as outlined in recent


Securities and Exchange Commission filings that could materially affect the Company’s financial


results. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in


this call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ben Smith. Please go ahead, sir.


Ben Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and welcome to Macatawa’s first quarterly earnings conference call. As you can


imagine we are extremely pleased with the first quarter we are glad to hear with us to share with us


that information. I will ask Jon to go over the first quarter numbers for you.


Jon Swets, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thank you, Ben. Record earnings again. We had large increases in profits and various


performance ratios over the first quarter of 2004. Our asset quality is strong and stable relative to


the end of the year, so after to a very good start in 2005. Net income for the quarter for the quarter


was 4,535,000 or $0.50 per share on diluted basis versus 2,866,000 for the first quarter of the prior


year or $0.32. So our net income was up 58% and our earnings per share was up 56%. These


record earnings produced a return on equity of 13.74% versus 9.30% in the first quarter of the prior


year, and an ROA of 1.07 versus 0.81% in the first quarter of the prior year. Improvement in these


ratios in our earnings is due mostly to an increase in net interest income but also due to increases


in non-interest income.


I'll start with net interest income was up 30% over the first quarter of the prior year due to two


different things really, 19% increase in average earning assets and also tremendous improvement


in our net interest margin, which increased by 35 basis points. Margin for the first quarter was


3.84% versus 3.49% for the first quarter of the prior year. We also had an increase on a


consecutive quarter basis in margin and it was up 8 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2004 and


this marks our fourth consecutive quarter of improvement in net interest margin. These


improvements in margins reflect our asset sensitivity and the effect of the Fed rate increases. We


do remain asset sensitive.


After factoring in the effect of derivatives, approximately 57% of our loan portfolio is variable tied to


prime, which is about the same level at which we were added at the end of 2004, so little change


really in the level of our variability. So, therefore the Fed continues to increase rates, we should


see further improvement in net interest margin. Our provision for loan losses briefly, I just want to


mention that 900,000 for the quarter versus 1,225,000 for the first quarter last year, so down a bit,
raw transcript


Macatawa Bank Corporation
 
MCBC
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


that relates to less loan growth in this first quarter compared to first quarter of the prior year and I'll


touch on that in a minute.


Our non-interest income as I mentioned was up nicely over the first quarter of the prior year, up


16% to 2,673,000. It's almost a $400,000 increase in non-interest income. The increase is


primarily due to an increase in deposit service charges and then also due to increases in other non-


interest income. Deposit service charges increased a 11% consistent with the increase in our


number of accounts outstanding compared to the first quarter of the prior year. Other non-interest


income was up almost 300,000 over the prior year.


Little less than two-thirds of that was due to income from the bank-owned life insurance that I


mentioned in our last quarterly conference call. We bought bank-owned life insurance during the


fourth quarter of 2004, so that constitutes most of the increase in other non-interest income. The


remaining increase was in various items across the board. And also finally in non-interest income


we continue to see decent new mortgage purchase activity, so our loan sale gains have hung in


there quite nicely relative to the prior year, despite the fact that we’ve had virtually no refinance


activity.


On to non-interest expense, non-interest expense increased to 9,962,000 compared to 8,257,000


for the first quarter the prior year, so up about 1.7 million. Over 900,000 of this 1.7 million is in


salaries and benefits, and we’ve had increases in staffing as we continue to grow in each of our


lines of business. We’ve also had an increase in incentives due to stronger profitability


performance that we had this year. And then also finally, in this area we did record a special


accrual in the amount of little over a 100,000 related to the final pay out of the Grand Bank pension


plan.


In other non-interest expense, increased by 600,000 that’s is 3.0 million up from 2.4 million for the –


for the first quarter of the prior year. The increase is this 600,000 out of this increase, really mostly


to either investing in our future growth or supporting our current growth. Investing in our future


growth through increases in marketing and promotions activities that we’ve had this year supporting


our current growth through extra data processing expense, other customers support, kinds of


things.


The other non-interest expense on a consecutive quarter basis is actually down from the fourth


quarter 2004. Despite the increase in our non-interest expense, our capacity usage continues to


improve as evidenced by our efficiency ratio. Efficiency ratio is down to 56.87% for the first quarter


from 60.31% for the first quarter of the prior year


Now with our balance sheet, total assets increased to 49 million for the quarter up to 1,721 million


[ph]. We did during the first quarter take the opportunity to increase our investment securities


portfolio as we saw some good yield opportunities there and our loan portfolio increased by


approximately 30 million during the quarter so decent growth in the loan portfolio, 31 million in


commercial loan growth, and then in our retail portfolios we were about flat for the quarter.


On to the funding side of our balance sheet, in deposits, we experienced our typical seasonal


slower first quarter in deposit growth, however we did lay the groundwork in during the first quarter


for good future balances growth. And new account openings were very strong in the first quarter up


20% over the fourth quarter new accounts openings and always does take a good couple of months


for the actual balances from all its new account opening activity to finally and fully appear. So we do


expect our continued growth in deposit balances as we move through the rest of the year.


And then finally with asset quality, as I mentioned, asset quality was stable through the quarter. Our


non-performing asset to total about 0.32% versus 0.35% at the end of this past year, when


compared to 0.25% to the first quarter of the prior year. Total non-performing assets were 5.529


million, down slightly from the end of the year, which was at 5.871 million. Our net charge-offs on