raw transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp
 
MCBC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 15 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: A reminder that this call may involve certain forward-looking statements, such as


projections of revenue, earnings, statements of the plans and objectives of management,


statements of future economic performance and the assumptions underlying these statements.


The results of the Company's performance might differ materially from any forward-looking


statements. The Company incorporates by reference various risk factors as outlined in recent


Securities and Exchange Commission filings that could materially affect the Company's financial


results. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in


this call.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Phil Koning. Please go ahead, sir.


Philip J. Koning, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tamara [ph]. Good morning and thank you for your interest in Macatawa Bank’s third


quarter earnings teleconference. I have with me today Jon Swets, our Chief Financial Officer, and


Ray Tooker, our Senior Lending Officer.


We are very pleased with our continued growth and financial performance during this past quarter.


And, I will turn it over to Jon to share the specifics with you.


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Phil. Record earnings again, our return on assets and return on equity are continuing


to rise. We had solid loan growth during the quarter, very strong core deposit growth during the


quarter, continued stability in our asset quality. So, overall very good all around quarter for us.


Just as a reminder in the third quarter of the prior year, we did have that large loan loss. We


recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.3 million related to one commercial borrower who was


engaged in fraud. That amounted to $1.5 million after tax and I bring that up only because it affects


some of the comparisons between the current quarter and that prior year quarter. And, I will try to


highlight how it affects those comparisons as we roll through some of the numbers here.


To start off with net income and earnings per share, net income for the quarter was 5,550,000; as


we mentioned it’s a record earnings number; 53 cents in earnings per share that’s versus


2,116,000 or 21 cents for the third quarter of the prior year, which contained a loss. Without that


prior year loan loss, net income for that quarter would have been 3.616 million or 35 cents. So, by


way of comparison on a more apples-to-apples basis, the net income for the quarter was up 53%


relative to those numbers for the prior year not containing that loss. So, still very strong growth in


net income. As far as the actual performance comparisons are concerned, our net income was up


162 percent, but the more realistic comparison is the 53% number.


These record earnings produced an ROA of 1.21% for the quarter and an ROE of 16.02 percent.


These are record levels for ROA and ROE for us as well, and they have continued to rise each


quarter of this year as we have proceeded through the year. The growth in net interest income and


a very strong growth in non-interest income were the causes for improvement in our earnings for


this quarter. Net interest income increased by 18% due in part to two different things; 15% growth


in our average earning assets, and then the net interest margin was up 10 basis points over the


third quarter of the prior year. Net interest margin was 3.76% versus 3.66 over last year. And the


margin went down a bit on a consecutive quarter basis. It was down 6 basis points. On a
raw transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp
 
MCBC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


consecutive quarter basis, we did see our asset yields continue to be positively impacted by the


Fed rate increases as a large portion of our loan portfolio remains tied to prime. Approximately


56% of our loan portfolio net of our swaps is tied directly to prime. So, our asset yield increased by


22.5 basis points on a consecutive quarter basis. Our funding costs however rose by a little more.


Funding costs were up by 31 basis points on a consecutive quarter basis.


I want to point out that during the quarter, we did take advantage of the very flat yield curve and we


converted some of our short-term funding, daily variable FHLB advances which run at slightly


above Fed funds purchased levels in terms of rates. We converted a large portion of that funding


into more longer-term funding in the two, three, four, five-year term funding to as I mentioned again


to take advantage of that flat yield curve, extend our maturities a bit, so in the short-term had the


impact of rating cost to funds, but in the long-term should help stabilize our cost of funds a bit. Also


during the quarter, we continued to experience a roll-off in our time deposits, roll off in replacement,


lower rates rolling into much higher rates, as those time deposits matured and rolled into new CDs.


For our margin, we will continue certainly to manage for stability with balanced interest rate risk


profile, that’s certainly our goal. I know in prior quarters we’ve talked about our asset sensitivity,


the level of our asset sensitivity has decreased a bit as we move through the quarters this year.


And again, it’s our goal to make sure we stabilize our net interest margin with a balanced profile.


Moving on to the provision for loan losses; provision for the third quarter was 855,000, compared to


the 3.9 million for the prior year third quarter. And again, 3.9 included the $2.3 million provision


related to the one commercial loan borrower. So, the provision certainly was much lower than that


and much lower after you even take out that additional provision last year. And, part of that has to


with the fact that we did have very low level of net charge-offs during the quarter, which I will touch


on a little bit more in a minute.


Moving on down the income statement to our non-interest income; non-interest as I mentioned was


up dramatically, we were up 61% to 3,649,000 for the quarter compared to 2,251,000 for the prior


year third quarter. We saw increases really in all components of our non-interest income. Deposit


service charges were up 464,000 due primarily to the overdraft privilege product that we introduced


on April 1 of this year as we discussed in our last quarter’s earnings conference call. In addition,


our gain on mortgage loan sales was up quite nicely, up 357,000 over the third quarter of the prior


year. Good loan origination volume throughout the quarter really helped produce those gains and


the loan origination volume was really driven by the fact that the mortgage rate environment has


been very favorable, the low rate leading into the quarter and that extended through most of the


quarter really helped our origination volume and produced those gains.


Our trust fee income was also up a bit compared to the third quarter of the prior year despite the


very sputtering market – inconsistent market out there. Our other non-interest income also


increased and there are several individual items that comprise the increase in other non-interest


income. Notably, our bank-owned life insurance, if you recall last year at this time, we did not have


it on our balance sheet, it came on in October. So, the third quarter non-interest income for this


year contained [indiscernible] income where as prior year did not.


Non-interest expense for the third quarter was 10,688,000 that’s an increase of 19.6% versus the


prior year third quarter. Salaries and benefits increased approximately 16 percent, that’s due to the


several different factors. Over the course of last year, we have added our Rockford branch on the


north side of Grand Rapids; on the south side of Grand Rapids we added our Gaines office during


the third quarter of last year, so they didn’t have a full impact on the third quarter of last year. And,


of course, we’ve added staff to support our continued growth and there are higher incentives in this


year’s compensation as compared to the prior year, all kind of contributing to that increase.


Occupancy and equipment on a combined basis were up approximately 14% since the third quarter


of last year, and again, related to the couple of offices I just mentioned, as well our Grand Haven