corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Patricia and I’ll be your conference operator today. At this


time, I’d like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks,


there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].


Mr. Ben Smith, you may begin your conference.


Benj. A. Smith III, Chairman, Macatawa Bank and Chief Executive Officer Macatawa Bank


Corporation


Thank you. Good morning and thank you all for joining us for Macatawa’s fourth quarter conference


call. We have just completed one of the most difficult years that we’ve experienced and a very


difficult quarter. One of the most significant events that occurred last year was a successful


completion of raising 31.4 million in preferred stock. We very much appreciate the confidence that


our investor shared with us in – by investing in Macatawa Bank.


With the additional input of the new capital we remain confident that we’ll be able to weather the


current economic storm and return to some form of high profitability in the near future. This morning


joining me are Phil Koning, President and CEO, Ron Haan, Executive Vice President, and Jon


Swets, CFO. We will have the same format that we normally have and I’d first like to – after


completion of the comments, we will be opened for question and answers.


So, Jon, would you start with the fourth quarter results.


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Yes. Thank you, Ben. There were a few topics I want to touch on just to clarify from the press


release. First of all with the goodwill impairment, we took a impairment charge of 26 million on


goodwill. We completely wrote-off all the goodwill on our books, so there is none left. In addition


there was 1.7 million in other acquisition intangibles that we wrote off in the process. So the total


goodwill acquisition intangible write-off was 27.7 million. What that leaves on our books is really just


one remaining acquisition-related intangible asset, a core deposit intangible asset of 875,000. All


the other acquisition intangibles and goodwill are completely written off.


Our net interest margin, just want to make a couple brief comments there as well, for the quarter it


was 2.74%, down 24 basis points on a linked-quarter basis. So kind of a frustrating decline in the


net interest margin that’s a – of that 24 basis points, 13 basis points really relate to continuing non-


performing asset activity.


We saw our non-performing asset balances grow during the fourth quarter and in that growth had


the effect of decreasing net interest margin by about seven basis points plus there were additional


interest reversals on those loans as we move them into non-accrual status of another six basis


points. All of those things amounting to about 13 basis points. So little over half of that decline on a


consecutive quarter basis does relate to the non-performing asset activity.


Just a couple of other pieces of info about net interest margin, our yield on assets excluding that


non-performing asset impact decreased by 16 basis points on a linked-quarter basis. Our cost of


funds on our interest-bearing core deposits decreased by 17 basis points. And so on a core, core


basis we are seeing both sides of the balance sheet move in tandem.


However, the other thing that occurred during the fourth quarter is we saw funding mix change. Mix


change that was negative, a move from lower costing deposits to higher costing sources of funds
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


primarily the wholesale sources. That had an eight basis point negative impact on margin for the


quarter and that was also amplified by increased pressure in deposit pricing competition as well. A


more minor impact on the margin, the FHLB, Indianapolis decided to suspend their dividend for the


quarter that impacted our margin by three basis points for the fourth quarter.


Non-interest expense, just a couple of things I want to mention there, the press release talks about


our core non-interest expense again after kind of taking a look at the underlying expenses not


including the impact of additional administration costs and other expenses related to non-


performing assets. We saw a decrease in that core non-interest expense amount by about 700,000


on a linked-quarter basis, which is really just an illustration of the effectiveness of the cost-saving


initiatives that we talk about in the press release.


We identified $6 million in cost savings initiatives that we put into place during 2008. The $6 million


would be the annualized impact of all those initiatives. In 2008, we realized about half of that a little


under 3 million impacted expenses in a favorable way in 2008. But the full impact, full 6 million


should be realized in ‘09 of all those initiatives.


The initiatives were diverse. They included many things. They included a 10% reduction in staff that


we accomplished in 2008. Better use of technology whether it be imaging or communication line


reengineering, we streamlined processes, trust systems career usage, renegotiated, contracts, we


outsourced certain processes at lower costs and we reduced spending really in several different


areas whether it be in supplies or marketing. But as I said, it was wide and diverse in terms of the


cost-savings initiatives.


And then finally, just want to touch on the allowance for loan losses briefly. The allowance during


the quarter increased by nearly $8 million to 2.16% from 1.73% at September 30, 2008. The


increase was due to growth in our non-performing loans and trends we’re seeing in delinquencies


and also additional reserves on specific credits.


I do want to mention though, although delinquencies have increased in really all portions of our loan


portfolio, there were increases in our consumer and mortgage portfolio in terms of those


delinquency levels. But our charge offs out of those portfolios remain very, very low.


Net charge-offs out of our residential mortgage portfolio for all of 2008 were only $200,000, 0.09%


of the portfolio balance. Net charge-offs out of our consumer loan portfolio were only 650,000 for all


of 2008, which is only a little over 0.3% of our consumer portfolio. So those portfolios, although


trends are moving in the wrong direction, ultimate losses we’re seeing out of those portfolios and


expect that those portfolios continues to be and remains low.


That concludes my remarks. Now, Phil Koning has a few things to say.


Philip J. Koning, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jon. I’d like to just add a couple of comments about deposits and our West Michigan


economy. We were pleased with the stability of our deposit base. We have core deposits up slightly


for the year. We continued to open new accounts and gain new households, although at a


somewhat slower pace than in previous years.


Given challenging economic times, job losses, and a net migration of people out of our state, we


feel pretty good about this progress. We continue to be focused on drilling core relationships and


their deposit base. Also, interest rates on deposits, which Jon mentioned were very competitive, are


still competitive, but are beginning to drop to more reasonable levels.