corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Macatawa Bank Corporation Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference


Call. The Company released its earnings after 4 O'clock, July 18, 2005. Additional copies of the


press release are available by visiting the bank's website at www.macatawabank.com or by


contacting the Company at 616-820-1435.


Representing the Company this morning will be Ben Smith, Chairman and CEO; Phil Koning,


President; Jon Swets, CFO; and Ray Tooker, Senior Vice President of Lending Administration.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions]. A


reminder that this call may involve certain forward-looking statements, such as projections of


revenue, earnings, statements on the plans and objectives of management, statements of future


economic performance and the assumptions underlying these statements. The results of the


Company's performance may differ materially from any forward-looking statements.


The Company incorporates by reference various risks factors as outlined in the recent Securities


and Exchange Commission filings that could materially affect the Company's financial results. The


Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this call.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ben Smith. Go ahead, sir.


Benjamin A. Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for tuning into Macatawa's conference call. First of all, I need to


apologize, we had technical difficulties, and I apologize for holding you up. We will try and move the


meeting along fairly rapidly.


It's fairly obvious that we are very pleased with the performance that we had for the quarter. I was


particularly pleased with the return on assets and the return on equity. Those are numbers much


more close to what we are comfortable with and we are pleased we managed to attain those.


The West Michigan economy, as Michigan in general, has continued to be slow in recovery, we do


however, feel that we are on the up bound and I think may be later in the meeting when Ray has


some comments, he might comment to the loan volume, but it has rebounded little bit and we are


seeing a little bit more interest from our existing client base.


With that, let me ask Jon to make some formal remarks. Jon?


Jon W. Swets, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ben. Record earnings again, large increase in profits and our performance ratios, as


Ben mentioned, solid loan growth and stable asset quality, so it’s been another very strong quarter


for us.


To start out with net income and earnings per share, net income was 5,262,000, or $0.50 per share


on a diluted basis versus 3,346,000 in the second quarter of the prior year and $0.32. The net


income increased by 57% and our diluted earnings per share increased by 56%. These record


earnings produced the ROE and ROA levels that Ben had just mentioned. ROE was 15.71% versus


10.74% in the second quarter of the prior year, and the ROA was 1.2% versus 0.89% in the second


quarter of the prior year.
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Really, we can attribute the profitability improvement to many things, but we had improvement in all


areas of our income statement. Net interest income improvement, non-interest income


improvement, our non-interest expenses held in there nicely and as a result our efficiency ratio


showed good improvement.


But first of all, with net interest income, it is up by 23% for the quarter compared to the second


quarter of the prior year due to two primary things, of course, we continue to have good strong


growth in our earning asset levels. Earning assets are up 17% over the second quarter of the prior


year, but then also our net interest margin was up 20 basis points compared to the same period of


the prior year.


Net interest margin was 3.82% versus 3.62% for second quarter of the prior year. On a consecutive


quarter basis, we did see a 2 basis point decrease in our margin. Now, I should point out that our


asset yields do continue to be positively impacted by the Fed rate increases. There is a large


portion of our loan portfolio remains tied to prime, so we are seeing a good strong increases on the


asset side of our balance sheet.


However, during the second quarter we also saw our funding costs rise. Our cost of funds rose just


a little bit more than the yield on our assets, couple of reasons for that. If you recall last year,


especially in the third quarter, but throughout last year we had very strong deposit growth.


Especially, in the third quarter, as I say, third quarter deposits grew by over a 170 million, just in


one quarter, and we mentioned in that call that a lot of our good strong growth is coming from very


large business relationships.


We do have one very large business relationship that during the second quarter of this year moved


some of their money out and put it to use. We expected this to happen, we budgeted for it, but as a


result we did have to replace that funding and we of course had to replace it in the short term at


least with wholesale sources, which had the effect of increasing our cost of funds.


The other dynamic that's going on is that with all of our term type funding sources, our own retail


CDs, our brokered deposits and then with our FHLB advances, we are seeing some fairly rapid re-


pricing in each of those portfolios. As individual instruments mature, they are being replaced at


interest rates that are as much as 150, 200 basis points higher than what they are rolling off at. So


that's also having that effect on cost of funds.


Going forward as well, relative to net interest margin, our interest rate risk profile is evolving a bit in


that, if you recall from prior conference calls, we have mentioned often that we have been fairly


asset sensitive. We are seeing some more balancing in our interest rate risk profile and we are less


asset sensitive than we were six months, even a year ago. And, so as the Fed continues to raise


short-term interest rates, in the near term, we might not see as large of an increase in net interest


margin as our profile has balanced more.


Moving down the income statement to a provision for loan losses of 1,125,000 for the quarter


versus 1,440,000 in the second quarter of the prior year, the decrease there was purely due to the


differences in growth in loans in each quarter. The growth in loans, although solid in the second


quarter of this year was a little bit less than it was in the second quarter of the prior year.


Non-interest income, non-interest income was 3,369,000 for the quarter, up 22% versus the


2,751,000 for the second quarter of the prior year. We did see loan sale gains and trust fee income


decrease but other areas in non-interest income more than made up for those decreases. Loan


sale gains were down approximately 200,000 compared to the second quarter of the prior year, but


they were still at 536,000, which was pretty consistent with our last few quarters.


Our trust fees, it should be pointed out that in the second quarter of the prior year we mentioned


that our trust fees in that time period did contain a special one-time adjustment; it was