corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, everyone. My name is Anthony and I will be your conference operator


today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter Earnings Release


Conference Call. At this time all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speaker’s remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to your host, Phil Koning. And thank you for using the


conferencing services.


Philip J. Koning, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us. I am Phil Koning, Co-CEO with Ron Haan who is here


as well and Jon Swets, our Chief Financial Officer. We’ll start out with some comments from Jon on


our financial performance and then Ron and I will speak briefly followed by the question-and-


answer period. So go ahead, Jon.


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Phil. I just want to touch on a couple of topics to maybe clarify from the press release.


Net interest margin to begin with was 2.66% for the first quarter of 2009. That is down on a


consecutive quarter basis by eight basis points. So compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, we did


see a decline in margin of eight basis points.


For a clarification, seven of the eight basis point decline related to non-performing loans. We saw


more loans moving to non-accrual status in the first quarter of 2009, so we reversed more accrued


interest receivable on those loans, which of course causes a decline in the margin. In addition, just


the sheer growth in the average balance of the non-performing assets also had the negative impact


on margin. Both of those components add up to a seven basis point detriment to net interest


margin. So that’s where most of the decline came from.


If you noticed from our press release though we also built some liquidity on our balance sheet


during the first quarter. With the loan – with the decline in our overall loan portfolio in the first


quarter it did allow us to grow short-term investments. So we were able to build liquidity, but of


course those investments are on balance sheet at a lower interest rate than they would be in the


loan portfolio. And so that also has a downward impact on net interest margin, approximately three


to 3.5 basis point impact on margin due to liquidity building. The liquidity building though is deemed


prudent of course in these – in the current economic environment.


Moving on, just wanted to touch on non-interest income as well. Total non-interest income was up


to 5.3 million for the first quarter, a significant increase over the fourth quarter of ‘08 and compared


to about five million even in the first quarter of ‘08. The non-interest income for the current quarter


included large gains related to our mortgage banking activities. Approximately 1.6 – a little over 1.6


million in gains is related to those mortgage banking activities.


1,150,000 in those gains were realized on actual sales and then we had another 472,000 in


unrealized gains on loans held for sale and in our pipeline. So a total of 1.6 million versus only


476,000 in the first quarter of the prior year, so a dramatic increase, that’s really the primary reason


for the strong non-interest income numbers.


Most of that gain is coming from a tremendous amount of mortgage lending activity, primarily,


refinance activity going on that most of the industry is experiencing. For us the amount of activity


and the gains that it’s produced are record numbers. What it also means for us is that some of the
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


loans that we’ve held in portfolio have refinanced and then become saleable. So as we’ve sold


them, our overall retail mortgage portfolio has decreased in size. And that does explain some of the


decline in our total loan portfolio for the quarter.


Non-interest expense, just want to touch on a couple of things there as well. The total non-interest


expense did increase when compared to the first quarter of the prior year. But when you consider


the level of costs associated with administration and disposition of problem assets, which amounted


to approximately $2.2 million for the first quarter of 2008 and then also when you consider the


higher level of FDIC insurance premiums in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of


prior year, those two things were considerably higher in level in the current quarter.


In fact those costs associated with administration and disposition of non-performing assets were up


about 1.8 million when compared to the first quarter of the prior year and the FDIC insurance was


up nearly 500,000. So when you compare what I really consider to be core non-interest expense or


the controllable costs in the non-interest expense area, backing out that non-performing asset cost,


cost for administration and disposition and the extra FDIC insurance, total non-interest expense


amounted to about 11.6 million, which would then compare to 12.9 million in the first quarter of the


prior year on an adjusted basis removing NPA costs and FDIC assessments.


It’s about $1.3 million decrease in controllable non-interest expense. It is 10% decline, which then


amounts to about a $5.2 million reduction on an annualized basis. So the expense initiatives that


we’ve been focused – the expense management initiatives that we’ve been focused on have truly


come to fruition and have been effective.


We talked about some of these initiatives in the prior quarter conference call. They include a whole


host of things, staffing reductions, increased use of technology, which have allowed us to become


more efficient through imaging, communication line reengineering. We’ve streamlined processes.


We’ve renegotiated contracts. We’ve outsourced some processes at lower cost and we just flat out


reduced spending in certain areas as well, all amounting to these significant overall expense


reductions.


The allowance for loan losses, we did have to continue to build the allowance for loan losses in the


first quarter. You saw from the press release we had 9.7 million in net charge-offs for the quarter.


Our provision was 10.5 million, so we covered the charge-offs and then added a little bit more. The


total allowance for loan losses now amounts to 2.3% of the total loan portfolio, which is up from the


2.16% at year-end. The growth in that ratio is important and that we do continue to see the increase


in non-performing assets. And so that’s essentially why we continue to grow the allowance for loan


losses.


I know Ron will talk a little bit more about asset quality issues, Phil will also touch on our deposit


gathering activities, so I will leave those topics up to then. I’ll stop here and turn it over to Ron.


Ronald L. Haan, Executive Vice President


Good, thanks Jon. First quarter was another difficult quarter for us as we continue to be challenged


with asset quality issues. As Jon pointed out, we did see increases in our commercial loan


delinquencies and our level of non-performing loans. The greatest stress in our loan portfolios


continues to be in the areas of land and land development loans. While this is not a large portfolio,


it does continue to be the primary source of credit problems for us.


While we continue to see signs of gradual improvement, there are still significant inventories of


unsold homes and lots in the market, and it’s going to take time for these inventories to be


absorbed. We continue to sell properties acquired through foreclosure with ORE sales and


contracts for sale totaling nearly $6 million during the first quarter. We are not experiencing