corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 15, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Amanda, and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Macatawa Bank Corporation’s Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. Mr. Smith, you may begin your conference.


Benj. A. Smith, III, Chairman, Macatawa Bank and Chief Executive Officer, Macatawa Bank


Corporation


Good morning and thank you all for joining us. I’m Ben Smith and I’m Chairman and CEO of


Macatawa Bank Corporation. As normal, joining us this morning is Phil Koning, President and CEO


of Macatawa Bank; Ron Haan, Executive Vice President, Head of Lending of Macatawa Bank; and


Jon Swets, who is Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer.


We’d like to start the morning with some comments from John -- from Jon, and at the end of the --


his comments -- and we’ll have comments by the other two gentlemen. And at the end of that, we’ll


open it for general questions.


Jon, would you like to report on the quarter?


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Yes. Thank you, Ben. Our results obviously reflect continued strain from asset quality. However,


there are a few trends within our second quarter results that we’re very pleased with. To name one,


net interest margin, but then a few others, and I’ll talk about those in a minute. Let me start with our


provision for loan losses, just to try to provide a little more background color commentary on the


provision.


Our net charge-offs for the quarter were the 3.7 million. Our provision for loan losses was about


that, at 3.5 million. So essentially, we replenished the allowance for loan losses for the net charge-


offs. And primarily, the reason being for replenishing is that we didn’t see any reductions in our


level of non-performing loans or in our delinquency levels. And so we’ve replenished back up to the


level that the allowance for loan losses was at the end of the first quarter.


And if you recall, fourth quarter last year, we did a tremendous amount of allowance building by


recording a $10.2 million provision. And that brought our allowance up to, kind of, roughly, its


current level. And as we move forward, we’re just responding to what we see in our portfolio and


allowing our computation to dictate where the allowance for loan losses goes. And that depends


upon what we see in our portfolio in terms of trends, growth in certain portfolios, and also shrinkage


in certain portfolios.


Net interest margin, as I mentioned, very good trend there for us on a consecutive quarter basis.


The margin for the quarter was 3.06%. It was down 26 basis points versus the second quarter of


the prior year, but on a consecutive quarter basis, up 7 basis points.


So compared to our first quarter of 2008, just a little more background, our yield on assets did come


down. It decreased by 46 basis points from the first quarter to the second quarter, due to the rapid


Fed funds rate cuts. However, our cost of funds also came down pretty rapidly, down more rapidly,


with a decrease of 57 basis points. So the spread improved by 11; the margin improved by 7 basis


points.
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 15, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We were able to respond in our cost of funds to the Fed funds rate cuts with some deposit rate


reductions. We also saw our fixed-rate deposits and other borrowings continue to re-price


downward, as we moved through the quarter and compared to the first quarter.


In the last several quarters, I’ve also, when talking about margin, talked about our non-performing


assets and the noise that it creates in our net interest margin. Really, on a consecutive quarter


basis, the non-performing assets had very little impact on our margin from first quarter to second


quarter. We did see a little increase in average non-performing assets, but there were slightly less


interest reversals, and the net effect was really no impact on margin on a consecutive quarter


basis.


I guess all this is to say that our net interest margin -- the underlying net interest margin is stable,


despite the rapidly changing rate environment that we’ve been within over the last 9 to 12 months.


Moving on to non-interest income. Total non-interest income was little over 5 million for the quarter


compared to 4 million for the second quarter of last year, so we did have a $1 million increase


there. The press release identifies the fact that we did take some gains on some investment


securities sales, and we disposed of some repurchase agreements; that also produced gains. The


two combined amounted to 655,000.


So what we did there essentially was we seized some small opportunities to build capital, and in


retrospect, our timing was good. After factoring these things out, we still had a 9.5% increase in our


non-interest income. Healthy increases primarily in investment services revenue and as well, debit


card interchange income were at the heart of the remaining increase in our non-interest income. So


we’re seeing -- continuing to see very strong momentum in both of those areas, which is very


encouraging.


Non-interest expense, just wanted to mention a couple things there. Total non-interest expense


was also up 1 million when compared to the second quarter of the prior year. 530,000 of that 1


million was in salaries and benefits, and the press release touches on why. The other non-interest


expense line in our income statement shows an increase of 353,000, which is really the bulk of the


rest of the increase in total non-interest expense.


All of this increase and then some was really due to the increase in costs tied to administration and


disposition of problem assets. Costs associated with those activities amounted to $662,000 for the


second quarter of this year. That’s a $431,000 increase over the second quarter of the prior year.


Also, our FDIC insurance cost showed an increase of $85,000 compared to the second quarter of


the prior year; again, having to do with the higher level of non-performing loans in the current


quarter versus second quarter last year.


Finally, just a little color commentary on the balance sheet, the total loan portfolio and the trends


we’re seeing there in terms of growth. At the end of the quarter, total loans finished at about the


same level that it started at. We saw growth in the total loan portfolio of 1.4 million. The breakdown


of that is our commercial portfolio actually decreased by a little over 10 million during the quarter.


Consumer loans, however, grew by 4 million and then residential mortgage loans, retail residential


mortgages, grew by 7 million during the second quarter. Now, a lot of this growth was in our jumbo


portfolio, which has been a healthy portfolio for us.


Deposit portfolio grew in the second quarter; was up 34 million. Now, almost all of that growth was


in broker deposits. However, we did see some good activity in core deposits during the quarter.


Excuse me. Our non-interest bearing deposits grew by 17 million during the quarter. So, we saw


some -- and we did see some good growth in other categories, important categories of core


deposits for us. So, a healthy mix change during the quarter. I know Phil will touch on some of the


activity in deposits in his comments.