corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Marlene and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Macatawa Bank Corporation Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you.


Mr. Koning, you may begin your conference.


Philip J. Koning, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marlene. Good morning. And sorry we’re starting a few minutes late here. We had


some technical difficulties. I am Phil Koning and with me this morning is Ron Haan, Co-CEO and


Jon Swets, our Chief Financial Officer. I’d like to start by just making a few comments about our


second quarter operating performance and then Jon will cover the financial information. And Jon –


and Ron will make some comments on the lending areas.


Our operating performance was substantially in line with the first-quarter results. However, it was


negatively impacted by a couple of non-recurring factors. Those factors include the settlement of


Trade Partners litigation and a non-cash charge of $11 million in federal income tax expense to


establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.


We also expensed to the special FDIC assessment applicable to all FDIC insured applications –


institutions, which for Macatawa Bank was just under $1 million. Relative to Trade Partners, as


previously disclosed, a substantial majority of the Trade Partners claims have been settled effective


June 17 as disclosed in more detail in our Form 8-K report which we filed on June 19. We are very


pleased to have reached a settlement so that we can focus on activities that add more value to our


customers, shareholders, and the organization as a whole.


Since 2003 we have been vigorously defending these cases. There were approximately 1,200


remaining plaintiffs located in 40 states and 13 different countries. Plaintiffs’ claims differed widely


depending upon many factors. These lawsuits filed in both federal and state court were not a class


action. Every case would need to be tried individually due to the complexity and the significant


differences of plaintiffs’ individual situations.


While we feel we would prevail in court if they were to proceed, we felt the defense costs would


outweigh the benefits of prevailing. We opted to take steps to settle the litigation, which has been in


the courts for the past six years in order to put the matter behind us so that we can focus our time


and resources on growing our banking business.


Relative to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, it was established against our deferred tax


asset in accordance with current accounting rules. These assets represent a tax receivable on the


bank’s balance sheet. This receivable is comprised primarily of timing differences between when


items are expensed for book purposes and when they are deducted for tax purposes.


Accounting standards regarding deferred tax assets indicate that there may be impairment of these


assets when the company’s operating performance suggests that there has not been and will not


be enough taxable income in order to realize the benefit of these tax deductions.


When this situation arises a valuation allowance must be established against these assets. In other


words, they are temporarily written off through the income statement. The company has produced


net operating losses in the last 18 months that have more than offset operating income in the


preceding two years. As a result, in June we recorded an $11 million valuation allowance and
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


corresponding reduction in earnings in order to fully write down the value of the bank’s deferred


assets. This valuation allowance may be reversed in the future periods when the company has re-


established a consistent pattern of profitability.


And while we feel we have made much progress in working through these difficult situations, we


understand that further progress needs to be made. We are making every effort to return the


company to profitability, contain credit losses and move forward in this difficult economic


environment.


And with those comments, I’ll turn it over to Jon.


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Phil. All right. Phil mentioned three unusual items that impacted our quarter. Those


items in total amounted to 15.2 million out of the 18.6 million in loss we reported for the second


quarter. So, the underlying core earnings were in the net loss $3.4 million range.


In addition, we continued to have elevated provisions for loan losses and expenses associated with


administering and disposing non-performing assets and loans. Those things of course held


earnings down as well. There are a couple of topics that I’ll address just to clarify a little more.


Phil offered a very good explanation for the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, so I won’t


go into that anymore at this time.


The Trade Partners litigation settlement, I just wanted to offer a couple of additional points


regarding the settlement. It was 5.5 million that we recorded in settlement expense during the


second quarter in June. That included 4.7 million in cash and then $800,000 was the remaining


amount that related to value assigned to warrants, warrants to purchase Macatawa Bank Corp.


common stock. So the plaintiffs received warrants. We used the Black-Scholes model to value


those warrants. The entire amount of the value was expensed all upfront, the 800,000.


The warrants have a five-year life after they become exercisable. They don’t become exercisable


for another year, a year after the closing of the settlement. The exercise price is $9 and again, it’s a


– ultimately a six-year life on those. The settlement covers over 98% of the plaintiffs. So this issue


essentially is – it’s truly over for us. And it’s good to have it behind us, as Phil said.


Couple of other areas where I wanted to offer some clarification, net interest margin. Margin was


2.79% for the quarter. That’s up 13 basis points on a linked-quarter basis compared to Q1 of this


year. The improvement in margin came primarily from a reduction in cost of funds. The cost of


funds was down 23 basis points on a quarter-to-quarter basis, on a linked-quarter basis.


The reason for the decline, it came from a couple of different things. We’ve had some favorable


funding mix changes within our deposit portfolio and as well a mix shift between the wholesale


funding sources and core deposits. And also, we continue to see downward re-pricing of our fixed


funding sources, whether they be wholesale funding or even CDs within our retail portfolio.


While the cost of funds was down 23 basis points, our yield on assets was down only 12 basis


points, and so the margin improved. A part of that improvement as well came from the non-


performing loan portfolio.


During quarter two we had less interest reversals and loans moving into non-accrual status than we


did in quarter one. That amounted to about a four basis point difference in margin. So four basis


points of the 13 basis point improvement came from less interest reversals.