corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 15, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Nicole, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Macatawa Bank Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings


Release Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer-session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. Mr. Smith, you may begin your conference.


Benj. A. Smith III, Chairman Macatawa Bank and Chief Executive Officer Macatawa Bank


Corporation


Thank you, Nicole, and good morning, everyone. My name is Ben Smith, and I am Chairman and


CEO of Macatawa Bank Corporation. We’re happy that you could join us for our fourth quarter 2007


earnings report conference call.


Joining us this morning are Phil Koning, President and CEO of Macatawa Bank; Ron Haan,


Executive Vice President; and Jon Swets, CFO. Each of these people will make some brief


remarks, then we’ll take questions from the participants.


So let’s begin with some remarks from Jon.


Jon W. Swets, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ben. I’m going to walk us through just a few areas of our financial performance for the


quarter, starting with net interest margin. So we’ll get right into the topics at-hand for the day.


Of course, our fourth quarter results reflect the provision for loan losses entry that we announced


about a month ago. An additional 9.5 million in provision for loan losses was announced. That


created a net loss for the quarter in the amount of 2.8 million, as reported. But as I say, I’m going to


jump right into a couple of topics just to make sure that they are understood sufficiently.


Net interest margin was 3% for the fourth quarter of 2007. That’s a 20 basis point decline on a


consecutive quarter basis, and I thought it would be relevant to make sure we talk through why the


20 basis point decline on a consecutive quarter basis.


As in all previous quarters throughout ‘07, really yield on assets was the primary cause for net


interest margin decline. During the fourth quarter, we did see a reduction in our cost of funds. It was


down 16 basis points. However, our yield on assets was down 34 basis points. So it’s certainly far


more than the cost of funds.


There are several components to that decline in yield on assets of 34 basis points. One of the more


significant components of this decline was the higher average of non-performing assets in the


fourth quarter. The average principal balance of non-performing assets increased by 25 million


when you compare fourth quarter to third quarter. That alone creates about a 10 basis point decline


in net interest margin.


Also, write-off of interest on loans as we move those loans into non-accrual status was greater in


the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. And the amount that it was greater caused another 6


basis points in decline in yield on assets net interest margin.


So those two things really relate to the growth in the non-performing assets. They add up to about


16 basis points of the 34. So what that really means is, outside of that, our yield on assets
corrected transcript


Macatawa Bank Corp.
 
MCBC
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 15, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


decreased by 18 basis points. So, an 18 basis point decline in yield on assets compared to a 16


basis point decline in cost of funds netted about a 2 to 3 basis point decline in true core net interest


margin.


So, really the margin fared quite well relative to the Fed funds rate cuts. Certainly in that timeframe,


beginning in late September, so late third quarter, the Fed started cutting rates and they are down a


100 basis points. So at the same time, a 100 basis point decline in Fed funds rates, our true core


margin down two to three basis points.


Moving on to non-interest expense, the total of non-interest expense increased by 17% versus the


fourth quarter of the prior year. On a linked quarter basis, it was up 3%. But I thought I should touch


on some of the components of that 17% increase, beginning with occupancy and furniture fixtures


and equipment expense.


Really, the primary reason for the increase we’re seeing in those categories is what I touched on in


prior quarterly conference calls. We put up four new buildings; two new branches and then two


other branches we relocated, but to two new buildings. And so really four new structures throughout


2007. And that’s really at the heart of why the occupancy and equipment expense is up compared


to the fourth quarter of the prior year.


A couple of other major components of that increase include, again, the pressure from working


through disposition of problem assets. Categories of expenses that are impacted by that activity


include legal expense, expenses associated with holding repossessed and foreclosed assets.


There are unrealized losses that we take in the process of, of course, holding repossessed assets,


and then other appraisal expenses, various kinds of things. All of those things were higher than the


fourth quarter of ‘06 by just about 350,000. And so, we did have, of course, with our higher level of


non-performing assets additional expenses there that amounted to about 350.


Then, of course, the other major components of the increase, as I mentioned in previous


conference calls, relates to the additional FDIC insurance. For us, because of our young age, we


don’t get any rebate, and so the change in rates on FDIC insurance impacted us entirely to the


negative. And the difference between FDIC insurance fourth quarter last year, fourth quarter this


year is about 235,000. So, those are really the more major components of the difference in other


expense between last year and this year fourth quarter’s.


Just want to touch on a couple of balance sheet items. To begin with, our loan portfolio for both the


quarter and the full year, we did see some growth. For the quarter, growth in the loan portfolio is


right around 14 million; for the year, about 39 million. Most of that growth for both the quarter and


for the full year came in consumer mortgages.


Our commercial portfolio was relatively flat for the quarter, slightly up for the year. And then our


installment loans, just basic consumer loans, for the year were relatively stable and for the quarter.


As far as the deposit portfolio is concerned, our core deposits on the funding side of our balance


sheet, I know Phil will touch on what’s really taking place on the funding side of our balance sheet a


little more, so I’ll let his comments cover those activities. Then I thought I would just close in talking


briefly about non-performing loans. Of course, there was an increase in the fourth quarter in our


non-performing assets up to 79.8 million, most of which were non-performing loans of 73.9 million.


That’s up about 25 million from the end of the third quarter, $25.2 million increase. Of that 25


million, 23 million was in loans to residential developers.


So, as we talked about in our third quarter earnings conference call and in the press release and 8-


K that we issued about a month ago addressing our additional provision for loan losses, really all of


the stress is coming from, or primarily from, our loans to residential developers. Of the roughly 74