Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Senior Vice President-Corporate Finance, Mace Security International, Inc.
Garnett R. Meador — Secretary, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Mace Security International, Inc.
Thurman L. Willis — President, Thurman Willis, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] .

John McCann, President and CEO of Mace Security International, you may begin your conference sir.

Thank you very much, Chris. Before I begin, I want to direct everyone to our website, the mace.com website for a PowerPoint presentation that we will go through after Carl's presentation. So, if you go to corp.mace.com, Investor Relations Transcripts and Presentations 2015, you'll see a brief PowerPoint that hopefully will explain some questions that's been asked to us prior to the conference call.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Carl Smith, our CFO, to read the forward-looking statement.

Thank you, John. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, as anticipated estimate, projected, and intended to, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Such statements are subjected to certain risks, known and unknown and uncertainties including, but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I will now comment on the second quarter and financial results. After I'm finished, I'll turn the call back over to John, where he will go through the presentation he referred to. We will then open the lines for questions.

Second quarter net revenue was $2,241,000 compared to $1,817,000 for the second quarter of last year, an increase of $424,000 or 23.3%. This increase was mainly attributed to strong growth in our consumer and sporting goods distribution channels.

Net sales in consumer and sporting goods for the quarter totaled $1,454,000 compared to $887,000, an increase of $567,000 or 64%. Offsetting net increase was a decline in net sales through our Web, international surveillance and tactical distribution channels.

Net sales through the Web totaled $33,000 compared to $51,000, a decrease of $18,000 or 35%. Net sales through the international channel totaled $210,000 compared to $242,000, a decrease of $32,000 or 13.4%. This decrease can be attributed to a $94,000 decline in sales to a Taiwanese company, who experienced unusually high demand last year related to an act of violence that took place at an airport. And then, this decline was offset by increased sales to Chile for the quarter.

Net revenue through the Tactical channel totaled $190,000 compared to $193,000, a decrease of $3,000 or 1.5%, basically flat quarter-to-quarter. Net sales through the building security channel, which distributes our surveillance products, totaled $338,000 compared to $418,000, a decrease of $80,000 or 19%. This decrease is mainly attributed to a change in the market and conditions. John, our President and CEO, will discuss this later in the presentation as we are working on several measures to correct sales in this channel.

Gross profits for the second quarter 2015 totaled $974,000 with a 43.5% gross margin, compared to $598,000 and 32.9% gross margin for 2014, an increase of $376,000 or 63% and an increase of 10.6 percentage points in margin. The increase gross profit dollars can be attributed to the $424,000 increase in sales and increase in gross profit margin. Margin increase can be attributed to mix and favorable production efficiencies for the quarter.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter ended June 30, 2015 were $1,062,000 compared to $1,185,000 in 2014, 47.4% and 65.2% of net sales respectively, a decrease of $123,000 or 10.4%. The decrease is mainly attributed to a continuation of the savings recognized in the first quarter, which included lower salaries derived from head count reduction and salary realignment, reduced audit fees, lower business insurance expenses, and reduced legal and IT consulting fees. These savings were offset by increased marketing and advertising, and variable selling expenditures, which exceeded prior-year expenditures by approximately $69,000 for the quarter.

Overall, G&A expenses were $588,000 compared to $783,000 in the second quarter of last year, a decrease of $195,000 or 24.8%. The savings, like I mentioned, was offset by increased marketing and advertising expenses.

Interest expense for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was zero compared to $55,000 in 2014. Prior year interest expense was interest on a $1.4 million note, which was paid off in January of 2015, and the details are included in the notes to the quarterly financial statements that we released.

Interest income for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was $69,000 compared to $63,000 in interest income in 2014. And interest income for the quarter included interest on the two notes for the sale of the Central Station in December of 2013 to Security Partners.

Discontinued operations for the second quarter ended June 30, 2015 was a gain of $10,000 compared to $411,000 gain in the prior year. The prior-year gain of $411,000 was the result of an adjustment made to the selling price of the Central Station.

As a result, net loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was $59,000 compared to a net loss of $192,000 or $133,000 or 69% improvement over the second quarter of 2014. EBITDA for the quarter was minus $101,000 loss compared to a minus $567,000 loss, a $466,000 or 82% improvement.

At this time, I'll make a few comments on our balance sheet. The company's net book value was $8.8 million compared to $10.3 million at December 31. The $1.5 million decline is mainly attributed to using $2.3 million of cash to pay off the $1.4 million Merlin loan. Mace had $10.3 million in total assets including $3.1 million of cash and short-term investments at June 30, 2015.

Inventory, I want to mention, is up $679,000 or 38% from year-end. This increase is primarily the result of increased surveillance inventory to correct the shortage of stock at year-end and building inventory for Q3 promotions that we have. We expect inventory levels for surveillance and pepper spray to decrease, but expect Nite Beams and Tactical inventory to increase in Q3 and Q4.

We had positive working capital of approximately $6.6 million and a current ratio of 5.2. The company has no debt as of June 30, 2015. Total stockholders' equity was $8.8 million at June 30 compared to $10.3 million at 12/31/2014. The $1.5 million decrease is mainly attributed to the $1.4 million charged to paid in capital on the early extinguishment of debt and the $242,000 year-to-date loss.

NOLs at June 30, 2015 were approximately $58 million with $1.1 million expiring in 2018 and the last NOL expiring in the year 2034.

At this point, I'd like to thank you for joining us this afternoon and now, I'd turn the call over to John McCann, our President and CEO.

Thanks, Carl. So, I'll give everybody a minute if they want to go to corp.mace.com and look under Investor Relations for the PowerPoint presentation. There's also some questions that were pre-submitted that Carl and I will go through prior to taking additional questions, because we might answer a lot of questions people might have.

So, if everybody has the PowerPoint, really I'll start on page 4 of the PowerPoint presentation, and there's a couple of bullet points that I'll go through quickly. And as we said in our press release from our chairman of the board, the management is striving towards profitability in the near term. We take this quarter as a stepping stone towards doing that as the first quarter was, too. There is some work to be done and some of the questions came up about expenditures.

We are looking at overhead again, we're looking at everything because we need to position ourselves through sales and marketing, and especially strategic marketing in all of our different products. So ergo, line two is we're constantly looking at our overhead absorption, our people costs and et cetera to see where we can be more dynamic in our approach to the market.

The other – third point that I want to stress is that we have removed ourselves from all things that are not safety and security related. So, the company is only involved in safety and security. We're only looking at products along the lines of safety and security, and we define that as [ph] personal defense (11:08) security for tactical, also for consumer in the less than lethal range. So, we always look at things that can keep you safe whether you're home, in your car or just on the road and also, that fall into that category of less than lethal.

And then lastly, the company is – we're reviewing many new products. We're just trying to make sure that we launch the right products as we've done in this quarter and really in the third quarter of this year, we have many new products that we're launching, different strategic channels, different strategic partners that we're launching these products with, but we're constantly looking at this especially in the world of smart technologies, wearable technologies, and also the advancement of our core business, of our pepper spray.

Page 6, I just want to stress because this group of customers continues to grow and we're hoping in the third quarter and fourth quarter, we'll add some more Tactical customers to it. But as you can see, we have a wide variety of distribution points from sporting goods to automotive, to traditional big box retailers, to specialized retailers. These are the customers that have helped us grow the quarter and also the year.

And Big 5, for example, Cabela's, our brand new customer. Meijer's, we've advanced our relationship there. Lowes is another customer that just came on board at the end of the year. Then also Auto Zone, Amazon and DICK's Sporting Goods and Sports Authority, we've been able to increase our distribution within the parameters of their stores. So, we have products in different departments now than just the sporting goods section or the hunting and fishing section.

Page 8, this is just reiterating what we've talked about prior. This is where the company was. Page 9, where we want to go. One bullet point that I want to just stress a little bit, we're a little bit behind in our search for an IR, PR organization. We've talked to many organizations. The goal is building a strategic marketing plan that will help us promote our brands and products, both through public relations and investor relations, because we think both of those are strategic, but building that plan is where we really want to make sure that we have all the A, B, Cs, and all the roads covered. So, we make sure we build it correctly because we're hitting that point where now we have to not only do what we do well but promote it and get out in front of it.

Second quarter results on page 11, I think Carl spoke to it. I think one of the keys there is – if you look at SG&A expenses, it's down 10%, like it's a positive movement. If you look at the percentage, also a very positive movement. And then, if you look at all of the different things from gross profit to sales, it was a dynamic quarter and we just need to keep that going.

Page 13, you could see a lot of where the growth has been in sales, $424,000 increase in the quarter, which is a nice healthy increase and one that we want to continue and throughout the rest of the year. Page 14, you could see where it's coming from and the different products, these are a lot of our core products that we had some growth in, which are traditional products from simple home security products to pepper sprays.

Then in sporting goods and consumers on page 15, you can really see a lot of growth, a lot of dynamic growth. We feel there's more growth to be had in these sectors and it's not just pepper spray, our stun guns are doing very well. We're introducing our Mace 911 product, which we shipped out a little bit in the second quarter and we hope to do more in the third and fourth quarter.

Page 16, I'll just pause for a minute. We've redone the website. We have not bought any AdWords, so we had an expectation of being down versus prior years because we're not advertising on the Web. We're working with Google Analytics directly. We're also working with some other folks. There is some new restrictions that Google has put on advertising less than lethal products or weapons as they like to call them that we're fighting to see if we could educate them on the benefits of the empowerment of the products that we sell versus some of the other products on the marketplace.

So, that's something that – an issue that we have to work through, so ergo, we haven't bought a lot of AdWords because we want to make sure that we have a return on investment in that sector.

Tactical and international, in my opinion, is just the timing issue. Tactical, we still have not launched fully or not our less than lethal products that we have been promoting production of those products because of ATF and some other certification. Should be coming on line shortly, but we're not in production today, so we need to really wrap up the final certifications and all the registrations that we need with the ATF to make that happen.

International, as Carl alluded to was the timing issue, but we feel now that we have distributors in countries that we need to have and we have a team that's focused on growing our international product line. And I would note in both Tactical and International, there is some TG Guard, which is our product that we make that can drop tear gas and pepper spray from the ceiling. Those are bid basis. We do have a lot of quotes out there. We just haven't gotten those orders, but we feel confidently that we'll see both of those turnaround in the third and fourth quarter of the year.

Slide 17, which is surveillance. So, surveillance is changing rapidly and we recognized this as we left the first quarter of the year. We have a board meeting coming up in early September, where management is going to present to the board a couple of dynamic ideas that we think will help fix the issue that we have in sales here, expand the brand and also get us in the channels of distributions through some partnerships that we would not be able to get into today.

So, till we have the final signoff and we have the rest of our go-to-market strategy in place, we feel this will be one of the segments of our business that we have to watch and push as hard as we can, but realize that we think that we have a solution that will return long-term value to the brand in this segment in the future.

Gross profit, as Carl's mentioned on page 18, nice healthy increase and that's across the board. We also feel there are some things we can do internally. We're looking at some things of actually how we produce our product, how we package our product and we think over the next 6, 12, 18 months, will have another positive impact on our product. And also, get us into a greener space if you would with our products. So we use less plastic, maybe we use less packaging material. We're testing some things now; we think possibly in the fourth quarter of this year we'll be able to launch that which will have a long-term net value for the organization.

As Carl alluded to on the next slide page 19, you can see the improvement. We're constantly looking at SG&A. I will talk a little bit about advertising. We did some advertising, we do a lot of cooperative advertising and it was one of the questions that came up. We partner tremendously with our retailers, with programs not only they're advertising, but tagging them when we do some national advertising. So, we spend a little bit of money in the first half of the year promoting the brand. We felt there was some return on investment.

It's very, very hard to measure return on investment, but the combination of things we feel went correctly in the quarter. DICK'S Sporting Goods for example, if you go into DICK'S Sporting Goods today, we're not only in the lodge, which is the traditional place that we had product placement, we're at the front end or we're over by women's running shoes and women's apparel.

We tag DICK'S on some regional advertising that we've done. We've tagged DICK'S on some advertising that we did with the National Basketball Association. And we constantly tag our retailers as it makes sense in their regions, especially to drive the sales to those retailers. And DICK'S, for example, now our sales are not only up at the in-store level, but also at the dicks.com, which is a nice pickup for us, because we prefer to drive sales to our retailers.

But then, obviously, on the loss side of continuing operations. All the benefits of sales and then the cost cutting has led to a positive outcome.

Page 20, I just do this to kind of look at it because we're constantly looking at return on investment per employee to make sure that what we're doing has a value and this has been positive, I believe, every quarter since I've started with the company.

And then lastly, page 21, we constantly talk about the MACE brand. We don't sell products, we sell the brand for empowering people like what we sell and what we do. So, obviously, a good quarter. We think it could even be better with some of the things that we're going to implement and change. We've been a little disappointed in our surveillance sales, but I think we have a path to improve that. And as I said, timing was the issue with international and some of our Tactical sales, but we just need to keep the momentum going and we also need to launch successfully our Tactical Solutions, which will be our blunt ammunitions, our tear gas, our smoke and some of the other products that we have anticipated launching. And we feel comfortable within the next couple of weeks, we will launch.

A couple of quick questions and I think most of them were answered, but I'll just jump into them and Carl and I will go both back and forth.

A question come in, we have a sizable jump in our days inventory to 145 days. We do source the pepper spray product, that's been very popular. And so we last – fourth quarter of last year, we were allocating the product out, we're tightening inventories, so we did bump up our quantities on hand and make sure that we were able to absorb any surprise orders or any surprise increases in sale.

Big segment of it though was our surveillance. We're out of stock during the first quarter. We play catch up a little bit, but we feel comfortable by the third quarter and fourth quarter we'll be able to move through those products. We will have an increase in our Nite Beams and our Tactical inventories.

As we build up orders, we're looking at forecast. We derive our forecast directly from our customers through sales managers to what they think they're going to sell and that's how we do our production planning. We try and keep more finished goods on hand especially with regards to pepper spray and defense spray. Now with Nite Beam having anywhere from a 45 to 90-day lead time, we need to make sure we have those in stock and the same thing with our Tactical inventory.

When you go in production and – all of our Tactical inventory is produced in the United States and Pennsylvania. So, we have short lead time on freight and whatnot, but long lead time on some of the parts and making sure that they're produced correctly, tested, and then stored correctly.

The second question, this past quarter, we made finally – basically had breakeven, with growth in revenues, expanding gross margin, your SG&A dropping from prior quarter. Do you see the current quarter SG&A growing from the past Q2 or flatter even dropping?

I think, Carl commented about the SG&A. Advertising was up in the quarter. If that had been down, I think, we would've – it would've been even a lower number. But we feel advertising is going to be critical in the future because we thought to educate not only consumers, buyers and investors on what we're doing and why we're doing it.

Advertising in the third and fourth quarters will be flat to down because I think we have a lot of in-store and cooperative programs lined up with our key retailers to drive sales. But we are looking at as we talked about and again, a PR/IR firm that can really help us develop the strategic product plan to ensure long-term success and sustainability of the company.

Carl will talk about the $30,000 reduction. The question was there's $30,000 reduction in Security Partners' payments on the loan, why was it adjusted, why just for the third quarter.

Well, page 10 in the notes of the financials makes reference to this and we revised the loan agreements that we had in place with Security Partners, basically reducing the loan payment for $10,000 per month from April 2015 through September. And as a result, we modified the loan agreements, increased interest rates. And I guess, basically that's what we did.

Right. So I think it was in partnership where we benefit some other ways, but we increased the length of the loan, spread it out a little bit further and then increased that interest payment to the company. So, on a net-net basis, we're still going to collect the same amount, plus a little more in interest, but it helped them and it opened up some doors for us for future business with Security Partners.

One of the questions that came in, co-op advertising and sales allowance. So, co-op advertising and sales allowance are basically a percentage of sales, so it is up versus a year ago. It's about $170,000, all-in with our different retailers. We get proof of performance from all of our different retailers, whether it'd be an ad, an e-mail blast or some other vehicle, in-store demos as an example.

This, on a comparative basis, is up versus a year ago because of the increased sales especially with our key customers. And with our key customers, we look at it less as a co-op, more of a partnership to make sure the product is pulled through at the retail level.

So, we jokingly tell everybody it's a gift till it's paid for. So consequently, any way we can help a retailer that makes sense for them physically and makes sense for us physically, we do because we want to make sure the customer then sells through all the inventories that they have purchased from us and through their retail doors.

What was marketing and advertising expense in Q2 versus last year versus Q1? This was partially addressed in Carl's commentary, but total selling for Q2 was about $497,000 compared to $432,000 in 2014, so about a $65,000, $66,000 increase. Advertising and marketing was about $112,000 compared to about $56,000 from a year ago. So, we had roughly $56,000 increase. And most of that was we took advantage of some NBA remnant advertising that we're able to get, so at Cavaliers games and through some of the other NBA networks, we had have a safe night from Mace. We had mace.com plastered on billboards.

Luckily for us, the venues we chose especially we tested some with the Milwaukee Bucks but they didn't have a great year. But 90% of that went to Quicken Loans Arena, which Cavs went to game six or game seven at the playoffs, I can't remember anymore, and they had 20,000 people in the queue every night. So, we – and we tried to tag DICK'S on event – DICK'S, Discount Drug Mart, Ace – where we could within that. And all of those customers had positive POS sales.

So we feel there was a correlation, but once again, return on investment is hard. And today, I'd say we advertise, we buy remnant or we buy things that are cost-effective. Our idea of hiring a firm in order to do our advertising for us will be more strategic in the fact that they will put together a plan that's comprehensive that would cover everything we want to do, and then relate it back to our customers and our partners. And I think we address one of the last questions, what's international revenues year-to-year for Q2, and as I said in PowerPoint, I think Carl covered off within his presentation.

So with that, because I think that was a lot of questions, maybe we'll turn it over, Chris, to questions and answers because there's a couple other ones that I can address if they're not asked during the call.

So, Chris, we'll turn it back to you if you want to open up the lines. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Thurman Willis from Thurman Willis. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Hi, Thurman.

My first question is when is the window open for insiders to purchase stock? And I would encourage all directors and management to buy stock showing a signal of strength that they believe in the company and it sends a signal to the Street that management believes our stock is undervalued. So, when does the window open for insider?

So, Thurman, this is Carl. The window opens three days following the release of earnings. We released earnings last Friday, so I believe that will make today the day the window opens.

Business days or regular days?

Regular days. Okay. So, today it's open, Thurman. [ph]

Hey, one thing (29:35). Could you please be specific and tell me the marketing plan that will be developed to speed up these sales to the public? Your team did a great job in turning this company around and saving it from bankruptcy, but it took longer than all of us thought. How can we shorten the process of marketing and hit our goals much quicker? So, looks like we've done the hard part, but fundamentally, re-organizing our company, so I want to know how we're going to put a much faster spend on our marketing plan when you're planning to cut advertising in Q3 and Q4.

Okay. So we're not necessarily cutting advertising in Q2 and Q3 and Q4, Thurman, just to be clear. To your point, we've done a great job. There's Mace Alert 911, there's Nite Beams, and there's our Tactical Solutions product.

All these, we feel now is the time to hire a true advertising firm in order to help us clearly mark down the path that we want to go with all these different products. At the same time, samples of all these products that – I'll go Tactical first, Tactical requires T&E samples, which are training and evaluation samples that get sent out to different departments. We are participating in three times as many shows this year. So, the question I don't think was asked, but I think our show expenditures are probably doubled versus a year ago same period of time because we're doing every Tactical show.

So our progression just for Tactical for example is we created a catalogue, we actually won an award through the printing organizations for the catalogue we created. We did training – our training videos are online, have been made available to all of our key customers and we've trained everyone of our sales reps and a couple of key customers that have verbally given us some commitments, but no orders yet for different products.

Next step is that we sent out Tactical, T&E as they call them, which is again, it's training and evaluation samples, to different rep groups and different departments. Where we are with Tactical is we really need to finalize the ATF and some of the other registrations and certifications that we need to carry, especially with regard to storage of the products. The ATF should be and are very conscientious of how the products are stored to make sure that they are stored in a manner that, A, is not disruptive to the organization, meaning that they won't blow up; B, that they cannot be stolen.

So, with that, we're right where we need to be with Tactical, with the full array – I think in August and September, October and November alone, I believe our sales team will be up between 15 shows and 30 shows, either directly or through representation, which we know will light the fire with what we need to do on Tactical.

On Nite Beams, it's very, very similar. We're making presentations as we speak. We have commitments from several retailers as we speak from a drug chain, to a catalogue chain, to a sporting goods chain. We're in the process of getting those orders, procuring the inventories samples have been sent out to key reps and key customers. Now, it's a matter of reeling it in.

We still need the fourth tier vote on Tactical and our Nite Beams products to have a strategic marketing plan by product that we can put into effect because we're doing the blocking and tackling of getting everything lined up with our customers. And then Mace Alert, we signed a deal with a strategic partner that's going direct to market. So, we've given them that direct channel. They have a lot of experience in that direct channel.

CVSL is a company. It's the Rochon family that started Mary Kay Cosmetics and we feel very comfortable. And that strategically, because it's an educated [ph] sale (33:42) product, we're working with several different accounts that are traditional retailer accounts to gain distribution.

So, I think with all of those and at the same time, we're launching two or three new pepper sprays, we have a black polka-dotted unit, which will fall under our exquisite line.

We've retooled the handle on our traditional line that we're going to launch in this fourth quarter. As I mentioned earlier, we're redoing the packaging that we think will be, A, cost savings; B, more dynamic for the consumer; and C, give us more advertising space on the package itself. So all these are happening and to your point, by a fact they should double and triple our sales. When that will happen, my hope, my pray would be is that within the next 6 to 12 months all of these hits, they're all successful and the company is looking at double-digit increases and double revenues from where we are today.

But each one of these, to reiterate, Mace 911, we're rolling it out as we speak. Nite Beams, we're rolling it out as we speak. Tactical, as soon as we have the final go, go, go, we can make the presentations to the key governmental agency, law enforcement agencies and et cetera for delivery because our fear there is we can't sign a contract with the governmental agency till we can put a delivery date on it. We can't put a delivery date on it till we make sure that the ATF has signed off on it, we have all the things we need in order to make that happen.

So, hopefully that answers your question, Thurman. Sorry it was so long.

No, no, no, that's all right. I have a follow-up and then I would be off the line, and I'm back into the queue a little later. You [indiscernible] (35:28) mentioned and I think all investors were excited about the new products such as 911, Nite and Tactical, which now gives us four legs to the stool just not one which is pepper spray. Why should we not expect the double, triple or quadruple in sales as you mentioned? And you put some sort of timetable on this and with a good marketing program, it shouldn't take us time [indiscernible] (35:57) the company around.

Thurman, we agree. We should be in a position to double and triple the sales. I'd be remiss to say it's going to happen on this date because if I knew that, I'd be in Vegas. But with that, the company's goal is to do it as fast as possible. To your point, we work very hard on getting these different deals done, finding these different products, getting these different products, making sure that we have all the certifications we need with these products.

Now, we do want to partner up with a professional advertising firm that both has IR and PR capabilities to make sure that the story gets told because a story to a retail buyer is different than telling the story to a savvy investor like some of our investors. So ergo, we want to make sure we could somewhat dual pass this so we can take advantage of all the good things the company has done and turn it in to a success story that we know it all can be. To tie down exactly a date, I'll set false expectations for you, for the company, our goal is to do it as soon as possible.

Thank you for taking my questions. I have two [indiscernible] (37:13) but I'll drop off a few and wait on my turn if it happens. Thank you.

Thanks, Thurman.

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks. So I've got a bunch of questions here, I'll ask a few and back out in the queue. And don't take the tone of the questions wrong. I only wanted to focus on what could be done to improve our quarter's fairly good performance to be even better, because this is the first time you guys are showing pretty much the light at the end of tunnel on obtaining sustained profitability.

So, with respect to that, what I wanted to first start with some questions on is the Mace Tactical, because you have started attending shows, you rolled out the Mace Tactical offerings and expanded the products back in November. You've kind of launched a [ph] chat (38:24) show this year and you saw in the last call that we'd see cash flow streams from this in the back half of 2015. And here we are in August in the back half of 2015, based on seeing flat year-over-year numbers again, I'm wanting to get to what are the steps that have to happen?

You mentioned this ATF issue. What are the approval milestones that you're going through and expect a timing on those, so that you, as you described, you need to have approval, so you know you can ship and then you can have shipment dates? And generally, if you got an order today, what generally would be the shipment date? Is it a month, two months, a few weeks? When do you then book the revenues and profits from said sales?

Sir, and Garnett's walking in and he could maybe address some of what you just asked. We are still bullish at the back half of this year that we will experience the Tactical sales we talked about. We went in this all along, launching in November to make sure the market knew that we're coming, having the product available in January, knowing full well that we were going to – our timeline still was at June, July, August period.

The only hiccup I would say because everything else has gone well with ATF, because potentially of our asking what we wanted to do, we evaluated how they wanted to look at this and somewhat changed the protocols, not because of us, just because they said, hey, this hasn't really been looked at in quite a while. Now we're going to relook at it and here's what we want.

On a target line, I'll turn it over to Garnett, because you can speak to him, but we are moments days away from the final ATF. The ATF agents in the past few weeks have visited the facility, said what needs that happen. We're going to own the magazines that they call them, which will be the storage portion of the product.

And then to your point, if a customer today, we wouldn't be able to quote exactly when we could deliver it on the customer. As soon as we have the final ATF in the storage approvals, I would tell you that we would anticipate delivering in October or November.

But maybe, Garnett, can share a little more light on it.

Yeah. So, this is Garnet speaking. And what I can tell you that internally, the ATF has gone through some restructuring and to some extent, we were caught up in that and they've gone through and changed the entire industry as to what they're classifying as explosives and what they're not classifying as explosives prior to this year, many of the less-lethal ammunitions that are going to be our product line were not classified as explosives. So, the process of manufacturing and ultimately storing was much simpler. So, with that said, we have received four variances from the ATF and we've also, of course, gotten all of our licensing. We're both licensed as an explosives provider and a firearms manufacturer.

In addition to that, we're down to – as John said, we're literally days away. We've got over in the manufacturing facility right now. We are moving dirt to surround the magazines that have been essentially approved by the ATF. They just have to come out and give their final blessing. Once that's done, we will be in full production.

Okay. And when you say, we're going to own the magazines and we're going to do this in our manufacturing facility, are you referring to Mace and an asset of Mace? Are you referring to NonLethal Technologies as your joint venture partner?

Right, we've got a contractual relationship with a party that is doing the manufacturing exclusively for us for distribution in all of the U.S. and we will be leasing from them the magazines that will house all of our inventory located at the facility of the manufacturer.

Okay. Further on Mace Tactical, last quarter, you've been selling pepper spray and TG and other things. Last quarter, you said you'd have the law enforcement guys pull together a list of agencies that Mace was doing business with and here we are three months later, we haven't seen Mace leverage those relationships publically to obtain new business. You haven't made the list yet available on a regularized basis as promised such as your, I will call it law enforcement product supplier competitors such as Taser, Digital Ally and others.

So, if you have had Tactical growth this quarter, I wouldn't be so aggressive asking for this but since another quarter flat sales has been recorded, you have these particular delays on the full line, I just kind of want to know where is the beef here and what's the plan regarding these, we'll call it reference agencies that you've sold to, to help you get the agencies down the road in the next accounting.

Right. So, Andrew, we have a list that's small, so that's why we're kind of keeping it, where we're doing business, we're doing good business. Talking to some of the Tactical guys, it's not always the best thing. They advertise this. Some agencies have told us, hey, we can give you, but we don't really want it advertised. Part of this falls into the strategic plan with an advertising firm to make sure we get that information out in front of people. We can't put the list out there, but it's not as robust as we would like. Ergo, we'd like to put it in a context of conjunction of getting more orders from our Tactical once we have all the ATF variances that we need as Garnett had indicated.

Fine. Obviously, as I said I have questions in some of these other areas. I'll back out and please come back to me.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Ken Fell (44:57) from Fell Capital Management. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my call. Really congratulating you guys on a great Q2.

Thank you, Ken. Thanks for taking the time, too, to be on the call.

Oh sure, my pleasure. Also thanks for the update on some of the new Mace products. My first question really has to do with the Mace Nite Beams and maybe Mace 911. What percentage of the Q2 revenues, would you relate to those two products?

Very small, like maybe 1% or 2%, and that's right now, we shift the couple of hundred units to CVSL of our Mace 911 product. We feel, they feel based on their forecast, it has a huge upside potential, because it is a unique product in the marketplace, it's not a recurring monthly revenue model. It's a buy and you own it, and it's your model. So on a total acquisition cost, it's very competitive in the marketplace.

On Nite Beams, we had maybe a couple thousand dollars worth of orders through our website and through a couple other companies. But both of these, we still have a very high upside, back half of this year and in 2016.

Now, with Mace Nite Beams, your supplier is basically Chinese, isn't that correct?

Most of the products come from China, yeah.

How are you finding the reliability of those products from your supplier? Are they – you find a lot of defective units or maybe...

We don't. So, there's a couple of things that, like – Carl and I, are both old consumer product guys. So, we jokingly said, if you make a product with a cord and you have a 6% to 8% return rate, you're doing very well. Some companies have a 12% return rate. So you realize anytime that you power a product, whether it'd be battery-operated or cord plugged in operation, that it has a higher default ratio, because you have a lot of things that could go wrong.

Now, on our traditional products, even our cameras, we have a very nominal return rate. A lot of it is because of what we've done. So, with regard and anticipation of bringing in a lot of inventory on Nite Beams, there's a couple of steps that we organizationally have taken. Number one, we've hired an agent, I think pretty dynamically priced in China to inspect the factory, inspect the production, work with the different factories to make sure that the quality specs that we have given, so the lumens for example, that it's hitting the lumens and the batteries there works, which is – it's a government certification to make sure that they're properly sealed and they're the proper batteries for the United States.

Now, when the product comes in, we are testing it, so we're putting a slip of paper into the product, saying that we pulled the safety tab to test your batteries to make sure that the product works. With all of these parameters and working with our partner, Michael Tonto Alexander, we're ensuring that we have the highest quality product available in the marketplace because the LEDs in the arm bands, the dog leashes, the dog collars, the shoelaces are lifetime, and that it takes two CR2032R batteries, which is our typical camera batteries that power most of the products.

So, with regard to that, we feel confident, as confident as you can feel, and also we put in safety steps and measures to make sure that we use the old Ronald Reagan line, trust but verify.

Great, great. And as I remember, the initial order was delayed for some reason. Are we finding that those delays are gone, and we're getting our supply in a timely manner?

Yeah, there was a little problem with the West Coast with the longshoremen, so we had some container issues. We're always leery. We actually have one of our gentlemen not only meeting our agent, but [ph] Bernie Granie (49:11) one of our great employees is actually visiting China, I believe leaving next week and he'll be there for a week, just making sure supply, the face-to-face meeting, making sure they know who he is. He's a great representative for the organization to ensure that we're doing everything, because communication will be the key because the product is light and it's small that if we have to, we can fly some products in especially to fulfill customer needs.

But we did – early part of the year, there was a container issue on the West Coast and there was a longshoremen strike especially that was affecting California. So, we did have some delays and some unanticipated issues at that time. But I can't say there won't be a typhoon or something else, right, so full disclosure, weather is the weather, which can't be controlled and people going on strike can't be controlled either.

Sure, sure. And I guess just to summarize, you're finding that the product, and I think your supplier is creating a very good product?

Yes, yes. And we're ensuring that by double-checking because like as we said, Carl actually worked with a local company that actually had [ph] somebody they (50:35) highly recommended in China that spoke Chinese and Mandarin and then also could speak English. So for us it was a nice find because it's a third-party supplier of ours that recommended our agent. So we thought that was just something that makes us sleep better at night, that not only, you trust the people producing that but then you could also verify that they produced it and that we get a report back from our agent.

Great, great. I just wanted to get back to the inventory level for a second. What's – I realize you've [ph] re-hedged (51:11) a roll-out of some new products and the inventory is, little high right now. But what would you say, John, would be the normalized level of inventory that we can kind of plug into our spreadsheets when we do our model?

I think if you look at the model, Carl could speak to a little bit, but roughly we're probably about $350,000 to $400,000 heavy on inventory today. In anticipation, rough numbers, a $100,000-so worth of Mace 911, you have about $300,000 worth of Surveillance that we bulked up on to make sure that we didn't have the issues that we had in the first quarter.

And we do have one – there is a Taiwanese company that owns a patent on one of our Pepper Spray products and we doubled or I believe possibly even tripled the size of the order, because we couldn't keep an end stock in the fourth quarter and the first quarter over a year ago. So if you couple that all together, remove the pipeline fills of Mace 911 and even a little bit of Nite Beams, I would say roughly if you drop the inventory $350,000 on a normalized basis, that would be about the number. We will have higher sales, so you'll see, but as a percentage basis I think that's pretty safe, Carl might comment a little bit further.

Well, inventory, net inventory at the end of June was basically $2.5 million. For Q3 I would – if I was forecasting inventory we'd keep it around the same amount. And then based on the Tactical and Nite Beam situation, going forward I think it would be safe to continue to use $2.5 million for the next couple of quarters, if I was forecasting my inventory balance sheet.

Okay, great, appreciate that. Any chance of Mace presenting at some investor conferences that might be coming up?

I think September 8 we have a board meeting and I think that will be one of the topics of conversation. We had a very successful Midwest conference that we did here in Cleveland, and I think part of the overall marketing strategy, that would fall into it because our board instructed me and we've talked about it. We want to have a sustainable story that we tell. We're in it for the long term. I think some of – our Chairman of the Board has been putting stock in the company a long time and we're finally seeing the benefits of all that hard work. So, we want to make sure that continues but it's definitely on the radar. The exact dates and times, that's still be determined but I think we're rapidly getting there, [ph] Ken (54:02).

Very good, very good. Yeah, I think you guys got a story to tell and I'll really like to see you guys get out there and tell it.

Thank you, sir.

That's all I have. So, congratulations again on a great Q2.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Bye.

Okay. Chris?

Your next question comes from the line of Thurman Willis from Thurman Willis. Your line is open.

Yes, I have two other questions, they both are along the same lines. I have hit on this on the last two conference calls, and I remember being at that Mid-Western conference and our chairman, Richard Barone, in closing made a comment that, all about Mace, that it was undervalued. I want to speak to the sheets that we trade on. Now that we're a viable company we can trade on the pink sheets which I consider the worst of the worst. What our plan, what plans do we have to upgrade our listing through a more reputable exchange to get liquidity, more exposure, more creditability, less manipulation and a real market-maker, which I think will allow our stock to trade at its real value, which is higher than $0.40. So, John, you said the next board meeting was September the 8th, and I just want to make sure that we're trying to hit off the pink sheets back to a – maybe the over the counter QX, can you comment on that and give me some assurances about the board taking a look at it.

Well, then and I'll turn it over to Carl, I assure you that it will be on the agenda with the board because a couple of board members have asked me to make sure that's on it. And then I'll turn it over to Carl because he has done some analysis on your other question.

Well, Thurman, just to back up what John had said, I've been looking at it a few weeks ago. I started looking at another tier, or higher tier in OTCQX is the one I'm actually looking at and we'll be making a presentation to the board with regards to cost benefited of going off the pink sheets.

Good. Thank you. And on – [ph] hearing you say it will be on the agenda next board meeting (56:31).

Yeah.

Yeah, it will be on the agenda for the board meeting, yes sir.

The follow up to that is considering the liquidity in our stock, its market value and I think, to quote, everyone in management and all the board members felt the stock at $0.40 is highly undervalued. I would also possibly suggest even though our cash level is maybe not adequate, we just spent [ph] $2 million (57:08) to buy back [ph] converts (57:10) to reduce $7 million potential outstanding figures, which I applaud and agree with. I wonder at the same board meeting can we talk about a stock – just authorizing a stock repurchase program where we consider authorizing maybe 5% to 10%, which would not be overly expensive at of course a price we consider to be undervalued?

It would definitely be on the board agenda. A board member has brought it up [ph] per (57:48) some of your emails and asked – we spoke about the appropriateness and the timing of it on our audit call prior to the release of the financials and it was suggested that we vet this out at the full board meeting and come back with an answer. To your point is it the appropriate use of cash, is the timing right and et cetera but that will definitely be on the board meeting agenda, sir.

And I'd like to follow up along the same line of creating market value because I think now that we're ready to see the stocks are trading and providing some liquidity, so as the window opens on Wednesday, I know that you [ph] may can't (58:35) answer specifically, but do you think there's some probability that insiders, board members and I feel that all board members should own stock, but do you think there's some probability that board members and insiders might purchase stock at what everyone considers an inappropriate value?

I would share your sentiments, I can't speak for all board members, but I think our chairman can – and I can agree, that it's undervalued and that all insiders should look at it.

Okay. Thank you. I would repeat now is the – at the last call you indicated to tell our story, as we begin to expect double, triple and quadruple sales, now that we have four products we're doing instead of just the spray. So, I look forward to going to better exchange, considering the potential authorization of a stock buyback insider buying and as Richard stated he feels the price is undervalued. Is Richard on the call? [indiscernible]

(1:00:06)

Yeah, we don't know that, but we'll make sure that – that everything you said is reiterated, Thurman.

And you do agree with it?

The buyback part, I would take advice from the board, insiders buying stock, absolutely, because it is undervalued. And then going to conferences at the appropriate time with the right story, I think we're building that message out there, hiring the right firm to help us make sure that we spin the right story and the right message on a long-term sustainable profitable company, we're 100% agreement.

Okay. And moving to the – to the over the [indiscernible] (1:00:56).

I think Carl will finish the analysis. We'll make sure that's presented to the full board and I'm sure they'll make the appropriate decision on that posthaste. But thank you sir.

No, thank you for taking my call and congratulations.

Thank you. So Chris, back to you, we have a couple of last calls?

Okay. Yes, you have a question from the line of Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management. Your line is open.

Thank you for several follow-ups here. The – again, you're at the breakeven level, you answered I think [ph] Mr Fell's (1:01:38) questions that 911 and Nite Beams was only 1% of your revenues. So these two new products with very broad incremental market opportunities have yet to be exploited. You talked about how on the SG&A, there I think is the thought that you're holding things in check and I want to make sure that an appropriate amount of marketing resources are deployed. It's not the time to be penny wise and pound foolish but to become very strategic as you've mentioned and very efficient to get some national viral type of public relations going on with your products. So what kind of marketing resources are you planning to put behind the Nite Beams and your Safety Wearables product lines? [ph]

Okay (1:02:34). So, Andrew, those are kind of works-in-progress and today, I'd be remiss to give away the marketing plan. On the overhead absorption, I can tell you what we're looking at to make sure that everything we do have sales and marketing and it's hard. So, anything we would do on an overhead side would be enhancing what we're doing on sales and marketing, and looking at can we be more efficient in operations or some of the other aspects of the business. To answer directly on the marketing plan – I just have to hold back.

Okay. So, are you then saying that's where you are right now in the second quarter results announced and where your plan is in the current quarter? While SG&A – maybe not SG&A, while marketing and advertising resources will necessarily increased you're saying that – what is it, 43%, 42%, whatever percent it is, is that percent of sales – is something that you expect to continue to drop then?

It dropped slightly, with the goal of increasing the advertising and sales aspect of it, so your...

Well, if it doesn't drop slightly, John, if it doesn't drop – I mean, if it only drops slightly, that means you're only getting the dollar-for-dollar bang for your buck. You're not getting operating leverage?

I understood it, maybe I just said it incorrectly. Our goal would be – and I don't have all the future numbers of the plans that we have in front of me on that side of it. But our goal would be increasing our advertising, our sales and becoming more efficient.

Right.

Whether it is 43%, 42%, 40%, those are numbers yet to be determined, but as we've seen, doing some of the things at in cooperative level, now we have to do it on an a national level, with a strategic long-term, strategic marketing plan, month-by-month allocation of resources in order to – to hit our objectives. And then adjust through objectives, because something can happen, so consequently it's not just saying, hey that was my plan, it has to be then hey, here's my adjustment to the plan, because – the weather changed through, the wind shifted.

Right.

So consequently looking at all that in conjunction, we're in agreement that we should become more efficient with the greater focus now advertising and marketing. In the first couple of years here was – is the focus on becoming efficient, now is the focus on being more efficient but then promoting the brand and promoting the products and promoting the story better.

Right.

Hopefully that answers your question.

What you're saying is you had $1 million dollars in sales. We're hoping to see at least $400,000 to $500,000 gross profit and to generate [ph] best as you can (1:05:26) $500,000 of gross profit. You're not spending $500,000 of SG&A to get it, you know. And so that means you're spending $250,000 to get $500,000 of gross profit. That's $4 of revenues for every dollar of SG&A incremental.

Correct. [ph]

So we're on (01:05:51) the same page there. Now with the new website up for only two of the three months of the quarter. It sounds like I think from one of your slides web sales did not surpass last year's. Is that right?

Correct. But that's really in conjunction with – last year we were still buying some AdWords even on the old website. What I can tell you is that we have an increased conversion. So the people that are visiting the website are buying. We need to drive more traffic to the website, which is the AdWords and the SEOs and et cetera. So there is an internal team in-house, there is an external team in-house, the external team in-house is coming in I believe on the 19th, to kind of do a full review to say okay, we've done all these great things, we've tweaked it, because obviously you point out some errors, some things we do more efficiently, some clunkiness as [ph] Cann (1:06:47) likes to call it, our IT Director, now we really need to maximize SEOs, right, so that the search engine optimization, we need to look at buying AdWords. Unfortunately, we were talking directly to Google and there was a corporate policy put in place that Pepper Spray would be deemed a weapon ergo we're not going to directly sell AdWords, so now we have to work our way around it because we say and we do that we sell empowerment, that we sell safety, we sell security, we're not selling a weapon.

So it's a little bit of a hiccup, but I think something that the team internally with the external team, I think we can solve. So we're very bullish on the website, because we think it's a vast improvement from – [ph] sometimes I hear this is our (1:07:39) third iteration, I inherited something that I didn't adjust and we tried to do something on the cheap. Now we spent some real dollars on not only fixing the back side of the website, the optimization of the order process, right. So now an order comes in, it gets dropped right into our system. It can be uploaded and downloaded very easily, very efficiency. We use Authorize.Net to make sure that credit card information and et cetera, that it's stored properly and safely. The next thing now is to market that great website to a broader base of consumers.

So if Google has adopted this new policy, and it's caused an unexpected hurdle for you, it would seem to me that that new policy should be a disruptive to your competitors who had been marketing?

It's a hurdle for all. Correct.

Okay.

Correct. But then you have to be strategic to work around it, so...

Of course.

There's Yahoo, there's organization that buy AdWords, they can work their way around it because they can position it differently.

Right. Now...

But our competitors would have the same hurdle as we do.

Okay.

And it's an unfortunate hurdle because once again it speaks to the problem sometimes with the segment, that this miseducation that Pepper Spray is the product that people should be carrying instead of a gun or et cetera, that it can keep you safe, that it does save lives. And we've gone and we're still working with the Google Analytics team to prove this point out and we have some sympathy amongst their team mates, but not at the higher levels where we need it.

Fine. So, that's – that's fine. But what you are talking about here are AdWords for Pepper in your website, which we spent money on and we got all these things on, also includes Nite Beams. That's not blocked, right?

That's not – well, the problem is that they won't – see, this is the heart of the problem. Like, they want us to create a completely separate website for Nite Beams and drive traffic there, that's not what we want to do. I want to advertise Surveillance, Nite Beams, Mace 911, but I want it driven to Mace. Well, they said, well then you have to take all your Pepper off your site. Well, I said, we're not doing that. That'd be another $100,000 waste of money, because somebody at corporate thought that that's what we should do. So, herein goes the problem, but now we're working with BrandShop, who developed our website. They're working on some creative solutions, [ph] they said that (1:10:09) we can work around some of these things, give us some time, let us come in, let us present some ideas. At the same time, [ph] Cann (1:10:16), our IT guy is working on some solutions. But to your point, that's how we approached it, that's where we ran into – to the issue that we ran into.

And this is the final decision or is there still a process going on?

It's a flag waving in the wind, in my opinion that the decision could change once they realize, wait a minute, we have unintended consequences to something we thought was a good idea. But classifying Mace Brand Pepper Spray to a gun in my opinion is an apple being compared to an orange. They both do different things.

So, John, perhaps your pr agency might be able to help in providing Google the insight that Pepper Spray is saving lives?

Correct. And that's why it's part of the strategic as we talked about at the beginning and putting these all together in a strategic long-term message.

Okay. For now – are there other ways, other than SEOs and AdWords et cetera, that can drive traffic through your website and instead of us being passive here with a really nice pretty website that could fulfill and sell products, but people aren't being driven to the site, doesn't that mean you need to potentially do more direct-to-consumer advertising that either sell...

Correct. And to that point...it's a good point...

Sell the product and [ph] pour eyes (1:11:38) into the site?

Yes, and we're working on all of those. We're working very closely with – like, for example, the American Red Cross. The American Red Cross loves the Mace 911 product, loves the Nite Beams product, it can't do anything with Pepper Spray. So, now we're working on – and we've done some donating to the Red Cross, we've worked with their national team and their local teams to use their email systems then to drive traffic back to our site. We get our products listed on the American Red Cross Store.

So, those are in process, we're hoping to close the loops on some of those, but then again, CVSL. We've created a microsite for CVSL, that drives business both to our site, to their site. So, we're not doing nothing, waiting for Godot if you would. We are working very feverishly on different ideas. We've – we're doing a better job on our own, – cultivating our old list that we owned, looking at buying lists that potentially we can send out email blasts that Google, for example, can't do anything about it. They get their message out the way we want to get it out and also then working with a lot of our customers and tagging to their website, so they can get the benefit of the sales, like DSG.com I believe is up in double digits again on sales.

Now – is traffic to the website already up? I know that the web sales....

Traffic has been pretty healthy, like we've seen more – we don't see the levels of traffic we'd like, but the levels of traffic are increasing as we do some of these things.

Okay. Regarding 911, you mentioned CVSL, is that what it's called?

CVSL is an organization – that we're giving them the channel direct to consumer. So one of their – they own Longaberger, they own several very direct selling machine. So we've trained them, we've done seminars with them. They are in the process of building a marketing and sales plan to go directly after consumers, like a house party for example or an email blast for example or other ways of contacting consumer directly because that's how they're built. Organizationally, we're not built 100% that way.

When are they expected to roll things out?

In the next couple of weeks. They are building up – they do a lot of education before they even give a product out because that sales person that goes out there is their key player, that's their storefront. So we've trained them, we have products in the Longaberger store and now we're working with them on next steps of their GOTO market strategy. And there is a little bit of a timing because as they've mentioned, October and November is their best-selling months because there is a lot of travelling in this July, August, September period. So they also have to look at that seasonality too to make sure people are at home and people aren't distracted or they're not on vacation et cetera.

Right. Now you mentioned about $100,000 of inventory potentially for them is that revenue is [ph] booked (1:14:58)?

Not for them, in total – like Mace 911, because not only them, us selling it to traditional retailers, us selling it to CVSL, our website and traditional retailers.

Oh, okay. And so revenues have not been booked on sales to CVSL yet then?

A couple of hundred units had been booked on sales in the quarter.

In the quarter, okay.

Yes.

Now they have the direct to consumer channel, what are the other distribution channels you're already marketing this product through and what additional channels do you have planned and when?

Well, it's ongoing Andrew, but we're making presentations to traditional retailers, Sporting Goods not as much, but mass consumer clubs, electronic shopping, our own website, working with causal marketing campaigns. Like, as I mentioned, the American Red Cross because it's a great item if you lose your house, you lose your phone, this way you still can connect. We're working with professional organizations such as the Visiting Nurses Association and et cetera. And we're also working through our relationship with Security Partners through the 1,700 dealers that they have on their books now. So every channel of distribution we're working at, we're focusing first on the drug channel and some of the mass market channels as well as causal marketing.

Okay. And so have you signed anyone up yet?

We have a couple customers that we're just waiting for the orders, that have given us a verbal yes, we want to put the product down.

Okay. I have some more questions, I'll back out if you can please come back to me.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro. Your line is open.

I'll carry this over the goal on here. On Security, Surveillance and Monitoring, I guess what I want to get a feel for here is last quarter, the inventory build was described as Surveillance sector in back orders. So, what I didn't understand is if that's the case and we built inventory, we didn't have it, you had back orders, why wouldn't Security and Surveillance then be up this quarter, [ph] why was it declined and (1:17:30) down again and I see the inventory up and I'm a little concerned here.

Right. We're less concerned because we think we can move the inventory. But we did lose some back orders to competitors. I would say there's three or four things happening in the field. There is some changes in technology that's happening in the field that we need to react to.

There is also a Chinese strategy I would call it where they are being more aggressive in selling and marketing direct. So, companies that used to sell to American distributors or put American brands on it, now, they're going on a bolder statement and selling direct to end users, which really didn't happen before and that's newer. And that overall, there's some pricing pressure on the segment. Ergo, once we saw that some of the back orders, we weren't going to be able to sustain or some customers that yeah, I know I ordered those cameras, but I want to push that order out a little bit, because I'm not sure when I want to take them, that we've experienced a little bit of that. With the inventories a little higher than we'd like it to be, but we're putting in some plans to move the inventory. And we're also putting some ideas that – and strategies that we feel will keep us in the segment and protect us, but maybe slightly change our GOTO market strategy.

So John, when I hear someone say move inventory that usually puts some hair up on the back about reduced margins and moving inventory. And I'm just wondering has this management team been asked by the board, has the board been presented, are you guys evaluating the amount of profits and return on investment that this product line provides to the company? I mean, I've been an investor as you know long before you've been here.

Absolutely.

And I have seen the Security and Surveillance Monitoring business go through multiple iterations of having to revamp the product because of technological change, having to deal with Chinese or other low-margin competition inventory write-downs? I just – I've experienced it so much now that when I'm hearing these comments and I'm seeing these things, I'm just wondering about resource allocation, return on investment. Are we – I would rather see more advertising moving more Nite Beams products and Mace Alert 911 and other things than just breaking even and tying up all that capital in the Surveillance business?

So Andrew, I can't tell you what we're planning on doing, but I would tell you two things. That we agree on your last statement and B, I would suffice to say knowing you for the past three years that I have, you'd be very pleased and in agreement with what management wants to do with the segment and I'd leave it at that.

Okay. Fair enough. Of the...

Of which I can tell, Andrew, just last thing. Of which, we have a signed LOI for a part of what we want to do. We have to push across the goal line on what else we want to do, but suffice to say I think it's a good plan and it allows us to do the other things that you had mentioned, advertising the products that we're launching. We still have a lot of advertising and a lot of education we can do just on the traditional Pepper Spray of which the whole time, in the back half of the year, we're going to change the packaging and do a couple of upgrades to it that I think are marvelous and well overdue. And we've done them on nickels and dimes, but I think we've been tremendous at doing it.

Yes. Well, again, [ph] it seems like (1:22:09) I've seen inventory go up...

Absolutely.

...and up times you're tying up a bunch of capital. If there was a way to free this up, I mean I'd love for Mace to earn a 100% loyalty stream through the use of our name and have someone else make the low margin, make a margin, but make a low margin in the process who might be able to compete more effectively and stop this distraction, if that's what it's become, and let's start moving, I mean the Nite Beams product you've represented and please reaffirm this, is that the margins on the Nite Beams products are as good as, if not better than Pepper Spray?

They're similar to Pepper Spray. I won't call them better, but similar to Pepper Spray.

All right, and I think no one would dispute that the addressable potential market of the Nite Beams products to multiple different verticals, and of course Google doesn't mind them, I mean the point is that it's a much, it's frankly a much bigger addressable market, than selling Pepper Spray. I'm not [ph] singling out (1:23:17) Pepper Spray, but it's a big market, it's got a big opportunity as long as [ph] Mr. Fell (1:23:24) asked the questions about inventory and quality, as long as we can get the inventory, have the quality, you guys could move a bunch of these out. So...

I agree.

On the LED stuff, you talked about in the last quarter that you were targeting corporations for the idea of selling, we called it wholesale quantities to corporations, safety workers et cetera. The vests were not available then. Are they available now?

They are, they – we moved through a lot of the vests that we brought in inventory-wise, we're bringing in more but, yes that is part of the total strategy and it's in processes of much longer lead time on that corporate side, much longer than I have even thought, but we, I would bet you to say, there is three, probably Top 500 companies that we're talking to about, not only the vest, the Nite Beams, Pepper Spray and a total corporate B2B plan.

Okay.

Like one I can tell you, like Quicken Loans Arena, it's just a small order of 50 vests, but they're starting to buy our vests, and we're working with construction, energy companies, manufacturing companies about the same thing doing a corporate to corporate program where they're buying at a wholesale price, which is still a very healthy margin to us instead of a retail price and then we're getting demand and they're getting an association.

Right. And it's a big quantity. But, so...

It's a big quantity, and it's one and it's moved out right away, so no co-op, no over terms and some of the other things.

Right. So you mentioned 50 vests to Quicken, is that Q2 revenue recognition, is it Q3?

No. Because the order came in just this past couple of weeks and then I believe we're delivering them in two weeks when the inventory comes in.

Okay. So, the order has been taken, if this quarter is the order, the inventory is not here, the vests are somewhere on a boat off of LA then?

They are at the factory, I believe they're being brought in. I don't have the exact data in front of me, but within the next two weeks they'll be delivered.

Okay. And that's fine, but then where is the rest of the vest inventory right now? In China on a boat, on the train, on a plane?

A vast majority of the inventory went out as [ph] teeny (1:26:03) samples. I had mentioned before, both to the reps and both the buyers and the groups and then we placed a pre-order of inventory that is being manufactured at the plant that would be here within the next 15 days to 30 days to 45 days.

So, in other words, you will in a sense manufacture and ship inventory less on spec and more on order then with the corporations and wholesale blocks?

Well, with the corporation side, we're doing some specialized things like Quicken loans for example that's going to have the Q listed on it, right.

Okay. They want printing. They want printing?

Right. With some of the other guys on the corporation side, Andrew, it's completely different like those will be made to order, those will be forecasted and purchased because we'll put logos on there along with the Mace logo. Our traditional inventory, we will stock for Ranger for example or for some of the other accounts that we're going after.

I understand.

If it's a traditional retail account that will order and we'll have, Carl will have min-max within the system that will monitor inventory sale.

So now when you make them to order, you're getting the deposit. You're getting money upfront then, and we're not even putting up the working capital or shouldn't?

Depends on the accounts, some of these accounts are a lot bigger than us, so we can – depending on the account...

Yeah, but you can't use a vest that says Q on it and sell it to someone else?

Right. But we will have a binding agreement that they'll buy. So whether it's cash up front, I don't want to say that it might be at some accounts, it might be like, hey, you know, we'll get an e-mail confirmation that we will buy that product.

Got it. All right. Now, we're not surprised with some new initiatives with some of these start-up companies and joint ventures that you've announced may not live up to expectations. But can you update us on which ones now you see actually generating cash flow and the timing of when there'll be milestones on some of them [indiscernible] (1:28:04)?

Well, we talked about like Nite Beams and Mace 911, that will be in the back half of this year. Tactical will still be in the back half of this year. To that point Mace Wear, which was the deal with First Sign, they've gone under First Sign. We didn't lose any money. They just couldn't generate the funding that they thought of. The Defender, which we have a deal with, our money we have the statement of accounts of the $100,000 that we've invested with them. They're retooling their plan, I would say if we're lucky it'd be some time in 2016, unless corporately we decide that that's too risky. There is – we have several marketing initiatives, none of which have cost the company any money, like [ph] BearGate (1:28:54) for example, where it's a – it is a percentage royalty back and forth. That one is...

You don't have to go down, John, you don't have to go down all the ones you've announced, and explain them. I just want to know, which ones of the ones you've announced? Do you actually see [indiscernible] (1:29:16)

Definitely, Nite Beams, Mace 911, and Mace Tactical; those three are priorities. All equal priorities because they involve different people in the organization, but those three, we feel very confident that we will monetize in the back half of this year to a level – I don't know. But...

And then are there any others of the ones you've announced that are – like they're going to be a focus or this is the focus and there is nothing more right now?

Those three along with what we're trying to do on our traditional Pepper product, I would say is enough to ensure some levels of success. Mace Tactical again, reiterating that's a game changer because it gets us back into that segment that we have not been in, probably for five or six years or longer. Mace Nite Beams gets us in as you said in a higher cap position at retail and also can stretch the company beyond just traditional retail onto a B2B-type atmosphere, and also gets us into the Pet segment. We're working seriously with a known supplier in that segment to do a limited partnership that we think would be a game changer not only for Nite Beams, but then bringing in Mace-branded defense sprays into segments that we haven't been in before. So those two along with Mace 911 we're very bullish on and to your point, along with updating our Pepper line and doing some dynamic things with our traditional line because in the house or in the building we always look at our core, Pepper is number one. Then we look at all these other segments and say okay, do I lead with Mace 911 and then show Pepper, do I lead with Nite Beams and show Pepper, but all along we try and tie the two together and then we just lead with the segment that we think has this – our greatest chance for success.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Okay, Chris, I think that's it.

Okay. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you.