Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Sally and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter Earnings Results from the Mace Security International. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you, [ph] Steve Riley 00:00:29, Corporate Controller, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Sally. Welcome to Mace Security International's First Quarter Conference Call. My name is [ph] Steve Riley 00:00:42, I'm Corporate Controller from Mace. Also with us today is Mace's Chief Executive Officer, John McCann; and Mace's Chief Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien. [indiscernible] 00:00:53 general housekeeping matters that you want to address. Certain statements and information during the conference call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used during this call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected, will continue as anticipated, estimate, projected and intend to are similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic conditions, limited capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call. Additional discussions for factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projected forecast, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading Risk Factors in Mace's SEC filings which includes its registration statement and its periodic reports on all forms, 10-K and 10-Q. All statements made during this conference call also be considered in conjunction with financial statements and notes contained in Mace's annual reports on Form 10-K with reports on Form 10-Q. You can access these reports on www.mace.com through the Investor Relations section of the website. You can click on the investor [audio gap] 00:02:28 button.

With that, I would like now to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.

Thank you, Steve. Good morning and thanks for joining us on our first quarter 2012 results call. As Steve noted, I'll be providing some highlights on the results for our first quarter of March 2012 versus the same period in 2011. I'll also be making a few comparison references to the fourth quarter of 2011.

And for some background, some of you may be new to our call. Mace currently functions in one segment that being our Security segment. We have discontinued operations within our previously – previous [indiscernible] 00:03:09 segment, where we have two remaining sites.

I will make some brief comments with respect to these discontinued operations later in my comments. As for our Security segment, we're currently operating three operating units or distinct divisions. We have a Mace Personal Defense operation which is our well-known Mace aerosol pepper spray division. We also have our electronic surveillance equipment operations known as Mace Security Products, where we sell both professional and home small business do-it-yourself lines of electronic surveillance equipment. Finally, we also operate a wholesale security monitoring business, Mace Central Station, whereas we refer to as Mace CS, which we entered in April 2009 with the acquisition of our base operation, CSSS. At the point of reference, we also had an industrial vision specialty camera division known as Industrial Vision Source or IVS, which we recently sold this past October. So as previously mentioned and as we disclosed in our recently filed 10-Q press release, the Car Wash segment is accounted for as discontinued operations, which means all of our line items and income statement are essentially removed and placed in one line at the bottom of the income statement, and same goes for our balance sheet.

We, in essence, pull all the assets and liabilities out of the balance sheet line items and then we sign on in two line items. One is side of the balance sheet assets held for sale and liabilities-related assets held for sale. This allows our financial presentation to be more pure discussion and reflection of our current Securities segment.

I'll be covering our recent financial highlights. I will then introduce John, our Chief Executive Officer, who will make some comments in addition to mine. First, on the revenue side, revenue in our first quarter of 2012 were $3.4 million as compared to $3.6 million for the same period of last year. This was a decrease of about $162,000 or 4.5%.

I want to point out that we experienced this decline largely as a result of the absence of about $515,000 of sales from IVS in the prior year. Again, our high-end digital and machine vision operation, which we sold in October. Exclusive of IVS, we would have had an increase in revenues of $353,000 or about 11.5% of quarter-over-quarter last year. We realized a significant increase in revenues in our Mace Personal Defense operation of $551,000 or 49%. We increased sales for $1.1 million last year in the first quarter to $1.7 million in the first quarter of this year. And we also had an increase over the fourth quarter of last year in this division of about 8%.

The first quarter as well versus fourth quarter of 2011, drilling down a little bit, we saw 44% increase in silver aerosol products, a 34% increase in our wireless home security systems and other non-aerosol products, and a 289% increase in our TG Guard systems. We've worked hard. We've achieved this growth through increased penetration in the current retailers, an increased focus on our international markets, as well as our law enforcement sales in our TG Guard products.

We also realized an increase in our wholesale monitoring division of about $259,000 or 31%. This was partially a result of the March 2011 acquisition of The Command Center, Inc. or TCCI and partially as a result of internal growth.

Our professional and our consumer direct home and small business electronic surveillance division did experience a reduction in sales of about $455,000, and this was due to several factors. Continued to struggle with the economy of direct sales by Asian manufacturers. So we also lost a large customer, as we've disclosed last year. And we've also focused on reducing sales in the more costly from the fulfillment standpoint and the service standpoint of professional line of business and focusing on more on lower dollar value and do-it-yourself-type products.

And with this change in revenues, our overall gross profit margin improved from 35% in the first quarter of last year, 39% in first quarter of 2012, a 4% increase. This improvement in our Security segment margins is due to enhanced pricing, continued efforts to reduce cost of production and fulfillment and a reduction in the sales of IVS, which provided a low profit margin.

In the first quarter of 2012, personal defense operation remains very strong, with a 45% margin in our wholesale monitoring and our electronic surveillance operation both came in at about a 34% margin. From an SG&A selling, general and administrative costs standpoint, we saw a decrease of $521,000 from the first quarter of 2011 till the first quarter of 2012, a 24% increase or decrease, rather. This is a result of management's continued efforts to reduce costs. Specifically, we reduced, excluding our wholesale monitoring company due to the acquisition and excluding car washes of the rest of our security operations and corporate reduced head count about 22% from the March 2011 point to currently.

We also, as you know, from prior calls, if you listen in, we sold the Texas warehouse in late 2011, which reduced some SG&A costs and made some other moves to reduce these costs, including corporate reductions of about $93,000 or about 11% quarter-over-quarter. Our costs were partially offset by the acquisition of TCCI as I mentioned, where we had about $69,000 in SG&A costs first quarter last year versus first quarter of this year.

From an operating loss perspective, our loss from continuing operations for the first quarter was approximately $514,000 or $0.01 per share compared to a loss from continuing operations of $1.2 million last year or $0.08 per share. This reduction is the result of the factors I just mentioned, including the improvement in gross margins, the reduction in the SG&A costs, and we also saw about a $64,000 reduction in interest expense quarter-over-quarter.

Discontinued operations again, which consists of two car washes. They generated a loss of approximately $19,000 in the first quarter of 2012 versus $60,000 last year. But overall net loss for the company was $533,000 or $0.01 per share compared to a loss of $1.3 million last or $0.08 per share.

Just going to give a few brief comments on the balance sheet and cash flow. From a balance sheet perspective, we maintain a low leverage ratio currently at about 5.8%, and this is based on having a debt of about $992,000 in equity of $17 million. Of that equity is about $0.29 per share. We have positive working capital of about $11.5 million at March 31, 2012, which is similar, a little better than the work capital of $11.2 million at December.

With respect to debt, all the mortgages were paid off with the February sale of [indiscernible] 00:11:12 Car Wash. What remains is the debt related to borrowing partners and some capitalized leases. I would like to mention that the debt is net of about $580,000, which is the value of conversion options and warrants related to the Merlin debenture, which we reported as part of part of equity.

Our cash and short-term investments at March 31st stood at about $8.3 million and we had total assets $21.6 million. From the cash flow standpoint, we reduced inventory in the quarter by about $200,000 so it's equally distributed between our personal defense operation and our electronic surveillance operation. From a cash flow perspective, we used about $1 million of cash in operating activities. We generated $75,000 from investing activities, adapting out of receiving over $1.5 million net proceeds from the sale of the Arlington Wash in February. Less $1.4 million in cash invested in short-term securities. And we used about $15,000 in cash in financing activity, which related to booking payments on remaining debt.

Going into 2011 or 2012, rather, we had generated a total of $51.3 million of annual carryforwards and these carryforwards expire through 2031 and obviously will minimize any cash payment requirements into the future.

Before I turn the call over to John, I just wanted to mention a couple items on our asset sales as an update. As I mentioned in the last call, we had sold the IVS division in October and generated about $617,000 of cash and recorded a gain of $156,000. In this past quarter, we were able to generate another $100,000 from that sale by earning contingent consideration. We sold the Texas warehouse in December and generated about $1.1 million of cash.

And as I mentioned a few moments ago, we sold our number one, our largest site in Arlington at the end of February and generated about $1.6 million – more than $1.6 million of cash. As I mentioned, we have two car washes remaining, which we're currently working on different strategies to – to sell those two remaining sites. Again, as always, I'd like to thank everyone, for supporting Mace and joining us at this morning.

And at this point, I'll turn the call over to John McCann, our Chief Executive Officer. John?

Thanks, Greg, and thanks, everybody, for your participation. I'll really keep my comments brief. There's a – we made some strides in the first quarter with regard to some of the sales efforts. When you look at a net basis without the IVS numbers, but there's a lot of work to do. So we're – we're getting to where we need to be, but we're not there yet. So we're going to continue to focus on – especially our Personal Defense division and also the opportunities we have with security products. And I think we have a lot of opportunities with our central station business.

So I'm in the midst of working out some plans for the future and some of the events regarding growth opportunities along with the proper overhead reductions that we need to do to – to become profitable. So, really, in [indiscernible] 00:14:49 comments if there's any questions or if there's any other comments that we both wanted to make.

[Operator Instructions] We'll pass for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. And our first question comes from the line of [ph] Andrew Shapiro 00:15:11. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. I have several questions. I'll ask a few and I'll get back into the question queue. Another one here. So, Greg, when was the loss of the large surveillance customer anniversary in your financial results?

Starting right about now, Andrew. We had pretty strong sales [indiscernible] 00:15:32 through the first quarter of last year. So, you know, I'd say right about now.

When you say right about now, can you just clarify because we're near the end of May. Are you talking about the end of March quarter or you're talking about the middle of second quarter?

[ph] Ken 00:15:50, I don't have that in front of me, but I think it was closer to the end of the first quarter and then it started selling off. So, they had some sales through June but it was, you know, less than what we would have saw in the first quarter of last year. So it was, you know, it wasn't an immediate type of reduction that happened over about three to four-month periods. You know, I'd say we did this quarter.

All right. I didn't see a...

The real impact of that we will gain in the third quarter because there's some residual sales after the second quarter and then we'll see where that drop off is complete, you know, [indiscernible] 00:16:22 beginning of July on the 30th.

Okay. On the CSS Central Station, there seems to be – according to your [indiscernible] 00:16:32 – no change between the monitored account number and the security dealer client numbers in your 10-Q from your 10-K. Is there seasonality or churn going on that prevented further growth being shown this past quarter or what's going on there in the number of accounts and the number of dealer clients?

Yeah, I think with some of the change that happened over at the Central Station, I think we've done a good job of not gaining right now. We're not losing any clients. I feel now with some of the changes we've made in management responsibilities, we have our forward-looking or customer-facing folks and I think we'll see some growth in that side. As you know, in the security business, you're always worried about attrition. And likely because of our hard work, we haven't seen a lot of attrition. Now it's time to focus, not only on the customers that we have but on customers that we can now show what we're capable of doing and bring them over to our side.

Okay. So, despite no growth in the account numbers from last quarter, which I understand the reasons for now, I noticed that the revenues you described were up 8% from last quarter. So, since there's no breakout of the CSSS margins, I can't discern whether there was a price increase or other items that explain the revenue growth. So can you clarify the revenue growth from prior quarter, not prior year?

Yeah. One of the things, [ph] Andrew 00:18:09, is we started selling last year a product called [indiscernible] 00:18:15 which is a video type product with motion sensor detection and we also started selling that as equipment sales when we had strong sales in the first quarter of about $21,000 from [indiscernible] 00:18:33 sales which I don't have in front of me the number from December but I know that the first quarter number was much stronger.

So, that was part of the increase. And I think part of the increase was as well as just a little bit increase in average revenue per account.

Okay. And John, you mentioned you hired a business development person recently. When has or will that person start with what are the typical parameters for selling cycle for you to expect to see tangible growth payback on this new hire or new hires?

Okay. She started probably about a month ago or six weeks. And my expectation is that hopefully within a three-month cycle, if we're very fortunate. But within a six to nine months cycle, we'll see some fruits from that acquisition. And it's twofold because the customers we have are very, very important to us. So, we're also reaching back out to a point on why no growth in numbers.

We are trying to look at what we sell and how we sell our current customers and see if we can't be more efficient, which is a benefit to them and to us.

which is a benefit to them than to us. So, but honestly, Michael and his team have done a good job of upselling customers to make sure that they know we offer a wide variety of video solutions. And so, we're going back to some of our older customers saying, you know, you might want to update, which is good for them and good for us in the video solution. And also look at what systems around and see if we can upgrade those, which is the benefit to them and us, which helps in the overall revenue growth.

And I would like, you know, my anticipation is the expectation is, is that she's not only, you know, helping us make sure we don't lose customers, but within the next nine months, I'd say adding customers on to that pipeline.

Okay. Let me back out in the question queue but I have more questions. But in case there is anyone else waiting, I don't want them to.

There are no further questions at this time. You're welcome to go ahead.

All right. So, regarding the car wash, your release or your 10-Q mentioned that one of the two remaining car washes is under – its under he was under an agreement for sale. Can you clarify a little bit more and what are the milestones and expected closing date parameters and payments that give you confidence that this deal will close timely?

It's not we're – the time we were preparing the 10-Q, we did have a signed contract, [indiscernible] 00:21:02that period that has fallen through, the financing on their side when we expected the escrow payment didn't happen. So, we are back to the drawing board. But the goal remains the same to sell those remaining two car washes as soon as possible. It's unfortunate that, you know, once the paperwork resigned, we thought good the money would be transferred. But then, when the money didn't happen, they the contract...

Yeah, it falls. Well, was that the owned – was that a deal on the...

That's the deal side. So this side, we're working on several strategies to extricate ourselves from the lease side.

Okay. And you had a nice improvement in your inventory terms from last quarter. Is this reduced level sustainable and is there further room for more improvement?

Yeah. I think...

Go ahead, John.

Go on. Go ahead, if you want.

No. I think, you know, in John's line of point. So I think we've, you know, I think we've done a lot of efforts to reduce our purchasing on the electronic side. We're definitely doing much more to [indiscernible] 00:22:14 We're selling out the professional line and just restocking the do-it-yourself line, which we're focusing on. And on the first [indiscernible] 00:22:25, you know, we've always kept very lean there. We basically manufactured days or some like a little bit before shipment is required. So we keep our minimum raw materials on the end. So I think [indiscernible] 00:22:43 we continue to sell off the professional line. I think that'll be better. John?

No. I mean, I think what you're seeing is – is a different mix of inventory on a go-forward basis in the future. You know, on the security products, that would put the strategy in place. So we're just in time. And then on the – first on the defense side, we're making sure that, you know, we have the right products in stock at all times. And then we're pointing in the min/max protocols that you would like to see to make sure that we cannot lose opportunities, but at the same time that we have capital.

Okay. Your personal defense sales were up 49% year-over-year and a large portion of that was what type or what share sold the defense products?

It was really across the board to be honest with you, Andrew. There's from, you know, our multiple line to our regular line, we've seen a nice increase. We've made some tweaks to packaging and our marketing and our messaging. And I think that's helping us tremendously with some of the retailers. And then we're also working on in an impulse area within the stores because that also helps us with our – with our sell through.

So, you're doing better – you're doing better per location rather than having incremental new distribution arrangements or new locations right now. Is that...

[indiscernible] 00:24:15. Yeah. The first goal, yeah, just coming on board and being like month number five was to solidify our relationships with customers we have, gain better access and placement to where we are in their location so we can show them the benefit of the product and the profitability that they can generate. And then same time, we're working hard for new distribution and new placements.

So, new placement and distribution, you know, you have to – you have to crawl before you walk and run. But with guys that have had or, you know, customers that have had good experiences, we're trying to enhance those experience and listen to them and see what we can do differently.

So, we've got several things from, making the display more effective to doing power panels, to trying to gain front end placement of the product because we know it's an impulse purchase. Therefore, you need to, you know, partner with your customers to make sure that they understand that there is a great benefit. But it has to be in front of the customer and the customer that wants the products.

Okay. And there have been efforts before you joined and I'm certainly expecting and assuming you're going to strengthen these efforts just from your background. We were trying to get into some big boxes or some new big accounts. Have we made any headway in initial testing or initial reasons for some of these larger accounts?

We are making headway but it's a long process. So, I'm cautiously optimistic but we are making headway.

Okay. Is there any seasonality or unique law enforcement patterns or anything else that is attributable to the sizable increase in your TG Guard systems or is this – and is this the new current sustainable pace or is this like a surge?

I think it's three. It's focus that we're getting out there in front of the right people to show the product. Two, it's event-driven, that as world events happen, that the awareness helps us raise it. And three is we tweak the offerings, tweak the products to make sure that our customers understand especially in that [indiscernible] 00:26:35 law enforcement genre, that they understand that we are the original guys, which I don't think that message always was portrayed before.

So, on that one, on the sustainability, I'm cautiously optimistic again that is very sustainable because our penetration in that field is very small today. So, we have a rapid opportunity for enhanced growth but it's going to take a lot of hard work and a lot of knocking on doors to make it happen.

Okay. You guys noted the SG&A reduction was inclusive of $100,000 gain on additional collection of the contingent payment on IVS. Is that correct? So, it was booked as a reduction in SG&A?

Yeah. That's where the STC to record gains or losses on sale of assets.

gains or losses on the sale of assets.

Okay.

So that's what would be.

All right. Now, last year April was a time in mid-April where you had to do goodwill impairment testing. As we're now past April 30, is there any indication of further write down in 2012 that we'd be subject to in this coming quarter?

We're just going to start getting into that, Andrew. Probably as we speak or start to work on that at this point, you know, we – we're hopeful that there won't be any. But we are going to be to swap data projections and analysis and, you know, looking at some other factors that we consider on the market. And so, you know, it's just looking too it's early for us to comment on that at this point.

Okay. So, you've got your burn rate reduced but it's still running $75,000 to $125,000 a month. Okay? And what are your options and plans that you can discuss to address this and get the company to breakeven and maybe insight as to the timing of when we could look forward to that day we've been waiting for for years now?

Well, I can just address. It's a little still too early to talk about all the efforts that we're doing, but we are very focused on it. One of them that I'm pretty close to finalizing will be rent reduction at several of the locations. So, that will help tremendously. We will have a reduced rate in both Florida and Vermont, and we're waiting on a reduction from our facility out in California and Anaheim. And then there's several other initiatives that we've undertaken for cost reductions.

Okay. You've mentioned CapEx of $150,000 to $250,000, I believe, in the 10-Q for 2012 for technology improvements in the wholesale monitoring and upgrading for manufacturing equipment and personal defense. Can you be any more specific if there's some big investments in here or are these run rates that are more maintenance run rates that we can expect going forward and will last for, you know, a cycle?

Well, [indiscernible] 00:30:05 break down when I'm done, but it's a little bit above, Andrew. There is – there hasn't been some major capital improvements in the Personal Defense business. So, there's some things that will have a longer term payback and make this more effective and efficient on our – on our processing and manufacturing side of our business there. And with the central, it's really good maintenance, but it's also making sure that our software and where we are and what we need to do with our customers is where it needs to be.

All right. You have a sizable increase or allocation now in short-term investments, $1.4 million. What are these investments focused on and what duration are they being tied into? Because in the four-year time, John, and Greg will appreciate this, and I do not expect that's where the money is this time, but in the predecessor administrations that we had to go up against and issues with, it had this company's moneys and hedge funds that were Ponzi schemes. So, I don't expect that's the case because we got the Bancorp people in here. But just can you summarize where this money is invested and what kind of duration is locked in?

All right, Andrew, we appreciate the question. I'll let Greg answer that. But it's we – it's safe. It's safe significantly with the market, but, yeah...

Yeah. No.

Greg, Greg, can elaborate. Greg? Hello? I don't know if we lost Greg.

I'll ask another question for you then. So...

All right. [indiscernible] 00:31:52.

Advertising expense has been for this last quarter is about half of the previous year's period's expense. And so, I just wanted to get a feel for what's the reduction? What's the result of divested product lines or because your revenues are growing nicely that the reductions are just more efficient as spend it on existing product line?

Yeah. I agree. It's really a combination because we have was a – it was advertising driven. We've taken some things, so I'm more comfortable with how we're spending money to not to do some web-driven advertising. So but – and then, we've also experienced a nice increase in sales. So in the future, it will a more focused advertising that I've told all divisions that it makes the brand. We have families and divisions of products, but Mace is the brand because I think that's where the true equity lies. And then making sure they're across all of our business segmentation set. The Mace brand is prominent.

Right. Okay. I'm holding out for the investment where it's been allocated, but it's not. I'd like to hear that answer offline then. Last...

Yeah. We can definitely tell you that. I think it's also in our forms. But I'd say, hey, Greg Krzemien, are you on the line?

Hi, John. I'm back and sorry, John. And we had a phone surge here and we got kicked off. So I'm not back in.

So, Greg,

To Greg, I have an outstanding question that we were waiting for news, just asking where the $1.4 million short-term investments in what kind of long term or short term duration, T-bills, corporate bonds, kind of just general where that money is?

Sure, sure, it is principally in some preferred stocks, municipal funds and so mutual bond funds. It's in all A plus rated duration. Some of it is less than 12 months. So, there are some that are about 2.5, 3 years out, you know, but it's all pretty, you know, liquid obviously, if we needed to move on it. And so, it's, you know, we're trying to be very, very cautious and very, very safe in what we're investing.

So, nothing locked up or invested in the manner that we once had a problem with?

No, no, not at all. Not at all.

And speaking of that, did you ever get a response or reply from the trustee of the Ponzi situation as to if we will be getting any recovery?

Yeah, again, the response was, and I did follow up again, was that they were going to make call people up to at least 50% before they go to the people who got money out of those funds, which we did get 50% of our principal balance back. And it's just a decision that the trustee had made in the court approved. And, you know, that's – that's what we know at this point, unfortunately.

Okay. And so, there's no further expectation of any contingent asset or recovery?

I'd say it's probably pretty remote at this point, Andrew, since, you know, I was not expecting to get more than 30% recovery, as you'll probably imagine.

All right. And John, even I'm even on the job now here for five months. You've talked and just mentioned the focus is being centralized more on the brand. And that's building up the brand equity. The brand is an asset that is not on our balance sheet. It's an asset that is only right now generating gross profit and eventually pre-tax income from our current product lines.

Have you developed thoughts or plans regarding areas in which we could monetize the brand, license the brand, create a very high margin royalty like cash flow stream that would add to our achievement of pre-tax income? So we can start using up our sizable tax NOI?

Yes, sir. So now with several major large licensing companies to develop a strategy just for that. And I see that as a great potential for the brand on a go forward basis.

And do you have a feel for the milestones or timing of this process, you know, you've met with them. Does that mean we can select one firm?

Yeah, it's still too early, but we're in the process of, you know, interviewing the different firms and seeing what they have to offer. And then it's a long lead time cycle, you know, in order to get something done. But I am working very hard and I've met with several of the largest in the country to small, unique ones and trying to be judicious that I don't want to give up every category to want licensor or representive if there's opportunities in other ones and it's also has to be strategic and the brand promise that you know, that made this, first of all, a sense of security. You know, when you think of Mace, you think of security. So with that, we just don't want to put the brand on everything.

Right. Okay. All right. No further questions. Thank you very much.

Okay.

[Operator Instructions] We have no questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you very much, Sally, and thank you, everyone, for joining on our call this morning. John, do you have any closing remarks?

No, really – just we got a lot of work to do, but we're excited to do it. So...

Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.