Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Senior Vice President-Corporate Finance, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Megan and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the third quarter 2018 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. John McCann, you may begin your conference.

Thanks a lot, Megan. Thank you for joining the call today and please visit corp.mace.com, Investor Relations, Transcripts & Presentations as we have loaded a PowerPoint update in the third quarter and full year results. Now, I'd like to turn it over to Carl Smith who will read the forward-looking statement.

Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, as anticipated, estimate, projected, and intended to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subjected to certain risks known and unknown, and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

Thanks, Carl. And now I'll comment on the third quarter. And please visit the website; you can download the PowerPoint presentation. I won't go through the presentation but we can answer any questions during Q&A.

Brief comments on the quarter, and I'll try and be brief so we have a longer session of Q&A. Revenues increased about 22% in the quarter with the majority of our partners experiencing strong POS sales in the quarter, and we also grew our distribution by 28 new accounts that we landed during the quarter. Most of our major accounts had robust POS, which means their point-of-sale through the register was great, which meant replenishment orders. And we also had some nice off-shelf placement to keep up with demand.

Our Ecommerce strategy has been effective and we're experiencing double-digit growth in the category. David Happe has done a great job with his team, Tim Satava, and others on supporting the category and making sure we're enhancing our brand experience and developing strategic advertising plans to continue to support the category, though in the quarter our ROI and our spending was not as great as we would like so we are reviewing how we go to market in the channel as we move towards the future. We had great results. We think they can be even better by focusing in on the detail and also the message, the content, and the context of our message, and I'll talk a little bit more about that later on the call.

We've opened new categories to sell our products which we're very excited about. We branched out into some real estate agents with all their direct opportunities to sell our products through our training program and enhanced brand messaging that we've done with some of our partners. We also had some nice pipeline fill in the quarter with a couple major retailers. We were able to have several placements within one of our sporting good channel partners and we also had several new placements within the store format of one of our consumer partners. So we're very excited about that. We also think there's direct communication with a lot of our customers directly from the company can be also a great way to enhance our brand value as we move forward.

On the marketing side, our new website continues to perform well. We launched it in late June. We've seen unique visitors up 50%, our page views are up 192%, our page view sessions are up 89%, and our bounce rate is down significantly year-on-year. Also to note, on our website our AUP, our averaging unit price, is up over $40 per unit which is a $10 increase versus a year ago. So we're very pleased about where we're going. We think the next level for us is engaging a marketing firm on a short-term basis to help us with our content, context, and our messaging to make sure that we reach a larger audience than we are today.

Some of the disappointments that I'll just highlight briefly in the quarter is our Tactical division has done well on OC sprays and distribution of OC sprays but we're still not where we want to be with the distribution of less lethal munitions that we started up. We think we have a great opportunity in Ergo; that's why we have brought on Paul Hughes onto the company. Paul joined the company in November. [ph] He was (00:05:07) 32 months' public service role in Arizona Commerce Authority under the Governor Doug Ducey. Prior to his role there, Paul was the Chief Operating Officer at Guardian 8. He led a team of developers to create new devices and several patents, the Pro V2 product design for the security industry. Prior to the Guardian 8, Paul was at Taser. And I think a lot of the experience Paul will bring not only from his Marines background, his Taser background, and also his Guardian 8 background will solidify some of the branding, the messaging, and also the focus the company will have within Tactical and throughout the entire company.

On International, we had some timing issues this quarter. We still saw a nice lift in some of our businesses, but our traditional business in Europe continues to be slower than we'd like. We have some remedies for this that we'll see later in the year and especially in the first quarter of next year. Also, there's also several markets that are on our radar that we'll continue to work on. But right now, we think focusing on the U.S. along with some of our international current partners is the strategy that we're moving forward with.

Sporting goods as a channel had a good channel. As I reported in the second quarter, it was a little bit off. But right now, it seems to have stabilized itself. We're in a great position with the leading retailer in the channel and we're continuing to see the channel to be smaller but still very effective for the sale of our products. We do feel that we'll hit our internal goals in this channel by the end of the year.

Just touching briefly our gross profit, it was an increase of 16% during the quarter with strong mix of sales and products to a variety of customers. We did have a slight dip in the overall percentage from roughly 46% to 44%, but we continue to see some opportunities through SKU rationalization, product mix, product kits, and some other testing of higher AUP products that we feel will be very effective in the future.

To end the quarter, we achieved a run rate of 10% in EBITDA. A lot of it was through operational efficiencies. We feel there's a lot of more operational efficiencies we can squeeze out of the facility. We looked at our allocation of resources so we can optimize our efforts and increase our long-term sustainable double-digit EBITDA. We had some expenses in the quarter, namely our website software that was obsolete and would not go forward with our new operating package. So you saw a $32,000 hit in that segment that we took in the quarter as we moved towards the new platform. And when I talk about the website, we look at it in two ways. You have the front end of the website, the store side; you also have the back office of the website which is actually the conversion side. And as I mentioned earlier, our web conversion percentage is up tremendously versus prior, and that's some of the past software that we had with our old operating platform to our new platform just wasn't up to date. So with Ergo we went to a new system.

Just touching briefly on inventory, and you can see on the slide deck that it's 115 days at the end of the quarter which is a 33% improvement from year end. We do have the proper amount of inventory on time. We have some opportunities on inventory that we're moving and we're constantly tracking any issues that we have with Asia. Currently, we have not been hit with any tariff issues but we're very mindful of the fact that there's a lot going on in the world and we're always looking at how we source and where we source.

Overall, our acquisitions have helped tremendously with [ph] the company's revenue range (00:08:43). We've still seen a lot of organic growth. We're pretty bullish about what we've been able to do both organically and with our acquisition. Our sales pipeline was good through October. We're seeing a little softening on that pipeline as Christmas seems to be put off a little bit with some of our consumers. But we're still bullish on a positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter as we continuously look at improvements and alignment of our resources to make sure that we are in a position to be customer-centric and customer-facing as we move towards the future.

Lastly, I just want to read something that came to me just recently from a friend of mine, and basically it's a very nice story to end this little brief introduction. A friend of mine is a bond trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. His eldest daughter left for her first year of college this summer. He went out and bought a couple cans of Mace-branded pepper spray so she and he could both feel safe. In order to have her to be ready and prepared, he set up a target in the yard and created a situation for her to respond. She was able to deploy her pepper spray in seconds, telling her father I got this and I'm ready to go to school. That's what we're really doing here as a company; your safety is our mission.

So with that, as I said I have to be brief, we can open up to questions, Megan. And so we will turn it over to you, Megan. You can fire up the questions.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from [ph] Thurman Willis (00:10:16) as an investor. Your line is open.

Thank you for taking my question, John, and a good quarter. I noticed the last five to six quarters we've shown positive EBITDA and recently we've shown positive cash flow. Mace, as we all agree with, has a low valuation in the market and limited investors. Would it not make sense to be, and be accretive, to have a stock buyback in place and would this not add to the daily stock liquidity? A sustained buyback would be value-added, accretive, and create liquidity of course at the right price. Why not do this now? [ph]

Thurman (00:11:00), excellent question and thanks because you are right. Five to last six quarters we have seen positive EBITDA and we've also seen nice sales growth throughout the past couple years. Your question is very valid and it has been brought up in the board level, and at the board level there are ongoing conversations of when the right time is and how we would do it. And I think there's some strategies that will be in place soon and we'll be able to answer that question more directly, but thank you very much for the question.

All right. Can I have one follow-up?

Yes, sir.

It relates to marketing, and I know we continuously point to promotion, promotion, promotion and a branding story. I want to talk about targeting communications and wonder if TV is a part of our media plan. Would this not promote sales and make new investors a part of a targeted market? TV would motivate sales, gain new investors to buy. I think we spend 95% of our time growing the company and only 5% on promoting to get fans in the stand. So shouldn't TV be a part of our media plan like the MyPillow or the retractable hose or the new EKG machine that was just approved by the [ph] FDIC (00:12:24)? And if I can add to that, if you have any upcoming investor conferences or non-deal roadshow activity?

Okay. So a couple questions in there. As I mentioned in the press release, before we put out the earnings Paul Hughes has joined the organization and we have done a deep dive into a long-term [ph] partnering (00:12:45) strategy with a marketing firm to discuss what is the best medium in order to get the Mace brand name out there. We feel there's a unique opportunity to change the paradigm. I think if you look at some of the newer investors that came on board, have looked at like a retail [ph] brand (00:13:01), it's great. We feel there's a strong opportunity for the brand to get back into some of the legacy business of Tactical which will take some type of advertising and brand promotion in order to make sure that we differentiate ourselves.

And then on the Consumer side, yes, we feel there's very many ways we can do it. If you look at media today, it's very fractionalized. So you have a lot of kids that are online, you have a lot of kids that never turn on a television, you have radio, you have billboards. And what we're looking at is an integrated strategy to promote the brand consistently across all those mediums and then look at the best way to do it. But we definitely think there's an opportunity for the company to change the paradigm, relate directly to consumers, and make Mace like as you were walking out the door with your keys, your purse, your phone, your bag, and your can of Mace-branded pepper spray or your Mace-branded alarm. So I think that's an excellent point and I think Paul will lead that charge as he's really hit the ground running within the organization and really be able to focus that message so we maximize the great brand awareness that we have today.

Your second point, Sanjay and I, the Vice Chairman of the board, and myself will be at Imperial Capital in New York not presenting but meeting with investors, opportunities to talk to some other companies within the safety security group. Saliq Khan and his predecessor, Jeff Kessler, have done a great job covering the securities market and we feel that's a great opportunity to do a little bit of networking, talk about the brand, talk about the opportunity within the brand, and the value of the stock as it sits today as we continue to grow that brand value and also our EBITDA, our sales, and our gross margin. But thank you very much, [ph] Thurman (00:14:51).

Okay. Thank you for taking my questions. I'll get back in the queue.

Sure.

Your next question is from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

Thank you. Hi, John. I'm glad to hear you and Sanjay are going to be at Imperial Capital. And with that in mind, I don't know if Sanjay was on the call because as one of the new lead investors here Chuck might be able to better answer this which is I wanted to get their views especially in light of your attendance at that conference and hobnobbing with others in the industry is whether or not they maintain or have views regarding the monetization and licensing of the Mace brand, and it seems like it's a huge, high-margin opportunity that might accelerate the company's recognition of tax NOLs that our past forays with SecureCheck and Select Security and other license deals have not yet come to any fruition. Is either Chuck or Sanjay on the call to give their particular new investment in the company insight or can you convey that if they're not on the call?

So they're not on the call but I can convey twofold your question. I think if you look at the enthusiasm that Chuck and Sanjay had when they made their investment in the company and there continued enthusiasm for the company, we feel that we have a great opportunity within the company to expand the brand beyond the parameters of where we are today especially in Tactical. And then, if you look at this direct-to-consumer opportunity via Ecommerce, via the Mace-branded websites, and also via the right marketing campaign, I think they're very bullish on that segment.

On the other segment, we are in negotiations with the team for licensing the Mace brand that we will review at a board meeting upcoming very, very soon. We want to make sure that it's very consistent with what we're trying to build out as the number one company in personal safety in the marketplace, stake that ground and make sure that we can defend ourselves and also make sure that we have the products out in front of the people all the time. So I will definitely convey. I think they will listen. And if not, I will make sure that when we meet that I personally convey your message.

Right. Just because obviously any licensing partner is going to put in their own marketing dollars on the brand and we get to leverage the benefit of that in addition of course to 100% royalties, so that'll help on the NOL recognition as it starts expiring next year. Regarding also the same feedback, you're on the board so you can convey as well. On the last call, Sanjay and Chuck or Sanjay talked about how it'd be another 60 to 90 days before they completed development of their long-term strategic plan. Well, it's now been 90 days since the call and I wanted to get some insight as to what products and/or segments or channels that they have identified for greater or lesser resource allocation.

So that's an excellent question and they have done a marvelous job helping management with the longer-term strategic plan. And when you look at it, and as I discussed earlier, if you look at the opportunity in Tactical, the hiring of Paul Hughes who has a wealth of experience – he's a Marine. You're never a former Marine, right? So he's a Marine helping leading the charge there to consolidate, to solidify, to increase the focus, and also increase our opportunities within the Tactical division has been identified as a tremendous opportunity for the company. As well as what I would call our direct-to-consumer strategy which includes social media, Ecommerce, mace.com websites, partner websites to make sure that we're in front of people with the right message and the right products on a consistent basis so they don't have to fumble around or look.

Some of the research that we reviewed with the board of directors, where to buy our products, why you buy our products, we're incorporating a lot of that into branding messages. And we're working with what I'd call today two different marketing firms, one of them new, Gray Loon who's done a lot of work on our website to help focus that message and make it very consistent. So I think those are two top priorities that have been identified and we're taking action. There'll be some more resource allocation as Paul really digs in. Paul has already hit the ground running with a lot of ideas which I think will benefit the company both short term and long term.

And then also looking at the headwinds, where does the consumer tomorrow shop? Is it at a traditional retail or is it online? Is it directly? Is it through different means? So we have been challenged by the board to come up with some different strategies in order to make sure we reach these consumers with a reasonable ROI and also make sure that everybody is aware of the product and everybody has the right product for them given their situation. From a law enforcement professional to, as I've mentioned, my friend's daughter who just left for college that they know the Mace brand and they know the power of the brand and what that product can do for them to empower them and make them safe.

Right. Well, yeah, thank you on that. And I'm glad things finally worked out between the company and Paul, yeah, since I introduced him there into you guys a few years ago. And I'm very excited that things worked out and he's joined the team. I do think it's a great opportunity, especially in Tactical segments that I've been pounding on you guys for a while to – that it had been underperforming and not achieving its – at least its full potential. And so hopefully we'll see more of that. Can you comment further and I – and mentioned the marketing team or firm, I guess, that was recently hired to assist the company and expand a little bit further on, I guess, the directives you're giving them and the timing of when you would start seeing tangible output from that firm?

Okay. So twofold again like our partners on our website have done a tremendous job as I have mentioned like we're pleased but not thrilled with their results on mace.com. We would really love to see a higher level of consumer involvement on a daily basis, so more visitors to the website because we've raised the AUP, we fixed the conversion problem, we've eliminated the bounce problem. So now we just need to make sure that we have more people directed to the site. And as we're on a short-term basis, you know, Paul [ph] and Ethel (00:22:00) are working with the firm to kind of work on their [ph] contacts in content (00:22:07), and I'd say right now we're in the preliminary phase of reviewing to make sure that we set ourselves up for a strong partnership.

Everything we do has to have a return on investment. So that's why we're constantly reviewing any documents, anything that's been brought to us, so we make sure that their return on investment is strong as possible. We do see that e-commerce channel is a huge opportunity with the brand, especially as we work out some of the issues with legalities, how we advertise, how we can work with our partners at Google and Amazon and etcetera, to make sure that that statement is around safety and around the right products at the right moment. So right now, I kind of – punting a little bit on your question, because we are just at the beginning stages of working with the second company, and we really want to make sure that we have everything internally to support and then also we make the right decisions and we analyze those decisions and so we move forward very sustainably into the future.

So it sounds like, and confirm if it is known and you agree or it's not yet known, that this is perceived to be a messaging issue right now and not one of you just have to give it more time?

So, I'd say it's a combination, right? So there's 50% of Americans that we show from our research that has not bought a can of pepper spray. So that's a huge opportunity for us, right. But they recognize our brand. So you say it's twofold, that you need a little bit of time to make sure that they understand that, hey, this can keep them safe. This is a less lethal alternative to defend yourself or protect yourself. Then at the same time we want to make sure that messaging's correct because the world is constantly changing, right.

So 10 years ago Facebook was the hot social media. Now Twitter and some other things have happened. So we have to make sure that that messaging is consistent. So I'd say it's still a little bit of both. There's some people that we're going to need a little more time to educate them and then there's some people that need the right message to hit them in the face so they buy the product. One of the things that we have undertaken in the quarter that was an expense that we think will benefit us in the future is training.

We've been to sororities, we've been to universities. We will be at the Ohio State University on the 18th training their Student Alumni Council. There's over 30 young men and women that will be in that class that our lead trainer, Matt Schaefer at TDT will be at. He was just at [indiscernible] (00:24:51) which is a sorority involved in [indiscernible] (00:24:54), one of the oldest sororities in the country and he did a training with their group.

Then at the same time, we've been enhancing our training and our activities within real estate agents because now we're seeing that there's an opportunity there, but we still have to educate them. And then after even the education, we have to make sure that they get hit with the right brand message.

So I think we have a great strategy moving forward. I think we've been very strategic in this go-to-market strategy. We've been adding resources. [ph] You'll see more (00:25:24) resources in the future to make sure that we're forward-facing and then that messaging is very consistent.

Now that strategy you're talking about is somewhat grassroots and fairly localized. Do you have a plan to roll out that kind of grassroots strategy on a broader regional and hopefully more national scale?

It's not – like, you're taking it as regional, but it's not really. Like, we're in Las Vegas. We've been in different states and different cities across the country. But you can't – it's duplicatable to some extent. But really what happens next is that messaging that we can reach people in a quicker timeframe and with a broader message. So we've latched on to a couple of schools that have called us, but it's not limited to those schools. Like, we were at several different events, women's safety events in Las Vegas. We're working with the hotel industry, working with the service industry. We've been in Charlottesville, Virginia. We've been in Florida, so we...

Okay. Good.

Those are two recent ones that are coming up that I mentioned, but it is very nationwide, I'd call it. But along with that, we still need that right messaging, right? We...

Right.

We need to [ph] focus on the messaging (00:26:38).

Well, you need to use social media to make what you're doing more viral.

Correct, correct.

Let me back out. I have plenty more questions. Please come back to me. [indiscernible]

(00:26:46) make sure that these kids then tweet out, hey – or this person tweets out or through their social media networks make sure that they know what Mace did for them.

Right. I have many more questions. Let me back out in the queue but please come back to me.

Sure. Thanks.

Your next question is from [ph] Ken Svell with Svell (00:27:07) Capital Management. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hey, [ph] Ken (00:27:13).

Congratulations on another good quarter. Appreciate you guys having this call. I think it's really important as far as new investors who are able to be on the call or even just read the transcripts. It's a great resource. John, in your comments, you briefly touched on the international markets for Mace. Could you maybe give us a little more on that, specifically India, what's going on there, maybe where you are right now and where you want to be...

Sure.

...and maybe how you're going to get there?

Sure. [ph] Ken (00:27:51) Thank you very much for being in and participating. And you're right, we do agree that any communication we can give being a smaller company with a lot of potential is great. Maybe specifically, we've identified a partner that we have in-country. It's been a little slower to develop than we like. We think it's a huge opportunity.

There's, as you know, some changes unfortunately with angst between governments and also some changes in the Indian government just recently that have kind of delayed a little bit of our action. But we do look at the international markets as an opportunity. We will get the domestic market as maybe a greater opportunity today. Not abandoning anything that we've built out in some of the other markets, but we feel if we can get the messaging right here, we can resonate that messaging across the globe.

But we have – like in North America between Canada and Mexico, we've seen some nice increases especially with some of our animal repellent products especially our bear spray in different segments in the market, and we think that will continue. But we do feel there are certain markets in Europe along with some new packaging that we'll be able to quickly gain some market share within those segments, too. Thanks.

Great. Well, thanks for that update. I'll back out now. Thanks.

Thank you very much.

Your next question is from [ph] William Rankin with Investor (00:29:19). Your line is open.

Hey, John.

Hey, [ph] Bill (00:29:26) . How are you, buddy?

I'm doing good. We haven't talked for a while. Congratulations on the results, [ph] very improving (00:29:31). I guess one of my reactions to it is volume. Post-announcement yesterday, I think [ph] all day you traded 515 (00:29:39) shares, you're about 1,200 shares today. Stock's down 7%. You got any feedback you can give on – your take on why that occurred and what you guys are doing to get more investors aware of the company and trying to get volume up by promoting the stock as a good investment for investors? [ph]

Bill (00:30:03), thanks. It's an excellent question. So, two-fold again. I would look at what we're trying to do on our marketing message on the consumer side as I call it, law enforcement consumers to make sure that we're very consistent there. And you're 100% right. We feel we're still a value play within the marketplace. And the next step now that we have Paul on board to kind of alleviate some of the day-to-day from my table, for me and the board to really investigate some IR firms, the right messaging that we can do to gain some investors into the market. We still have Carleton Mckenna as we've indicated in the past as an investment banking arm of the company there, we're going to have some creative ideas that hopefully in the future will come to fruition.

But on the messaging side, I think next phase for us is complete this mission, so the next 60 or 90 days, make sure that this initiative we did on our strategic plan of identifying the segments that we want to attack, get [ph] the communications, the marketing matches (00:31:03) there, then at the same time really start attacking the investment relation opportunities.

Talked to some of the board members earlier today just about that to say, okay, now let's work on that phase, get Paul fully functional here at 4400 Carnegie in Cleveland, make sure those operational efficiencies hit, make sure some of the customer relationship management software that we've implemented that he finishes it down the pipeline. Look at how we process today internally on orders to make sure we're as efficient as possible and then really communicate with our investors through the [ph] right RO firm (00:31:44) to the right events Mace's value play and continually with sustainable profitability, with sustainable EBITDA and with sales growth. So I think that that is somewhat the next phase. Timing is still TBA because we're likely – I've met with Imperial Capital. We'll be at that event. We are talking to individual investors, but hiring the right firm that can do a better job than we are today I think is next on the drawing board and full disclosure, you've been very helpful with your advice because you're very experienced in what you've been able to achieve in your life and assisting us in that timeframe. So thank you very much.

All right. Let me add, just a comment on your comment. I agree you've got to have a good story. You've got to have good results, by the way I was talking to potential investors and trying to get the story out to the investment community. And you [ph] don't have the enticement (00:32:45). You guys certainly have that. You had that with the change on the board. Two guys can [ph] make a big (00:32:51) investment. And these results are great compared to the past and leveraging that good information and getting new information in front of new investors, not your existing investors is critical when you go to pick an investment relations firm someone who's really good at outreach and finding new investors, not managing the existing base because the existing base is very small. So thanks for the answer and we'll hear hopefully the call next quarter. Thanks.

Thank you very much, [ph] Bill (00:33:22) and we agree. I think we're still a great value play and the timing is now and in the future to make sure that that story gets out there. Okay. Megan, back to you.

Your next question is from [ph] Thurman Willis (00:33:36), a private investor. Your line is open.

John, I think Mr. [ph] Rankin (00:33:42) asked the question that – but I wanted to be a little more specific about is when we do plan. Can you be a little more specific about when we do plan to hire that right [ph] RO firm and (00:33:58) get new fans in the stands? I noticed that – I was impressed with the college kit, the real estate kit, the runner's kit, and could you expound a little bit on how we're going to market with that?

You commented on visiting various locations, but could you just be a little more specific on how long we think it's going to take? Because it has been quite some time since we've had the right [ph] RO firm (00:34:28) to get the story out. So considering the environment that we're in probably has never been better, could you be a little more specific about that and how you're going to market with those three new products that I mentioned?

Right. So, on an overall basis, the timing, like I'd be lying if I said I exactly knew when this was going to happen. Part of our overall strategic plan as we talked about is resource allocation internally, which is something that's still going on.

Paul taking over a lot of the day-to-day operational activities is something that is happening, and as that happens then we'll be able to focus on IR to make sure that people see what we're doing, how we're doing it and why we're doing it, and I think they'll enjoy that story.

And we're also very cognizant of being a value play, making sure that we don't wait too long for that story to be out when we're no longer a value play.

So I think my hope would be that over the next couple weeks and over the next several months we'll see us reemerge as a lean, mean, fighting machine organization, and we'll be able to – then I'll have the free time to go out there and meet with investors, talk to investors and really be able to tell that story.

With regard to some of the kits online, if you went to Amazon.com or if you went to Mace.com, we are offering many kits because part of it is that once you're there visiting, there's three or four different reasons why to buy our product, and we're trying to make it very easy for you to buy a kit that you might keep a product or you might give a product as another gift and also raise that AUP. So thanks for seeing that. And we're seeing some success. I think as our messaging improves a little bit more, we'll see even more success. And it's a priority within the next phase of the strategic plan to make sure that we have the right IR firm with the right messaging and be very consistent.

Thanks, [ph] Bill (00:36:35).

Thank you.

Okay, Megan.

And our final question is from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. A few here, the drop in the elevated inventories to more normal levels, was that natural seasonal activity or were sustainable improvements or changes implemented?

A little bit of both. There was a reduction – we had a buildup for the bear season when we ended the year and then just a strategic reduction in inventory overall.

And is that indicative of already narrowing the SKUs or that is still a change to come?

It's a little bit of both. We saw some more changes that we want to make with our SKUs. We don't feel that we will have the pressure on building up our animal repellent sprays that we had a year ago due to some rulings by EPA. So, there were some products that they were looking at banning and those are off the table now. So, we won't have the build-up that we had a year ago. So, we should see some consistency within our inventory, taking last year out as an anomaly. But we are constantly working on reducing our inventory and being as just in time as possible with our consumers and with our retailers and we're working on a couple ways to improve that efficiency even greater in the future.

Okay. And then the rise in receivables, is that indicative of shipment to new bricks-and-mortar distribution channels in anticipation of seasonal consumer sales activity, or is it something new in terms of revenues and is that growth sustainable or one-time in nature?

So, it's sustainable. There's a couple retailers that buy requirements, have longer [ph] dating (00:38:40) requirements in order to do business with them, so a little bit of experience with that and then a little bit of an experience of shared risks with a couple partners to get some growth again in the new markets. [ph] We probably continue this (00:39:00) experience to midway through the first quarter then it should kind of normalize.

Okay. Your slides and your scripts spoke to strategic channel investment expenditures to drive future sales. Without giving away any competitive advantages, can you highlight or speak of any of these investments in particular yet?

Sure. Well one, you look at the website, and you look at some of the things that we're doing with SEOs, with metadata, and also with [ph] AdWord buying (00:39:33). And then, we're also working with a lot of partner Ecommerce companies on strategies. And the third one, with their traditional brick and mortar, we've made some investments in to being in more locations within a platform. So, let's say, we were in one department, now, with three or four of our major retailers, we're in three or four different departments within their platforms, which has a cost associated with it but we're experiencing nice ROI.

Being 100% honest, we would like to see a higher ROI with our messaging, with our online, and ergo that's why we're re-evaluating some of the messaging and how we can make that more consistent and also have a higher ROI for the company.

Okay. Now, obviously, with Paul joining and his particular expertise or experience in Tactical, clearly, the company is devoting more resources to have Tactical live up to its potential. And there's always been a long runway in terms of our RFPs and things like that, what you guys have been focusing on for some time. So, even before Paul hits the ground and is – and gaining traction on this, what I wanted to get a feel for and follow-up on were a few of the other past initiatives.

One is, where was the company, as of the end of Q3 and as it is today, where are you guys on the ability to store and sell an expanded line of less-lethal munitions and other consumables or is that an initiative you've now dropped?

So, we have all the registrations and all the ATF requirements to store and ship less-lethal munitions domestically. And now, we're taking on the challenge of making sure that we have the right State Department clearances to do International.

Additionally, on that side, the CRM initiative that was started when we upgraded our operating software internally and we upgraded our website, is now – Paul is going to bring that over to finish line I think very effectively. And that could be an excellent opportunity to make sure that we can analyze our wins and losses within our Tactical division, and also be prepared when bids come up and know when those bids come up.

And lastly, three other things that Paul has already initiated in his brief time here is our professional-grade products to make sure that it extends over to our Consumer side, to make sure people understand that this is the same strong product that law enforcement use to de-escalate situations. He's also enhances our position with NTOA, which is a national organization that will give us more exposure in the law enforcement world that we can branch down into our Consumer.

And then, also, we will have – and any one of our investors are more than welcome to come to the SHOT Show. We will have a nice cocktail party and launch of our less-lethal munitions at the SHOT Show. And Paul will be there, running that segment and then making the investments and to get the realization of what we've all been working on for the past three or four years on getting our less-lethal munitions out to folks that need it desperately.

When's this year's SHOT Show?

I will get you the exact dates because I don't have them front of me. But I believe it's the third week of January in Las Vegas at the Sands Convention Center.

Okay.

I'll have somebody email you the exact timeframe...

Thank you.

... [indiscernible] (00:43:27).

Regarding some other vertical initiatives, it's a shame, every – we gather here every three months to have a quarterly call. And in the three-month window, there – it seems to be at least three to five new mass shootings. It's horrible. Many of these are in environments where perhaps pepper gel that can go 25 feet to 30 feet would not be effective in protecting or knocking down assailants and buying those precious seconds and minutes to save more and more lives. But we know it's just unfortunately a matter of time where we're going to see and hear of another school or circumstance where your Mace Brand safety kits could actually save lives. Can you talk about the progress made in the last quarter and the steps being taken to further penetrate and get our product adopted into this, I will call it, a vertical market, an opportunity to protect lives and project safety?

Sure. So, a couple of things. As you talked about in the licensing side, there might be some opportunities for us to look at brand [ph] licensing (00:44:56) in that segment, in verticals that we're not in today. Secondly, we have some nice penetration with a variety of products on a smaller scale in several states where they're buying our pepper gun which is reusable, replaceable cartridge of Mace Brand of pepper spray that can shoot 25 feet to 30 feet.

But the safety kits [ph] in general (00:45:20), we're working with several companies that are in that space. It's still very fractionalized. Unfortunately, spending at the school level for safety and security often falls in the fundraising categories because they have facilities budgets, they have learning budgets, they have book budgets, they have educational computer budgets, that it's still very fractionalized.

What I think, Paul having us taken an elevated position with the National Tactical Officers Association, I think we'll be able to get that message out a little more consistently that Mace-branded less-lethal solutions could be one of those alternatives. But be 100% honest with you, Andrew, the school area is still very fractionalized, and it's a tough go, but we're not giving up. But we have made some nice penetrations, especially in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana where there are several school districts that constantly buy our pepper guns. And we're seeing an uptick in our sale of pepper guns, both on our Ecommerce partners and some of our direct sale initiatives that we think will continue in the future. But on a national trend level, it hasn't taken off the way we would like it.

I have some ideas for you. Would you call me offline about those? Because I – for competitive advantage, I don't really want to necessarily pop them out here, but...

No problem, yeah

I have some new ideas so call [indiscernible] (00:46:48)

But maybe I'll try and find a time between yourself and myself and Paul. And we could have an offline conversation.

Yeah. No, no, I think I have some ideas. Are there any other states where legislation and regulation is pending to better open the markets, and where do things stand with respect to that up in Canada as well?

So, Canada's at a standstill because you had, one, a hard-liner and a woman that brought it up to loosen the law, so there's no news there. New York is an area where I think we have some opportunities. [ph] David Carroll and (00:47:24) his team could be a great partner for the company. But I think that's probably a level three in our strategy because once we have the branding, once we have the awareness, and some of the other elements, then I think we can attack that market because, as we all know, New York's the – probably one of the greatest cities in the world, but it's also one of the most expensive cities to lobby and work with to make sure we get the consensus that we feel is necessary.

So, right now, there's really nothing like on the legal front. We are working with some other manufacturers of less-lethal products to look at what other areas of the country we could improve the recognition of the power and safety of the products to the general public. But Canada is at a standstill, and I think New York is the right time. [indiscernible] (00:48:13)

Right. Well, I guess, in the year of the woman legislators, perhaps things will become easier. The – what about in terms of, in the European Union as well? I think that was some legislative or regulatory barriers and hurdles and are those being overcome?

Yes. Now, those are being overcome nicely. And you got to give credit to the Germans for kind of reading the CLP packaging to make some consistencies. We are making sure that we're CLP compliant, which is, you can look up online all the requirements in it. But that has stabilized. They still have some excess inventory that we're working through but we see that as an opportunity.

Next year, we will be presenting at the IWA Show, the show in Germany. That is really the American (sic) [European] (00:49:10) version of the SHOT Show, where you have both law enforcement, nations participation along with your prevalent retailers in Western Europe present at the event.

Right. I only have a few more questions, but I'll get back out into the queue, if you have someone else.

Right, Andrew, you can go back to you before we wrap up.

All right. Just a few more questions I have and I'm done. Again, talking about [ph] a niche (00:49:45), during – since the last call, we've had a few major storms hit the United States. And Mace, I think, came up with a creative and useful approach, promotion, et cetera. for its Alert 911 product, albeit extraordinarily clumsy execution and late and poor timing. But I wanted to know from this, is your takeaway from identifying this as the use of Mace Alert 911 in terms of its battery operation that would obviously last a lot longer than the problems of power outage, fueling cellular phones, recharging them. Is – was there any uptake are you seeing or where are you seeing uptake in the Mace Alert 911 and are more resources planned to that product line? And of course, obviously, with a lot more advance notice and promotion than a few days before the storm hits?

Right. So, we do have – we've worked on [ph] some kind (00:50:59) of a storm tracking, weather/crime mix, to be a little more effective the next time something like that happens. Kind of can't really answer a lot of the other questions because we're working with a couple of partners that we could see some significant uptake within the Mace 911 opportunity. So, with that one, hopefully, if we can get some of these partnerships done, I think we'll see a nice benefit to the company with that product line.

Okay. Give me a call on that one as well. I have some ideas. I think I've shared a few already with you by email, but let us chat about that, especially on the storm track.

Absolutely. Yeah. I'll reach out to Paul. He's traveling, but we'll pick a time, so we can chat and love your idea.

Okay. Lastly, it hadn't been on the radar because we're doing – getting absorbed with the new lead investors, them coming up with a good strategic plan, enhancing the operations. But you guys are now on a sustained positive cash flow level and growing further. Has there been an evolution, a focusing, a shift of focus with respect to the new acquisitions in terms of scope or markets that Carleton McKenna and the newly composed board are looking at?

The easiest way to answer without a lot of detail is, yes. I think there's some opportunities that we're constantly reviewing. The board has dynamically chosen a couple of board members to put together a small acquisitions review team then, so we can respond to opportunities in a marketplace dynamically. And then Carleton McKenna has been carrying the water to make sure the messaging is consistent with what the company is doing, wants to do in the future, and making sure that anything that we would look at fits nicely into those opportunity buckets that we've identified through our strategic plan.

Okay.

And to note, the – both of the acquisitions we've done over the past 24 months, were both strategic and both have been very helpful with our longer-term planning, both on an e-commerce platform and also on an efficiencies platform. So, we're pleased with what we have achieved. We think there's more that we can achieve in that realm.

Yeah. And then, as there are investment banks helping you in that area and then they seemed to – I would think they're capable of it, but have they been tasked with assisting the board with respect to investor – I don't want to call it strategic alternatives per se, but more – but I think you guys even said that, before, that they were retained to do that but more, with respect to actions the company can take to lower its cost of capital by of course achieving a higher valuation multiple in our undervalued stock.

Yes. They have been – they've been very helpful in that regard.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Okay. Well, Megan, thank you very much for your job. And we thank everybody for being on the call. All the materials will be available on the website. If there's any further questions, please feel free to email the company. But we do appreciate everybody's time and consideration and we'll talk to you in the first quarter of 2019 and have a very happy Thanksgiving.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.