Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Senior Vice President- Corporate Finance, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC
Don T. McDonald — Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Consilium Global Research LLC
Don Scammell — Founding Partner, True Hedge LLC and Senior Managing Director, Consilium Global Research LLC, Consilium Global Research LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Sylvie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2016 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

John McCann, President and CEO of Mace Security International, you may begin your conference.

Thank you very much, and thank you everyone for taking the time participating on this conference call. Before I begin, I want to direct you to our website for a PowerPoint presentation that I will go through later. Go to corp.mace.com, Investor Relations Transcripts and Presentations 2016 to find the presentation. Thanks again for joining the call.

And now, I'll turn it over to Carl Smith, our CFO, who'll read a forward-looking statement and go through the third quarter and year-to-date financial results.

Thank you, John. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated estimate, projected, and intended to, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Such statements are subjected to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I will now comment on our third quarter 2016 financial results. After I'm finished, I'll turn the call over to John McCann, our CEO, who will go over a presentation, which is available on mace.com.

First, I'd like to reference the highlights of our press release; second consecutive quarter of positive net income, highest revenue quarter in over three years, strongest gross profit and EBITDA in over four years.

Now, on to the third quarter results. Third quarter net sales were $2,706,000 compared to $1,710,000 for the third quarter of last year, an increase of $996,000 or 58.2%, noting that most of our sales channels of distribution were up for the quarter. The increase was mainly attributed to sales through our consumers, sporting and international sales channels.

Consumer net sales channel for the quarter totaled $1,493,000, an increase of $823,000 or 122.9% over prior year. This increase is mainly attributed to two display programs we were able to get in with Lowe's, and we have increased volume with other three key retailers – partners, including Walmart, AutoZone and Amazon.

Sporting channel net sales totaled $853,000, an increase of $103,000 or 13.7%. This is after a loss of $100,000 in sales last year in the third quarter for the loss of the Sports Authority business. International sales totaled $206,000, an increase of $141,000 or 218% over prior year third quarter. This increase is attributed to new distribution in Poland and South Africa. Web channels or sales via mace.com totaled $46,000, an increase of $4,000 or 10.7%. The company has been running promotions on the web to increase sales, which are promoted via email blasts and social media.

Offsetting these increases was a decrease of $58,000 or 42% net sales through our tactical channel. This decrease is mainly attributed to timing of TG Guard sales for the quarter, which is a sporadic channel or a product line that we have.

Gross profits for the third quarter 2016 totaled $1,166,000 with a 43.1% gross margin compared to $641,000 or 37.5% gross margin for 2015. The $525,000 or 81.9% increase in margin can be attributed to the $996,000 increase in sales, and a margin improvement of 5.6 percentage points. The margin improvement is a result of efficiencies gained through automation in the manufacturing process, increased productivity and lower material costs as a result of converting our packaging from a clamshell with insert to a blister card with dome, and we also have other savings in key component parts.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter ended September 30 were $940,000 or 34.7% of net sales, compared to $925,000 or 54.1% in net sales in 2015, a $15,000 or 1.6% increase, [ph] or (05:48) $996,000 or 58.2% increase in net sales. SG&A as a percentage of sales declined significantly going from 54.1% to 34.7%, a decrease of 19.4 points. Increases in SG&A for the quarter included commissions, which is a variable expense, and was up $80,000. We had increased legal fees of $22,000 due to a variety of reasons and prior year third quarter of 2015 included a one-time $33,000 credit offsetting our expenses.

Offsetting the $135,000 of increases just mentioned are decreases in salary and employee costs, which were down $87,000 or 20%, and advertising expenditures which were down $31,000 or 50% for the quarter.

Interest expense for the quarter ended September 30 was $12,000 [ph] since the (06:47) amortization of a put option described in the footnotes to our third quarter financials. Interest income for the quarter ended September 30 was $30,000 compared to $44,000 interest income in 2015, a decrease of $14,000. It's mainly attributed to the elimination of a $250,000 note we had with Security Partners, which was paid off in July. As a result, net income from discontinued operations for the quarter ended was $204,000 compared to net loss of $291,000, a $495,000 improvement over third quarter 2015. EBITDA for the quarter was a positive $272,000 in Q3 compared to a negative EBITDA of $331,000 in Q3, a $603,000 improvement.

At this time, I'll make a few comments on the balance sheet. Company's net book value was $8.6 million compared to $8.3 million at December 31, 2015. Mace had $9.6 million in total assets, including $2.6 million of cash and short-term investments at September 30. Net inventory totaled $1,665,000 at September compared to $1,776,000 as of June and $1,601,000 at December 31, 2015, an increase of $64,000 or 11% from year end.

We had positive working capital of approximately $7.4 million and a current ratio of 7.9. And again, the company has no debt. Total stockholders' equity was $8.6 million compared to $8.3 million at December 31. And we have NOLs as of September 30 of approximately $60 million with $1.1 million expiring in 2018 and the last NOL expiring in the year 2035.

At this point, I'd like to thank you for joining us this morning, and I'll turn the call over to our President, CEO, John McCann.

Thanks, Carl. And again, the PowerPoint presentation on the Mace website under Investor Relations and Presentations, I'm not going to through the presentations, but we'll take some questions afterward. So, great quarter so far and great year. We attribute a lot of this to the hard work that we've laid in the past and we're doing now, but there's a lot of hard work in front of us. It continues to be an exciting time for the company and we anticipate having more good news to share in the near-term future.

Briefly I'll discuss some of the success and some of the work that still needs to be done. Mace's success is a combination of very sound strategy, promoting the brand and expanding distribution. First, we fixed the image of the company through our messaging and packaging efforts. All of our communications and messaging is consistent and strong. Mace is the brand for safety and security. [ph] We've dubbed (00:09:42) the brand and style guide, which we monitor closely to make sure all our retailers and all of our partners associates the Mace brand with empowerment and as the number one brand in personal defense and security.

Additionally, we changed the handles of our pepper spray products to make them ergodynamic, easier to use and cost effective for the company. So we had a higher retail value, but at the same time were able to cut our cost in manufacturing. Our new packaging is about 60% to 65% implemented with an anticipation of 100% implementation by Q1 of 2017, which means that we feel we'll have more efficiencies that we'll gain as we continue to implement our new packaging.

Our new packaging, through our testing that we've done, has a very high perceived value at retail. So we're able to then also demand a higher price for our products at retail, because we're giving a better value. Based on the results, as we've seen also on our retail side, that the consumers are also believing in our packaging and like the [ph] message sent (00:10:42) of empowerment and positivity that we've been able to project through our new packaging.

Delivery, and Carl mentioned a little bit [ph] his – (10:49) we struck a new deal with FedEx, so we'll see some additional savings in the future. And we're also, what we call, just in time with most of our key partners, which means that their inventory dollars aren't tied up and we can turn our retail very quickly both from our stock to their stock. And then we have all of our major partners at a 98% in-stock or better, which is a very hard thing to achieve, because a lot of our retail partners are very demanding, but we've been able to be at 98% or higher, which means that typically we're not out of stock at a retail shelf.

On the distribution side, which was one of our key strategies, was increasing our distribution not only in terms of partners, so we've opened up 65 new doors just in this year, 19 in the quarter. We've also made a concentrated effort with several departments within a current retailer to extend our brand into different departments within the store, which means that if we're in the hunting and fishing area, we're also in the automotive area, the impulse aisle, women's active wear, and shoes. Wherever a consumer is looking to be active, we have a product that fits their lifestyle.

Traditional retail sales are up 65%, but not only through the new distribution but also the new placement within the stores that we had distribution. Now, margin for our traditional retailers, which is our consumer and sporting goods channels were up 3.5%, a lot of it's due to the new packaging.

Internationally, one of our key goals was to gain distribution. We've gained distribution in South America, South Africa, extended our distribution in Western Europe, and we're looking at other areas of the world too where our products we feel will be very, very strong. We always pick a partner that will continue with our brands and style guides, present our brands very consistently. So when you're in the United States or if you're traveling around the world, the Mace brand is presented exactly the same way with the same empowerment and safety, and security thoughts in mind.

Tactical, as Carl pointed on our analysis, is down, but some of the positives are, there's 16 new agencies year-to-date, nine in the quarter. Defense sprays continue to grow and driving revenues in the channel for Mace. Some areas that need more working and are bit of a concern for us, so we're still on a holding pattern was ammunition. Basically our suppliers had some start-up issues. They've had some ISO certification issues and production timing issues. We are still confident that we'll be a player in this channel but timing has been pushed to 2017. [ph]

Well, obviously (00:13:20) the TG Guard sales were down year-to-date, mostly due to expenses being pushed out by many agencies to 2017. So, our TG Guard is typically a bid. It's sometimes that a GA contract that we've bid on and a lot of these are just for a variety of reasons have been pushed out. We are working on some additional partnerships and product opportunities, and we're hopeful to show some new products at the SHOT show in January for our tactical channel.

So, our sales distribution strategy is working. We've increased and we'll continue to increase our distribution reach throughout the balance of the year. As I also discussed during the year and in the quarter, we've successfully launched new handles, packaging, new stun guns which are louder and brighter than our competitive models on the market, we've updated our strong selling hard case line to move from a twist-lock design to a flip-top design, which is running changes and happen as we speak.

We've added an auto valve dropper unit into our production facility, which has increased our capacity and our quality on all of our products. And as Carl mentioned earlier in our presentation, it is also over time will continue to help with protecting our gross margin.

Additionally, as we announced earlier in the month, we have signed two agreements with SecureCheck LLC, a Houston-based security company. With regard to our surveillance in securities business, SecureCheck has bought the customers in the inventory related to the business and will pay Mace an ongoing royalty for the use of the brand name under cameras, NVRs, DVRs, and certain surveillance products. SecureCheck has submitted to adhering to our brand and our style guide, which will ensure our brand value statement will be consistent through all of our Mace branded products.

Additionally, this work hand in hand with the previous deal we signed with Kort Select Security. Kort Select will launch a home monitored solution in 2017, similar to ADT for branded Mace, so the Mace brand will be well represented in the Home Security channel distribution and we hope to enjoy healthy future royalties from this channel in the near term future.

Lastly, we have inked a deal with the company named Vigilent. Vigilent is founded by David Happe, who has become a partner of Mace, and Vigilent is the leading provider of personal arms. Vigilent will provide Mace with eight new personal arms, which are ergo-dynamics, user friendly and most importantly very loud. They rank from 125 to 135 decibels, which the level of pain is considered 120, so these will all exceed that. We've already begun to add some of the items, and the results thus far are great. We're a Top 10 new security item on Amazon. And with diligent great online presence, we'll be able to offer unique combo packs and kits this year and next.

We've landed distribution on new alarms at regional drug chains, which we'll roll out. Probably close to the end of the fourth quarter, early first quarter of next year, we expect to gain retail distribution on all products in the coming months and years. Vigilent will be our online partner working with many retailers and also Amazon. These products have great complementary items to our world-class defense sprays. [ph]

On the reporting (00:16:29) side of the business, just to talk a little bit about it. Our Nite Beams product launch sales and retail is sluggish at best. And a lot of it is due to the following value. We're re-examining the price matrix and the proposition at POS sales, which are point-of-sales at retail, are below expectations. We are testing with two retailers now, lower retails and newer displays.

Quality still continues to be an issue as the LEDs are underperforming. Early failure, inconsistent performance which is unacceptable to us because throughout all of our products, through our testing and through ideas and focus, Gallup and Harris, we have 91% satisfaction rate in all of our products. So we continue to work on the quality of the Nite Beams product. That awareness is not where it needs to be. The advertising is enough, we have done it – not breaking through the clutter. So we're working on e-shopping, infomercials and other ideas to drive sales.

We're also working on a new strategy with a plan of our 911 Help Now. We're working with our partner HTC, R9 Marketing on an infomercial to promote the product nationally. We're also working on placement of pharmacy departments at retail and we are being much more aggressive working online with Amazon and other e-tailers. We feel this is a very great product. It just needs the right education, advertising and an emphasis to make it happen in the coming months and years.

Additionally, we'll be also launching five new defense spray products in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of 2017. All these products were developed during the last couple of months. We'll have a new Pepper Gun 2.0. It's lighter weight, orange barrel, easy-to-use, plus it's reusable as is the current gun, utilizing our bag-on-valve technology, which can spray O.C. pepper spray 25 feet or more.

We have a line of clutch models, which will fall into our personal range of product, light-weight, user-friendly and exclusive to Mace. Our carabiner will be a brand-new concept exclusive to Mace. This is a first true carabiner which is fully deployable pepper spray, which is discrete and effective tool for everyone. It's basically a carabiner that can actually shoot pepper spray. So anybody that's an outdoor or outdoor enthusiast will really love this product.

All these products are in our new catalog. And if anybody would like a copy of the catalog, there should be a link on the PowerPoint presentation to the catalog, but if you want a catalog, please just contact us and we can send you one.

As Carl mentioned during his presentation, gross profit for the quarter is really a combination of the manufacturing change, the improvement in the packaging and the handles that we've done, but also a great job of our sales managers who are really business managers ensuring profitability along with strategic partnerships at retail with both U.S. and international customers.

Looking forward to the fourth quarter, our October results are in line with third quarter and thus far shipments and open orders are strong for the remainder of the year, so we expect to finish the year very strong. We continue to balance growth, spending on strategic opportunities for the brand, and we want to thank you again for joining us in the presentation and the conference call today.

The only other item that I would note is that we've done a very good job managing our inventory with the excellent growth that we've experienced during the quarter. We were still managed to shrink our inventories by over $100,000 from previous year, that is only a modest increase from year-end inventories. So we've done a great job of managing that.

And when we look at it on a turns basis, which Carl and I have done extensively, our core products turn sometimes as many as 10 times a year to 12 times a year with most of our average inventories being turned at least 2.1 to [ph] 3.0 (00:20:13) times a year. So, between the management insight, the sales organization and the distribution growth, we're really excited about the future of the organization.

With that, we can turn it over for questions or commentary. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro of Lawndale Capital. Please go ahead.

Sorry, I was on mute. Good morning. Few questions. I have several questions, but I'll ask few and get back up in the queue if that's okay, and then come back to these. So, what I – you went through this, and I do appreciate you had a nice good thorough script, but some of these ones came through a little too quickly, so forgive me if I ask some things that were exactly in your script or otherwise.

But when you talk about the huge surge in consumer channel, and I think you mentioned, it was Lowe's but there was also I think new customers that also accounted for this jump, can you mention who those were?

Well, we were up at Lowe's, like I mentioned, Andrew, and we also had quarter-on-quarter good success with some of our ongoing key retailers, including Walmart, AutoZone and Amazon.

So you are in Walmart, you mean all the doors of Walmart?

We are – so we're at two departments at Walmart today. We're in about, I would say, 100, 500 doors in their sporting goods department, and we're in roughly 90% of the doors in the automotive department. So we're seeing a nice pickup in their POS sales, so their sales to consumers have picked up dramatically.

And then, AutoZone, we're in two departments within an AutoZone now. We're in the frontend and then we're in their hardware areas and is one of the goals to your point, great success at Lowe's, newer customer success with ongoing customers by expanding distribution within different departments. And then roughly, we've opened up, I can tell you exactly – we've opened up in the channel, call it, between sporting goods and consumer, we've opened up about 42 new doors year-to-date. And all of those

are adding to it with the fact that the Top 10 retailer has disappeared off the map, which is the Sports Authority.

Right. Now, in Lowe's, are you in all the Lowe's stores already?

We're in 1,800 Lowe's stores.

Okay. And I don't know how many of the total they have. I'm just wondering in terms of...

I would say, Andrew, we always parse everything because we're never in their New York door. So, typically we're 90%. We are working on a plan and – sorry to interrupt you, we are working on a plan with key specific retailers to gain access to the New York State market.

The New York State market has some archaic laws with regard to pepper spray, where paperwork has to be filled out, we've developed a form, we're working with our legal team, we're working with the State of the New York to modify and make it easy enough for retailers to carry the product. So we're in all the doors we can be in today like at Lowe's.

Okay.

So [indiscernible] (00:23:57)100 doors in Lowe's. In New York, we're not – we tell them – specifically in a presentation, we don't want to be in those doors because it's too arduous.

Well, with respect to Walmart, I think you said 500. How many stores do they have outside of New York?

Well, 500 in sporting goods. We're close to 3,000 in automotive.

So, is the plan and there's an opportunity to go from 500 towards

3,000 in sporting goods?

Absolutely.

Okay. And if you're in Lowe's, does that preclude you from getting the foot in the door at Home Depot?

Nope.

Is that a near-term goal?

It's a strategic priority.

Okay. So now you're getting in these doors, you're in the particular channels and to what extent is the sales surge just stocking or do you have visibility on the sell-through and their inventory levels are low and thus you're getting reorders, et cetera, coming through this already?

Right. And so, maybe I glossed over a little too quickly. We feel a combination. A little bit of it is new distribution. The bulk of that, and we're seeing this in the fourth quarter, too, is the sell-through. So we do see their POS, right? So, Walmart is probably the best in the world with their analysis. And we're seeing that the product is moving to the stores and moving right off the shelves, and their reorders are very strong behind it. It's the same thing with AutoZone, our replenishment orders at Amazon, and with almost every retailer with the exception one or two, the POS sell-through is tremendous. And a lot of it we feel too is that our packaging now is being widely accepted and it's drawing attention to people that they're buying our product is, we're still an impulse buy, so strategically being in the right place at the store with the right message at the right time to be sold is critical.

Okay. And then, following up on the sales surge and then I will back out in the queue, and please come back to me, I have more questions.

Sure.

The sizable improvement you've got here now in gross margin percentage, on yours and Carl's script, you discussed this was attributed – you attributed mostly, or at least what you're calling out on attributing it to, is new packaging and automation. But what was not mentioned, and I'm trying to get a handle to what extent this was a factor to get a feel if there would be much gross margin impact from continued sales and volume growth, is overhead absorption. So, you have the sales surge and you also have greatly reduced the costs, and you mentioned how the new packaging has improved the value, which might be assisting in your price per unit on the revenue side. So, is overhead absorption not a sizable component in the cost of goods sold based on the way your product is and the way you manufacture it?

Andrew, it is. And when we're producing at the capacity that we're producing it and doing bigger runs, we're able to, with the same staffing levels in the fixed overhead costs that we have, absorb a greater amount of overhead. So that's contributing, as far as the percentage to the overall increase, that's probably a contributing factor of about 30% of the total improvement.

And like we mentioned, the efficiencies in automation in the fill room along with the efficiencies and increased productivity going from a clamshell, which bottlenecks at a Ka-Bar machine, to a three, four, six pressing stations that we're able to use with a blister card, we're able to produce a lot more products into finished goods at a quicker pace, eliminating any of the bottlenecks to meet this increased demand.

Okay. So, presently, we have the benefit then of both the new packaging and cost – new packaging automation cost reduction, we have the potentially higher net revenue per unit because of the higher value add and we also have the overhead absorption. When did you – so I'm trying to get a feel now of the timing of when we will anniversary the gross margin benefits of the new packaging and automation, and that our subsequent gross margin benefits will just be on the overhead absorption. When would say you guys introduced and you're starting to generate sizable revenues...

Yeah.

...as a result of the new packaging and automation?

Right. Good question. I would say going from the clamshell to the blister card was phased in really initiated or implemented in production, probably second quarter at the beginning – by the end of the second quarter, I would think the majority of the transition from clamshells to blister cards took place.

As far as some key component cost reductions, going to a larger capacity mold in changing our housings on our pepper spray. That again is a phased-in approach. We'll still continue to see additional savings in some of those housing components of the pepper spray business. So, we've recognized some from the first quarter, second quarter, and I believe, fourth quarter, we'll see probably an additional 8% reduction in some of the component costs of our sprays contributing to a better margin.

And then as far as productivity and capacity on the shop floor with regards to the conversion of the Ka-Bar to the blister card presses, again the same thing with the phase- in of the blister card, I would say, the second quarter, we initiated it. We probably have one or two, three more additional SKUs that we'll be converting from the clamshell to the blister card by the fourth quarter. So, it's just been phased in, but I would think anniversarying it going into 2017, most of those will be in place.

So it sounds though, based on things are phasing in, then this might have been only the first quarter of seeing the gross margin profitability, the [ph] percentage point of it... (30:51) [ph]

We have the full quarter for that. Yeah, the full quarter... (30:53)

So, there's a three quarters – for three coming quarters, we have the gross margin benefit of this before it anniversaries and, of course, if you can continue your sales growth, there'll be obviously continued overhead cost absorption and gross margin benefit that we hope to see obviously continuously. But that's helpful to know.

I have other questions. I want to back out in the queue, but please come back to me.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of Don McDonald of Consilium Global Research. Please go ahead.

Hi, John. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Thanks, Don.

Question is on the international side. Going forward, what do you think the mix will be domestic and international, what is your target for that mix of revenues?

Okay. It's a very good question. So, right now, we're under 10% and our goal would be closer to the 15% to 20% as we grow. We have established some strategic distributors and partners in Europe. We actually have several sales guys in Europe today working on the 2017 plans, but my goal would be to double that as a percentage of our total sales. So, roughly, if we got the 15% to 20% international growth – international as a percentage of the total, we'd be very pleased.

What do you think the effect of the strength of the U.S. dollar will have on that?

We have to wait and see, because to your point – it's a great question – some of our partners have said, hey, can I wait on this to order till we see what happens to the dollar at the end of the week? So, right now, it's a push-pull, but longer term, we'll see what happens.

But there is other way to go to market too. Like if that becomes one of the defining moments, we are investigating whether we produced over there became more viable for us to do that, because one of the biggest factors in all of that with our international business is freight, because we are protected in our freight, so we can't use everybody. We have to be in certain places on a ship or a vessel, and consequently it might make sense to produce overseas, especially if we can continue the growth that we've seen. But today, we're not – we watch the dollar, but we're not as concerned about it, but in the future, it could make a big difference.

Okay. Thank you.

Surely.

Your next question comes from the line of Don Scammell of Consilium Global Research.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I want to follow on to my partner Don's question there on the international front. This is, for unfortunate reasons, exciting times to be in the security and defense business. I got to think on the enormous tailwind that's behind companies like yours. And internationally, it just seems – just intuitive that that would be a huge opportunity with particularly the women, and they are being told that get sneakers instead of high-heel shoes they can run away from the refugees. This kind of product seems to be a fit. What is the – other than the dollar, what is the true market opportunity internationally, say, in the next three years without having to build overseas a plan to produce your product? And then I want to go into the diligent market dynamics.

Sure. So the market opportunity, we think, is tremendous, right. Whether it's in hundreds of millions or in hundreds of thousand, we are trying to take advantage of it as best we can. There are areas that still have certain registrations, restrictions and laws versus carrying pepper spray. So, for example, the UK, civilian use of pepper spray is not legal.

Okay.

In most of the China, except for some provinces, the civilian holding of pepper spray is illegal. So there's some challenges that still have to be overcome. But in Western Europe, especially as we look at Italy, Germany, Poland, Spain, we're seeing huge opportunities. And just in those markets, we feel quadrupling our businesses, it has a great potential.

The other ones that we're very excited about is that we're selling into some of the Asiatic markets, Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, for example, through our partnership with Ace that was gotten through one of our great representatives, SRS Innovations. Those are great opportunities. And then, quite honestly, one of the areas that we think is a huge opportunity for the organization and we have our foothold now into South Africa is looking at the African nations to...

Right.

...we're exploring how we can dynamically get into those marketplaces, because they offer a great opportunity. We have a very effective product, it's cost effective. In Africa, we think there could be a tremendous opportunity. And then, lastly South America, we're in Chile, we're in Argentina, we're in a couple of areas and we see a tremendous opportunity for growth and expansion in those markets.

The South American markets, especially Brazil kind of fluctuates heavily with the dollar – especially with the Brazilian dollar on a currency exchange basis. But to that point, it's not only just that Western European, it's also the African nations and the South American nations that we were exploring gateway on how we can go to market. We commissioned with a local university, Case Western Reserve University, to help us with graduate students to put together go-to-market strategies and the different areas, each one slightly differently because each one's customs, culture and et cetera and slightly different, and we're looking at implementing those in 2017 and beyond.

Right. So there's a lot of barriers that you don't have here in the States and there's not a lot of, I guess, giant retail...

Correct. Once we're in Europe – once we were in Europe, we have partnerships that so we can get into world media, and media marked some of like COSTCO, for example, is a big player in Europe. When you get to some of the other market, it's a completely different go-to-market strategy, because you're looking at smaller shops, you're looking at different styles [ph] of encumbrance (00:38:04) and so consequently plus you have different rules, regulations versus the United States where we have a very good system of rules and regulations from a state, local to a federal level. These are – you get to a different providence in China and the rules might change completely depending on who knows...

Right. Right.

...whom and who knows what. So...

All right.

...but these are all things that – and to your point though, we're in a good place. We're positioned well in the marketplace. We can react in a marketplace, because great example why we have our VP of Sales right now in Germany is Germany changed the laws and some of the holding laws for pepper sprays. So, now, we've complied with the new laws. We have the new labels available. We have some other requirements that they requested that we have available. So we feel strongly that in Germany, Poland and that area of the country – the world, we'll be able to compete effectively, because we're on top of it. But as you indicated earlier, registrations and restrictions changed quite frequently and staying on top of it is a key initiative for us.

Well, it's great to see you be so successful on the packaging and getting on the shelf and seeing a lot of sell-through drive that the channel optimism, which is well deserved in it. That leads me to think on this Vigilant – the Vigilant partner that you have. It seems very important that you've got that toehold in a growing number of the impulse purchase point-of-sales points, and they're showing success. Is this the – you're going to roll in Vigilant products next years and what type of unit dynamics – the unit economics are there in that part of the business...

Sure.

...of the alarms, is that a whole different business model?

Don, that's the beauty of it. It kind of falls perfectly into our defense spray, right? So you have the same kind of economics, right? We're looking at products to sell anywhere from $15 to $100, same kind of marginality with what our retail partners are looking for. Packaging will be very consistent with our current Mace-branded packaging. There will be blister cards with domes that will effectively be able to promote the product.

And then, beauty is that if you run into an account where they might be, why, I'm not sure about carrying pepper spray, which we still have in the United States, you will be able to show a very effective tool for anybody, not just young women or man, also that will be able to alert somebody of a situation that they need help with. So we think, to your point, it's is a great complimentary line of products. We have eight slotted, we have two or three under development with Vigilant. He is David Happe. He is a tremendous entrepreneur, if you would. He is a former buyer of retail, so he gets the metrics of selling into retail. He has been with some of the largest retailers in the world and started his own company. And his philosophy of empowerment, safety, security is the same as ours, so it's a great marriage. And once we launch these eight successfully, we have some ideas for future launches and future products.

And then, the last thing is, it gives us a great opportunity to increase the ring, if you would, at a retail. So one of the things that we did is, we tested a combo pack, a current Vigilant alarm with a Mace branded pepper spray, one of our key guards, one of our better selling products, put them together, sold the whole package for $27 on Amazon, it sold very well.

Within a couple of weeks, we had sold over 600 units in a variety of colors. So from there, we had a testing ground to say, hey, this is complementary product that matches, but then also gives us an opportunity to increase the retail rank in order for our consumer to see greater value.

So, for us, it's a great extension. And then, with this, we can take this to Europe, we can take it to other areas of the world because the battery operated, they work effectively no matter where you are in the world. And the biggest thing is, their QA and our QA are working together to make sure that they were loud as possibly could be. So, you draw attention to a potential incident and you quell it before it starts.

Thank you.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro of Lawndale Capital. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hi. Some follow-up questions on what you had just answered, if you could help, and then I have some other incremental ones. So, this was certainly script you read too fast. First off, is it diligent with a D or a V?

Vigilant with a V.

With a V as in Victor?

Vigilant with a V.

With a V as in Victor.

Right. Yeah.

Okay. And it's basically...

V-I-G-I-L-A-N-T.

Okay. And is a personal alarm that's different than the Mace Screecher or that is the Screecher?

It's a brand-new series of alarms. What we can do, Andrew, is get you a catalogue. They're already in our 2017 catalogue that we [indiscernible] (00:43:39).

Okay. And is it – when it's marketed, is this marketed with the Mace brand name, is it marketed...

Yes, it's marketed with the Mace brand name.

Okay. So, let's say like, Mace Vigilant.

Both of these will just be Mace branded.

Okay. And with the Mace brand on it, it's going to generate for us comparable margin to the other products that we're selling, is that right?

Right. And once again, it's twofold. So, Vigilant, which is a very successful online retailer, David's group will be paying Mace a simple royalty on the usage of product. Mace is paying Vigilant a simple royalty on the technology and the product themselves that David has developed. So, consequently, Mace will enjoy the gross margin and the profits on the sale and then we have another stream of revenue when David sells Mace branded products that he will selling – he will be paying us the royalty back to their company.

Okay. So, when you sell it and you're getting the margin comparable to what you're doing, that is net of the technology IT royalty you're paying them, is that right?

Right. Right.

Okay. So that will be your normal sell through. There is no extra bottom line cost below the gross margin line when you're selling the Vigilant product. And then, when they sell the Mace branded product, they make their margin and we're going to be collecting a 100% margin royalty revenue stream, is that right?

Correct.

Okay. And is it a decent type of a royalty percentage? What kind of royalty percentage is the Mace brand typically beginning to generate, because we're going to get a royalty on the sales from your SecureCheck on the surveillance product sales as well. So, what kind of royalty percentage range [indiscernible] (00:45:59) unless you're going to be disclosing it exactly, but what's kind of the range we get for a Mace brand royalty deal these days?

I would say, it's a consistent with the premium brand in the marketplace like without divulging exactly what the different ratios are is that they're all very consistent. And so, as we look into 2017, it would be a critical year, because it's not – Mace's performances or partner's performance as you have Kort Select Security with Home Security Solutions, you have SecureCheck LLC with their surveillance and security solutions and then you will also have Vigilant with our personal alarms and pepper spray products. So, without divulging exactly what it is, Andrew, it's what you would expect from the Mace brand...

Okay. [indiscernible]

(00:46:49) of the Mace brand.

Well, I don't know, I expected something from the Mace brand many years ago, I'm happy it's coming in finally. And with this Vigilant and SecureCheck and Kort Security, will there be a line item in your revenue presentation for income statement that will start next year, that will be royalty or where we will be start being able to track and see the royalty stream come through, which we will obviously presumably be a 100% margin stream?

We'll probably make reference to it in the financial statement based on materiality that will determine whether or not it gets a separate stage, if you will.

Okay, all right. Because I just want to figure out what our – to keep track of the product margin discussion I had in my last round of questions for you, I want to try to keep track of all of that and not let the royalty stream kind of mess with the analysis...

Once it become a material, we'll start – it's of interest. So, once it becomes a material, we'll start making reference to it in the investor calls and highlighting those as well.

Okay. Your margins...

And just to clarify, Andrew, the Vigilant, right...

Yes, so that's [indiscernible] (00:48:12). You're calling [ph] Viligent (00:48:13), it's Vigilant. I see it now on the web.

All right.

Now, internationally, which has been having remarkable growth and growing from a – you said it's now at 10% share, you'd love it to be 15% or 20%, and I'm assuming it's grown from a very small share before. But your net margin percentage on international, what is it relative to your domestic margin and what accounts for either higher or lower margin?

So, on the growth side, for example, looking at the reports right now, on the gross side is consistent with our other channels. What on the net side is a little bit higher because you don't have any additional costs. Once the freight, product costs and everything is taken care of, there's no rep commissions that we typically have to worry about. There's no advertising costs and there's no returns.

So, on a net side, and I'll let Carl comment a little deeper, is your international gross margin mirrors your international net margin where, with some of our other channels, you have advertising, you have accruals for returns, you have accruals for other things [ph] as they call it, destroying fields (00:49:33) instead of returning products to you or they have products stolen, they'll deduct that from what they pay you. But typically, international, maybe a slight variance is it mimics our gross margin to our net margin.

Got it. Great. And then, can people internationally buy your product on Amazon?

So, we are working – it's a very good point. So, with David Happe, we are working on [ph] taking up (50:05) Amazon.ca, which is Amazon Canada. We are not today working Amazon in Europe. But if you went to, for example, brite-strike.eu or you went to German Sport Guns, you would actually see eerily similar to the Mace brand website in the United States within those countries, and they can deliver within the European countries.

One of the big initiatives going forward is, Mace Caribe will be active in the fourth quarter of this year. So, for South America and everywhere, call it, south of the United States, we will have a Mace Caribe website set-up that will be in Spanish and will be able to transact sales within those markets. And that's set up with a partner of ours in Puerto Rico. And we're very excited about that. We can talk about it because we're testing the website and it's out there, but Mace Caribe, once it's up and running, will then give us another pillar. So, we have Amazon and a lot of online retailers that we're growing the number of online retailers in the United States. We will start doing business with Amazon Canada through Viligent (sic) [Vigilant].

Vigilant.

Vigilant, sorry, I always do that. We have great bases in Europe that we're doing business with and looking to expand it and now we have South America.

And when do these – some of these things go live during the current fourth quarter or [indiscernible] (51:44)

Well, Brite-Strike and German Sport Guns right now are live in Europe, servicing Europe; Amazon United States and Mace.com obviously are live in the United States. Amazon Canada will be up in the fourth quarter, Mace Caribe will be up in the fourth quarter of this year. And Mace Caribe, I believe, if we went on it, you'd see it in the test mode as we state.

Okay. And taking a step back, I know it's [ph] at (52:12) the royalty side, but on the sale to SecureTech (sic) [SecureCheck] of all of our...

SecureCheck.

SureTech (sic) [SecureCheck], that [indiscernible] (52:22) of our surveillance inventory, this is the line item called asset held-for-sale on the balance sheet, right?

Correct.

Okay. So, now that – it was a November sale, that line item's going to come off the balance sheet and replacing that is going to be a bunch of cash that comes in – cash in excess of that line item. So there will be a – you're going to have a one-time non-recurring gain there. Is that right?

That gain will be reported on in discontinued ops.

Discontinued ops, it'll come off and then that'll be a conversion into cash. And I presume that gain will qualify for use against the company's NOL, so there'll be no taxes against it, right?

That should be correct, yeah.

Okay, excellent. Migrating over, if I can, first off, let me back out. I have questions on Mace Tactical and a few other things, but in case someone else has questions, let me back out.

Thanks.

There are no other questions.

Okay. So, can I continue? Can you hear me still?

Sure. So we have about six minutes, so I think, [ph] you can (00:53:34).

I didn't know if my line was still open. Mace Tactical.

Yeah.

So, year-over-year, things are down with respect to the numbers, but that's because you said, TG has a bulk sales that happened in various times and it's not necessarily even seasonal. But with respect to the other Mace Tactical, the underlying Mace Tactical market for which we had been and still do expect growth, did growth occur with respect to the law enforcement and agency sales to your underlying pepper and, hopefully one day, munitions products?

Yeah. So, if you broke down Tactical, you have three buckets, if you would, Andrew, you have defense sprays, defense sprays are up, so we're in more departments now than ever in the past. We have a royalty component of it with replacement canisters for our TG Guard product, which is a third-party partnership that – those royalty sales are down right now. It was very healthy last year, almost $100,000, this year it's probably $10,000. But we expect some royalties by the end of the year because we know there were some activity but still minor.

And then, the third bucket is our TG Guard new installations [ph] of (54:55) products, which are typically government contract embassy approvals. And those have almost been on hold during the back half of the year, which is somewhat typical on election year. So we're disappointed but we're not panic, given the fact that sometimes government spending stops when there's a change in power.

Right. But this would be government's spending to protect our embassies, which seems to have been a criticism of the newly elected regime?

Correct. So, that's why we're somewhat bullish on the future within the segment. The biggest disappointment, like no holds barred, is that we have not gotten our munitions division up. So the products that would complement our defense sprays, flash bangs, [ph] blunted (55:45) munitions, teargas, tear/smoke products, we're still not where we need to be.

Right.

We have confidence, though, that if we can overcome all the other hurdles that [indiscernible] (56:00)

What are the hurdles and what are the timing milestones to get them overcome?

So, right now, by the end of the year, our partner has to be ISO certified, and then also has to build into the production schedule with the Mace-branded products. The biggest thing is the ISO certification, which is under the hands of – beyond us and beyond our partner that certain things have to be met, they have to come in, they have to test it, it's certain – so, we started with [ph] ATS (12:09), we have overcome that which was twice as long as it should have been. Then we had production delays which led to the ISO certification delays, and now the ISO certification delays are further hampering the production start, because you can't start production till you get the ISO certification. They're certifying folks. Company has said that it would be the end of the year beginning in the first quarter.

Right.

So, our goal and our hope is to still be active in the segment in the first quarter of 2017. But it's mainly...

So, once ISO certification is obtained, there is not much of a time-lag thereafter to get the products offered and out there?

As long as the certifying company doesn't demand huge changes in the manufacturing procedure, that's the only odd bone.

Okay.

As long as they say, yes, we agree with how you do it today, yes, you can continue to do it the way you are without changes, we should be okay. When the ATS came in, they said, wait a minute, we're going to rewrite the rules here, and we're going to make you do some things differently. So they increased the bunker space, they increased the storage space, they made some changes to how you could store and et cetera.

Right.

So as...

So that's been satisfied now. Is that right?

That's been satisfied. But it could be, the only thing I warrant is, it could be similar, ISO might say, well, wait, we want to change how we look at this because we hadn't looked at it in a while.

Okay. All right. And then, migrating over to the new products. Based on your comments last quarter and your comments this quarter regarding newer products like Nite Beams and Mace Alert 911, they have taken a backburner to improving sales of your existing pepper products to become profitable.

Now, it seems clear that Mace has become using the pepper products only almost, sustainably profitable. So now that you're generating increased profitability in two straight quarters, is the company and the board now able to allocate the resources and the time to make these new products significant contributors to your revenue and profitability growth. And of course with your script now, it sounds as if Nite Beams still won't get additional resources or tell me what additional resources and articulate the game plan with Nite Beams and then separately tell me kind of the additional resources or what you're going to do on Mace Alert 911 to the extent you can but articulate your strategies there, because it sounds like one might get more emphasis than the other but it's not clear if Nite Beams is going to get no emphasis at all?

Okay. So, taking 911 have now, Mace Alert, more resources will be allocated towards that, both through the company and a partnership with the patent holders of the technology. We've reached a confidence level that with [indiscernible] (00:59:44) and some enhanced advertising that the product would sell, we'll be able to distribute it through retail as we do our pepper spray and some of our other products or Stun Guns, for example, because it's just not pepper spray that's driving some of our profitability. We feel very bullish about where we're going with that and the game plan for that through.

In a commercial advertising and then your traditional retail distribution plays along with some online plays with the help of some partners. So that bucket, I think, will move forward nicely, and we've re-crafted a lot of the little elements out there. We have some good analysis in testing to say where it's at and what we're doing.

Nite Beams is a different story, because Nite Beams has been a disappointment due to several factors; A, the quality. Right now, it's running above the quality – it's running below the quality levels that we expect of all of our products, meaning the returns are higher than we want. So we're dealing with factories and events around why is that? Right. The failure rate is just two grade. B, the sell-through, so we've placed it strategically from a drug account to a sporting goods account to a consumer account, the value proposition, which means that when a consumer is expecting to pay, what they're willing to pay for the product is not there.

So, we're testing as we speak right now, lower retail pricing, placement within whether it's a running section of an account or a pet section of an account to see if that value promise is a little bit greater, before we pull the trigger on some advertising. We have done some testing on some light advertising, and what you call the cost per call and the cost per order were not in line with what your expectations would be to be successful.

So, Nite Beams, this one and unless we can prove it out in retail that consumers will buy the product outside of their initial enthusiasm thing, while that's a great idea, it is somewhere there, we're still testing and not the management, not the board, the management is not suggesting to spend a lot of money on it, because we can't get the metrics, the consumer value proposition to where we think it's a great value.

Okay.

Meaning that I don't want to put a product on a shop that's not going to sell, then I'm going to take it back.

Okay. And then what about the niche within this, which are those LED safety vests which would go to corporations, construction entities, unions, et cetera, that are actually higher dollar per – they're decent dollar per unit, but there is a different value proposition that goes with safety vest?

Right. So, with that, we have tested, so Quicken Loans Arena for example, the feedback came back, they say, we're not going to spend, we're twice as expensive than the vest, right. So, they're paying 25 for this vest and they take 12 for a typical vest. They prompt back to say, we're buying disposable vests, because what happens is we put it on a kit, we don't get it back, then you request a new one, and that disposable pricing is better than the premium pricing that we need to charge because [ph] its split (01:03:01).

They got it, they love the features and everything else, but [ph] ODOT (01:03:04) to Quicken Loans Arena to several other venues, they are like, it's just too expensive. So, consequently, that is like on the backburner because once again unless we can get the costs down and the value proposition of where people will do it, it's not there. For example, Quicken Loans Arena, the hockey team won the championship. The Cavaliers won the championship. There are thousands of people in there, they still didn't want to buy it, would be more expensive to us.

Okay.

It's a shame because it's a great product, but it is one of the things that people like, well, I love it and then they say, well, no, I'm not paying you that for it. And that's why we have to overcome or figure out how we change that.

Now, I'm seeing it right now, there's 300,000 shares offered for sale. There is constantly a sizable amount of shares offered from one or more long-time holders that are just sitting there wanting to get out. And the query I have is, you have a good story. You have sustained profitability now, there's lots of growth and momentum. Other than – and I appreciate for a company that doesn't have to file Ks and Qs, et cetera, that you have these conference calls and you are transparent and you make your financial statements available and doing what you're doing, but – and you attempted – early in the year, you attended various non-deal road show conferences. What's on the plate? What kind of time and resources are you wanting to or planning to or the board's resourcing you to be able to go do and win?

So, it's a very good point. And we actually have an upcoming board meeting, the 21st, to just discuss that how we look at an enhanced level. There are several things that we're doing. As you know, the OTC Pink, we're looking at what other marketplaces make sense, so easier to trade, right, easier access to look in our stock.

It's not difficult to acquire. It's just that you don't have – there's not a lot of – as [ph] Thurman Willis would say (01:05:22) fans in the stands, you don't have a lot of prospective buyers here. Maybe it's – on this particular – on the Pink's, there are certain parties that are not qualified to buy it, I'm not sure, other than reregistering and melding to be a bigger public entity with the inherent cost that come with that. Just swapping to another little exchange, it will bring the buyers in as much as getting out there and tell them the story.

Right. So I think, what I'm saying is, hand in hand, we're making some moves on the market side...

Yeah.

...which is just an announcement in itself, and then looking at an enhanced schedule of investor conferences that the board has made some recommendations, the management is making some recommendations. And so, with that, we'll be able to comment further on it once we come to a conclusion that the management and the board is agreeable to.

Okay. And you had a partnership before, and I think it was for Mace Alert 911 with an entity, I think, was CVSL. And I was wondering if that is a channel or a partnership for which you're still working with and leveraging off of that. I was just wondering if you had any talks, what you'd have to do in order to qualify for something like QVC, something like bigger and broader.

So, CVSL unfortunately is falling on some hard times. They did some acquisitions, and I think if you look at their stock...

Oh, yeah, now their stocks get crushed.

Right. And consequently, some of their direct marketing strategies have fallen to the wayside too. We still do some business with them. It's miniscule at best.

Okay.

On the electronic shopping side, we're in agreement. We have strategies and we have presentations in place to break through the clutter to look at that channel as an opportunity, but it's a future opportunity. Right now, we're personally very aware of QVC, HSN, Shop NBC and even the shopping channels in Canada having been on them in the past. It is a priority and a goal. We're just not there yet.

Okay. Is there anything you have to do to enable it?

Legal – Andrew, there's a laundry list. We're working on.

All right. And I think I only have one or two more questions. And...

We're 10 minutes overtime.

Fine. I'm done.

No, no. If there's anything you want to rather – if there's questions you have, we can take couple of more minutes.

I'm just looking through the list, and I think I'm good.

Okay. Well, thanks. We want to thank everybody for you time and we look forward to future conference calls and future good news coming soon. Thanks.

Thank you.

This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.