Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Senior Vice President- Corporate Finance, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC
Don T. McDonald — Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Consilium Global Research LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2017 Financial Results Call.

All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. John McCann, President and CEO. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much, Michelle. Thank you for joining the call today. Please visit corp.mace.com Investor Relations, Transcripts & Presentations as we uploaded PowerPoint presentation detailing the first quarter results for the period ending March 31, 2017.

I'd like to turn the call over to Carl Smith, our CFO, to read our forward-looking statement and go over the first quarter results.

Thank you, John.

Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, and intended to, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I'll now comment on our first quarter financial results. After I'm finished, I'll turn the call back over to John McCann, our CEO, who will go over his presentation which is available like you said on mace.com. We will then open the lines for questions.

First quarter net sales were $1,710,000, compared to $2,079,000 last year, a decrease of $369,000 or 17.7%. The majority of the decrease in the quarter is attributed to a sales decline through our international channel. Sales through this channel totaled $123,000, compared to $369,000 last year, a decrease of $246,000 or 66.7%. This decline is attributed to an unusually strong quarter last year, as demand for pepper spray products from our European customers was high, due to consumer demand driven by incidents in Germany and other European countries.

Consumer exporting channel net sales for the first quarter totaled $1,337,000, compared to $1,534,000 last year, a decrease of $197,000 or 12.9%. John McCann will expand on this later in his presentation.

Tactical channel net sales totaled $127,000 for the quarter, compared to $102,000 last year, an increase of $25,000 or 24.5%. Other channels, including Web totaled $70,000, compared to $74,000 last year, a decrease of $4,000 or 5.4%.

Sales to customers newly acquired through our acquisition of Washington Labs totaled $53,000, as we began shipping to these customers late in March and had about a week's worth of shipping in the quarter.

Breaking the sales down by product category for the first quarter. Sales of personal protection aerosol products or pepper spray totaled $1,555,000, compared to $1,891,000, a decrease of $336,000 or 18%, and this decrease is directly tied to the decrease in international and Sporting channel sales. Personal protection non-aerosol, which includes Mace Stun Guns and Mace Alert 911 totaled $97,000, compared to $102,000 for the first quarter last year, a decrease of $5,000.

Sales of TG Guard systems and components totaled $57,000 for the quarter, compared to $40,000 last year, a 42.5% increase. Sales of law enforcement or TakeDown branded products were $48,000 for the quarter, compared to $70,000 last year, and this decrease is also attributed to the decline in international quarter-on-quarter. All other product categories which include door jammers, wireless home alarm systems, Nite Beams branded products totaled $41,000 for the first quarter, compared to $66,000 in the first quarter last year.

Moving on to gross profit. Gross profit for the first quarter 2017 totaled $674,000, with a 39.4% gross margin, compared to $817,000 and comparable margin of 39.3%, a decrease of $143,000 or 17.5%. The decrease in gross profit dollars is attributed to $369,000 decrease in sales, and margins, like I said, are comparable quarter-to-quarter.

SG&A expenses for the first quarter ended March 31 were $964,000 or 56.4% of revenues, compared to $972,000 or 46.8% of revenues in 2016, an $8,000 improvement for the quarter.

Salaries and related employee benefit expenses increased $36,000 for the quarter compared to last year due to the hiring of additional sales personnel and this increase was offset by a $31,000 decrease in legal and other professional service expenses. In addition, commission expense decreased $27,000 due to lower net sales.

Operating loss for the first quarter 2017 totaled $331,000 compared to a loss of $193,000 in the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of $138,000 and is attributed to the decrease in the sales for the quarter.

Interest expense was $5,000 compared to $10,000 in the prior quarter. Interest income for the quarter was $29,000 compared to $37,000 last year and represents interest income on notes related to the sale of the surveillance business and security monitoring business and the decrease is attributed to the payoffs in July of 2016 of a $250,000 note, which we are no longer collecting interest on.

Loss on the sale of short-term investments totaled $12,000, and we had $5,000 in income from continued operations reported in the quarter last year. As a result, the company reported net loss of $319,000 for the quarter compared to $161,000 in 2016.

EBITDA for the quarter was a negative $302,000 compared to negative EBITDA of $150,000 in 2016.

I'll now turn my comments to some balance sheet items. The company's net book value was $8.9 million compared to $8.8 million at December 31, 2016. Mace had $10.7 million in total assets compared to $9.6 million at December 31, 2016. Cash and short-term investments decreased $1.7 million as the company funded the purchase of Washington Labs using approximately a little bit over $2 million in acquisition. Inventories at March 31, 2017 totaled $1,961,000 compared to $1,568,000, with the increase coming mostly from the acquisition of Washington Labs, which contributed about $300,000 in inventory.

The company reported $2,654,000 in goodwill related to the acquisition of Washington Labs. This amount will be adjusted in the future as we await the completion of an intangible asset valuation that we have going on currently.

Total liabilities at March 31, 2017 were $1,719,000 compared to $776,000 at year end, and the increase is mainly attributed to the $1 million note we used to acquire Washington Labs. We had positive working capital of approximately $4.4 million in a current ratio of 5.9. Net operating losses at March 31 were approximately $60 million, with $1.1 million expiring in 2018. We have $4.5 million expiring in 2019 and $3.2 million expiring in 2020, and the last NOL expiring in the year 2036.

At this point, I'd like to thank you for joining us this morning and I'll turn the call over to our President and CEO, John McCann.

Thanks, Carl.

So, I advise everybody again that we have a PowerPoint presentation on the mace.com website under Investor Relations and Presentations. I won't go through the presentation, but it's available to show the progress of the company in the quarter and the year.

So, a disappointing quarter and year so far, we attribute, as Carl had mentioned, to the gradual drop-off of international sales in Western Europe due to the uncertainty of legislation in Germany. The German government vacillated on legislation on the restriction of the sales of OC and the importation of OC into the German market, which resulted in oversupply of products and confusion among key distributors, retailers in the German market, which spilled over into most of Western Europe.

2016 was a high watermark for sales in Western Europe, and now the market has flattened out quite a bit, but we're continuing to see progress in other markets. During the second half of the year, we anticipate being in a position to announce some exciting international opportunities for the company. We have seen orders increase from our partners in Asia, Poland, Italy and South America. So we'll continue to push the Mace Brand worldwide. We are – we have in the first quarter shipped some products to Germany, but not in the scale that we did a year ago due to the immigration crisis. Additionally, the acquisition of Washington Labs to the Mace family will add to our international reach, as we will gain a foothold in Canada with Bear Spray, several other exciting products and opportunities.

The second major disappointment in the quarter revenue numbers is the Sporting Goods channel. Due to a very soft fourth quarter, many regional and national chains filed for bankruptcy in the first quarter of 2017. The good news for Mace is that we did not take any financial hits due to these bankruptcies, but we did see less orders and needs as many regional accounts went out of business or ceased to exist. Our major partners, we actually grew in terms of sales, so this is a very positive sign for the balance of the year.

Our Consumer division was down slightly, mostly due to timing of orders as many retailers were being cautious due to soft sales and low foot traffic during the Christmas period that spilled over in the first quarter. We have seen an uptick in April, and we expect to see growth overall in this channel for the year.

Our Web channel, as Carl had mentioned earlier was slightly down, but our traffic on the site continues to be strong. We are very conscious to balance sales and education, it's important for us to educate our consumers not to compete against our retail partners. So on the Mace website, we typically do not discount. We offer bundled packs, we offer special promotions, but we try not to discount to make sure that our price is above that of our retail partners.

On a high note, our Tactical division grew as we partnered with more departments and agencies to provide products, especially on the defense spray side. We anticipate continuing this product trend for the balance of the year. We are successfully launching new products in the category, which is in our – the presentation, batons, handcuffs and a couple of other items in the category, which have been received very favorably from our partners.

Additionally, in the quarter, we've added 50 new accounts, and we laid them up by channel in the PowerPoint presentation, this includes Washington Labs. So the split is about 50% organic growth and 50% through acquisition. As I stated above, the acquisition comes with benefit of these accounts, plus the international expansion with EPA-approved animal repellent product registrations, both for the U.S. and Canada. We anticipate more good news on this front in the near term.

Additionally, on Tactical, we're still at stalemate with the production and distribution of munitions as we are experiencing delays, so we're working on alternatives and other partners. We will release more information as soon as possible, but right now, we do not anticipate launching munitions in 2017.

A little on Washington Labs, as we announced and discussed prior, we successfully acquired and integrated Washington Labs into Mace. All production, sales, marketing, distribution is being handled out of our 4400 Carnegie location. The acquisition should be a tremendous benefit to the company long-term and here is just a couple of reasons, why.

New customers, as I stated above, both domestic and international, we have a foothold now in Canada through the acquisition. EPA registrations for animal repellents, which we didn't have prior. Filling equipment, which will help us with capacity and efficiencies and production, new formulas of OC products, we have jointly developed new some formulations and products which we will launch in 2017. And additionally the Guard Alaska brand, which is a well respected brand of Bear Spray in the marketplace that we will own the Guard Alaska brand now in the market.

As Carl mentioned in his analysis, we did successfully shift $50,000 in the first quarter. We closed on [ph] 322 (15:00). So we did a great job of closing and also fulfilling orders and shipping to our customers as we integrated our operations. Additionally, with the Washington Labs business, we hired [ph] four (15:12) new employees to help us with the growth. Two of the employees were Washington Labs employees, one of them is the son the former owner of Washington Labs and they've integrated themselves very well into Mace and are welcome addition to our teams.

We also have hired John McVay to run the Washington Labs operation and John has an extensive experience in operations, production, sales, marketing and procurement. John has already made a very positive impact on the company and has taken over the leadership of this division very nicely and integrated himself into the Mace family.

Additionally, not related to the acquisition, we hired Kimberly Moss to our sales team to solidify our e-commerce strategy and help increase our sales and support and consumer channels. Kim worked formally for InterDesign, which is a leading manufacturer in the consumer products industry. Kimberly has already opened Zulily and many other accounts and put together a comprehensive e-com strategy in order for us to continue to benefit from the growth from Amazon and other e-retailers as they pop up.

And as our press release indicated, due to the success of acquiring and integrating Washington Labs, we have retained Carleton McKenna to help the company explore any and all opportunities, which may present itself to the company. Carleton McKenna assisted Mace providing independent review of our due diligence of Washington Labs. They also provided the analysis of the short-term and long-term benefits of the acquisition.

With this insight and knowledge, it made sense for Mace to retain Carleton McKenna & Company to make sure we are maximizing our value to our shareholders and our customers. Also on the same note, we have a commitment letter from Chemical Bank for working capital line of credit. This is important to note, due to the terms of the note are very competitive, we actually had several banks willing to bid and work with Mace. So, it's a nice decision for the company to be in versus prior situations that the company had found itself in.

Lastly a couple of notes and comments, the company attended the Planet Hollywood MicroCap Investor Conference. The company was very well received. The room was full when I made my presentation, and I had many productive one-on-one meetings that I hopeful will bear fruit in the near-term future. The company is scheduled to present at the B. Riley Investor Conference in Santa Monica on May 25th. We will present May 25th, at 9:30 AM, and I already have a significant amount of one-on-one conferences lined up.

We have also beefed up our social media awareness to help drive the message of Mace Brand, its empowerment, the best solution for personal defense and security. In the PowerPoint presentation, there are several slides both Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat, making sure that we get the imagery and the feel of the brand out to consumers as a way of communication, as communication in general changes from traditional media to more social and e-com media strategies.

We have placed Mace 911 at several retail outlets. But thus far, the POS sales, the sell-through at retail has been soft, but we're continuing to work with our retail product partners on messaging and position within the account. A lot of the accounts, we have the product placed in a pharmacy set, because they have high traffic and they also have a wait period, so it gives us a chance to educate the consumer on the features and benefits of the product versus some of the other products that are in the marketplace.

We are adjusting our product lineup of LED products, as Carl mentioned, in our Nite Beams line of products, and we're in a position to announce this in the back half of the year. We're excited about the direction we're going and some of the placement we anticipate getting. So, there'll be more news to come on that in the future.

As we stated in the fourth quarter, we did launch our personal alarms in Q1, we have them placed at several retailers, the POS sales on these products seem to be very strong. We have Vigilant as an online partner promoting the Mace branded personal alarms on his website and many other websites and we're continuing to see an uptick in the movement in the sales of these products and we do – now we have some good news we can announce later in the year with regard to placement of these products at significant retail accounts.

Commenting on a couple of our partnerships, our partnership with Select Security, on the Mace [ph] Home Security Solution (19:42) has not yet launched. But in speaking with our partners, they are closer to the right products and manager to launch this opportunity successfully. More news to come as they finalize the program and they finalize the amount of products and capital that they'll be spending in order to initiate this great opportunity.

Our partnership with SecureCheck has been slow to materialize. But, again, we anticipate the long-term benefit to the company as SecureCheck expands their distribution and assortments beyond the customers that they bought from us. We are working on several other partnerships. And as we close these opportunities, we will make sure our shareholders are aware of the relationships and the programs.

Just a comment on future looking a little bit, April results are much better than a year ago. We anticipate having a great year based on what we're seeing in April and May. The first quarter in our mind was somewhat of an anomaly with what the consolidation of the Sporting Goods industry faster than anybody had anticipated. And also, the backup due to some legislation oversight in Europe, that led to some of the slowdown in OC sales, especially through Germany to some of the other Western European countries. We did use cash to fund the acquisition and took a minor amount of debt, so now we have the potential of working capital line [ph] as a benefit to company ensure (21:07) we can fund future growth and opportunities.

So, once again, I want to thank everyone for their time and participation. The management team is very bullish about Mace in 2017. We believe the first quarter is an anomaly due to the slowdown in international sales and also the quicker anticipation – anticipated consolidation of the Sporting Goods channel.

Our acquisition and also our organic work should benefit the company in the short-term and long-term. We've partnered with Carleton McKenna to facilitate these future opportunities for the company and with Chemical [ph] plan (21:40) to ensure we can fund our growth and development.

Thanks, again. And with the remaining time, we can take questions. As we only have one hour allotted for the conference call, so I'll turn it back over to Michelle, so she can take the first person in the queue in order to start the question-and-answer period.

Okay. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. I have a few questions here related to the Washington Labs acquisition to get things clarified. So has the entire Washington Labs purchase price been accounted for within the March financials? And then, can you clarify the fact that there is some earn-out or contingencies on the purchase to know if it is a clawback that would reduce the stated purchase price or it would be incremental to what we see in the March financial statement?

Carl, can address the...

Okay. So, yes, so the answer to your first part of your question, the entire purchase price is reflected in the first quarter. The notes in the financial statements indicate total purchase price of $3.4 million.

Like I mentioned in my analysis, the goodwill is $2,654, and we have affirmed, we're doing some valuation of trademark EPA licenses, customer relationships, which would be an adjustment to the goodwill. There is a working capital adjustment that we will compute. We have 120 days after close, to do that. And, basically, if you take a look – or look at the working capital that was in place upon the valuation of the business, and then 120 days post that, look to make sure that the receivables were good receivables. And based on our due diligence and valuation on the front-end, we see very little of an – a working capital adjustment coming out of there. And then the inventory was the bigger piece of which we're still under evaluation. So, at this point in time, I don't anticipate any material adjustments to the purchase price.

Right. And the only other comment on that, Andrew, there is a clawback in case the sales don't hit the specified area. So, we have a table to monitor that. We budgeted everything off of the 2015 results of Washington Labs. And, there is a potential that if we don't hit the numbers that we put together that up to, I would say less than 10%, we could clawback.

And your next question comes from [ph] Thurman Willis (24:50), private investor. Your line is open.

John, Carl, thank you for taking my question. There was a letter that was written by the Chairman about 90 days ago, that expressed tremendous opportunities in all aspects of growth and revenue. And then, John thoroughly reviewed your presentation, and I see that you're projecting a nice increase in sales and profit. My question is can you be more specific about how you and the board feel relative to this growth and the projections for the year?

Okay. Thanks, [ph] Thurman (25:43). So, in our budgeting process, given everything that we knew, we knew that the first quarter was going to be one of the toughest quarter, we're going to experience, because we weren't in a position to close Washington Labs for several reasons until late in March.

Two, we knew international sales in the Sporting Goods channel we're going to go through some gyrations that we're going to have to work through. But on the growth side, we feel very strongly with the product assortments that we have today and the product assortments we're working on and the full integration of Washington Labs that this will be banner year for Mace in 2017.

So, in my investor conferences, we have another DACUM, and that's available on our website also and you can see that we put together a full year projection based on what everything we know and based on the integration of Washington Labs. So, thank you, [ph] Thurman (26:39).

Your next question comes from [ph] Ken Fell from Fell Capital Management (26:44). Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, gentlemen, appreciate the call, a lot of great information here. I guess, my question – one of my questions is, with the strategic opportunities with the partner, which – the investment banking firm that you partnered with, John, you emphasized any and all as possibilities? Does that also include maybe the sale of Mace, any part of it or all of it?

Right. I'd be speaking out of turn, because basically with Carleton McKenna, what we're looking at is the strategic long-term for the company to look at it. The real basis for us is this dynamic integration that we're able to do, both – once we close the deal, we integrate the company simultaneously as to shipping customer. So, because of the trust we built with the former owner of Washington Labs, he had actually moved this equipment up before we closed the deal. And then, with having that outside counsel to speed us through the process of closing, making sure that that we accounted for everything, we felt that it was important to retain them to look at all the opportunities. And what all the opportunities are, I think that that would be up to the board. But I think on a strategic side, they're a great partner to have for us, because we have limited resources here. We all do multiple jobs. And then being able to respond to the market, I think is critical. But, thank you very much for the question.

Your next question comes from the line of Don McDonald from Consilium Global. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi, John. How you're doing?

Good, Don.

My question is, going forward, what would you say is the major driver for the top-line growth going forward, and also if you can talk about margin expansion.

Sure. There's two things on margin expansion. We're going to see more efficiencies from our operations, especially with the integration of Washington Labs, and some of the things that we had done prior. There's some follow-up costs, if you would, amortization costs that we'll see on our cost of goods side, so we're pretty excited about that. Plus, as I mentioned, the integration will allow us to be more dynamic on some of our pricing [indiscernible] (29:06) that we do with retailers.

The second part of it is two-fold. The growth, we think, will really come from our consumer channels, and also from our law enforcement channels. I think, we're well positioned both, promotionally and in line with some key, key retailers in the near-term to do some dynamic then. So, we're very excited.

And the last thing I would add is that, not to undersell this animal repellent line. There's a huge opportunity for growth and we're very well-positioned both, for the back half of 2017 and really 2018 to become a player in the Bear Spray in the animal repellent sectors, which have a high growth. If you read The Washington Journal, I think, last week or the other day, South Carolina, bear issues; Arizona, there is coyote issues. Bear issues constantly are in the minds of all of our Canadian partners. And so, now with the Washington Labs integration, we have two great partners in Canada that will allow us both, to deliver products to Western and Eastern Canada, effectively and [ph] efficiently (30:16).

Your next question comes again from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks. [ph] I had (30:27) the moderator to cut me off. I had not finished my examination on the Washington Labs, when you said that there is a clawback feature should certain sales figures not be achieved. Where does that clawback come? Would that be a reduction of the note, the seller note or is it in some other form or fashion in terms of the consideration that was provided?

In the seller note, Andrew. It would come out as a reduction in the principle [ph] owed back to Mace (30:57).

Okay. Now, you talked about the significant overhead in manufacturing costs of Washington Labs that you have or will eliminate. Can you quantify that in some way? And what I mean by that is, in your financial statements, you have a footnote that shows what the estimates for net income would have been, had the acquisition been completed a year earlier. And I believe all that does is consolidate the financials as of the time. And thus, the cost and expenses that were in Washington Labs would be build into that pro forma financial numbers. So I'm trying to understand as if the acquisition had been consummated last year, what indeed are the overhead in manufacturing costs taken out, so I could get a feel for what we think the bottom line positive impact of this acquisition could be.

Well, because we integrated it into the 4400 Carnegie, so all fixed cost at Washington Labs had basically gets eliminated with rent excess of $60,000 a year being the biggest component there. The variable workforce that they had over there will bring that in and man the operation with equivalent FTEs. But the fixed cost that they had in that facility will – just got eliminated with rent being the biggest piece. And then what that does for us is, basically, we're almost not doubling, but increasing our capacity and absorbing our fixed overhead with Washington Labs production. Therefore, improving the margins on our products as well.

Your next question comes from [ph] Thurman Willis (32:55), private investor. Your line is open.

This question has to do with the marketing and education. I wonder specifically again, John, what we plan to do to increase marketability that has to naturally sales, revenues, profits, so that we can see some liquidity in the stock and that we can see a true market value of the stock. So again specifically, what are your plans to take action on what has been very poor marketability?

So, a couple of things, [ph] Thurman (33:44), I hope this answers your question. Obviously, we did the Planet Hollywood MicroCap event, we're planning the B. Riley event. Then we're looking at a couple of more events later in the year, depending on the results of the B. Riley event. Then also working with Carleton McKenna on ideas and strategies, we hope that that in itself will help raise some of the company's awareness. And then as we go through the year with some of the plans and launches that we have set up with our retail and law enforcement customers that we'll see an uptick from that side too.

Your next question comes from [ph] Ken Fell from Fell Capital Management (34:33). Your line is open.

Hi again. Question relating to Washington Labs purchase. In your financials, you state the total purchase price is $3,418,000. I was wondering what would be the quantity, what's the number for legal accounting may be commission expense as part of that? What – how much is included in that?

Well, there is no commission expense. So on these legal and accounting side, we did all the accounting internally and the legal side is very little.

Your next question comes again from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

Moderator, if you could allow Andrew to finish his follow-up around the question, that'd be great.

Okay.

Yeah, I'm trying just get to this Washington Labs and then I'll back out and we can move to a different topic, but this is ridiculous. So now, when will these – so we've been eliminating – you guys said, you're eliminating the costs when we brought it all in. So am I clear to understand that the financial results for the quarter ended June, the one we're in now, from at least an overhead costs and not from a revenue growth aspect yet, but from an overhead costs, the absorption of Washington Labs and the bottom line impact of Washington Labs will be fully seen in the quarter ended June? Or is it going to end up being September or a later quarter? Not counting the revenue growth.

So right now, they're fully integrated within our organization. We've incurred, if you will, any building improvements and revisions that we need to do within the organization in the first quarter and second quarter. So, there's a little bit of expense, some of it capital in the second quarter. At this point in time, I don't see any costs or expenses affiliated with the integration going beyond the second quarter.

There might be some additional capital expenses beyond the second quarter depending on some opportunities if we're able to take advantage of them, further automation and et cetera. But to Carl's point, you would say, 85% to 90% fully integrated by the end of the second quarter period. And then depending on opportunities, we might do a couple of other things, which would benefit the entire company, not just specifically the Washington Labs business.

Right. And keying on that, has this acquisition shifted your focus at all when looking at new acquisitions in terms of size, scope, markets? Can you elaborate further on what Mace is looking for in terms of new acquisitions that similar to what you did in your Planet Hollywood slideshow? And I'm not sure if it was in the slide presentation for this conference call?

So it's a very good point. Thanks, Andrew. It's a couple of things, I would say. So first, with a small dynamic staff, we were able to integrate this. Now mind you, it did take a long time to get to the close. So we worked on the close – we worked on closing this for probably 22 months to 24 months, some of it due to unforeseen circumstances, illness, sickness, surgeries and et cetera. But once we got to the finish line, we were able to close very dynamically. So what it did do? It opened our eyes to say that the infrastructure we've built, the staff that we have, we can integrate companies within the personal safety, personal offense, personal security world very dynamically.

Looking at it deeper, you say what this Washington Labs brand, it's just not a consumer business that they bring to us. It brings us a law enforcement business, it brings us an international business, a consumer business, and then it also – it gives us an opportunity to have some brand names, dual brand strategies, triple brand strategies at different accounts. So when we look at acquisitions, now we look at potentials, we look at anything in the $3 million to $5 million range that fits within this world, either consumer products, law enforcement products, then also fits in within the world of safety, security, personal defense.

So really for me, it's a big catch for the company, because we have acquired a company that was doing 25% to 30% of our current sales. We integrated it, we are working with these new customers like their old customers and at the same time, we haven't missed a beep with any of the Mace customers. We've been able to add more value to the process. So acquisitions for us now could be anything within the same safety and security like God forbid, we have been getting in the car washes or some other non-core businesses.

But this really give us the opportunity to look at things differently to your point that we can do as we do it quickly and we know how to do it, we have a very good process to do it. And along with this independent view that the board really want us to see is not only what we said, but what somebody third-party would say and I think that worked very well, both the board ask the right questions, the independent review ask the right questions and have made sure that that we process one and one and make sure that it equal two.

And have you or Carleton McKenna and the bankers identified any additional acquisition targets for consideration during this coming year?

I think we're still on the strategy phase and looking. And looking at all these opportunities as they come forward. For us, integrating this and making sure we closed it correctly, was key. And then I think as we look down the road that, yeah, there'll be targets and opportunities that we will go after in the near-term. So I think that one will kind of wait, make sure, we keep on doing what we need to do, make sure the April-May results turn into the June-July results and we can get over this first quarter that, that was an anomaly.

So are there any lock-ups on the shares that were issued in this acquisition?

I'm sorry.

Lock-up on the shares. We'll get back to you on that, just to make sure. But there's nothing that comes to mind. But we'll put it as a footnote to make sure we review again and get back to you, Andrew.

Okay. I'll back out into the queue. Thank you for letting me complete this, the topic of questions. I'll come back.

Sure. No, it's an important topic. And we'd like to make sure you fully understand what the goal was and what the go-forward goal is and how well we thought it went.

Okay. Come back to me when there's a chance.

Sure.

Your next question comes from [ph] Thurman Willis (41:59), private investor. Your line is open.

Following up on the gentleman's question about any and all relative to the investment banker, you have depleted your cash substantially with this acquisition. And I hate to see us give stock at these levels for another acquisition. So, my question is when you say any and all, I take it that you would not rule out the fact that if a Smith & Wesson or somebody like that came along, where gun sales are slow now and they're looking to increase their business or a stock repurchase program, should we have the money, that really everything is in play. Is that correct?

I wouldn't say that, [ph] Thurman (42:54). What I would say is that we – the integration of this went extremely well. When I got to the company five years ago, we had no cash, right. So I worried about payroll. We reformed the company, focused it on safety and security, benefited by the grace of God in selling off things at a profitable analysis for the company, acquired Washington Labs, and now we have a bank line of credit that if we needed that we can go out and acquire a business because the line of credit from Chemical Bank, the commitment letter is at very competitive rate, like it makes a lot of sense. And so, we didn't risk anything really for the company. For us, looking at the future, I think it's great to have guys with experience that can look at everything available to the company and say, hey, here's what's best for the shareholders, right? And as my father always said, you never say never, you never say always.

So, with that, it's like we said in our release that the company is in a great position. Now, we need to perform. The first quarter was not what we wanted to see, but we feel confident that we're going to be able to perform. And with that, we want to look at every opportunity we can to continue to grow the Mace Brand and the Mace product line, both domestically and internationally.

Your next question comes from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

So, when you guys say that the consumer channel declines were short-term timing, can you expand a bit why you feel that way? Is it just because you've already seen in April and May the consumer channels have rebounded? And if so, have they recouped the shortfall from Q1?

Well, it's a couple fold. So, most retailers, consumer retailers work on a fiscal year that ends January 31. So, this particular year, we saw a cleanup period for them that dribbled into February. Typically, what happens is the open to buy closes, buyer can't do anything until his open to buy opens again from his DMM, his Divisional Merchandise Manager. What we're seeing is an uptick in that, but what we really see is back half of this year some planned events that were bigger than a year ago, and more dynamic than a year ago.

So, what we're taking is the longer view, not just the quarter view, but the longer view to say that, that we feel this channel has real opportunities for growth, plus we put together some dynamic programs for a couple of our key retailers that we're very confident. Some of them have already committed, which as they happened, we'll make sure that, that everybody knows and some of them are close to committing. So, overall, we'll see an uptick from the Q1 period. But then, we'll really see in the back half of the year as they continue to grow.

And ex-Washington Labs sales, are you projecting organic growth from last year's 2016 for the full year? So, we get a feel for the – your – kind of your estimate for 2017 that you put out there, is that just Washington Labs or what kind of organic growth are you expecting?

So, organic growth, we're looking at like 9% to 10% just on the Mace branded business and then adding on to the Washington Labs. The Washington Labs had the same anomaly that we have. They had a drop-off if you look at the pro forma and some of the footnotes in our financials, year-to-year in the first quarter. But once again, we feel very positive that we have some huge opportunities that we're taking advantage of in the marketplace, especially in the back half. And I really think the biggest impact for Washington Labs will be 2018, because we will be able to expand our animal repellents and we will be – become a major, major player in that very important segment of animal repellents, bear sprays, dog sprays and working on some other concepts within that field.

And the company benefited from a free media boost when the Mace product and pepper spray in general, but the Mace branded product by name, was highlighted by a felon being interviewed about what deterred him from particular crime victims. Did you see in the channels, I don't mean TV channels, but did you see in your distribution channels, a bump up and has that either that momentum continued and are you making any other penetration in the media world for additional, we'll call it, somewhat free promotion?

We saw a slight bump up, not as big as we'd like to see. We definitely got it out to all of our key customers, our reps and our distributors. Secondly, we are working on a couple, what I call free media opportunities and we're hoping to knock down one or two of them that we hope will have the same bump and same appeal, but even bigger than the NBC TODAY Show segment that we experienced.

And for the investors that don't know, we can send out a link or link it again through our website. NBC TODAY interviewed a known fellow who had committed over, I think, it's 80 or 100 muggings in New York City and basically in the middle of the segment for about 30 seconds to 40 seconds, he said, if he sees Mace branded pepper spray, he takes the fly, which means that he would not attack that victim.

It is something that we try and educate both on our law enforcement side and our consumer side, as we do trainings and we do personal offense trainings, especially with females and males that if a would-be criminal sees Mace on your keychain or in your hand, he doesn't attack. So, that's the statistic that doesn't happen. So, it's a non-recorded event, which means this is a non-event typically in the news, because they only want to hear about, if it leads, it leads. They don't want to hear about the person that got away. And this gentleman said that he mugged men, women, older people, anybody, because he was living as he called it, quote, the life.

John, with Alert 911, we clearly know there is a market for the product as judged by the success of products like Life Alert and others. And so, are you able now to dedicate the time and resources necessary to make this product a success and has there been sell through from the initial revenue level you guys posted in Q4 to front-end load the distribution?

So, to answer to your question, yes. We are focused on a plan to further enhance the marketing and the distribution of the product. The sell-through that we've experienced has been okay, not setting the world on fire. So, obviously, what – the attention that I need is consumer-driven marketing plan that we're working on dynamically: A, how to fund it; B, making sure that we have the right partners at the retail side to have the sell-through. But we believe as we did before, that it's a great product. It's a great license agreement that we have with our partners on the technology and funding it and doing the right amount of advertising on it will be the next critical element in order to promote the product effectively.

And the timing of that?

Timing is TBA, because I don't want to tell you something I don't know today. But as soon as we can and we feel that we have the right program, we will initiate it.

All right. I have more questions, I'll back out into the queue.

Thank you. So, we have about six minutes, Michelle.

Okay. Our next question then will be from [ph] Thurman Willis (51:40), a private investor. Your line is open.

I think this is [indiscernible] (51:44), I thank you for taking my questions.

Did we comment on the line of credit that we received the amount, and what will be the collateral securing that line of credit?

Well, it's a working capital commitment letter from Chemical Bank, it's $1,500,000 working capital line of credit and it's secured by the assets of the company.

Thank you.

Again, we have Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital. Your line is open.

You said you added a bunch of exclusive accounts. Are you able to identify any of the exclusive accounts added and...?

Andrew, just a correction. So, we didn't say exclusive. We added 50 new accounts from a single door to a multiple door to distributors. In the PowerPoint presentation, we broke it down by channel of trade. There's 12 in Sporting Goods, 13 in Consumer, 10 in Tactical, 4 international, and 11 in what we call the other category, which again include an online retailer.

A good example to highlight there is Zulily. Zulily has accounted Kimberly Moss, our new sales agent, work very hard on because it caters to women. Their first event, we sold over 500 units in a 24-hour period. Not a lot of units, but great success, because it's marketing, branding and education. So, a consumer that might have been looking for a dress saw a Mace branded pepper spray product or a Mace branded alarm and actually responded to it. So, it's across the board. But majority of them, I would deem them as non-exclusive.

Okay. And it sounds a little bit, you're selling through the initial inventory and there's reorders?

We're selling through the initial inventory, and there's reorders. And then the biggest thing for us is not only reorders, but creating events, whether it's a law enforcement – distributor or a law enforcement creating event, whether it's a training event with law enforcement, so they stock up on products, or it's an [ph] NCAP (53:57), or an online event with a retailer. So, they create the awareness, it creates the drive, it creates the POS.

Okay. And you touched on in the prepared comments that Mace Tacticals had this nice growth and yet it sounds as if it has nice growth not even counting TG Guard, which is always really nice. But I wanted to get a better feel for, if you're not going to offer an expanded line of munitions yet, and this has been an initiative that has fallen on its face a few times, we still have a variety of branded products for the Tactical with our existing pepper and teargas and other products.

My query is, what evidence do you have and can you give us some insight as to the efforts being done and the progress being made towards bidding on more and more RFPs and winning more and more RFPs to get some momentum into the segment that has such a large market potential discussed on prior calls?

Thanks, Andrew. And so, to your point, we are bidding on GSA contracts, we're bidding on almost any bid from a department worldwide, right? Not just in the United States, but worldwide. Then, second part of that is to facilitate or kind of [ph] bump at the loss (55:37) of the munitions that we're still re-tinkering with, unfortunately. We have added handcuffs, tactical knives and batons.

With that, rounding out the assortment if you would on more of a commodity style play, we're seeing some large distributors that service a lot of the smaller markets, that service a lot of online or service a lot of the safety forces out there, we will see in the back half of the year some significant promotions that we've lined up with these accounts based on the sale process, and in the Tactical side, we do a lot of T&E, which is training and evaluation samples to get to the level of, okay, now you can bid, to get to the level of, okay, here is what your pricing needs to be and yes you get a plus one for the brand. Sometimes in law enforcement because it's hidden in the holster, the brand is less significant, but the performance of the product is very significant. Then for us, the acquisition because of a portion of Washington Labs businesses was in law enforcement, we should see an uptick from that.

So, to your point, we're bidding on every GSA or bid that we can through any department. We're working on major promotions in the second half with a couple of large law enforcement distributors.

And then the third thing is, doing a multi-brand strategy along with our new products into several different departments through the acquisition of Washington Labs, should see us – see some benefit in the Tactical range. And I know that the sales force in the Tactical range are hitting every and any department from a five-man department to a 5,000-man department.

Last question, unless you answered – unless it's a follow-up. We have this huge NOL, I mean, over $60 million. Some of it's expiring next year. The company has this well-known brand, your slide show talks about all the various aspects of the brand. I think we all recognize there's a brand. We've taken on some strategic partners, in particular, the Kourt Security people are supposed to have this dealer network, et cetera. And we're hoping for royalty generation here, which is enormous or 100% margin type of payments that should be coming in and helping us monetize the brand.

What is going on? And how much is going to get backing, going into this – the Kourt Security partnership amongst others? But also, is the investment banking firm that you have, are they involved with and can they assist in the monetization of the brand?

So, excellent question, Andrew, and thanks.

So, especially with Select and Kourt Security, we are putting more pressure on them because we had anticipated seeing some royalties. There is a minimum royalty due this year that we will get either way. But they have been late to the party launching it. A lot of it, from what they've told me, is that they hired somebody, it wasn't the right guy, they released him. Then they took their time reevaluating and also then bringing to market the right products because in that world, it's a very dynamic home automation, this thing, that thing, changing within the home security world that they felt that they wanted to go with their best leg forward.

We are going to push them in the next couple of months to make sure that we see monetization from that or we need to look at different directions because I agree with you that that's an opportunity to find money, if you want.

The sale of the surveillance division, I think, has just been a little slow starting, but they seem to be picking up some nice momentum now. We're in contact with them on a regularized basis, [ph] sending over leads (59:46), potentially even looking at some key retailers to say, hey, we could do an all-in Mace from surveillance to personal defense products that we would experience a royalty side from SecureCheck, and then we would get the benefits of the sale from the other products.

Then, the third part [ph] is, as you would ask (01:00:04), yes, Carleton McKenna is looking at everything, right? If there's an opportunity to work with the brand dynamically with XYZ company, they are evaluating any and all opportunities to make sure that, that we do everything we can to push the brand forward and push the company forward.

Okay. And I guess that while it's a guaranteed royalty, I'm hopeful that the Board of Directors won't just throw that guaranteed royalty somewhere in the note that constantly gets its principal obligations and other things adjusted, so that the partner doesn't have financial issues?

Well, this is separate from. So, this is separate from the Security Partners. So, we don't intermix them and we're not going to allow them to intermix them.

Okay. Great.

Okay. Well, thank you very much.

So, Michelle, thank you. I think that's all the questions. We want to thank everybody for their participation. Once again, I want to mention that, I will be at the B. Riley conference on May 25, our presentation is at 9:30 AM and we look forward to talking to everybody in the future. So, thanks again for your time and your patience.

Thank you, everyone. This will conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.