Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Good afternoon. My name is Jessica and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Mace Security International Inc Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on me to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there'll be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Steve Lorincz, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Jessica. Welcome to the Mace Security International's third quarter conference call. My name is Steve Lorincz and I am the Corporate Controller for Mace. Also with us today is Mace's Chief Executive Officer Mike Smith; and Mace's Chief Financial Officer Greg Krzemien. Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some general housekeeping matters that we want to address. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result or expected to will continue is anticipated, estimate, projected and intend to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks known and unknown, and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Excuse me. Such factors could material adversely affect Mace's financial performance, Mace's cost Mace's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during the call. Additional discussions for factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projected forecasts, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading of [indiscernible] SEC filings -- which includes its registration statements and periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during a conference call should be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes contained in Mace's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

You can access these reports on www.mace.com through the Investor Relations section of the website. You can click on the Investor Relations. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Greg [indiscernible] .

Thanks, Steve. Good afternoon and good morning to those on the West Coast. Thanks for joining us as Steve said for a third quarter 2011 results call. Please excuse my voice maybe cracking most because I'm battling through cold, but I'll do my best here. As Steve noted, I'll be commenting the results for the first nine months and the third quarter of 2011 versus those same periods in 2010 also make reference to in a couple of instances, results from the third quarter versus the sequential second quarter of 2011. The way to some background for those who may be new to our calls. Mace currently functions as one active segment. That being the security segment, we also have discontinued operations within two other segments, those being the car wash segment and the digital marketing segment. Within the carwash segment, we still owns bring the insights and the digital media marketing segment was sold in November of 2010. Again, I'll make some progress launches with these operations later in my comments. As to our Security segment, we operate or operated in four distinct units or divisions. We have our electronic surveillance equipment operation where we saw both professional and common small business are do it yourself lines of electronic surveillance equipment. We had our industrial vision or specialty camera and conferencing call equipment operation known as IBS, which we recently sold here in October. We also have our Mace personal operation for our famous Mace [indiscernible] (00:04:38) Pepper Spray Division and we own and operate a wholesale, wholesale security monitoring operation in California MCS, which we entered into in April 2009. As I previously mentioned, and as I disclosed in our 10-Q, our digital media marketing and our Carwash segment are accounted for as discontinued operations. So in essence, from an accounting financial reporting standpoint, all the revenues and expense line items related to those two discontinued segments are pulled out of the income statement and are summarized with one line item on the bottom of the statement as results of discontinued operations.

Similarly on the balance sheet, all the assets that are held for sale relating to any discontinued operations are summarized in two lines on the balance sheet. On the asset side, assets related to our assets held for sale, and on the liabilities side, liabilities related to those assets held for sale. Again, as to ongoing security operations, I'm going to cover some financial highlights here for a few minutes before I turn the call over to Mike.

First of all, I want to talk a little bit about our financial position, our balance sheet. At September 30, we had total assets of $25.7 million. We had equity or net worth of $18.3 million which is $0.31 per share, and we had about $7.3 million of cash on hand. Our working capital was $10.9 million. This compares to about $7 million of any of the year. And our debt at September 30 was $2.1 million versus $3.5 million again at the beginning of the year. When I look at our debt position, that decreased by $1.4 million, the bulk of it from payments and some of it from compounding adjustment. So like just to roll that $1.49 change, so we borrowed $1.4 million in March. So in fact, the acquisition of CCI from Merlin's, we paid off a $1.35 million that we borrowed from Ireland in December through the first nine months of the year. We also sold our Lubbock's last car wash in March, paid out the related mortgage of 670,000. We had normal payments of debt of about 280,000, and then we had an adjustment of 560,000 in this quarter. Three class, our deferred derivative liability from a liability to equity, and that was 516,000. So again, that came out of the debt on the balance sheet. So that's the $1.4 million change as far as a little bit more debt to resolve liability, as I spoke last quarter has disclosed the conversion options that related to the $1.4 million Merlin debenture that we entered into in March that had conversion features some unknown items of the time, specifically whether the offering was going to be completed and what the price the conversion of the stock would be. And how many shares we'd be able to convert into would be in how many shares would be able to convert into. What those variables, the accounting treatment for that bifurcated derivative was to treat as a liability. In the third quarter, those issues were resolved. We now know the offering took place. We know the exercise price per share. We know how many shares will be issued upon a conversion of that debt.

So accounting prescribes that that liability, which was mark to market at $516,000 at the end of September goes to the equity section of the balance sheet. And then, we accrete that amount back to debt and through non-cash interest expense over the next couple of years until the ultimate maturity date of the notes. So just a little background of that, the adjustments for the balance sheet. As far as debt we have remaining, we really have four pieces left.

We have a $509,000 mortgage on our Texas warehouse. We have about $590,000 of debt outstanding on our largest remaining car wash point, point number one, as we refer to it, we have about $163,000 worth of miscellaneous capitalized leases and equipment notes. And we have the value of the note, the one point on the number one note at $821,000, again, less the value of that REIT class derivative. And also warrants issued initially when that debt was placed.

So I can say a little bit idea of what's in the $2.1 million of remaining debt. From a cash flow perspective, we generated about $8 million of cash from financing activities largely related to the rights offering. We used the net about $370,000 of cash in investing, and that's the result of purchasing the spans center for TCCI or [indiscernible] (00:09:51) wholesale monitoring company in March, unless the proceeds we received from selling a lot of car wash, which was about a little over 900,000 again also in March, and then we used about $2.9 million of cash in the first nine months in operating activities between our losses and some amounts going the other way or reductions in our receivables and inventory.

Next, I'm going to go to the statement of operations. A couple of highlights on sales. First of all, I'll speak about sales for three months ended September versus the same period last year. Sales were down between those two periods of about $1.2 million or 26%. By far, the largest piece of that was in our [indiscernible] source division, IBS, which decreased about was about 80% of that decrease or decreased almost $1 million. And I'd mentioned in 10-Q and in some other discussions, [indiscernible] decrease was related to the key manager of that division leaving earlier in the year. More significantly, [ph] Saudi our main supplier and not renewing the company's distributor relationship and then compacted with Sony and our other vendors having difficulty getting product for us to sell. But with the tsunami that happened in Japan in the early part of the year, so that operation took a severe hit. And as we said, we moved on to selling it in October here to [indiscernible] and merging in with a very similar operation that they have. As far as other decrease in sales for the quarter. We had some decrease about 380,000 in our professional in our small business equipment operation and we had a positive growth of about $260,000 at our cycle station and a slight decline of about $100,000 in our preferred base person defense operation. And of nine months somewhat similar trends were down about $2.8 million nine months this year versus last or about 21% about 75% of that decrease, again, relates to industrial relations source about a $1 million relates relates to the professional home and small business or increase in the central stations about a little over $500,000 for the nine months in our Mace personal defense operations are down about 5% year to year for nine months. On a sequential basis, our sales are up slightly from about $3,466,000 in the second quarter to $3,514,000 in the third quarter. The increases are within professional – I'm sorry, in personal defense, the monitoring station and the professional home and small business. And the only decline really was continued declines within the IBS sector for the last two quarters. And just a couple of comments on sales by the different divisions and in Mike will be adding some color to that. But here from our personal defense operation, as I mentioned, we're down a little bit year to date and quarter to quarter. We are happy to report that our aerosol operations are up about 6%, both for the quarter and year to date. We see continued strong asset sales on some of our products we've introduced in the last couple of years our paint unit, our jogger, our presence on very, very well. This we contribute to continue to get into new retailers such as Pep Boys, Amazon, just increasing our SKUs and some of our past retailers. So we're really excited about that, that the reason for some of the decline is in some of our other products line mainly the TGR products, which we have those large units in embassies and prisons are non-aerosol products, which is largely our wireless home security system. Those items are down a little bit. Our international sales are down a little bit. Some of that is needed to put in transition some new sales efforts in place by a key salesperson who passed away earlier in the year and we're transitioning through that but we took a little bit of a lag on that -- So -- so the good news is our [indiscernible] stay strong and we're working hard to get the other ones up. And again, Mike will speak more on that in a few moments here. Professional and home and small business. Again, as I mentioned, that down both nine months and for the quarter continued challenges with slowing economy. We are continuing to see more competition from Asian manufacturers on direct. We lost a significant customer during 2011 which didn't help or continue to work to replace that revenue. We're working to continue to reduce the costs. We've made additional cost reductions, which again, Mike will speak of, and we're really working to bring that thing to at least the break even and then positive operations. IBS, as I mentioned, we sold out in October for price of 517,000 with potential for another $100,000, if we or I should say, if the buyer maintains at least an average of $50,000 a month of revenues in the first three months of operations, it's on the books or was on the books for about $460,000. So depending on if we get $100,000 or not. Now, in either case, we will have a gain when we dispose of that in the fourth quarter. For Mace Central Station, again, our wholesale monitoring operation. We've seen some nice growth there quarter-to-quarter and nine months to nine months. We're up approximately 33% for three months or about $260,000. That's three months, September of this year versus last year. $260,000, about $218,000, $220,000 is attributable to the acquisition of Mace – I'm sorry, TCCI in March. The other $40,000 or so is growth on our original business. So, nice to see both of those things. Nine months we're up about 22% or a little over $500,000 by $425,000 is related to TCCI acquisition. The other $90,000 roughly is again growth on the base business. And sequentially we're up about $43,000, about 4% by the second or third quarter. So, again, we're continuing to see some growth there. That's a typical building business to stay ahead of the normal attrition rate and we're staying positive, which is good.

I said, Mike, we'll be making a couple other comments on Mace CS and how our integration has gone. From the gross margin perspective, some big picture numbers here. If you look at the base of our statements of operations, we say this year we're at about a 31% margin versus 31% last year. That's somewhat sheltered by the fact that we took a $200,000 additional reserve against our product surveillance equipment. We basically took a hard look at some items that we would rather stop selling in the normal course of business to focus on our most recent lines. And we're looking to liquidate that inventory. So, again, we wanted to reserve it down to a very low liquidation value.

so we, we took another $200,000 of reserve without that reserve wanted to cost itself our gross profit would have been at about 37% for the quarter and 36% year-to-date again versus 31% last year and 30% for nine months last year. So we'll have that $200,000, we've seen about 6% margin improvement and it's really mostly related to mix in 2010 IBS which is a, which was a very low margin business, 12% to 15% accounted for about 23% of our revenues for nine months this year to count only about 10% to 11% with Mace personal defense now accounting for 35%. Our laundry station accounting for 27%. So those businesses running base personal defense runs a 45% margin in the wholesale monitoring company where transitioning still going on is in the 35% margin range. So it's organically picks up our margin and, you know, we will continue to [indiscernible] there. Couple comments on SG&A costs. On our financials, our SG&A changed from roughly $7.2 million last year for nine months to $7 million. So it doesn't sound like much of a reduction, but when we back out what I call notable items, it's about $900,000 in the current year and about $300,000 last year. That change is more like about 6.9% to about 6.1%, which is about an $800,000 or 12% decline. And the number of items in the current year, 900,000 in there's about $0.5 million between each of payments to, to our ex-CEO and to our ex-president of the personal defense operation, including taxes and some benefits and vacation time and the, and rest of it, the other $400,000 is a couple of items, including $400,000 is a couple of items, including we settled the contract in personal defense and we got rid of a direct set line of business, which cost us a hit of about $105,000, plus $30,000 of which was cash and the rest was giving back inventory that we had determined was was not sellable. So again, I was like, look at the estimate without these unusual items for the quarter. The 10-K says we went from $2.1 million to about $2.8 million. $2.2 million to $2.8 million. Again, without the significant items in the current September quarter, which were about $800,000, $900,000 was in the third quarter or SG&A is pretty much a wash down of about $100,000 from about $2.1 million, it's about $1.92 million. So again, about 4.8% or $100,000 that September quarter versus last without the unusual items. And in those reductions, we still do have increases because of the acquisition of TCCI. That acquisition account for about $150,000 of SG&A in the nine months and about $90,000 in this most recent quarter. And some of that is also transition costs, redundancy for leases, equipment for own bills such as we're moving everything over to the Anaheim location from TCCI's prior California location. I also want to note our head count usually does at least start off with a town of about 184 people in 2012 – middle 2008. Excluding the car washes, we were at the end of 2010 about 120 people, and at the end of September, we're down about 113 people. So we continue to reduce head count, environmentally responsible. Further comments on operating loss, for operating loss for the nine months an operating loss or operating loss from the nine months as reported is 10.6 million versus -- I'm sorry, 3.9 million versus 8.5 million last year. And a lot of unusual things now we had impairment charges, the SG&A costs I just mentioned and the inventory adjustment so we back on all that on an apples-to-apples basis this year for nine months, our operating loss would have been about 2.7 versus 3.4 last year. So, that's about a 20% reduction. We're about 670,000 again, when you normalize those. So we're you know, despite the decrease in revenue, we've somewhat contained the situation in our operating income from discontinued operations standpoint. Just a couple of comments here. Again, that the car washes this year, last year car washes and the digital media business. Our loss this year was $260,000. When you back out, the fact that we had impairments of about 260,000, what that says for the third quarter, we're break even cash flow from the car washes. For nine-months the loss was 296,000 from discontinued operations, backing out the 260 impairments and about 71,000 were a loss. We saw the [indiscernible] in March. We were for the year to September at about a positive 35,000 and cash flow. So again, we've stopped the bleeding on the discontinued operations and had a little bit positive year-to-date and last year we had significant losses and that was really related to pretty significant write downs or impairments of the media marketing business and we've turned those about 7.2 million last year. So that caused most of the -- to the $7.9 million of discontinued operational loss last year. Few of the notable items, I would like to comment on the assets held-for-sale as exposure to subsequent events. Note we sold our I'm sorry we have reissued or resigned a new agreement to sell the [ph] corner 00:23:48 number one carwash for $2.1 million. This was the same price we had with a previous party, the current party we entered into with they shared with the company preliminary financing indications. They have already started the due diligence process. The agreement calls for a 75 day close from the November 9 agreement date. So we hope to get this close by the middle to the end of next January. The net book value on that side is about $2 million with debt of about $590,000. So we look to, to net about [ph] $950,000 00:24:27 in cash and record a gain on that disposal.

Of Corner number 3, we still have for sale and we have a listed with an agent and we hope to sell that as well in the next couple of months to quarters. A comment on our Farmers Branch, Farmers Branch, Texas warehouse, that warehouse we signed an agreement to sell it in August for about $1,830,000. We are looking for that to close at this point, the middle of December, and that's on the books for about $1,000,007. So with the estimated commissions and closing costs, we wrote, fulfilling out of our $20,000 at September. So that when we report the sale, it will be a breakeven transaction with debt of about $500,000, which should net about $1.2 million on that disposal. Again, hoping for that to close in the middle of December. From a net operating loss perspective. We have NOLs at the beginning of the year of about $51 million. Currently there of about $51 million. Currently, they're at $55 million and they begin to expire in increments next year and they go to the latter basis through 2031. So again, NOLs at about $55 million.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Michael Smith, our CEO.

Thanks [indiscernible] . The key accomplishment for the third quarter was the completion of the rights offering, which allow Mace to continue as an ongoing operation. Since the end of August, we've made significant headway to reduce costs and refocus the company on a path to profitability. Our actions include the cost reductions of $1 million, primarily from corporate expenses and the electronic surveillance equipment division in Florida. We eliminated the Walnut Creek office in California. Also, the development of a detailed and aggressive go to market plan to focus on our core business of Mace pepper spray and our wholesale monitoring central station, while minimizing our CCTV and video business losses and redirecting them to the development of consumer products will be sold through our new direct sales organization being formed in Vermont. Our Central Station Mace CS completed the physical integration of [ph] GCCI in July. We continue internally to integrate this business and expect all aspects to be completed by the end of the year. We've added 22,500 accounts to our base and are now at over 65,000 accounts. We continue to focus our efforts on achieving the synergies and maintaining our service levels. We are aggressively on the hunt for acquisitions in this $1 million to $4 million range for the business, along with our management team. We've engaged several M&A industry experts to identify these opportunities. We have seen very little activity in the space over the past three months and currently have no tuck-in acquisitions in our pipeline. We have also engaged outside a representative firm to assist our sales manager at Mace CS and General Manager to identify and acquire existing accounts. We are focused on the California, Oregon and Washington State area.

Moving on to the Security Products Division, which sells CCTV and video products. We continue to see sales degradation. As a lot of products in the market, the invasion of fare east suppliers going direct to end user customers and the loss of one of our major customers have caused our sales to slide lower each month. To combat this, MSP has been resized with head count reductions and a reduced revenue plan to break even by December.

Our strategy going forward is to work down the current inventory position while refocusing the small group on sourcing and packaging products for the consumer market that we can distribute through our new direct sales channel being developed in Vermont.

As Bret said a little earlier, we also finally divested the IVS division. We had sold the Dallas Warehouse or we're under contract to sell Dallas warehouse with the December close.

Now, moving on to the MPC Group or the one that sells pepper spray. John Goodrich, who was the President of that group has left the company and he's under he basically left on September 30th. And we are under the indemnification of our bylaws to continue to be responsible for his legal expenses. I am now the President of the division and we've hired Paul Crouch as a Vice President of Sales. Paul's a seasoned veteran with over 20 years of consumer products, experience and will supervising guide the direct sales and indirect sales channels. Again, our plan is to basically add direct salespeople to that to that group that will be able to go south through the CCP, the products to consumers and to the major, major retailers. We see this pepper spray division as a significant opportunity for growth. The strong organic sales, coupled with the possible acquisitions that make this a very attractive opportunity for us, and we now are going to focus on getting Mace back to its core strength. Our intent is to have national account sales managers to directly call on large national big box retailers, while maintaining our current manufacturers, reps and distributors that are serving our sporting goods, automotive and outdoor markets. Our intent is to move into markets such as the mass merchandise throws and supermarkets based on impulse sales. We will drive new product development for these markets and begin to rationalize our existing product offering. We will continue to be the high value, high quality, high price leader in the industry.

In summary, we have a clear vision and plan going forward for our business units. We have cleaned up most of the lingering issues we have cut expenses and developed a go to market plan that adds key sales management, direct sales and focused marketing efforts on our core pepper spray business.

So with that, Greg, I guess we would open up to questions.

[indiscernible] whenever you are ready for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management. Your line is open.

Hi. A few quick – I have a bunch of questions I'll ask if you can get back out into the queue for others to ask if there are any. Mike, Greg, are there any redundancies remaining at the end of Q3 in the central station from the TCCI acquisition to reduce in the future or the current quarter. And can you kind of quantify them?

Yeah, well, I can start that Andrew and Greg if you want to add. The answer to that is, yeah, we're still going through the integration. And we're basically focused on two things. We're focused obviously on hitting the integration plan that we had first. And we're also looking at servicing. So it's really coming down to labor and service. And the answer is, yes, we believe by the end of the year we will get synergies out of there. And so that effect that we're really right in the process of doing the integration, the physical integration was done. But it's really coming down to looking at automation and looking at all the things that we have to do basically to make us more efficient after adding the 22,500 accounts. So we're not there right now, but obviously we – every day we work closer and closer to that.

But the dual and...

I think...

...and kind of the dual fixed costs are no longer there.

That's correct.

Correct. Yeah.

Physically, it was all merged together at the end of July. And as Mike said, we're really just coming through automation. We need to do some more integrated video response system for the telephones, for training, as Mike said, via the new accounts, which is 90 dealers on our billing systems and really getting to the point where we've integrated those folks in. But until we get through that really still through August right through now it's taking a little more time but we'd have it done by end of the year.

We still have – we still have work to do Andrew that to really wring out all of the synergies. I mean, we're seeing some but we're not seeing you know, we're not seeing what we wanted. We – we're working on that. It really comes down to – comes down to really the labor side of it and the service levels balancing those two.

And you mentioned in the script that

And you mention in the script that you currently do not have any acquisitions in the pipeline. I was wondering what might have happened to those where there was purportedly at least some level of interest that the company did not yet have the money to those businesses get sold to someone else rolling up the industry or they did not that those sellers really weren't ready to sell. Or is it a matter of price in multiple?

Yeah. No, I don't think it's that. I think it's really I think some of the when and I can really talk to the times that I've been here, but that was probably the top priority that we had. And we we worked with with our General Manager, VP and General Manager Morgan out there. And I mean, some of the things that were on the radar screen were just too big for us to digest, you know, $10 million to $15 million acquisitions. We we really haven't seen there's just not very much activity in that space size or the one before, you know, the $1 billion to $4 billion that we're looking at. Again, three of the opportunities that we had were, you know, $10 million to $16 million opportunities. And there's just not that really you know, there's there's more buyers out there right now than there are central stations for sale. And I mean, we continue to have talks. We I mean, we're we're very active. As I said, we brought in industry, you know, for industry M&A specialists to actually, you know, actually put while retainer. So, I mean, we are actively scouring everything. I mean, we're we're on top of it. I mean, the good news is that Morgan with his team out there, you know, continue to – to, you know, grow the business despite the fact that we don't have any acquisitions. But we'll be over I guarantee you that we're very comfortable that we're covering all the grounds, that the only other acquisition that, you know, that we've run across is one that we negotiated with the owners.

and they don't want to move the central station. And that doesn't work for us. I mean, when we buy it we need something and we don't have that luxury to just multiple central stations.

Right. Okay.

No. There is no. At this point we don't have anything that we're actively in the due diligence process or dealing with them right now.

Okay. And regarding the onetime charges, I just want to clarification, the charge for and termination of the contract with the deer spray vendor was that went through SG&A or cost of goods sold?

I put that for SG&A. I looked at as a strong expense cancellation of a contract. So, good question.

Okay. The -

I'll answer, just so you know, the background on that was – it's the product that was released a couple of years ago. And we unfortunately had entered into a long-term supply contract with that person. That was a valid solid contract that we needed to negotiate our way out of that. And because we actually didn't sell any of the products.

Okay. Now, the inventory, the days inventory at the end of September remains quite high. And I'm trying to understand what are the risks, the remaining risks in this inventory after you've taken a $200,000 write down in the security products division. But what are the remaining risks in the overall inventory and what division is the biggest remaining risk and inventory, is it the person on the personal defense spray or is still the surveillance area? So you have an inventory – [indiscernible] (00:37:09)

It still – The biggest risk, I mean, it's the surveillance business and it's primarily DVRs, cameras, monitors, things like that. So, that's really where the bulk of So, that's really where the bulk of all that is based personal defense inventory is actually -- actually very, very good. But that's where the risk is – Craig, do you want?

Yeah, yeah. Sure. I mean just give you more color on that in detail. The inventory and for [indiscernible] our personal defense was about 1.3 million at the end of September. And again that -- that turns out fairly well. We really aren't, you know, stockpiling anything. We order this the supplies, the components just in time. We manufacture literally the week or two weeks in advance to keep it fresh so that I'm very comfortable with this moving well. And the remainder, about 1.6 million, 1.7 million that September was in May security products within that was about 350,000. So, we take that amount out unless the reserve really have about 1.3 million of remaining inventory there again with the subsequent event. The disposition ended at 1.3 million about 1.1 -- is really pretty new inventory product that we developed late last year, early this year and the newer lines of business and maybe, you know, $150,000 of really reserve went down older stuff that we're working on liquidating so -- so I think from a balance sheet perspective we're pretty well covered and you know, prior being challenges within that million dollars of more current products in the electronic business.

Okay. What is -- what is paid off. It sounds as if on the debt you went through it, you had the mortgage on the warehouse which will get taken care of when it's gone. You've got a mortgage on the Arlington Carwash, which would get taken care of when it's paid off and then bring in foreign notes. And that's about it. And some letters of credit.

Yeah, we have about $150,000

Yeah. We have about $150,000 of capitalize leases and equipment that was many of those which were inherited. And then the remaining of that with [indiscernible]

Okay. And regarding that remaining note with [indiscernible] it has a convertible feature which is called obviously all this derivative stuff, not the avionics, but what I want is to get a handle on is there's some time horizons here for which they have either to convert it or to lock in certain features. Subsequent to the close of the rights offering. Can you simplify that and break that down in English as to how long in particular they have to convert if you have an indication what their plans are?

Sure. I mean, as far as the conversion, they have the opportunity to first of all the opportunity to ask for payment on the debt from September 27 right through on March 27, 2012. So it's after March 27, 2012. The note is not called to be paid off, then it extends automatically to maturity date of March of 2016. And then any time from now through of the ultimate maturity of March of 2016, the loan can be converted into stock at $0.21 a share, which would be, I believe, about 6,666,666 share.

Right. Is that $0.21 a share locked down or is that a trailing measurement?

No it's locked down it was measured at 10 trading days after starting to be negative after the 30 trading day after the rights offer was completed. So that is a locked in number now.

Okay. I have other questions I'll back out in the queue in case someone else has some questions. But please come back to me.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Richard Ginsburg with G3 Capital Partners. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. I'm in the shareholders company. And Greg, I appreciate the little intro. Very helpful. On the wholesale side of the business, are there any deal or concentration issues in that 55,000 account base?

Well, I mean, I will tell you, Richard, that about 92% of those dealers are in California. So mean we just disclosed that concentration that actually in our risk factors, the other 8% or within about 8 to 10 different states, pretty much, you know, West Coast type states are the main concentration that I measure.

Great. Fairly big, like dealers that are like 10% or 15% of the RMR, for example, that that could be a silver company or move out.

There's nobody. That's [indiscernible] . Let's begin.

Yeah. If you look at – Yeah, if you look at – yeah, if you look at the, you know we have 490 dealers for roughly 65,000 end users. On averages I think it's about 130 and 135 end users per dealer. So, you know, there's -- there's not -- there's not a -- there really isn't like an 80-20 rule going on here. It's really pretty well dispersed.

And sir, all the typical details like that, possibly finance helping these dealers with financing their accounts or, you know, partnering up with someone to offer financing as a way to attract new dealers and maybe, you know, keep existing ones.

He's talking more about the deals on a wholesale margin business?

Yes.

We have not looked at anything like that. There is nothing we have started to do recently, which we decided to have some revenues, finding more and more of a discussion probably more of a discussion item in the fourth quarter is actually selling more starting to sell some equipment. Video monitoring equipment, surveillance equipment to dealers, which is nice because, you know, not only are we making some profit margin on those equipment but we're securing RMR reoccurring monthly revenue and especially video products as much nicer rate than just a normal hour long monitoring. So we have movements on average, but we haven't done any kind of finance at this point.

All right, great. I appreciate the detail on the call. Great. Thanks guys. Best of luck. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management. Your line is open.

Okay. Some follow up questions here, Mike. You mentioned about $1 million of costs. I mean, there have been identified or extractive wanted to get a clarification and they've already been extracted. And when we refer to the number, whether it's a million or whatever in costs. I've been here for a while. I've seen multiple reworks that have been intended to cut costs and then the representation of those cost cutting. There's always this look back where it all seems to be cumulative and adding on and I'm kind of just interested in what's been cut and coming out of future costs and adding to getting us to breakeven from the end of the last quarter or when you started on as CEO?

Yeah. The answer to that, Andrew, is basically the million dollars in cost cuts, the majority of them have already been have already been taken out. There are things, for example, when we sell the warehouse, let's say that's included in some of those reductions we have. There are a couple of personnel like our HR person that we've that we put on a contract that will end at the end of the year, but that's minimal.

That and – we have a small consulting agreement with one of our IT guys who was out in California. Yeah. That's a -- I think a total of $20,000 over the year. But other than that, sort of the physical assets of those people, these costs that have been removed from the business. So we should see the impact of that, certainly in the first quarter of next year. In regards to any circle backs or additions or any that. The answer is no. The only thing that we don't have in our numbers that we'll be dealing with in our planning process is we are planning to bring in three major account national account, direct sales managers, okay, in the [ph] Vermont. And that will be part of our planning and that will be added back with all of the marketing expenses and all people are basically out of that number. So there's no circle back with any other than three direct salespeople that will begin selling for the big box retailers direct. This is the, I think first time that in a big way that we've done that. But we think the conditions are right. We're very comfortable. If you take a look in our business and from that most of it is sort of planned businesses, the sporting goods, the hunters, the runners, the vacations to go on time basis plan. But if you take a look at the auto aftermarket and you look at the placement of stores, for example, that [ph] boys were right up front by the point sale, I mean, we're seeing the impulse sale scenario and [indiscernible] to be brought on board is coming from a very similar space where we took a business that was $4 million and drove with over $25 million doing exactly what we're trying to do, which is doing the mass merchandisers. And I think we've proven that with this year's K-Mart account, that's everybody's feeling as they have done up in Vermont. I mean, we've seen some big benefits when you go to those customers direct, two things happen one it had better margins until you get better margins until you get bigger quantity. And that's really where we're focused on moving volume and we've got great margins there. We think that we're going to be able to maintain them because we have a very strong manufacturing group as well up in Vermont. So, we're very comfortable with the strategy and comfortable that the time is right, that we get back to the core business and really try to grow -- drive growth out of it.

Okay. A few follow-up questions on your answers here regarding the warehouse sales. So, where will the current ops that are housed there? Presumably with IVS gone, it'll be a lot smaller. Where will they get moved to and thus creating, they reduce costs?

Yes. What we're looking at, at least some of lease space -- leases are very attractive right now. So, we're working with -- with a broker that we've narrowed down to a couple of spaces. And we're looking at to lease about 17,000 to 18,000 feet of warehouse that we're talking about 45,000 feet, which include about 5,000 – 6,000 of office space where we definitely don't need the kind of space we've had. Again, we're finding a loaded real estate warehouse in the $6 and $4.25 cent range. So, we feel pretty comfortable that we can drop our costs on an annual basis by $85,000 to $90,000 a year by shutting the warehouse and moving into some very well priced.

But you'll stay in Texas.

Yeah. I'm not looking to sell so many locations.

How credible is the buyer and what is the deposit?

I think it's very credible. What's -- what's nice about is a buyer for use versus an investor. It's a buyer who is buying. It's a business the building was built for, which was the ceramic tile and marble industry, he is very serious about it. He put up a $50,000 deposit. He was already supposed to close at November 15. His financing needed a couple more weeks. We actually have $50,000 money when [indiscernible] was deposited in our account. And they're really focused on maybe even trying to close before December 15. So, that is very incredible and I think it's very, very highly probable what's going to happen.

Okay. And following up on a further part of Mike's answer, regarding consumer products and building out a direct sales force and all that, a direct sales force bill that was attempted in – under the prior regime in the electronic surveillance, and it was attempted not once but twice, and where we incurred a bunch of fixed costs. And I did not get the benefit of increased sales. What is it that you're doing or how you're structuring things so that perhaps we're on a much more variable basis with your build out of a direct sales force for this division?

Well, I mean, basically, as far as the surveillance business, I mean, from a standpoint of consumer versus professional, I mean, the market is just in total disarray. So, I'm not – I don't really know exactly what happened in the past with the sales guys and why they didn't work out. I wasn't involved in any of that. But that's not where we're investing. I mean, we – the [Technical Difficulty] (00:50:49) understand that our drivers [indiscernible] rid of all that inventory that we have, we need to do that because we have a fair amount. Okay. And we have work for those guys that are in [indiscernible] right now. We're actually hiring some commission sales guys to do that, that we don't have any overhead other than paying commission to.

Now shift just back up to Vermont. I mean, that business at $5 million is absolutely right to have threats. National account manager is calling on major retailers. We have the name. We believe we have the products. We're going to have to do some more product development is really haven't done much product development out of Vermont in the last couple of years. But we truly believe and from my experiences that will be very, very successful, we'll see and the impulse sales strategy work at the Sears and Kmarts. And we believe that we're going to be able to penetrate some very large accounts and drive significant revenue and significant profitability out of that division.

And do you have an estimated time horizon for which we should circle back with you on accountability for success for that effort?

Yeah. I mean, I would tell you that the second half of the I mean, we still have to go out and we still have to we have our sales in place. We still have to bring these folks on and we have to get them prepared. But, you know, we fully expect that the new salespeople to bring in, you know, a significant amount of revenue for the last six months of 2012, is in a year. This is a year, you know, a year process. We're going to bring experienced people in and out of them and, you know, and then hit the Targets and the Wal-Marts and...

But those guys, they have a process. Don't they have a time consuming process?

We'll have, yeah I mean, it's all based on it's all based on time of year. But we should be hitting that process at the right time if we can bring people on you know, in January, obviously, if we wait till the second half of the year, then then that will we will miss the process. But we have all that our new sales manager has all of the all the processes down. He knows exactly when the buying cycle sorry he comes from a literally a business that's right next door to us which is, you know mosquitos sprays and after fighting and, you know, those type of products. So he's dealing with a lot of the same buyers. He's impacted those people like their sole targets at Walmart, you know, and a lot of the other big box retailers. So that's really where we're focused.

Now you said as long as you put things in place in, you know, by around January and you set in place in Vermont in January, I saw the company exercised its option on the Vermont leaves to extend the May 2012. What's the thinking on plans for this location after that relative to a more if there is a more efficient place to house and to run direct sale?

I mean, I think the plan is we signed a six month lease or extended at least for another six months. I think all of that's being evaluated. We haven't made any decisions about that at this point.

Right.

We certainly have the opportunity to see staying home.

If you're hiring people to be direct sales with the idea of they'll be located in Vermont.

No, that's the national account the national account managers will basically be spread out regionally. It will not work out of the Vermont office.

Okay. Okay.

They will be selling around the country.

Okay. All right. Then let's see here. Have a few other remaining questions and CBD for sure. Is there any update on the shipboard defense systems and their interest in doing a trial order for one of their trips in one of their ships in the anti-piracy market?

No. The last discussion that I had with Jane Goodrich was that there wasn't really any interest he was having actually couldn't even find who was actually would actually be fined for that.

so the answer is no, I don't think there is any interest at this point.

Okay. The asset impairment charge on a car wash, that is that is not the car wash that was just put under contract, but a different one. Is that right?

Yeah, that's correct. And it is a different one.

And is that, is that what we think would be necessary to get these other car washes out of here in addition to obviously the current Arlington one under contract?

That's exactly right. That was my thought process. I wanted to ask, you know you can ask anything you want, but I got some, lot of advice in the last quarter on, you know what I might need the price to get rid of these other ones and, you know I just wanted to make sure I was in a position to move just quickly [indiscernible]

And, and this the current colonial one, the large one in Arlington that's under contract now. What makes you think this is just different buyer is more credit worthy than, than the last one and that this one's going to close you have deposits other clauses in the contract?

Yeah. I mean, you know, I guess [indiscernible] you're after the first buyer I was a little bit more cautious entering into, into an agreement, you know, get some fresh reading, understanding the net worth of the investor behind this new group and understanding better where they are in their financing and actually have some letters, preliminary indications banks based on them already reviewing the background of the investors and the plan that that, you know, they're ready to move forward soon as due diligence was done. So I, we just did a little bit more homework and before we entered into an agreement and so any kind of escrow deposit, we did take a $50,000 escrow deposit as well on this site. That will go hard after 30 days of financing and due diligence, period. So, you know, we also asked you that to make sure that they were real [indiscernible]

Okay. And given they're all in the same area and you're buyer for the last ones was the prospective buyer of this one was the prospective buyer of this one, then fell out of bed. And this is a new party entering into the area with this contract. Is there increased interest percolating for your other remaining car washes?

I'll be honest with the last [indiscernible] a lot of interest. The one is the least safe, which we really have on the books for no value at this point. We still have about four years remaining on the lease. And then the other one is a small site that we narrowed down to about 550,000, which I think brokers is on the low side now that we listed with a broker. So I'm going to say about 45 days ago, a pretty well-known car wash broker, he's had about six or seven visitors with the car, two or three have indicated that they are going to be making an offer every single quarter due diligence on information we've provided. So, I won't say that the demand is going crazy. But I think we're down to these will chopper a handful [indiscernible] to do what we need to do to get rid of them.

Yeah. And are these car washes, some of were small money losers and kind of a moneymaker. But are they carrying their weight here as we go into the winter? And what are their prospects for whether you're going to shutter some and real estate instead of having to burn right out of them?

Yeah. I think we do the math just about every month. And right now with the fixed cost, that would be that for real estate taxes and in particular the lease side for lease payments. It depends on the weather per month. The small side of the lease site typically burn a little bit of cash going into the winter months. They are stronger months. We got to mitigate that. But we definitely even if we have a small burn when we sell the site, it'll definitely be a lot less than the fixed cost structure that there was a special ghostly facsimile as a minimum utility so on. Now we're just going to try and run these partners until we get rid of them and we're going to step up that.

Right. And again I think you've mentioned it I didn't write it down. What is the NOL balance right now through quarter end?

About $55 million.

$55 million and your NOL. And lastly, we're currently on the hook for John Goodrich's legal defense costs. What is the status of his legal situation and the company's continued or prospective legal costs? Is there a likelihood of a settlement agreement, a plea bargain or, you know, going all the way where [indiscernible] (00:59:44) will have more costs?

Yeah, I mean, we've really don't know, you know, it's not us to say where John is going to go with this. So he's, I guess, making up his own mind as to whether he's going to be going to trial or whether he's trying to sell it or not. I can tell you that we spent about $70,000 to date, you know, as far as advances go. And I think we disclosed that in the 10-Q, our estimates and talking to our counsel, if it were to go to trial and maybe another $150,000 to $200,000. Obviously, if it doesn't go to trial and it's settled, maybe it's another $20,000, $25,000 of advancements. So obviously, it's a very I guess a pretty big range. But, you know, we, we're continuing to do what was possible in the by laws, where John is not considered, you know.

And the timing for when the decision to go to trial occurs is coming up?

Yeah, I don't know exact date, Andrew. But I would assume it's coming up in the next couple of months. So just by the longevity since we settled our case, which was at the end of last year and so I imagine we closed at the end of last year. So that is going up.

All right. And lastly Mike, with no current acquisition on the horizon inside of the central station, where there's obviously clear synergies, huge margin opportunity on an acquisition and your plans of, building up a direct sales force, which you talked about in terms of payback with organic growth maybe in the second half of 2012. And then your cost...

Andrew I do so the direct sales efforts that we're making will not enter into MACE CS. They will not be involved in that business.

No, yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, I know I understand. It's in the...

Context, sorry.

But with no new acquisitions going on there, it's just going to be organic growth. And then you have this investment in direct sales effort, often the consumer products, but the payback on that, organic payback not expected until second half, 2012. Okay. And then you have these cost cuts you described some of the [ph] millions, annual rate of cost cuts. $6 million at the end of December when you're closing in the warehouse, et cetera. Okay. What are your thoughts as to when you think this company would be at a breakeven cash flow first off ex of public company costs and also breakeven when one even includes public company costs.

Well, I would say Andrew that at this point. I'm not. I mean I mean, basically, we're going through a planning process. I would tell you that, there's no silver bullet here. It's probably going to be it's going to be, measured, somewhere and probably the 18 to 24 months you know, to 28 months of arena as far as I can see, as far as some of the preliminary progressions, I haven't done that.

That's of an acquisition for BCS.

That's that's yes, that's the no acquisition I was interested. But obviously we believe that only I mean, we're going to continue to go after the acquisitions for BCS. And I mean, you know, we're talking to people, but there's nothing solid or concrete. And there may be some acquisitions that we can do certainly over that period, you know, up in the you know, up the pepper spray business. Well, that might complement that. So we're going to actively and are actively looking for opportunities in both of those areas.

Okay. So the goal is to get this burn rate down because we don't want to have to do another money raise.

Exactly.

And it is gone down. And many of these cost cuts, you know, some have kicked in earlier part of the quarter, some were taken in the later part. So it's just the the warehouse, you know. But we do you know, we do feel that that will take, you know, $80,000 a month, maybe someone eight months off the burn as we approach end of the year here. And, you know, so it's a function of getting the revenues up. As Mike said as we move through next year, you know, you need to reduce the problem and that kind of stuff happens in acquisition.

And I guess if you don't make an acquisition or until you make an acquisition, you do still have a boatload of cash.

Yeah, I mean, that's that's exactly right. And I mean, there's no silver bullet here. It's just the, you know, chopping wood and hauling water and really, you know, getting ourselves positioned. We obviously, I think everybody in the company is very aware of what we're trying to build. And I think the guys in Florida understand exactly where they're at. We're trying to convert them over. I mean, we do see an opportunity to take some of the CCTV business and repackage it, put it into the retail channel. I mean, the guys in Vermont right now are selling you know, selling a wireless -- wireless burglar system that we're doing, you know, just under $0.5 million bucks a year ahead. So we think there's that opportunity. I was talking to Jorge Martinez. The margins on the consumer business out of Florida are certainly much better than the professional. It's just that, you know, we need to get the inventory down, down there and make the conversion over that without having a loss. I mean, we can't take the kind of losses with the big ones, but I think everybody is -- and everybody is working in the same direction and everybody understands what we have to do. But we definitely think that going back to the basics and the pepper spray side of it is a real opportunity for growth while, you know, supporting, you know, working and the people that may see us. And believe me, if there's an acquisition that we -- we see that makes sense to us. I don't -- I don't think at this point the multiples and I mean the multiples that we've been talking to these guys are, are actually, we think, you know, reasonable multiples. So I think it's just finding these opportunities.

And, and with respect to the Mace brands, especially with the company's newfound emphasis on the consumer products division. To the extent you guys license the brand name to credible partners in product lines that we're not in are going to go with. That would certainly be efforts. But we have not -- we've not done that yet. I mean, we're -- we're really focused. I mean, we've going after volume right now. We need to get -- we need to get these guys on board and we need to get in front of major retailers because we think, again, with everything going on in the world and all of the unrest and all of the unhappiness, we think that there's a great opportunity coupled with, you know, putting in front of vendors and, you know, securing it with, you know, anti-shoplifting so that we can drive a lot of business everywhere from you know, college students all the way up through grandparents and all of the impulse buy that, you know, $50 or $60 a pop.

Great. Thank you very much. No more questions for me.

There are no further questions in queue. I turn the call back over to presenters.

Well, thank you very much. We appreciate everybody on the line and we look forward to talking to you in the future. Thank you.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.