Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Elliott Mark Barrus — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Mace Security International, Inc.
Gary E. Medved — President & Chief Executive Officer, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management LLC
Vijay J. Marolia — Analyst, Regal Point Capital Management, LLC
Thurman L. Willis — President, Thurman Willis, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Mace Security International First Quarter Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to hand the conference call over to your speaker today, Mr. Mark Barrus. Please go ahead.

Thank you, JP; and good afternoon, everyone. With me is Gary Medved, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mace. Please visit mace.com Investor Relations, where you can find additional materials, including the financial statements and OTC report for the quarter ended March 31, 2020.

Before proceeding, I would like to point out that certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected and intended to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties including, but not limited to economic conditions, limited capital resources, impact of the current COVID-19 health emergency and the ability of management to effectively manage the business. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I will now turn the call over to Gary to comment on the first quarter 2020 operational results.

Thank you, Mark. I'm very pleased with Mace's performance in the first quarter of 2020, which is the result of the hard work of all dedicated Mace associates in a very difficult climate. The quarter also represents continued execution against our financial priority of sustainable profitability. And we will continue to build our net financial performance in 2020.

From a net sales perspective, we are pleased that our customers continue to recognize the value of the Mace brand and the exciting new products and packaging that we have been introducing. We gained several significant new customers, including a national automotive retail chain, as well as a large national travel center operator in the quarter. We also had a large national retail chain and another large automotive specialty retailer add new product placements.

As a result of the national health emergency, while we saw many of our larger brick-and-mortar customers continue to operate, we believe others in our consumer channel saw reduced foot traffic or were forced to close entirely. Our e-commerce channel was somewhat impacted by supply chain issues, specifically delivery issues due to re-prioritizing of product delivery towards essential supplies, but saw the supply chain stabilized toward the end of the quarter and more of the traditional buying pattern re-emerge.

In the quarter, we also invested in the business and the brand by completing a significant national consumer insight study. We gained a number of very valuable data points about target audience opportunities, opportunities to better educate our customers and specific product features that the marketplace is demanding. Through the remainder of 2020, we will act on these insights.

We also continued our disciplined expense performance throughout the quarter, with significant year-over-year reductions in discretionary professional services, salaries and wages, and a more focused use of e-commerce advertising compared to a year ago. This disciplined spending has helped lower our breakeven point, so that we can continue our EBITDA generation on a sustainable quarter-in/quarter-out basis as we have done for the past two quarters.

I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss details behind the financial performance.

Thank you, Gary. First quarter net sales were $2.791 million, a 290 basis point increase from $2.712 million last year. This increase of net sales was due primarily to increases to existing brick-and-mortar customers, a significant increase in international sales, while somewhat offset by a decline in tactical sales compared with the same period in 2019. Gross profit increased $41,000 or 390 basis points to $1.081 million or 38.7% of net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared with $1.040 million or 38.3% of net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to increased sales volumes.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter decreased by $937,000 to $881,000 or 31.6% of net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared with $1.818 million or 67% of net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The prior year's quarter was heavily influenced by executive severance and other salary expenses, large nonrecurring legal and professional spend and a noncash charge for stock compensation expense in the quarter ended 3/31/19, as more fully explained in our OTCQX quarterly report.

As a result of the above, net income improved by $976,000 to net income of $120,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which equals 4.3% of net sales compared with a net loss of $856,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2019. EBITDA for the first quarter 2020 was $240,000 or 8.6% of net sales compared to a EBITDA of negative $736,000 in the same quarter of 2019 or a $976,000 improvement. First quarter adjusted EBITDA was $270,000 compared to negative $223,000 in Q1 2019 or a $493,000 improvement.

From a liquidity perspective, we saw net increase in cash and cash equivalents of $76,000 from December 31, 2019, to March 31, 2020. The undrawn portion of our line of credit was $900,000 as of March 31, 2020. As disclosed in the financial statements, due to current economic uncertainty necessary to support the ongoing operations, as well as the limited ability for us to access capital markets in a timely manner, the company applied for and was granted a Paycheck Protection Program loan through the US Small Business Administration in the amount of $619,000.

I will now turn the call back to Gary, who will discuss outlook and priorities for the remainder of 2020.

Thank you, Mark. In summary, I believe we are now seeing the result of our transformation paying off through improved SG&A and manufacturing cost, new customers and increased product placements for 2020 retailer resets and the resulting sequential improvement to EBITDA throughout 2019 and into the first quarter of 2020.

We are mindful that the unprecedented COVID-19 health emergency and the impact it had and will continue to have on consumer spending in brick-and-mortar retail channel make the outlook for the next quarter, and potentially beyond, an uncertain one. In response, we are appropriately redirecting capital and resources to areas of the business in which we see greater near-term returns.

At this time, I will stop and open the line to questions. I would ask each caller to limit themselves to one question with one follow-on to allow everyone a chance to participate. If we have additional time, we will try to get back into the queue.

Operator, please open the line for question.

Yes, sir. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thank you. Can you hear me okay?

Yes, we can, Andrew.

Okay. We always have to ask it these days since we're all at home. With the sales rebounding slightly but still below your recent highs in 2018 and early 2019, can you clarify or kind of walk us through a little bit more about what you're doing in various channels to grow the sales from your various revenue streams to higher heights?

Well, the brick-and-mortar retail channel first, which is the bulk of our business. I think everybody knows what we're doing there already. And the new packaging, the new colors, the new products, it's all resonating – the family approach is resonating with retailers. And for where we are right now, in this environment, we're pretty happy with the performance in brick-and-mortar retail.

Private label, I think, their season, this time of the year, is a good hit for us. And there's some movement in delivery of orders that shifted out of March into April, and I think that had an impact. Internationally we're strong up to date. And when I look at the – all things e-commerce, if you will, there's a strong focus on those channels right now that both Sanjay, our Executive Chairman, and I are focused on together, getting a lot of our attention.

And at the end of the day, Andrew, we got our foot on the gas on all these channels, and we're not letting up anywhere. We're still doing category reviews, although virtually. As we said in our opening comments, we are getting product placement, we are landing new retailers, but there has been a hit with foot traffic. And so, overall, I think we're quite pleased with the results, given the economic climate that we're all in right now.

Okay. And as a follow-up, of the accounts added during the quarter and the year, can you identify the more notable or larger? Ones and of the accounts recently added last quarter or the quarter before last, have these accounts sold through their initial inventory build? And what's been your reorder experience this quarter, especially with the disruption in foot traffic?

Well we don't expose names of our retailers in calls like this. But whenever there's a reset in the retailer, chances are it's taken place in late Q1, which has been our experience, okay. And so, the accounts that we added, there was one in the earlier part of the year, which we've got rewarded for; and then the second, late quarter one add. And the new products are late quarter one adds as well, simply because that's the calendar that retail is on.

So, again, we've been saying all during 2019, we have to push hard to get these category reviews, these meetings. We did that. Decisions were made late last year for spring resets this year. And so far, nobody's put us on hold, or cancelled their decisions, or changed their minds from what we were told last fall. So, now, it's just a question of retail rolling them out, and some may be delayed. There's others coming on board, products in our customers in Q2. We'll talk more about those at the end of Q2. But everything that we thought was going to happen last fall is taking place now, okay, with the exception of the COVID-19 disrupting foot traffic at the retailer.

Okay. Great. I have more questions, so please come back to me. Thank you.

Next question comes from the line of Vijay Marolia. Your line is now open.

Congratulations, guys, on the turnaround. Quick question, do we have the capability of making or selling masks?

I'm sorry, can you repeat that again? I think we got cut off a little bit?

Do we have the ability to sell to masks – face masks?

To sell masks.

Yeah.

We have the ability. We don't have anything out there right now, but we have the ability.

We have really good sourcing capacity from overseas, where we do source a number of our products. And that would be probably where something like that could come from. And we do get approach from time to time. But it currently doesn't really make sense in the way we sell and the nature of our customers to try to add that product. We really couldn't manufacture it per se, if that was the question, but we could certainly source it if it made sense in the future.

And would you be sourcing that from India with [ph] J Group (00:13:45) or something?

There's no decision even to carry masks, let alone where we would them, Vijay, so [indiscernible] (00:13:53).

Okay.

Okay.

Anything else? Okay, operator, we can go to the next question, next caller.

Yes, sir. Next question comes from the line of Thurman Willis. Your line is now open.

Thank you for taking my call. Gary, with Mark's retirement from the company as CFO and the various distancing rules hindering a speedy replacement process, I know that you might not have the time to devote to investor relations. What are the company plans to address this in terms of keeping our own schedule? Is this something Sanjay could step up and help you? And now that he is full time executive of the company, it might make sense to gain the help from some outside expertise as well.

<A – Gary Medved – Mace Security International, Inc.> Hey, Thurman. First, our IR schedule is out there already. I think it was put out in a press release. Mark put that on a little while ago. Number two, even though there's a search underway, I don't think the distancing has impacted our search. A lot of stuff has – a lot of meetings are being held virtually. So, I don't see a disruption to our IR schedule. At this point, they may be all virtual [indiscernible] (00:15:16) rather than in person.

But Mark is still in pocket here. He's still working at Mace. So, I don't see any major disruption to the schedule. I don't see us requiring outside help for sure. I think we got through the first IR conference a couple of weeks ago. There'll be some polishing up on the presentation for the next one, and further polishing as we go through the year. So, I'm comfortable with the schedule. If Sanjay needs to step in anywhere, he'll certainly be able to step in. But I think we've got everything covered in the schedule, be taken care of.

The follow up on that, and back to investor relations, let me compliment you on the Planet Micro virtual conference. It seemed to increase liquidity, and the stock improves from 30%. Are we going to increase our exposure to other immediate conferences, and how do you feel about doing bimonthly telephonic conferences with 5 to 10 wealth managers on the phone, so as to get more fans in the stands and educating them on the potential of Mace and to further enhance the stock's trading and liquidity. And again, I know I'm saying this for the second time, but I am positive, your excellent job in one-on-ones and presentation, which I heard at the Planet conference was one of the key reasons for this happening.

Thank you, Thurman. I don't know about more conferences this year than we've already scheduled in terms of IR conferences, okay. And secondly, I'm not – I don't think we're adamantly opposed to bimonthly meetings, doing virtual meetings with some individuals out there if we get a group together. I don't think we're adamantly opposed to that.

Understand, we have a lot going on right now, especially in this environment, so there – we got a lot of pokers in the fire, a lot of things getting attention all at one time. And we're going to stick by our IR conference scheduled for now. We can talk about doing meetings with investors, small groups of 8 to 10 or whatever going forward. Like I said, we're not opposed to it.

And as you know, from last year, my contention has always been, Thurman, that before we go out there and meet with anybody, we wanted to have a story to tell. Cleaning up last year was less of the story than where we are right now. And I think as time goes forward, that stories going to grow and build, and it'll become more attractive to investors out there. I'm confident of that. And last year just wasn't the time. This year, we're breaking into it, and we're going to continue to – it's going to be part of our game plan going forward, so.

Great. Great. I have one other question. To follow the instructions, should I get back in the queue? Can you come back to me with this one other question and follow-up, or should I ask it now?

No, we'll come back to you. Just be clear.

Okay. Thank you again for taking that question.

Sure, Thurman. [indiscernible] (00:18:40)

Sorry, sir, please go ahead.

No, you can switch to the next caller. [indiscernible]

(00:18:47), operator. The next caller.

Yes, sir. We have a follow-up question from Andrew Shapiro. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Thank you. Mace has a tax net operating loss carry-forward equaling around $1 a share, with our stock price at only $0.20-some-odd a share. And one way for Mace to create pre-tax income, to better utilize this substantial asset is finding ways of monetizing our world-famous Mace brand through royalty and licensing arrangements. What are you guys doing, or what are your thoughts at monetizing the use of the Mace brand and turning that brand recognition into some incremental pre-tax income?

Well, I've been in favor of it since I came here. I think we have a list of opportunities that we've put together in-house. We have been approached since I've been here. The timing and the story wasn't right with that particular company – or those companies. But we feel we have an opportunistic list put together here that we'll be reaching out at the appropriate time.

As I just mentioned to Thurman couple of minutes ago, for where we are right now and the momentum we had coming into Q1, or I should say 2020, and then with COVID-19 really being – playing the role of a great disruptor for all businesses this year, we just have pressing opportunity – or I should say, pressing issues and schedules in other areas of the company that the licensing thing needs to take a backseat for right now. And quite honestly, I don't think there are going to be many companies out there wanting entertainment partnership with licensing, given the COVID-19 environment that we're all in at this point.

So, it's something that's going to get exciting going forward. I can't give you a timetable, simply because of where we are right now, with everything going on, but it is going to get attention. We're in full bank with this. Sanjay's on board with it; I'm on board with it; Mark's been on board with it. It's just the right company at the right time to partner with. And that will happen, it's just a question of when. Not yet, okay.

Okay. And related follow up here is that acquisitions are also another likely value-added way to use the NOL tax shield earlier than they would otherwise. And the company made an acquisition, just as you and Mark came onboard, of acquiring Tornado.

Can you describe, I guess, first, whether you were able to expand the sales of Mace's wider array of products to Tornado's acquired customer accounts as you hoped for? And where are you in having to pay the earn-out on that acquisition, and where is that potential liability on the balance sheet?

But then, taking the next step further in terms of strategy is can you describe your thoughts of the type of products and companies that you would like to consider for strategic acquisition if the price were right? And in this COVID environment, there may be some more eager sellers to potentially pursue what – I'm hopeful and looking forward to hearing what you accomplished with Tornado.

Well, the first part of your question, yes, the acquisitions were done the prior few years before I got here. Alarms and the private label business were both good acquisitions, and they continue to pay good dividends for us. And we're expanding both of those businesses. The third one, Tornado was kind of a smaller tuck-in, in January of 2019. And we are expanding the brand. But I'm pretty sure I covered this in the previous calls, Andrew, where, first of all, from their customer base, there's some overlap with the Mace brand and their top customers and our top customers. So, we have to be really careful about that.

And then, number two, we've been considering the Tornado brand and developing as an off-brand for us, okay. And that's taking place right now. We got our first placement of product that went out about two weeks ago to 55 chain of outlets. And it's too early for POS data at this point, but for the next 30, 60, 90 days we'll know what the sell through is like. So, we will be expanding the Tornado brand, but it won't be at the expense of the Mace brand, so to speak. It will be in addition to the Mace brand and serving a purpose in a market that we don't serve with the premium Mace products.

To your point on acquisitions, Mark can speak to the financial aspect, but the one – one thing about acquisitions, you've heard me say about new products in the past, number of times. They've got to be patented, [indiscernible] (00:24:13) they got to be relevant, they got to add value to the end user. And some of that criteria carries over to acquisitions as well. We don't want to do acquisitions just for the sake of an acquisition, okay. It's got to add something of value to us and the end users. Got to solve a problem that we're looking for a solution, rather than just, hey, they make pepper spray, or they make this, let's go buy them.

I look at the alarm company that Mace bought. That was a good acquisition because they didn't they didn't operate in that space. And I looked at the private label business, and what we're doing with private label today. So, Tornado is a little bit a repeat of the existing business. So, any further acquisitions, I think, you'll see a strong penchant for us to pay attention to what problem is this solving for Mace, okay. And then, we'll figure out a way to acquire.

And Mark can add something on the financial front here as well.

Yeah. I was going to say, Andrew, to your point, there is a portfolio of things that we have looked at and are, I'll say, some off and on continued discussions with. And certainly, I think you're right, with the economic situation and the health situation, things can change pretty quickly in the seller's mind. So, we have, by no means, shut the door, if you will.

We do want to be very cautious about cash balances and keep our options open and as much flexibility as we can, moving into the next couple of quarters. So, any acquisition will have some pretty strict criteria. But of course, discussions we have had, to some degree, have been around sort of our portfolio financing that might involve some non-dilutive stock; it might involve notes; it might involve cash. So, we had a lot of different ways that we can go. And by all means, we take those discussions and we look seriously at them. And this could change very quickly. If really, seem to us to be a superior use of capital, we'll be able to take advantage of it.

Okay. I have more questions. Please come back to me.

Okay. Operator you can switch us over to the next caller.

Yes sir we have a follow-up question from Thurman Willis. Your line is now open.

Thurman.

Yes. Thank you. I know we're in an uncertain market, but should the economy improve, can Mace grow its revenues with these new markets you have, 15% to 20% with the new doors we are in that have not been announced?

I don't think you're going to hear a CEO on any earnings call step up to own 15% to 20% in this environment. What I can tell you is our strategy was designed to give us nice returns, nice growth numbers, with the outlook we've identified, the outlooks we're going after. And we still stand by that, okay.

And you're right, this is a very uncertain environment. And for the retailers that are open, their foot traffic has been disrupted. Just the amount of people that are going out and about, even when they're opening up to the economy in certain pockets of the nation. This isn't [indiscernible] (00:27:44).

They're talking about the airlines being two to three years before they get back to what they once were; hotel industry; restaurants, operating at half their capacity. So, everybody is bracing themselves, Thurman for a – we're going to ease into this slowly. And we're anticipating, on worst case, that things do slow down for us like that as well, okay. It's one of these things, you plan for the worst and hope for the best.

So, I can't sit here and say, yeah, I feel comfortable we'll get 15% to 20% growth given this environment. What I can tell you is the program that we put together, and the retailers we're going to after, and the strategies that we're laying out, they weren't designed for a 1% growth number. How's that?

Well said. And the follow up I had to that, you have mentioned – you have often mentioned new products. And I was excited about the stun gun that you're using for walkers. But with new products that are proprietary that are in the making, can you comment yet on any products that could be a game changer for the company, or give a little more insight at least into what customer needs or functions these products might address?

Well, in order of your questions. Thank you; no; no; yes; and no.

Okay. You got me, man.

Okay. That's with you, Thurman. My background has always been that new product development, I like to go after gain changes if I can. I'd like to focus on gaps that exist in the marketplace, not play a me-too, or an also-ran, or copycat. I mean there's no mobility and any of that from me. It's no excitement for sure.

So, you go back to our IR conference, and I think I said as much as I want to say about the topic at the IR conference. And you could probably draw your own conclusions. What we have on the drawing board, so to speak, I'm, I'm pretty excited about. But again, I'm going to throw out there, when we were putting together the presentation, an in past IR presentation, and in past quarterly calls, we weren't staring down the barrel of a COVID-19 pandemic that could go on for another 3, 6, 9, 12 months before people start loosening up.

So, much like the acquisition market that the Mark alluded to and how we got preservation of cash, and we're looking at this, and so forth, the same goes for new product development as well. There are phases in the new product development where you're spending a little bit money than those phases where you're really going to step up and write a big check. And we're going to be very careful preserving cash going forward and keeping a very tight close eye on the economy. But when we do launch a new product in these areas we're looking at. I think you'll be quite happy with them.

Yeah. To layer on to that, Thurman, I will tell you that Gary has got a very creative mind when it comes to new products. And it is a constant discussion with Sanjay, Gary and others around here. There has been a fair amount of groundwork laid on some pretty significant things we're just not ready to talk about yet.

But if you think, longer term, the strength of this company, very good at what we do, we have a manufacturing capability that we can really up our game in terms of production quite easily with the footprint we have now. So, when you look over the longer term, going back to your original question, is that a 15% growth – or I would say, longer term, that's a minimum. It's going to be more than that. And new products will have a place, selected acquisitions will have a place, potential use of the brand and expanding it. Those all have a place but, but certainly new products is something that we thought about.

And I'm not just talking about you know a feature here, a feature there, but products in terms of whole categories are thought about pretty regular here. And there's always drawings, and models, parts floating around here. So, it is something that will contribute longer term to grow.

Good. And finally, let me just say, during these times, I just want to personally thank you as a large shareholder and a long-term shareholder, Gary, to you and Mark, and Sanjay and the entire team. Thank you on behalf of the shareholders for your hard work.

Appreciate that, Thurman. Thank you. Operator, I think we have a caller in queue.

Did we lose the operator? [indiscernible]

(00:32:55) We can go to the next caller, operator.

Yes sir. And we have a follow up from Andrew Shapiro. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thank you. Keying off of your comments, I think Mark mentioned about the manufacturing capabilities, and I think some of the other attributes in your designing of proprietary products and all that. The company still has substantial OEM fill revenues that you're generating, basically providing the product in someone else's label. And by definition, it doesn't use the Mace brand name. Can you summarize what the competitive advantages Mace provides to these customers that gets you this value-added revenue that helps of course absorbing our corporate fixed costs versus other fill manufacturers?

I think what it – first of all from our customers' point of view, we know for a fact that when they meet with the buyers out there, that they're walking into their meetings and they talk about, hey, we have Mace-brand product in our canisters. That is a selling point for them, and it is a fine point for the buyer. And we've heard that, okay.

Our product, our fills are hanging on a lot of hooks out there you may not know about. And I'm smart enough to know that – my first start in this industry, after I left a huge company and went to a small company, they did nothing but private label in a different market. And I was always bewildered by, okay there's these powerful brands out there, and you're making these products evolve. They made a lot of money off them, because simply speaking, not every outlet out there wants to carry Mace brand, okay – or only Mace brand. And if our product's on three hooks, and we have two, and a private label has one, I'm happy with that.

When I came here last January, I thought the private label business could even grow larger than it was. and it is growing, and we're going to continue to grow it. And there are a lot of niche companies or niche labels, I should say, that serve markets that we may not be in, that maybe smaller markets, maybe a different market. And the business proves growing and profitable. I'm not going to lie, it's different than running Mace-brand products and you're running a lot more volume, but that's the nature of private label, and we handle that in house with the operational improvements.

But I think it gives us a product offering that is not just only Mace, because there are other brands out there, and we recognize that. And I think it gives an advantage to our customer when they go and meet with other customers, and say, hey, we're bringing Mace product in here, but they may – it's starting a different market or a different type of canister that we don't sell, or something like that. So, I think it's a win-win for both parties. We just don't want to put our head in the front and think there's nobody else out there. If anybody is going to do the fill business, I want to be the one doing it.

Sounds good. Although I think that they're going to brag and leverage off of that its Mace product in their can, and perhaps that gives you some pricing advantage [indiscernible] (00:36:32).

Andrew, we were approached by people. They want to actually put the Mace brand on their label, okay. And I won't do that, okay, but it's enough to say [indiscernible] (00:36:44).

I guess, you could do that as long as they pay you the same wholesale price you're selling a Mace product to Walmart or anyone else to, right, and you're getting the full margin?

Yeah.

And our returns – private label does a lot for us. It definitely allows us to scale, as you mentioned, cover some fixed cost. These people – our customers, have great relationships that we wouldn't otherwise have, so it's an expansion we wouldn't get our hands on. And overall the margins are good. I mean, we are fair to our customers. But given the SG&A, the variable piece that doesn't go into that, we get decent margins. So, all in all, we really – we couldn't be happier with our custom business.

A follow-up question here about – just want to confirm the quality of this quarter's good results. Were any of the gross profit and margin, or SG&A improvements, the result of recoveries of past write-offs?

A very tiny piece was, we had previously mentioned, way back, we're in a couple licensing arrangements that we were doing the licensing. And one of those, both we and our license partner concluded it wasn't the right time for that arrangement. So, we left some optionality that we could be return to it in the future. But we're able to exit that and recover in the mid-$20,000 range of a recovery; very small piece of our overall $880,000 of SG&A. So, at that point, that's really the only little recovery, if you will, that's in there.

Okay. And you disclosed a little – and this is in April, so it's not on the balance sheet yet. You disclosed a little over $600,000 received from the Payroll Protection Program (sic) [Paycheck Protection Program] (00:38:44) loan. Is this loan's use in the company's anticipated employee count likely the result in the complete forgiveness in the next few months when that measurement is calculated?

Yeah, that's a good question. So, we're – as you know, it's an eight-week thing, and we're in the middle of the eighth week, so we don't know for sure. But I think an early anticipation would be that a portion of that will be forgiven and probably a majority of it will be forgiven, but there's clearly not going – there's going to be a piece that will be repaid. That's still a win-win for us because it's a very low interest cost, very good addition to our credit. And we're very happy that we are able to qualify for it because of our financial position. And our overall availability of credit is somewhat difficult for us, given our large losses. So, don't have the exact numbers, but more of it than not, will be forgiven.

And then, you anticipate the remainder, which is only a 1% rate, which is fabulous, to keep that for the full two-year period that it's provided for?

Yeah. In all likelihood, we would. We did, just so – and everyone's hearing it correctly on the call. We did maintain employment throughout this period. And in fact, in looking at those benchmarks of employees this year versus the required period and so, when we did not decrease employment, and we did not decrease wages. So, we were able to, if anything, potentially add a little bit here in the end of this period. So, we absolutely are properly using those funds signs and supporting wages. And then, yeah, the piece that we have to keep, we'll hang on to, as long as we can at the very low interest rate.

Right. Although, it seems to me, even if your employee count has stayed the same and/or grown, and based on how it works, there's a chance that almost all of this loan, because you're allowed to use it towards rent up to a cap and all that, you may get most, if not all of it, forgiven. Is this potentially related to the PPP loan, that there was some disclosure by the company about discussions for voluntarily reducing the company's unused bank line of credit, or can you provide a little greater color on what this is all about and what is meant by voluntary? Is it just saving money on the rate on unused?

Well, that's good question. So, we've been with our banking partners for a couple of years now. And our line of credit is really intended to be year-in, year-out use of working capital. It's not intended to be a permanent piece in our capital structure. So, we had been in discussions with them about the right numbers.

We had $1.5 million line, and there was discussion that that we could potentially lower that a bit. But those discussions, while they still happen from time to time, kind of got pushed aside when the COVID situation came. And our banking partner was super helpful to – we went through them for the PPP loan, which obviously that's another $600,000 for some portion of time that we now have to use. So, we don't have any plans at this time to change that availability and that limit on the line. But obviously, there's no unused line commitment fee. And we only pay interest on what we draw, so.

Oh, that's good.

Yes, [indiscernible] (00:42:45).

Okay. Thank you. I have more questions so please come back to me.

Operator, is there anybody else in queue?

Hold on one second, sir. [Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up question from Andrew Shapiro. Your line is now open.

Okay, yeah. Excellent. Well, I have a few that I'll ask here. What are you doing differently now in this current environment in what we all kind of expect to be a kind of a new normal to market to consumers that you weren't doing six months ago?

For example, you previously reduced your e-commerce advertising expense. Have you refocused your spending focus now that e-commerce is even more important than brick-and-mortar stores versus before the pandemic? And like how are you reallocating your e-commerce expenses to grow sales as well?

First thought, I think everybody can agree that retail has been decimated with this pandemic sweeping through the nation or globally. But the strong retailers that we partnered with have all remained open, okay. So, even though they may have seen a disruption in foot traffic, they're still up and running and still ordering product and still selling product.

Now, that being said, on the e-commerce side, the play was – we started changing this mid last year, Andrew. We wanted to get a better handle on building out our SEO content, A+ content. There's a lot of stuff that we needed to do differently. We had new images shot. And those are on mace.com, as well as the Amazon.com, and some other dot-com partners. So, that's been the push. The last six months has been really to build out that content and drive to the top of the search rankings.

Now, going forward, there's more content that we were just talking the last couple of days and a couple of meetings, what we're going to do there. And go back to the IR conference, when you asked what we're going to be doing differently than we were doing six months ago, I think you're going to see a bigger push into advertising. And we're testing the waters. I want to put that out there, we are testing the waters because of our type of product. If there's a certain way we have to go around running ads whether on search engines or social media platforms. And we're just – I think we're only five weeks into those tests right now, and we're getting results back. And it's early but, but they're encouraging.

Number two, back to the IR conference, I talked about generating content. And you're going to see more and more of that coming out here starting in the next month or so. That was a Q2 initiative of ours. And like I said earlier, Sanjay and I are involved in this, waist-deep. It's, if anything, is our number one initiative when we come in, in the morning. It's that. So, there is a lot of attention being paid to the content side; there's a lot of attention being paid to be – and when I say content, I mean, just the product content on these websites. And there's a lot of attention paid to developing content going forward. We're in the early stages of that.

And then, we're also getting stats in areas where we haven't necessarily paid attention to before for our own website, on things we could be doing better, things we could be doing differently, opportunities that we may not be paying attention to. So, there's a lot of energy and focus being brought to the digital channel that wasn't here – forget six months ago, it wasn't here two months ago, okay. And it's getting a lot of attention. Sanjay and I meet every day on it. We have initiatives going forward. We made a couple of changes to our mace.com today. And there's going to be a couple more coming in the next few days.

So, we're hearing the pinch points. We did like an impromptu survey with a number of people outside the company that have ordered product. Got pages of feedback from them on what changes they would like to see that would make it a nicer, better, easier shopping experience. And we're – as we sit here and talk right now, I just got an e-mail that one of the changes was implemented.

So, you're going to see more of this going forward. Our organic audience coming to our website is – although I don't share direct numbers, we were just talking this morning for websites that launched the same time we did, we're in the top 1% of traffic. So, that should tell you something about the number of people coming to our website, unique visitors per month. And we're going to start taking advantage of that – not taking advantage, but those huge numbers coming in, we're going to start addressing them to increase our conversion rate, which is substantially increased just the last 60 days. But we want to take it multiples higher than where it is right now.

So, there's a lot of attention. We've got two key people in the organization here that are focused on it. And it's a daily topic, and it's starting to get changes made as we go forward, okay, this week. So, hope that answers that question.

So, with this new focus, have you already experienced a rise in your search rankings?

Well, okay, when you go to Amazon, okay, their search ranking – you get ranked on a number of criteria, okay. And this is what I was saying just a couple of minutes ago that we wanted to be very efficient at any advertising spend, okay.

So, the last six months, a heavy focus has been on everything but heavy advertising dollars. Those will come, okay. We needed to get the product content, the product descriptions, A+ content. We'll be introducing lifestyle photos and videos going forward, reviews. And those are the things that help drive – and then, sales, ultimately, help. That's criteria they look at, and then you're advertising that you pay.

So, I'm happy with e-commerce results of the last six months on Amazon. And I'm especially happy with what we've been seeing on mace.com the last few months. And both are in the right direction, on the right track. And we just want to keep that momentum going, but we got a lot of changes coming to mace.com going forward, so.

Okay. Internationally, you've grown international sales slightly over the same quarter of last year, but it had been a grower for you. What is Mace doing to grow sales, and what do you feel is working, and what's not working towards tapping into this massive growth opportunity as, in some ways, our brand is a world-known brand?

Yeah. First of all, on the world opportunity, recognize, once you get out of this country, okay, a lot of countries don't allow pepper spray to be sold. Case in point, China, okay. The cops can have it, the police can have it, but the consumer, all 1.3 billion of them, cannot carry pepper spray. So, yeah, is that huge market, well, yeah, Apple's going to do much better there than Mace. And there are a number of countries in Europe that they don't allow pepper spray to be used. So, even though there are a number of countries out there, Andrew – we met with a lot of companies at SHOT.

And we have an international Sales Director, who will operate out of Chicago. She joined us last, I think, August or September. She's been doing great job, lining up new customers, adding new customers. We've added a number of them each year after SHOT, okay. But the amount of paperwork that has to be taken care of, licensing procedures, and who can buy, how it has to be shipped it is not as easy task. So, there are opportunities, that there's a lot of work in each one of those opportunities, okay.

The other issue is the, the markets are fragmented. When you go to go to Germany, they're fragmented, okay. So, our strategy has been to set up master distributors. We keyed in on a few of them already in in Europe. One particularly going very well for us, and may even have reach outside of their own nation. Time will tell. But I think dealing with master distributors in countries that allow pepper spray to be sold to consumers is ultimately where we're going to operate. And that's what our Sales Director, Julie, out in Chicago is challenged with doing.

And she's put a lot of attention – I get a weekly update, a weekly phone call from her every week. And right now, with COVID-19, shipping docks aren't the same as they were. So, there's a lot of disruption in that right now, simply because of the coronavirus. But it's getting a lot of attention, it's getting legs. And we just got to operate where we're allowed to operate and where our product can be sold, so.

And on a previous call, you discussed three components of potential revenue to Mace through your partnership with KUROS!, with the first, selling KUROS! products through e-commerce and then retail channels; and second, being KUROS! purchasing products from you; and the third being KUROS! purchasing products and distributing them overseas as part of its company mission.

Can you update us on how those three revenue streams are going? And in what products and channels is Mace already generating sales from this partnership, and what you see as the next biggest opportunity for Mace to grow revenue from this partnership?

Well, where we're selling right now is all digital, okay. And you're probably aware, there are there are some legal proceedings between Kuro and a previous partner of his. So, that's got to be remedied and put to bed before we could really address brick-and-mortar.

We continue to present the brick-and-mortar. We have some nice promotional presentations that we're going to be making the brick-and-mortar here in the next month or two virtually. We keep it out there. And Kuro and I talk. He knows what we're up against. It doesn't help when there's legal issues because retail shies away from getting involved until those are put to bed. And it doesn't help when the KUROS! brand name has been taken over by a previous filling partner, okay.

So, we can do everything that we can retail-wise, and we can do everything we can digitally, e-commerce, but at the end of the day, we got to get that brand away from his previous partner and back in our cradle. And he has to get that legal issues put to bed, where retail won't have any hurdles to jump over – or concerns. So, this is an ongoing saga. There's not much more to add to it, other than we're showing it everywhere.

Well, how's the digital sales going?

They're going, okay, but I'm going to pivot right back to what I just said 30 seconds ago. That brand, if you go out there and search for it, it doesn't take you where we want it to take you right now. And that has to change, and it's not an easy thing to do.

So, it's the old adage, I'd rather sleep with the devil I know than the angel I don't. But here's the point where it turns into a real issue, that we're trying to move forward, and we got a lasso around our ankles. So, we're doing what he can and Kuro's doing what he can. And when those two issues resolve, I think we'll see the growth that we all want to see or anticipated when we signed the agreement, so.

Are there any other states or countries where legislation and regulation is evolving to better open pepper markets for us?

The closest that I can tell you is in – it's up in the Netherlands. I can't recall who it was that, but they're pushing through. Because there's a company that's just trying to – they can sell to cops right now, but they're trying to push through legislation to sell to the consumer market. And even if the legislation gets passed, it's a weaker pepper spray that we sell for our K-9 dispensers, okay, which is less than half of what we sell for the consumer version. So, it's somewhat like squirting somebody with milk. When it's all said and done, it's pretty bland. But I guess, if you're going to start somewhere, you've got to start at the lower end.

The distributors that we met with at SHOT clearly made the point that they do not want the consumer having anything stronger than what the police have. And the police right now, the strength of the police units like equal to our K-9 units, which is half the burn of our personal pepper spray, so.

How about here in the United States?

The only thing that changed recently was stun gun laws for New York. That went all the way up to their Supreme Court last year. And the Supreme Court overturned the original ruling, so stun guns can now be sold in New York. They claimed that was a violation of their rights, that it wasn't as deadly as a firearm. And it kept climbing the ranks, and then the ruling finally came out that you can own a stun gun in New York, so pepper...

And is Mace taking advantage of that?

Yeah. We have distributors already selling. But pepper spray is more confined by the age requirements, 18. Some states, if you have a criminal record prior to the age of 18, you own have pepper spray. And then the last requirement is the size of the canister, which is, I believe – I think it maxes out of at 3 ounces, which we don't have a 3 ounce pepper spray that we would sell in the retail market anyhow. That's a lot of pepper spray, a lot of pepper spray. So that's really what you're talking about, the size of the canister and the age requirement.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, Andrew, okay. And...

So, I think at that time, we're at just about an hour here. So, thank you, everyone, for all these good questions and your interest in Mace. A transcript and a recording of this call will be posted on our website shortly. This concludes our Q1 2020 earnings call. Have a good day.

Thank you, operator. Thank you, everyone.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.