corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Kyle and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I’d like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks,


there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions]. Thank you very much. Mr.


Taylor, you may begin your conference.


Don Taylor, Vice President, Marketing and Investor Relations


Thank you, Kyle. Welcome to Mace Security International third quarter investor conference call. My


name is Don Taylor. I’m Mace’s Vice President of Marketing and Investor Relations. Also on


today’s call is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield; Mace’s Chief


Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien; and Mace’s General Counsel, Robert Kramer. On today’s call,


Greg Krzemien will discuss the financial results for the quarter and Dennis Raefield will discuss the


market trends, business conditions and the company’s plans.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters that we must address.


Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking


statements, within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will


continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, and intend to or similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties,


including, but not limited to, economic conditions, limit capital resources, and the ability of


management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially, adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause


Mace’s actual results of future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements


expressed during the call. Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from management’s projected forecast, estimates and expectations are contained under


the heading Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, which include its registration statements and its


periodic reports on Forms 10-K and Form 10-Q.


All statements made during the conference call should be considered in conjunction with the


financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly


reports on Form 10-Q. Access to these reports can be generated on the website, www.mace.com.


Please click on the Investor Relations button.


With that, I would like now to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Hey, thanks, Don. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us again this morning for


Mace’s third quarter ending September ‘09 results call. As most of you are aware, and I usually like


to go over this, we’re in three lines of business. We operate our Security segment, which includes


our e-commerce and professional electronic surveillance equipment. We have our – in that also, we


have our new monitoring station, Mace CSSS. Our second segment is our Digital Media Marketing


segment through Linkstar Interactive. And our third segment being our remaining 11 car washes,


ten of which we are currently operating and one which we had closed at the end of 2008.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Again, in our Security segment, we have our electronic surveillance, as I mentioned. We have our


new monitoring station and we also have our world famous personal defense operation or pepper


spray aerosol company, Mace.


Within our Digital Media Marketing segment, we have Linkstar, which is our e-commerce division,


and PromoPath, our marketing division, which helps with leads into our e-commerce division.


A couple of comments on CSSS, our monitoring company, just to refresh everybody. We bought


that operation for 3.7 million in April. We bought that for a total purchase price of 3.1 in current cash


and future cash and 600,000 in assumed liabilities. We paid a 1.7 million at closing. And of the 1.4


million of deferred cash payments, we paid about 225,000 of that so far this year with remainder


due to be paid in 2010 and 2011.


As most of you know, we’ve been working on exiting the car wash business since the end of 2005.


Just to give a couple point update, to-date we’ve sold 43 facilities. We’ve generated net cash of 35


million from those sales after paying off 16.8 million in mortgages. As I mentioned a few moments


ago, we have 11 sites remaining. Of those 11 sites, three sites in Lubbock – I’m sorry, in Austin,


Texas, are currently under agreement. We hope they will be closing here very shortly. These sites


will generate about 5.3 million in additional cash. That 5.3 million is net of paying-off 2.2 million of


mortgage debt and it’s also net of about $440,000 of previously released deposits that were part of


the gross selling price.


We also have another site in Lubbock that is hopefully very near to going under agreement and the


other two sites in Lubbock are under discussion. That Lubbock site will generate about $750,000 of


cash that, again, we hope to have under agreement very shortly.


If you subtract the four sites, the three Austin and the one Lubbock site I just mentioned, that


makes seven sites, two in Lubbock and five in the Dallas, Arlington, Texas area. The total net book


value of those sites is about 7.3 million and they you have about 2.3 million of mortgages against


them.


I just want to note, as – when I’m talking about sales here, we did sell two properties in the


September quarter. Then we previously announced we sold the cell tower at one of our facilities for


$292,000 of cash of the cell tower easement, and we also sold another site in Arlington, Texas


where we netted about $500,000 in cash after paying off debt.


Just want to highlight, on our debt, we’re now at September 30 down about 5.3 million in debt. With


the pending sale of the three Austin sites, we will be paying off about 2.2 million of debt. We pay


generally about $100,000 of principal payment a month on our debt under routine payments. So


that should bring us by the end of the year down to about 2.8, 2.9 million of our remaining debt on


our books by the end of the year. So we’re happy to keep that leverage in our debt burden down


very low.


In our discontinued operations on our income statement, that basically relates to our Austin sites


and our Lubbock sites. Our Dallas sites still remain part of our continuing operations. Just what I


also mentioned, we were talking about asset sales, we do have an agreement of sale, hoping to


close the first week of December on our Ft. Lauderdale, Florida warehouse. We entered into that


agreement on October the 5th. That will generate about 1.6 million of cash additionally for our


company. There is no debt on our property, so that’s pure cash to us. And we did take an additional


impairment charge that you’ll see on the income statement of about $150,000 in the third quarter to


write that warehouse down to our sale price.


A couple of comments on the third quarter income statement, our revenues for the third quarter


were down about 20% from the third quarter of last year. Of the bulk of that decrease, about 1.1