Management Discussion Section

Good afternoon. My name is Brandis and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the second quarter investor conference call. All lines are placed unmute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you, Ms. Sarah Din, ma'am. You may begin.

Thank you, Brandis. Welcome to the Mace Security International second quarter conference call. My name is Sarah Din and I'm the Marketing manager for Mace. Also with us today for this call is Mace's Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield and Mace's Chief Financial Officer, Greg [indiscernible] . We also have Richard Barone, who is the Chairman of the board, and he will be available to answer any questions for the Q&A section.

Now, before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some general housekeeping matters that we want to address. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used during a conference call, the words or phrases will likely result are expected to will continue as anticipated, estimate, projected and intend to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Such statements are subject to certain risks known and unknown, and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate required businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call. Additional discussions for factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projected forecasts estimates and expectations are contained under the heading risk factors in Mace's SEC filings, which includes its registration statements and its periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes contained in Mace's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. You can access these reports on mace.com through the Investor Relations section of the website. You can click on the Investor Relations button.

With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.

Thanks, Sarah. Good afternoon and good morning to those of you on the West Coast. Again, thanks for joining us this morning on our second quarter 2011 results call. As Sarah noted, I'll be covering the results for our second quarter of 2011 and the six months ending June 2011 versus 2010. I'll also make some comments regarding the second quarter of 2011 with the sequential first quarter of 2011 and some concerning instances in the way of some background. Again, for those of you who may be new to our call today, Mace probably functions in one active segment and that would be in the security segment. For those of you who may be more familiar with the company, we have discontinued two segments in the last couple of years, those being the carwash segment and the digital media marketing segment, which we discontinued last year. I'll be making some brief comments on those operations later in the call.

As to the security segment. Again, our only remaining segment, we basically operate in four divisions are reporting units, we have our electronic surveillance equipment operations where we sell to both professional and the small businesses and homeowners. We have our industrial vision, our source company or operation, which is a specialty camera sales company and conference call equipment. We have our famous aerosol pepper spray company, Mace Personal Defense, and our newest division, which is our wholesale monitoring company, Mace CS, which we entered into that business in April 2009.

As I mentioned, I will disclose and discuss a little bit the discontinued operations. Again, from an accounting perspective, the current financials and all the prior year financials that are included with the 10-K that we filed earlier in the year. Basically, all the line items and all the expenses and revenues related to the carwash segment and the digital media business are in essence pull out of the income statement. And the net income or loss from those discontinued operations are reported as one line up on the bottom of the income statement.

Similarly, the balance sheet, the assets and liabilities to extent they have been sold, or obviously deleted from the balance sheet, to the extent some of those assets still remain that we're holding for sale. Those assets and liabilities are stripped out of the balance sheet line items and they sit in two separate line items, a current asset and liability are called assets held for sale and related liabilities. So that background, again, for those who are looking at the financial statements, may be helpful.

One of the first things I want to just review with everybody is the results of our recent rights offering that we completed on August 1, and then we extend it. Or I should say we then put on a two week offering of unsubscribed shares to shareholders and non-shareholders and the results of those that offering was the rights offering which again was completed with its extension period on August 1st. We sold 22,372,616 shares at $0.20 a share. So we raised about $4,475,000 there and when you net-off the expenses of doing that, that rights offering, which are about $150,000, $160,000 based on the invoices we have to date. And I think that's a pretty good number. And those expenses of the rights offering, and they include everything from our general counsel or SEC counsel, the involvement of our auditors for their consents, the hiring of the information agent and the transfer agent, and of course, all the printing that went on with the offering and all the mailing of that printed materials. So when you net those expenses, the net is about $14.3 million from the rights offering.

And then right after that, we closed on August 2nd on the Merlin purchase of shares and it's to assignees, we sold another 20 million shares at $0.20 a share and net of a $250,000 expense payment. We generated $750,000 of net proceeds again, net of the $250,000 expenses. And then in this add on two week offering, we sold another 838,000 shares, raising about $168,000. So when you add that all up, just a little over $8.2 million of net proceeds, and it brings our total shares outstanding to 58,946,441 shares. That brings our equity at June 30th on a pro forma basis to about $19.9 million. And based on that 58.9, almost 59 million shares that will give us a book value of about $0.34 per share. So again, I just wanted to kind of highlight and review for everyone the results of the offering, which we're very pleased with and happy.

Next thing, I'm going to jump into some income statement items from a revenue standpoint, I'll just kind of highlight a few items for the first, the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010. So quarter-to-quarter between the two years, our revenues, again for the security segment dropped about $887,000 or 20%. And the biggest component of that decreases in the [ph] IVS sector, which I'll make some comments on here in a little while, but that dropped $700,000 or 65% between those two periods, and we lost about 30% of our business in the professional home and small business electronics area. But we did have a growth second quarter this year versus last year in both the personal defense aerosol operation and in our central monitoring station operation.

Sequentially, first quarter compared to the recent second quarter, we saw a smaller decrease, a decrease of about $129,000 or about 3.5%. Again, the largest components of that were in the IVS division and in the professional and home small business electronics. Again, the professional, I'm sorry, the personal defense operation, the [indiscernible] operation had a growth and sales of about 4% quarter-to-quarter, and our monitoring station quarter-to-quarter, first versus second had a growth of about 25% with the acquisition of TCCI on March 31 of this year.

Looking at a six month basis, our revenues are down about $1.5 million or about 18% and again, the biggest drop is in the Industrial Vision Source or the IVS area that had about 55% Biggest crop is in the industrial vision source or the IVS area that had about a 55% drop in revenues six months to six months and the again professional and homeless business dropped about 23%. Couple comments by division on the revenues. Again our profess our personal defense our -- operation as I mentioned we did see growth second quarter this year versus last year and second quarter versus first quarter this year. So we're pleased with that the areas of the growth are really in the aerosol area, which is our biggest division.

We saw about 6.3%, 6.5% growth depending on which comparison you're making. And we're continuing to grow there. We've been introducing new products over the last couple of years, such as the pink up product based on. We are working hard, introduce new SKUs into our current retailers, you were working with retailers on better placement of product. And we've added some new retailers over the last year I mentioned last quarter in 2010, we added Pep Boys to our retail chain, Amazon.com and again, we'll continue to look for other retail opportunities.

So the pepper sprays are doing well. Non-aerosol, which is our small, inexpensive home security system, that is up about 19% in the last quarter. So we're pleased with that places where we haven't had growth in fact, we're down a little bit on sales is in the TG Guard area, which is our embassy and prison type installations. A lot of that is timing. Some of that is the softness of government spending. Law enforcement is another area where we're down and so we're working to try and bring that up. So, you know, we're doing well in some areas. We have challenges and others, but we are working hard on trying to increase the revenues in that division, which we look at as a critical division, the professional home and small business electronic division, you know, very soft, I mentioned some of the decreases.

a few moments ago, still very slow construction renovation prod programs on both the commercial and the residential. And it's just a very competitive space. And, you know, we've continue to lean the cost down there. We've clean them down again during the second quarter.

And, you know, we're getting to the point where we're still losing a little bit of money there, but really bridging that gap. So it's definitely one of our more challenging divisions. IVS, as I mentioned, is down the most. I believe, I mentioned on the last call we had our General Manager who really laid out the vision leave us at the end of the first quarter. We also had vendor issues with Sony who we lost our relationship with finally in May of this year. Plus, they were having problems supplying us even before the relationship stopped with the tsunami in Japan. They had very limited product to ship to us. So that division has suffered the most. We mentioned in the past it is for sale. We are still working with a entity to sell it and we're going to continue to pursue that strategy.

The wholesale monitoring, again, our newest division, which is a combination of CSS assets which we acquired in April of 2009 and the Command Center Inc. TCCI, which required at the end of March of this year. That revenue, as I mentioned, had grown first or second quarter by about $200,000 from $816,000 to a little over a million. And that growth is essentially the acquisition and the bringing in of TCCI, which generates about $65,000 to $68,000 a month in top line revenues.

With that acquisition, we have about 470 dealers, which is important. It's part of our strategy to sell. And we started to sell some products to those dealers. Some of our electronic products and we have 63,500 500 plus end users. So again, it's an exciting, growing part of our business. We're excited about it. It's a recurring monthly revenue type model. It provides some consistency in revenues and cash flow. So, it's certainly an exciting part of our future.

From a gross margin standpoint. I want to point out a couple of high level things from the face of the income statements, statements of operations in our 10-q. At the first quarter 2011 gross margin was about 35%, it remained 35% for the second quarter and that so both quarters are up significantly from last year when we're at about 29% in the second quarter. And when you look at the pace of the operating statement for the quarter year over year, for the second quarter, our revenues dropped by about $887,000, as I previously mentioned. But our margin only dropped by about $40,000 and the reason for the increase was 29% to 35%. Couple of reasons, obviously, that the change in mix, IBS, which has gone down significantly is a very low margin business. We've talked about that before 11%, 12%, 13% business. The other operations are in the 40s, 50% range of product margins. So just that mix and the relative size of our operations have increased the margin and continue to work to improve our purchasing and our purchasing power, and the lot of our direct cost control we've definitely been down our warehouse staffs in costs and other direct operating costs, such as the direct labor in our central station, which has improved the margins of that business. So, we're pleased with what's been able to mitigate our operating loss by despite the revenue drop by signing up those cost areas.

Just a couple of points on gross profit, within our base personal defense our aeros operation, our gross margins with overhead is about 45%. Product margins are 48% to 50% in that business. The professional home small business, about 36% margins after direct overhead, about 45% blended with just on a product side and our central station for the six months ending June about 35% and with the full integration of CCI, which was recently completed in July. We anticipate that 35% going up closer to the 40% range. So we're excited about that.

These margins, the good news about those is a lot of leveraging power there as we work to increase sales in the future, we'll get significant benefit out of the increased sales but these type of margins in our businesses. A couple of points on SG&A costs again, if we look at the face of the operating statement, our second quarter of 2011 versus second quarter 2010, we dropped SG&A by about $200,000 or 9%. And on a six month basis, we dropped SG&A from about 5.19%, about 4.2% or about 833,000 or about 16%. If you back out, notable items such as severance costs, legal costs to wrap up last year, the paralegal matter, plus the Vermont EPA matter some CSS acquisition costs in the beginning of last year yet, severance costs, if we back out those type of what I call notable items, we still saw on a six month basis about a $715,000 or almost 15% drop in SG&A, so we're happy about that. Our head count reduced a lot again at the end of 2009, and we're about 126 people at the end of June we were at about 107 people, excluding TCCI, which added in about 10 individuals. So, you know, we continue to make reductions there. If you look at the income, the SG&A drop for the for the six-month period, the place where that most resided was MSP and which is the home and small business and professional electronics company that dropped about $445,000 in six months. Our corporate overhead, six months to six months, dropped by about $429,000. Our personal defense, our Vermont Arras operation, there is a fairly consistent and their operation has been very consistent and growing slightly and the monitoring station may cease there. Their overhead is up about $57,000, mainly because of the acquisition of TCCI. But again, we you know, we look to bring those costs back down from an operating loss standpoint. You know, I'll just make a comment on second quarter this year versus last year. And again, if I neutralize it for any impairment charges that were recorded last year, our opening loss is about $900,000 versus about a million won last year in the second quarter. So, you know, we are driving down margin because of the yesterday reductions the operating loss. Couple comments on discontinued operations for the current year. The only thing in discontinued operations is the car washes that remained the three car washes last year discontinued operations included the car washes and the digital media marketing business. Good point I'll point out that if you look at the second quarter of 2011, we did have a net income of $26,000 in the car washes. So they are making money for us for six months that we showed a loss of $34,000. But that included about $72,000 of loss to close down and sell the Lubbock site in the first quarter that we sold. So when you back that out, we on six months made about $38,000 of net income. So in 2011, you know, we are from operations producing cash flow and it's not a -- not a drain as we continue to work to sell those remaining three sites.

From a balance sheet couple of highlights working capital is at about $5.6 million with a current ratio of 1.78. Our debt is sitting at about $3.4 million at June 30 was about $3.5 million at the end of December. The change in the debt, we basically swap some things out. We borrow the $1.4 million from Maryland in March to do the TCCI acquisition, and then through June 30, we pay down about $675,000 on a Maryland note, we paid off the mortgage of $660,000 on the Lubbock site, and we made other routine payments of about $145,000 on our other principle balances of our debt. So we, you know, we reduced the debt about $100,000 between the end of the year and the end of the June quarter.

Public comments on the net worth. Our net worth was $11.7 million at June 30. And as I mentioned previously, about $19.9 million on a pro forma basis with the -- with the rights offering proceeds. A couple of comments on a couple of notable items here on the car wash front. As I mentioned, we sold our Lubbock site in March, which after paying off $675,000 of debt on the Maryland notes and another $660,000 on the payoff of the mortgage on that property, we really brought down our debt by about $1.3 million and netted about $300,000 of cash. We have three remaining sites, as I mentioned, for sale. Our Lubbock's, our colonial number one site, which we had an agreement for about a year now, is still getting close to closing, but we currently do not have it under an agreement. The latest reinstatement expired and we are waiting for the buyer who has been interested in the site to finalize some financing before we will enter into a new agreement with him. I will say that there are other buyers, who are getting very close also to getting some financing together and making us an offer. So that site is in play and I feel comfortable we will be getting rid of it here in the near future, but it is still, still with us.

And then we have our last two sites, colonial number three and seven, which were marketing and we have no current offers on those yet, but we are continuing to market those for sale. Our Texas warehouse, we've disclosed that's held for sale. We are continuing to show that we are actually in active discussions with an interested party now. And, you know, hopefully we'll have something positive to announce on that in the near future.

One last comment. Two last comments. One on net operating losses to get our net operating losses are about $53 million at this point, expiring in 2023 or 2024, I believe. So we have significant value there to these [indiscernible] And at one other point I want to mention that was important this past quarter is we did resolve final resolved the Vermont EPA matter as those of you who are familiar with the company know we entered in December into a plea agreement to pay $100,000 fine and settle this matter. And that plea agreement was accepted on May 26 by the court, and we did pay to-date about $67,000 of that fine with the remaining $33,000 due in January of next year. So that was kind of our remaining task issue that we needed to resolve. And we've got to the point now where we have all these things behind us.

So with that, I'll turn the call over to Dennis.

Thank you, Greg. And good afternoon, everyone. It's nice to be with you again. I wanted to start by saying that when I came to me, they were losing about $2 million to $3 million each quarter on a consistent basis had been for a while. And I'm pretty excited to announce today that the $940,000 of operating loss for continuing operations is the lowest last year, and it's certainly not a profit we're not proud of. It's not a profit yet after all this time. But it is half of the kind of third to a half of the losses we were incurring every quarter when we when we started and took over here. So that's important because as of today, I have completed my three-year contract and accomplish some of the goals of salvaging a very troubled company. We certainly haven't been able to rebuild the top line and get to profitability with the recession, but with the settlement of our past issues and liabilities in the last quarter selling off our losing divisions and now with $8.2 million of new funding, I think that can really move forward with a clean slate and not all of the liabilities and anchors that were around its neck for the last three years. Unfortunately, effective tomorrow, I am resigning as Mace's CEO and President and I will step down off the board. The Mace board has appointed an existing board member, Mr. Michael Smith, who has been on the board for about a year as the interim CEO and he will take over on Friday. And the good news, he's an accomplished operations executive and he's going to step in place. So I wish all of the investors that are on the call are my staff and the directors continue success. I think that we've really got some ability to move forward and I have a significant amount of options that I would like to see come back from underwater and my stock as well. And I think I've accomplished the tough test that was handed to me in 2008 from the standpoint of stopping the bleed and getting this company there. I wish we could have said that we also had turned a profit and growing the top line. But our efforts in one area haven't succeeded, which is MSB, but we are succeeding in the other two, and especially in the acquisition of the Central Station, which was an area that I brought to the board that I thought we could grow with -- it seems to be doing very well. So with that, I would like to turn over to four questions. We have Mr. Barone on the call, who's the chairman to answer any questions about the future. And I'm ready for questions, Francis.

Again, if you would like to ask a question, is star one on your telephone keypad [Operator Instructions] We'll pass for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. And are you ready for your first question?

Yes, we are.

Okay. That comes from the line of Thurman Willis.

Excuse me one second. Dennis I want to tell you what a fine job I think you've done over the three years. And we appreciate your hard work as Mace shareholders.

Well, thank you. I appreciate that. It has been hard work, but we've had a pretty good team here, really digging in to turn this thing around.

Richard, I'd like to address three questions to you. We might have said this and I missed it. What is our present cash balance now? And once we sell the other car washes in our Dallas warehouse, what would our cash?

balance be at that point? Second question is pertaining to the call centers. I know in this economy we have to have some people that can afford that. So I know we're having some attrition there, but hopefully our add-ons are more than our losses. And then lastly, that we have gotten through this difficult time, can you or are you planning any of our work before the end of the quarter?

Well, I think that Greg could probably answer the first question best. And your second question, I think Dennis could probably answer it, but I'm not quite sure what you're asking on your third question?

The third question was, since we've launched really to just be one brand company, do we plan to present that to the street in effective way after completing our rights, offering that we plan to have our firm tell our story up. And now that it's a totally new company. People wanted us out of the car wash business. They told us that they would value us correctly once we got out of the car wash business. So what plans do we have to market our company with the new story?

Well. Yes, the fact of the matter is that we are now in the process of putting that strategic plan together and rolling it out over the next several months.

During that period of time, we will be providing information to the street as it comes to us and as it comes along, whereby I think everybody will get a feeling that this is a new company with a new direction and new energy. So over the next several months, you will be seeing these types of this type of information coming from Mace and hopefully the market will react in a meaningful way on the upside to this information. Again, I think that Greg could probably answer your first question and Dennis the second question. So go ahead, Greg. Thank you.

Sure. Thanks, Richard. How are you doing?

Good.

As far as our cash balance, we went into the offering in August at the end of the beginning of August, rather than in July, when it was between $1.5 million and $1.6 million in cash. As I mentioned, we raised about $8.2 million of cash with the rights offering and the add-on unsubscribed shares offering. In the first two weeks here we did make some big pay-downs we paid down $500,000 to and a liability we record on our financials. The final payment to the keys for the CSS as acquisition. And we also paid our debt that we owed on the December notes on Maryland for $675,000. And we also caught up on some of the inventory purchases and payments and some other operating expenses. So I say right now and again, it's a pretty slow number, but we're probably sitting in the range of about $8.1 million, $8.2 million, give or take. And from asset sales, the Texas warehouse will bring to us $1.1 million to $1.2 million is my estimate, depending on how we finalize the negotiations we're in right now and our remaining car washes the main car wash. The larger one we should net about a $1.4 million.

larger one we should net about a $4 million of cash on that after paying the mortgage on that property. And then we should hopefully eventually generate about a $0.5 million of cash on the remaining smaller two sites. So, you know that that would be if I take the $8.1 million, say $1.2 million on the warehouse and $1.9 million on the remaining car washes in excess of $11 million, again, without any other capital expenditures or projects or, you know, until we eliminate our options. Right. I mean, they would need to come off that number. But to give you a ballpark estimate of where we are.

Good. Thank you. I appreciate that. And then relative to the call centers and the attrition in this poor economy versus what we're adding, are we adding more than we're losing?

Absolutely. I'll answer that. I've got it. Before we did the acquisition in March, just stand alone, the central station, we started with 34,000 accounts. And after two months of flushing out some of the bad ones we have had, every month has been more ads than deletes. And in March, before we finished the acquisition, we were up from 34,000 accounts to 41,000 accounts. So there isn't any significant attrition. We've been actually growing positively and the same has happened. Nothing has changed since we did the acquisition. We always flush out a few accounts that are never going to pay or slow pay, and we have a much more aggressive cash position that we expect out of our dealers than and maybe had the sellers had accepted. But every month is significantly more either one and a half or two times as many new accounts has dropped. So we continue to grow so we haven't had that attrition and net attrition. And the reason is that we're pretty aggressive to go look for a new business, and that's going to continue.

Thank you. And one final quick question, Richard We're in five different locations. Can you discuss any consolidation at this time that's got to be high on our priority list to have some consolidation occur, to save some SG&A?

Well, as you just heard, Mike Smith, our new CEO, is going to evaluate whether or not additional consolidation is warranted. I think generally speaking, we as a board, we are looking to consolidate more if possible, but we have to be recognize the market and the locations and the work being done in each of these locations. So while we do want to move in that direction, we're going to kind of take our cue from Mike as he reviews the properties and the plants and the people in the company.

Thank you very much for taking my question. And again, Dennis, congratulations and we wish you well.

Thank you, [indiscernible] .

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro.

Hi, Andrew Shapiro. Few questions and I'll back out into the queue. First, I'll certainly call you and talk to you about this privately, but thank you for your service, Dennis, during three very difficult years and a lot of problems that you inherited that you had to clean up. And yeah, it was a real tough job. And I recognize that.

If, Greg, you could help clarify because you've given some numbers with this cash creation and kind of tallying up the cash, the warehouse sales, the car wash sales, Et cetera. You use the word net of debt a few times to get to $11.2 million. So assuming those sales occur and we raise the $11.2 million net of debt, what additional debt would be remaining at that time, not counting operating losses, but what additional debt would be remaining net to net against the $11.2 million, there's the -- we'll call it the encore loan number two, the acquisition alone. And what other debt would be -- and what is the amount of that loan? And then what other debt would go up against the $11.2 million?

Sure. The -- and you're exactly right, Andrew on the first part, that Maryland debt which is the $1.4 million convertible debt is still on the balance sheet and it would be there. And then we have about, about $200,000 of other debt and it's just some small capital leases, mainly in the monitoring station operation on some equipment and a couple other small $40,000, $50,000 of financing equipment. So, basically $200,000 of capital leases and small financing that we've inherited on equipment. And the $1.4 million to our notes.

So that's – all the rest of the current debt would be netted against those warehouse and car wash sales because they're all mortgages?

That's correct. That's correct.

So [indiscernible] net of all debt plus the remaining businesses. So to speak to those remaining businesses if I could, first off, regarding IBS, IBS is something you said you've been wanting to sell or you're negotiating to sell for a while. I was wondering why you would not be listed or broken out now, is assets held for sale or discontinued ops?

Typically in discontinued ops, you would break out a whole operating segment or business segment, which would be the which would be the Mace security products, so I haven't pull that out yet

Okay.

But, you know, at some point here might be might be advisable. The assets are fairly small at this point, probably net assets of about $300,000 to $350,000. So it's a it's a relatively small base of assets.

Okay. So $350,000 of net assets. And is the division, which is already very low gross margin, is it is that business profitable or how much of a burden is it creating for the company?

IVS really isn't burning anything because it doesn't have its own staff. So it's just really sharing the staff of the whole small business and the professional end. So it really actually is creating a small amount of gross profit. So it isn't a bargain at this point, Andrew.

Right. But isn't there some Dallas office space you got or what's happening there?

Well, again, they're just sharing space in the Dallas warehouse that they're anywhere. Well, they're in the warehouse. I think I'm looking at more from incremental basis. The warehouse is there. They're taking up space in it, but it's there anyway. So when I thought they occupied some space.

Okay. So now if I had a separate space IVS. All right. So that's IVS. Now, may security products, the we'll call it the surveillance. I guess that's Florida and maybe some Texas?

And this was all really in Florida. Those operations are in Florida as far as the people. And as you know, the warehouse is in Texas.

Now, is that business generating what kind of losses you've mentioned that it is not yet contributing to the corporate overhead costs?

That is correct. I believe our loss, like the May-June timeframe, we were down to about $30,000, $40,000 worth of cash loss. And we're tracking out.

Yeah.

Yes, correct on a monthly basis And the sales, you know, are getting closer to the breakeven point with the reductions we've made in May and June to further reduction. So it's still bleeding a little bit, still having some cash losses, but we are working to cut that down to nothing.

Okay. And it was mentioned at the Annual Meeting just in July that there were some additional cost reductions and control steps that were taken to cut costs. Was that referring back into May and June, as you've talked, or were there incremental steps taken in July and now we are in August?

Yeah, I think what we were referring to was the reductions made in May and June. The reductions that would have been made post June really would have been the completion of the transition of TCCI monitoring station into the other monitoring station. But other than the relief of some of the individuals there that were for a short transition period and some of the duplicate operating expenses such as computer processing and phones and such, that were we're totally merging by the end of July. So that's part of the only cost that we're really significantly tended to.

So are there non-recurring severance costs that are in the June Q2 that you just reported and you're going to have a full quarter of savings in the current September quarter. Can you quantify in general what the quarterly savings ought to be?

Yeah. I don't have it in my fingertips. The four or five people that were terminated in the in the June quarter, I would say is probably on an ongoing basis, $50,000 a quarter for the handful of people, maybe $60,000 a quarter be like my estimate. And when...

Okay. So severance is the severance charge is minimal?

Yeah it was minimal yeah the severance was very minimal.

All right. I have more questions. I'll back out in the queue in case there's others. But otherwise, please come back to me.

Sure. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And Mr. Shapero your line is open.

Hi. Okay. The assets held, not the assets held for sale. But on the last quarter, you mentioned, Dennis, that Q1 tends to be the weakest quarter and Q4 the strongest. What if we look at Q2, it didn't really appear that Q2 held to that pattern. There was a deterioration in Q2 from Q1, especially in the Mace security products side. Is there some additional color we can talk about as to why the sequential decline has occurred and what the run rate is or the prognosis is for that division for the current quarter to be ended in September?

Sure. Most of that reduction, I think Greg mentioned was IVF. IVF had a significant revenue component to the Mace Security Products Division, but very little gross margin. So when you look at the revenue loss, it's almost completely Greg, correct me if I'm wrong, but it's almost completely between Q1 and Q2 is completely IVF, kind of going down even lower. If you look at the gross margin for security for Q1 to Q2, it's actually flat. We didn't -- even though the revenue dropped, we held it, while we lost, what was the business that added the least amount of value?

That I say, but also surveillance was down 250,000 from prior quarter from Q1 to Q2 went from 1.15 to 900,000 or so.

Right. Continues to be a very challenging.

It continues to be a very challenging environment. We have a tremendous amount of competition from Asian imports that seems to be accelerating even more. And we did have a significant client equipped buy in from us soft buying. And so we're just seeing it's continues to be mushy that business has struggled and struggle.

And so we're matching costs to revenue now, which is why they're getting close to breakeven. It's a smaller business and we got it where they had their under orders to stop their bleed or they can't continue and they've done a pretty good job of doing it. They're down, as you said, down to $30,000, $40,000 a month. And this month, July is, excuse me, I guess is prepping to be even better in fact [ph] Chris will talk about what's coming in the future, but it looks like going to be even better than we did in Q2. But it is still I wouldn't say that it's booming and growing. I suggest it is not, it's not recovered.

Okay. And the inventory turns have been rising while inventories been declining, IVS electronic surveillance sales have been down. So with this, as the inventory turn numbers are slowing down and our days inventory have gone up. What divisions causing this increase since we don't have much here described in IVS? Is it electronic surveillance and what is our risk of this becoming obsolete or stale inventory?

Sure. Yeah. If I look at the last six months, Andrew, from December to June Arbitrary rows. As you mentioned, about $140,000. The three main pieces of that are IVS, which the inventory actually dropped about $230,000, $235,000 as not being able to get product from Sony and continuing to sell Vermont or base personal defense On to her personal defense, the inventory grew slightly about $70,000 and a lot of that, that's just sometimes timing we buy some of our products, including the products we get overseas, such as the mace guns and all that and some bulk. So, I don't think there's anything too significant to that other than just timing the 70,000 our growth there. But MSP, the electronic has grown about $300,000 in that period. And a lot of that as we get towards the end of last year, we introduced some new products that Dennis had spoken about and a lot of those shipments came in the first half of the year, but just as the sales started slowing down so that that's caused that increase, I think those products that have increased are definitely the latest products that we're still selling, just got a little slower rate. So, I don't think there's a lot of inherent risk there, but we do do a very detailed reserving exercise every quarter and you know, all the older inventory is pretty significantly reserved for that. We're going to continue to work on and step up efforts on liquidating, but I think we're pretty cover there and we've covered our risk.

Okay. Now, Colonial Car washes is the one that's been under contract since before the end of the year, this car wash sale agreement been extended and extended and each time even getting deposits, when you get all those deposits in there non-refundable, have you already booked them as income? And where is it on the income statement and how much have you otherwise collected and it's on the balance sheet?

Yeah, it's all on the balance sheet. We've collected $100,000 today since if the gentleman does eventually get the financing and get the deal closed, you know, that would be an offset to the purchase price, you know, so we have not taken it into the income statement prematurely. However, when a final decision is made on the two possibly bond to another buyer, you know, we would be taking that into the income statement, so but it is about $100,000 that is on the balance sheet right now.

Okay. And right now it's not under agreement because he's not coming up with any more dough to lock it up anymore?

Yeah. I mean, I'm at that point and the board supports Dennis and my thoughts that, you know, we're marketing the site and other people are very interested in it and are looking at it and are trying to get to me with a commitment and an agreement. And, you know, if this gentleman does step up and proves that he has the financing that I can get the board comfortable with, you know, we'll proceed at that point. But, you know, I think we're just playing a little bit of conservative or hardball, I guess. And, and at this point in keeping our options open.

Okay. This may be a question for Richard I'm not sure Dennis, you might have made a recommendation to the board. The Vermont lease expires in the middle of November. What are the plans for the pepper spray lease or any intentions or plans to exercise the option to keep the location through May 2012?

We haven't as yet unless Dennis corrects me. We haven't as yet. Negotiated or renegotiated that, as of the moment. However, the expectation is that that space will continue to be available and we'll we will continue to be able to lease it on a short-term basis into 2012. So right now, our expectation is we will continue to go forward with that property and with that space into 2012.

Yeah.

And anything thing I would add to what you just said is, is that the current lease, which does expire in November, we do have the right to extend it for another six months and May of 2012, I believe at the same rate. So that we did put in place last November when we when Well, I believe at the same rate, so that we did put in place last November when we when we extended it. So, that does provide us a little bit more time and question to make, you know, an ultimate decision.

Right now, post rights offering, what is the status of the Chase loans. And I was very confused with the description in the 10-Q, were there two CSF seller hold back notes of around $500,000 or just one?

Just one. Let me break down what is what is held back yet at this point. It's a total of $900,000. $500,000 was a general hold back. And that $500,000 is what we had extended to the 15th of August and recently paid what is still left there from the initial acquisition is some phone company contingent liabilities that we basically will continue to hold them into I think it's 2012 and 2013 if I'm not mistaken, different pieces of that, which is basically the statute of limitation running out on the ability for those phone companies to make a claim on mace, so that those payments will be continued to be held. But the $500,000 was recently paid.

Okay. And then we have the debenture number two to Ankara, the first one, the Paleno bridge was paid off, right?

That is correct. The December note is completely paid off.

And then what's – and we have the Chase loans, which are the two mortgages?

That's correct. There's mortgages on the Texas building, about $525,000 roughly at the end of June and the mortgages against the colonial number one, the big car wash is about $630,000, so they're the only remaining mortgages with Chase.

All right. And you've already updated us on the annual NOL balance and all that, Ken. Dennis, can you update us on now we have these proceeds. We're going to we have certain assets that will be sold off against the mortgages. We have a limited amount of convertible debt left. We have a $53 million in NOL, we have a burn rate that's really corporate overhead and a slow growth rate organically on the existing business. So we've got to acquire some positive cash flow somewhere with this $8 million of cash because it's not earning anything in the bank. So now that we have the cash, you can show that to prospective sellers you were talking to. What is the Mamba line here that's lined up with respect to deployments of capital and acquisitions that you've presented to the board and is under consideration?

Well, I would I would say Richard needs to answer that question. I have a pipeline for transportation acquisitions, and I they're working on a pipeline for any other. There was a pipeline for only one in a personal defense space and none in the security space. They were all in the central station basement. Richard needs to discuss where they're going to go with that rather than me.

Okay.

So I'll turn it over to Richard.

Well, we're going to, we're going to pursue all of these acquisitions, at least in terms of getting additional information so that we as a board will be able to determine if they make sense. Here again, Mike Smith will take the lead on this. Mike will be conferring with Dennis over the next several days as to the status of the monitoring and potential monitoring acquisitions and will report The status of the monitoring -- potential monitoring acquisitions and will report back to the board as to whether he thinks we should go forward with any of them. The bottom line is this, we are going to focus on organic growth and we are going to be looking at acquisitions in both the remote monitoring as well as the personal defense area. We're not, we're going to be very, very careful. We're going to make sure our acquisitions, if we make any, are accretive. We are going to essentially focus in, focus down, drill down, if you will, in each of these divisions and attempt to add products, attempt to grow organically and become profitable in the very near future.

Okay. And in terms of assessing that, maybe, Dennis, you can, you provide us let's say we acquired a Central Station that was built on basically acquisition of accounts that goes into the existing platform in Anaheim. About what kind of percent of revenue upon integration ought to drop to the bottom line. So that one could reverse engineer how much revenues need to be acquired. In order to create the incremental cash flow necessary to get this company to a sustained break even in profitability?

Okay the typical acquisition cost for wholesale central monitored central stations is about between 20 times and 25 times of the recurring monthly revenue that they have.

20 times -- 20 times revenue.

Monthly times recurring monthly revenue, 20 times monthly. So that's a little less than two years of annual revenue. That's the way the marketplaces is priced. So in theory one, if you work it out, $1.4 million acquisition probably gets the company close to breakeven and covers the corporate overhead without additional changes, of course, which are coming as we as the board is going to move forward. So it doesn't take a lot of acquisition on the bolt-on sale now. Bolt-on sale is going to bring between 50%, I would say it's a conservative 50% EBITDA, a 50% of every dollar of revenue. And it can be as high as 70% if you do it right. And we're anticipating above 60% for the TCCI once it's rolled. Now that it's rolled in, we should be seen about 60% dropping through the bottom line.

So it's somewhere between 50% and 70%. I've always told the board 50%. And so to promise low and try and do better than that. So it is not a big stretch. That's why we went in this direction. It's not a big stretch to get the company healthy and use and deploy that money wisely. But that will be up to the new board and the board and their new direction. Whether or not they want to continue in that direction, I think they're going to evaluate it and make sure it's a reasonable business.

Now, in terms of the acquisitions you spoke about on the last quarter call that they -- there were things that were lined up and could be move forward. Fairly quickly upon the collection of cash. Are those acquisitions still available for the company to pursue?

Yes.

Okay.

Yes. And I'm standing by that. It will be up to the company to decide what to do with them.

All right. And is there any way you can give a handle on what is the hold up in monetizing and selling the IVS business? And similarly you know, it's pretty much a straight warehouse.

in Texas.

Sure, it's pretty easy that IVS is been waiting for the seller or the buyers financing. He has advised me that he has it now and he was planning to meet with me next week. So that'll go over to Mike Smith and be up to him to close the deal. That's been the longest, the longest closing, I've ever seen, but it's been entirely...

[indiscernible] sales.

...yeah, almost almost the building is not an issue of selling it. We're trying to, I think the board wants to maximize the value we can get for the building. And so we have seen real offers. It's not just walkthroughs that we have real offers. And we're in pretty strong negotiations right now with one that is getting closer to the kind of numbers we want. We just, we see the market improving in Texas and the real estate market for commercial. And we don't want that to we don't want to just give away the building, too soon and that's the direction we're moving. So I think that's going to kind of do well.

We can such a sale of that parcel, at least be a quick close.

I don't think commercial buildings in today's market with bankers is ever quick close, and bankers are getting worse, not better. But I think the, you know, the issue is if you closed it tomorrow, what would you do with 40,000 square feet of inventory. So I think you have to time the close you don't want to close in 30 days or 40 days. But I think most of the offers we've seen look like 60 days to 75 days closes.

Okay. Okay. I don't think, I have any other additional questions. Thank you again, Dennis, for two years of service and we'll talk offline.

Okay.

Do you have a question from a line of Herman Wallace?

Yes. This is Herman.

[indiscernible]

Yes. This is a comment, then a question I notice the reason I asked the question about the Mace brand. Surely has value and would be NOL of some $53 million. I seriously hope we do our promotion on our company sentence now and not do a reverse stock split, which I can almost assure you would fail, and that hopefully we can back in to see that in a well with another company they possibly could consolidate with me. Richard, can you come in on that?

All right. At the end of the rights offering, as Greg mentioned, we have a book value of about $0.34 a share. If you look at the tangible book value, we are very close to $0.25 or $0.26 or maybe even $0.27 a share. We have an NOL that's another asset. We have a brand that's very well-known that's an additional asset. And I think if we make the calculation, we probably have between $0.18 and $0.20 a share of cash. The expectation is that we're going to lose money here in the third quarter. I'm very, very optimistic that the losses will be significantly reduced in the fourth quarter as an objective, I'd like to break even, but time will tell. And as we look into 2012, if we do our job, if we can make an additional acquisition in the remote monitoring area, if we can focus on, uh, on expanding organically, I think we've got a very, very bright Future and the stock at $0.20 would be a steal on that basis. That's about all I can say. You know, in terms of how I view things. But I'm very, very optimistic that we're going to succeed.

Well I purely agree with you, Richard, and I congratulate you on being the chairperson and chorus holdings of, I guess approximately 35% surely speaks for itself just seemingly now or in the next 90 days would be perfect in getting in some seminars where we tell our story to try to get our stock price up. I think staying on the peak sheets instead of trying to reverse split again is I just strongly encourages against that and I hope you will pass that on to the board. And again, I thank you for taking my question.

Yeah. And I appreciate the question, so that everyone would know the possibility always exists for a reverse stock split when you have your shares selling at $0.20, you have to be thinking that way. However, the board is not currently considering that there may be a place for it...

Right.

But right now it's not high on our agenda.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Again, if you would like to ask a question. And there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, thank you very much. That concludes our Q2 conference call for today. And I wish you the best of luck. And I think Mace is going to do very well in the future. With that, we'll end the call. Thank you for calling for listening today.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation this afternoon in today's conference. You may now disconnect.