Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior VP, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC
Thurman L. Willis — President, Thurman Willis, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2014 and Year-End Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Mr. McCann, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, and good afternoon to everyone. And welcome to the Mace Security International fourth quarter and year-end 2014 earnings conference call. Before we get started, I'm going to turn the call over to Carl Smith, our CFO, who is going to read the Safe Harbor statement.

Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, and intended to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties including, but not limited to, economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance and could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I will now comment on fourth quarter and year-end 2014 financial results. After I'm finished, I'll turn the call back over to John, where he will go through his presentation, and we will then open the lines for questions.

Before Carl begins, there is a PowerPoint presentation that is available on the Mace website. So Mace Corp. under Investor Relations, Shareholder Transcripts and Presentations. Thanks.

The fourth quarter revenue was $2,091,000 compared to $2,099,000 for the fourth quarter of last year, a decrease of $8,000. The decrease in the fourth quarter was mainly attributed to a $61,000 decrease in Non-Aerosol products, which include the big jammer and wireless alarm systems; a $47,000 decrease in tactical products; and a $29,000 decrease in surveillance and other. Offsetting the decreases was a $129,000 increase in Aerosol or pepper spray sales mainly through our sporting goods and automotive distribution channels as several large customers added items to their assortment and increased volumes in the fourth quarter.

Gross profits for fourth quarter 2014 totaled $807,000 with a 38.6% gross margin compared to $714,000, and a 34% gross margin for 2013, an increase of $93,000 or 13%. This increase is mainly attributed to a $73,000 or 26% decrease in direct and indirect labor. Prior-year fourth quarter labor was high as the result of the move from Bennington, Vermont to Cleveland, Ohio. And in the fourth quarter of last year, we also had a $52,000 adjustment for the write-down of some surveillance inventory.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014, were $1,164,000 compared to $1,902,000 in 2013, a 56% and 91% of net sales, respectively, for a decrease of $738,000 or 39%. The improvement can be attributed to cost reductions and one-time charges in 2013.

Cost reductions for the quarter accounted for approximately $205,000 and include reduced staff, lower insurance premiums, lower legal accounting and professional fees. Prior year fourth quarter included one-time expenses of approximately $533,000. These one-time expenses included severance and relocation cost for moving manufacturing to Ohio. Interest expense for the quarter was $58,000 compared to $55,000 in 2013. This is interest and accretion on the $1.4 million Merlin debt, which was paid off in January of 2015, and this payoff resulted in a gain of approximately $322,000.

Discontinued operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2014, was a loss of $6,000 compared to income of $1,924,000 in the prior year. The $1,924,000 in income is mainly attributed to the $2.2 million gain on the sales of Mace Central Station in the fourth quarter of 2013. As a result, net loss for the quarter ended December 31 was $393,000 compared to net income of $613,000, a decrease in net income of $1,006,000.

I'll discuss year ending December 31, 2014, compared to 2013. Revenue for the 12 months ending December 31 was $7,794,000 compared to $8,018,000 last year, a decrease of $224,000 or 2.8%. Revenue comparisons by product category are as follows; Aerosol or pepper spray, which accounts for 69% of total revenue, was $5,400,000 compared to $5,364,000 last year, an increase of $36,000. Non-Aerosol revenue, which includes big jammer and other non-spray products, was $356,000 compared to $587,000, down approximately $231,000 or 39%.

Tactical revenue, which includes TG Guard products and our Take Down brands of pepper spray products, was $459,000 compared to $496,000, down $37,000 or 7%.

Surveillance revenue for the year was approximately $1,046,000 for both 2014 and 2013. Gross profit for the years ending December 31, 2014, and 2013 totaled $2,855,000 and $3,087,000, respectively, a decrease of $232,000 or 7.5%, with gross profit margins of 36.6% compared to 38.5% in 2013. This decrease is attributed to the $224,000 decline in revenue and slightly lower margins as the company increased promotions and advertising at the account level to maintain current accounts and obtain new customers.

SG&A expenses for the year ending December 31, 2014, were $4,849,000 compared to $6,336,000 in 2013, a decrease of $1,487,000 or 23.5%. The decrease is attributed to the elimination of approximately $700,000 in one-time charges incurred in 2013, cost cutting efforts initiated in 2013, which continued through 2014, and lower expenses. The cost cutting and lower expenses accounted for approximately $880,000. The SG&A cost reductions and lower expenses included reduced staffing, facility cost. We reduced rent at the Vermont sales office and Florida office, and we also closed the Florida office at the end of December. Audit fees were lower as a result of changing audit firms and that accounted for about $50,000 in the reduction. Insurance premiums; we exited a captive insurance program last year, which no longer fit the company and resulted in lower premiums year-on-year of about $150,000.

Legal expenses down approximately $90,000, and professional and consulting expenses were approximately $300,000 lower due to the elimination or reduction in fees for product design, lobbyists, and other consulting.

As a result, operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2014, was $2,160,000 compared to an operating loss of $3,410,000 last year, a $1,250,000 or 36.7% improvement.

Interest expense for the year was $229,000 compared to $221,000 in 2013, and as already mentioned, is the interest in accretion on the Merlin debt. Interest income for the year ending December 31, 2014, was $240,000 compared to $60,000. The $180,000 increase is mainly attributed to interest we received on the note from Security Partners, which is the company we sold the Central Station to in 2013.

The company also recognized a gain on investments of $137,000 and a write-down of a note receivable from Security Partners in the amount of $100,000 in 2014. As a result, net loss from continuing operations for the year was $2,106,000 in 2014 compared to a loss of $3,581,000 in 2013, a $1,475,000 or 41.2% improvement.

Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2014, was $402,000 compared to $1,560,000 in 2013. Both amounts are primarily attributed to gains recognized on the sale of the Central Station, which was sold in 2013 and had a subsequent price adjustment in 2014. As a result, net loss for the year ended December 31 was $1,704,000 compared to $2,021,000 in 2013, a $317,000 or 15.7% improvement.

EBIDTA for the year ended December 31, 2014, was a negative $1,950,000 compared to a negative EBITDA of $3,258,000 in 2013, an improvement of $1,308,000 or 40%.

At this time, I'll make a few comments on our balance sheet at December 31, 2014, cash flow and some other information. The company's net book value was $10.3 million at December 31, 2014. Mace had $13 million in total assets, including $6.3 million of cash in short-term investments. We had positive working capital of approximately $8 million and a current ratio of 3.9.

Total debt at December 31, 2014, was approximately $1.2 million, consisting mainly of our debenture note with Merlin, which was reported as a current liability due to the January 2015 payoff. From a cash flow perspective, for the 12 months ending December 31, 2014, we used approximately $1.7 million of cash in operating activities compared to $3.5 million in 2013. Net operating losses or NOLs at December 31, 2014, totaled $58.2 million, with $1.1 million expiring in 2018 and the last NOL expiring in the year 2034.

At this point, I'd like to thank you for joining us this afternoon. And now, I'll turn the call over to our President and CEO, John McCann.

Thanks, Carl, and thanks for all the information. So quickly, I just want to mention that if you can or if you have not had the ability to, but if you would please visit our website, and you can see a PowerPoint presentation that will be under Investor Relations on our website. I'm not going to go through the entire presentation, but I just wanted to highlight a couple items on the presentation and also expand a little bit upon what Carl said during his brief presentation.

So with that, starting with slide number four within the presentation, we were blessed to pick up two major accounts at the end of last year that we shipped in the fourth quarter, which is Meijers, which is a chain of stores in the Midwest located in Grand Rapids, and also Lowe's, which is a large DIY, probably the largest in the DIY segment, located in North Carolina.

Both of these customers came onboard and their POS sales have been strong, and we've worked great relationships and product development ideas with them. Both of these customers were a result of some new products that we've developed over the past years. So some of the spending that Carl referenced in 2013 went to our efforts in 2014 in order to launch some products that made a difference and also hit a sweet spot for these particular customers.

The other thing to note is if you looked at shipments for 2014 on just our base pepper spray, we're actually up 3% even though we looked as we're down in dollars, and a lot of that had to do with the competitive environment in which we deal with. So, not only are we going after new customers, as Carl referenced in his presentation, we're also maintaining exclusivity at some of our customers, but we did this by working with those customers either through promotions or advertisements or incentives in order to keep those exclusivities at certain customers, which we felt was important and in the best interest of the company.

Also, briefly reiterating in the presentation, on slide five through the next couple is also that spending that we did with regards to product development, understanding our consumer, and also knowing how to acquire consumer and what the cost is in order to acquire an end consumer, but also a retail consumer, we looked at the metrics that are somewhat standard in the industry that you look at either three times or five times your revenue, your cost in order to acquire a consumer, can you make that back over a brief period of time. And that's what's helped us in order to target certain customers, gain the end user customer through a retailer or through a direct methodology.

So, really just not to focus too much on it, but on the next couple of slides, all the way up to slide 24, you will see all the hard work that we went into. And so now, when we go to talk to a retailer or direct to consumer, we know exactly what we're going after, the product assortment that works for that customer, and also the likes and dislikes of that customer to make sure we're on the same page with regard to what they feel is important, we're showing them what is important in our minds, too.

Slide 15, which I'd just reiterate because now, on our tactical side, which is a completely separate side of our business, if you looked at Mace and you said you have your consumer facing side, which, personal protection and personal defense for any person, we also have our tactical side, which is what we sell to, our law enforcement, state departments and agencies. Once again reiterate what Carl had said, our TG Guard solution is somewhat of a [ph] circular (16:26) business, and it's a very hard to forecast business that we're looking at the metrics of how we can do a better job on that.

But in last year, our TG Guard sales were down, but our Take Down, which is our defense sprays, were up significantly in the period. So although when you take our tactical division, you looked at it being down, really, the Take Down sprays in all categories and all products in our tactical division was up over 36%. So we had done more with our spray business, but we were lacking a little bit in our TG Guard. And our TG Guard really is – it's almost a bid business that is a long lead time, and we were lucky in 2013, we weren't as lucky as we would like to be in 2014.

But with that being said, our very next slide 16, really now, we have a full complement on our tactical side. So we can go from sprays to being able to outfit an entire facility and drop tear gas or pepper spray from the ceiling to now we have all the less than lethal products that any department would need, is significant because some of the spending we did do in 2014 is for the benefit of 2015. So these products were launched at the SHOT Show, but really, a soft launch happened in the fourth quarter with the IACP Show, which is the International Association of Chiefs of Police, which was prior to Christmas in December, and then we did a very great job in the launch at the SHOT Show in January, and half of our sales team is right now in Germany or headed back from Germany from the IWA Show where we had yet another successful launch of these products.

We paved the way now on our tactical side that we have the solutions that we need; from our shields to our sprays to our less than lethal strategies, to being able to outfit an entire department that they can remote control drop tear or pepper from the ceiling. We've positioned the company now to be very competitive in that segmentation. There's close to 18,000 law enforcement agencies just in the United States that employ almost 1.1 million officers; whether they be staff, full-time or part-time officers that – per the Department of Justice statistics. And so we feel now, we're well positioned to compete in that arena where in the past, we were not.

Going on to slide 17, at the same time, we've reinforced the brand and the consumer level, both surveillance products, new products, and our traditional pepper spray products. And just briefly, I'll talk about a couple of our new products and partnerships that we laid the groundwork again in 2014 for 2015.

Slide 20, just going backwards just so I can recap it again, just gives you really, a recap of what we're doing with our Mace Tactical Solutions, how we've developed a nationwide sales force. We have over 28 sales agencies and sales reps that we have on the road now. They will be trained in – they've been trained in the last couple of months. We'll finalize it with a big training with customers also at the end of April in Kent, Ohio, which on the very next slide 21, I'll go through why that's important in this world.

And then, we also listed out a lot of the shows that we will have participating. And in this year, more than any year in the past, almost every month on the police officer or the tactical side, we will be participating in a show, interacting with agencies, bringing products and showing the difference between a Mace product and the products that they're currently using, because as we reentered into this round, we make sure that the products we bring to these different departments are different and unique. They're not just me-too products.

For example, our flash bang disperses from both sides, right? So a traditional flash bang in the market today will disperse from one side or have a [indiscernible] (20:50) back to back, so will have a [indiscernible] (20:52). What we try to do is look at where the market is today and say, okay, can we make something better? So, with ours, a flash bang, for example, will explode from both sides of the cylinder, which gives equal force on both sides, and then also then is more effective product than some of the products in the marketplace today.

Page 21 is just talking about our tactical training, whether you're – anybody in the lethal or non-lethal world, training the officers to make sure they know how to use their products, when to use their products, what safeguards to take, is critically important to the success of the product. We were fortunate enough to team up with tactical defense training, which actually happened to be about an hour outside of our headquarters in Ohio. There in Kent, Ohio, we're just outside of Cleveland, Ohio, and they have done this for many international clients, some domestic clients, but we'll be able to use them exclusively, and there's a lot of benefits with what they already have built in because they have the necessary license, they have the necessary registrations, they can actually store some of our products on site. They have retail, they have classrooms, and they have trained former military and former law enforcement gentlemen and ladies that can help our clients understand better how to use our products and how to be efficient in the use of our products.

So this was a big second step within the tactical world to make sure that we're aligned in ourselves with the right folks. So now, our cost of acquiring a customer, we do not only acquire the customer, train the customer and make that customer a repeat customer, which is the critical element of it and especially on the tactical side.

Then getting back to the consumer side, slide 22, we're really excited about our Nite Beams partnership. Alexander Tonto is actually the gentlemen that developed this product. It'll be branded Mace, brand Nite Beams. We've launched it, as I mentioned before, at the IACP show in December. We did a launch at the SHOT Show. We also did another launch at the Houseware Show this past weekend. All three went very, very successful. We know we're going to pick up some new distribution. We've picked up some distribution at this past show that by June, we will have these products out and hitting the marketplace. And they really fit a nice segmentation. Just to talk a little bit about it.

In the United States, there's a 35% increase in people being hit on the side of the road, whether they've stopped to repair their automobile, they have a problem with their automobile, they're walking their dog, they're jogging or they're just walking for health reasons, there's a 35% increase. Most of it is due to distracted drivers or people not seeing the person on the side of the road for a variety of reasons.

Our products will help prevent those types of situations and also give peace of mind to our customers as we constantly look at making Mace the number one brand in safety and security. It's important to bring products to market that are unique and different, and then solve a problem, this solves the problem.

In L.A. County, which is one of the largest in the United States, it's a 42% increase. And now, there is some legislation on the books and some legislation that's being proposed that if you get out of your car in L.A. on the side of the road, that you have some type of reflective gear on it. Mace Nite Beam is best, for example, not only has reflective strips on it, it also has built-in lifetime guaranteed LED lights that can either flash, be constant on, or a hard flash depending on the situation. So your chance of survival now is much greater, plus as the laws in California change, it will change across the United States, you'll be compliant in the law. So we're bringing a product that fits a need and can save lives.

Just as an example, slide 23 is an example of the shoelaces that light up. So even if you're just jogging at night or you're jogging, it's a perfect mix, and it's an easy fit within a category that's quite large.

Slide 24, I won't really get deep into the details as Carl has gone through all the information, but to say disappointed on the sales results, but if you look at every other indicator that we've done, we've seen nice increases in everything we've been trying to do and ultimately trying to bring the company into profitability.

Commenting just a little bit about the sales results, the sales results year-on-year really started with a very bad first quarter of the year. Retail in the first quarter of 2014 or the first half of 2014 was only so, so. We had a decent – a very good third quarter, we had a decent fourth quarter, we were flat through a year ago, which included a lot of pipeline shipments from new customers from 2013. We were lucky, as I mentioned before, to win Meijers and to land Lowe's in 2014. If you adjusted out some of the advertising spends that hit the net sales line, you would actually see a slight increase versus 2014. As I mentioned, shipments on just our traditional defense sprays were up over 3% year-on-year.

And then the same thing, when we look at the full year results, most of the loss in sales revenue was related to the first quarter. There are several retailers in the United States that are not in the position they'd like to be. We are constantly looking at that cost of acquisition on a retailer and the cost of maintaining a retailer and balancing in between where we are and where we need to be.

But as Carl's presentation indicated and as the numbers indicate on the expense control side, limiting the loss and moving towards less of loss on the EBITDA side, we're much closer to where we want to be is what I should say.

And then really, the rest of the slides, I won't go through in much detail. They just kind of give an indication of where we are and some of the things that are working and some of the things we need to do a better job on as we go through.

Only a couple other comments and then we'll turn it over to questions, a couple other things that I just want to highlight on the call today are as of last year, there was two significant customers that we had, DICK's Sporting Goods and AutoZone, that make up a large percentage of our receivable. It was asked prior to me, those customers are in good standing. They do make up a large percentage of our receivable, but they are excellent customers, and Carl and I can attest, too, that they're solid paying customers, too.

As I mentioned on slide four, Meijers and Lowe's are brand new customers, and we're looking at nice growth rates based on the POS sales that we had in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year. I will note, through February, net sales are up about 10% versus year ago in the first quarter of this year, so we're pretty pleased with that result. We'd like to see a little bit higher, but given everything that's happening in the world today, that's a pretty good number.

And then the only other note that I wanted to mention is that gun sales, and our pepper gun sales, as Carl mentioned in the previous segmentations, were a hot item for us in 2013. They cooled off significantly due to relevant events, as everybody can guess, in the news, media and whatnot, and we are relooking at our line of guns and reevaluating that segmentation to see what we do differently with it. But it was not as successful in 2014 as it was in 2013, and that trend somewhat continues in this year where our exclusive line, which we developed last year, has been very, very successful and hit a niche in the marketplace.

Lastly, just talking about some of the partnerships, that we had a partnership with Defender, we continue to have that partnership with Defender. We're ready on our side, as we announced in some of our press releases. They are a little bit behind schedule where they are with regards to manufacturing and bringing the product to market, but we feel that's something that we'll bring to market, that will make sense in the future, and we're looking at smart technologies, wearable technologies and some of the other things in that segmentation that we think are very, very significant investments in the future that we're going to continue to look at and evaluate.

So with that, just to reiterate, 2014 was a dramatic improvement over 2013. We not only continued our expense reduction, we increased our gross profit. Our sales were not exactly where we would like them to be, but given the fact that retail was very tough in the first half of the year, we were able to do many things. And also given the fact that as we were doing all of this, we launched brand new products, not only in surveillance and in our traditional pepper spray categories, in our non-pepper spray categories; and then we launched, which in itself was a feat, an entire tactical division that was rebranded, renamed, SKUs added to the assortment. So, we became the one-stop shopping for tactical, for law enforcement and for governments, and for state and embassies. It's a dramatic year for Mace in general, and we're very happy with everything we were able to accomplish in the year.

So with that, maybe we'll just turn it over to questions.

Your first question comes from the line of [ph] Thurman Willis (32:01), private investor.

John, congratulations on a top performance, excellent year of turning the company around, and now positioning us with these new products to move forward. I appreciate you taking my call. I think there were a lot of people that thought maybe Mace, with the problems that it had under prior management, could not be turned around, but you and your management team have done an outstanding [indiscernible] (32:34) that. Two questions that surround [audio gap] (32:40-32:44) John, can you hear me okay?

Yeah, now we can. Go ahead, sorry. [indiscernible]

(32:52) I have two questions that surround our new philosophy and secondarily, the stock price. I have visited the company twice recently, which was at the SHOT Show and then at the conference, and also was at the company and saw firsthand the new products and the excitement that surrounds those products.

So let me digress just a moment and say that in the last three years, I think the company is poised in 2015 to maybe even double sales and really take off as a company that's just basically known by a brand name, but not known by product. Briefly, did you say you sold off all the businesses that were noncore related? You sold properties in five states. You got EPA disbarment removed. You consolidated the company in one location. You sold the monitoring things [indiscernible] (34:10) and received what I thought was an excellent price of $8 million. And as you said, you've manufactured these new products. I'm glad that the Chairman owned 40%, which puts him in the same pocket with shareholders, and I would say that you're ready to explode. Now my question, I just say that to thank you for what you and your team have done. Can you hear me okay?

Oh, yeah. No, we're listening, and thanks for [indiscernible] (34:46).

I would like for you to be very specific and tell us how you will be different going forward now that you have positioned the company, you've cleaned it up, I would like you to address IR and PR, because out of several hundred people that I've asked, the only products they know that Mace has is a small pepper spray that ladies may have on their key chains. The other is how we're going to educate the public to the awareness of our products, especially Nite Beams. I think last year, I can understand maybe why we didn't do as many press releases, but I hope that we'll change our philosophy there. For example, at the SHOT Show, you won best in show in one particular item and we didn't even get a product release on that. I think the hard part's over. You turned the company around, and I think it's a small company, it's not a Fortune 500 company, I think things can be done quickly. I'm glad to see we've added more salesmen. I think we should add additional salesmen and not depend on distributors or [indiscernible] (36:14) retailers and also use direct sales.

And then, I want to make sure that the board and management are on the same page relative to the philosophy now. And I sat at the SHOT Show for hours and watched – there were 70,000 people there, not all of them came by the booth, but watched how excited they were about your new products of Nite Beam. Everybody wanted to buy, but of course, they can't at this time. So, I think I firsthand have seen why so much enthusiasm. We basically had no press, and I don't think everyone knows this is a 45-year-old company with no debt, with new products. And so, to restate briefly, my question is, are we now going – I know our plan is to make this a viable dynamic company like TASER, et cetera. However, I want to make sure that we are going to use investor relations, public relations. We're going to educate the average customer of the products that we now sell now that we have them, and that we are small and we can turn it around quickly, and we're going to add more salesmen. And I just want to have your assurance that we're at that point, an inflection point that says that we're going forward from here and we should really now concentrate on sales with these new measures. Sorry for such a long question.

No, that's okay. Thanks, [ph] Thurman (38:15). So a couple of the questions that you had in there, and thanks for the thanks, first off. So breaking it down a couple of folds. So one of the things – and I'll get back to IR and PR, but to talk about education. So this year versus any year in the past, we've already – the Mace Security International group has been at eight individual trade shows or events since the beginning of this year. So if you said the quarter's 13 weeks and we still have three weeks to go in March, in the 10-week period, we've been at almost a tradeshow per week.

So looking at the segmentations to make sure that we're effectively covering those segmentations, whether it'd be our tactical division or our consumer products division, we've been very diligent where we had not been in years past. We increased our tradeshow budget in 2014, which was almost a non-existent budget in 2013, and we've increased it again in 2015, which speaks to the education and making sure that we're hitting the different consumers. Now, with regard to sales people, we're constantly evaluating the cost of acquiring a customer, the cost of talking directly to a customer, right? So an end user, not just through a retailer. So you make a good point, and with that regard, we are in the process of – and the board has authorized me to begin interviewing firms with the intent of beginning a more active PR and investor relations effort in the second half of 2015 to coincide with our more prolific new product schedule.

So in 2014, we dabbled in PR, but we didn't do it on a consistent basis. Why? Because some of the products that we had anticipate in launching took a little bit longer to launch than we had anticipated. Even though we are a small company, a lot of times, the joke is in a lot of different industries that to cut steel you're six months away from a new product on a good day. That's with nothing going wrong and everything working correctly. If you factor in problems, Murphy's Law and et cetera, launching a new product sometimes can be a 9-month to a 12-month period no matter how big or small you are.

For example, we've started working on our Tactical division the day I walked in the door at Mace. We are now comfortable where we are launching it. That might have been a little bit longer because of fire arms registrations and other certifications that you have to have on a tactical product versus just a consumer product, but it gives you an example of how long sometimes it can take to launch a product. But to your question on education, we've added sales, we've added shows, we've added almost every venue that we can sell to our portfolio to make sure that we're covering all of those avenues of distribution so we can gain greater sales growth within the organization.

Second part of it is we are in the process and I have already interviewed two IR firms to talk to, to work in conjunction with management, the board, and our investors to make sure the message that we know gets out to a wider audience. As you'd like to say, [ph] Thurman, (41:34) we have a great story, we have a great game, we just don't have fans in the stands or we don't have seats in the orchestra house filled to hear the things we're doing.

So with that, you can be assured that it was a topic of a conversation in our March board meeting with full board consent to ramp up the process in order to find the right folks on a PR and IR side to help us tell that story. Then the second part, as you had mentioned, is we have more sales agencies, people, and products than we ever had in the past. So, we are, – we feel we're at that point where we've taken a lot of cost out of the building. Now, we really need to look at revenue growth, and relationships, partnerships and products in order to make that happen.

So, I hope that answers your question. But thanks, [ph] Thurman. (42:32)

Good, John. And I can also assume that where we missed opportunities to get out headlines and press releases, in this non-lethal security environment that we will look for reasons to put out press releases, not to hide the stock, but to educate the public about our products. Can I be assured that we'll put out quite a few more press releases relative to our products?

We will be putting our more press releases relative to our products, and I have to do clear up a little bit of miscommunication with regard to the SHOT Show. We had a group that was using Twitter for Mace at the SHOT Show, and so we were encouraging customers to come in to see our Shield Handle, and we were calling it the best product in the show. There wasn't an award, per se, that we won. We were using that vernacular in order to get people into our booth, and it did work, because we – a lot of people came into our booth and then they saw the depth of the brand and what we are doing.

So, any confusion with regard to winner and best in show, that didn't happen, but because we were tweeting it out and we were tweeting out about a lot of our products, we did get some enhanced visibility that we wouldn't had otherwise, but it speaks at a point of not only IR and PR, but social media and using Twitter, Facebook, and some of the other social mechanisms in order to make sure the message is out there, because we do have a message from a police officer to a mother of a child that we have products that can help peace of mind.

Well, I do hope. I visited most of the venues, and I do hope because I said practically everyone that came by and there were hundreds, if not thousands of people that came by and everybody wanted to purchase one of your Nite items, and there is probably 30 of those Nite Beam items and then I think I counted maybe 30 new products. So whereas, you're known as a pepper spray company, you have all of these products now especially Nite Beam, and I said to you before, I thought I could take Nite Beam and go to college campuses and sell $2 million out of the trunk of my car. And I say that not in jest, but on a serious note that I think it's going to be that dynamic of a product.

My second question pertains to our stock, and I did some analytical work on TASER, Napco, [ph] Digital Aid, (45:34) Digital Ally, et cetera. And in this environment, these stocks are selling at quite a multiple to our stock. For example, one of those companies has no sales and has financial needs, has no profits, and we sell at $0.38 to $0.42 and they sell higher than we do. And I think it's because, as I've said, if you talk to people about Mace, they just are not going to get the full message from the box retailers and the distributors.

I think, and I don't say this to hype the stock, but I think our stock, my comparisons came out that we ought to be selling at about $1.5 if you compare us to those other four companies. Also we seem to have a stock overhang of around $0.38 to $0.42, there's a seller out there, and I was wondering as to your window or insider pleasantly experiencing a window and windows that open after earnings?

Okay. Well, maybe I'll turn it over to Carl because he can explain the window and then I can address the rest.

The window, it's detailed in our corporate governance on the website. I believe its 45 days after earnings release. Like three days after earnings release and then 45 days after that the window opens up, but I would have to look at it, I don't know it off the top.

Right. So, to your point, unfortunately, and the Chairman of our board has brought this up that we are looking at – the end of the year is always the most difficult, you put out your unaudited results earlier in order to allow the windows to open. So, some of my board members, some of the staff, did want to buy stock, but couldn't because we want to be compliant to all the rules and regulations because we need to be and we have to be and we should be.

The second – the first part of your questions, yes, there is an overhang out there. We're aware of it. We're trying to work on strategies and methodologies to help alleviate that to where the stock price should be or where it's going. The only thing I can do is to make sure that I do a good job at my job, and I do the diligence that I need to on a daily basis and I give my best efforts in order to make the company the best company it can be, the rest should follow and suit. But to your point earlier – your question earlier and then maybe we'll put you back into queue after this, [ph] Thurman, (48:24) so some other people can ask questions, is getting the right IR and PR firm will definitely help make sure that story gets out, which should be a benefit to the stock price because the story is a good story.

And if you look at our story versus some of the aforementioned companies that you mention before, we have a great story because we do have 85% brand awareness. We have a 91% satisfied to very satisfied with our products. And then we also have a cross-section of the United States from 16-year-old to 66-year-old. We have a solution for their needs, which is peace of mind, safety, and health. So – but thanks, [ph] Thurman, (49:05) and maybe we'll go back to the queue to see if there's another question.

Excuse me, one second, while we'll go back and – make understand, Carl. The window opens three days after earnings are released, is that correct, Carl?

Right. It's a 45-day period commencing three days after our quarterly or year-end's earnings release. So, we have a 40-day window starting three days after earnings release.

So, there's another 45 days added to the three days?

No, no. I'll read it to you. A blackout [indiscernible] (49:46)

So, it's just three days. So, I'll take it then, John, there's no negotiations going on and we could expect to see insiders buying stock because we'll soon pass the three days. Correct?

Their window will open within the period that Carl aforementioned and so then it's up to the individuals, yes. But I would imagine some people that have been waiting will be purchasing. But there is an overhang there and we are working on it.

All right. I will get back in the queue and let someone else and I thank you for taking my question. But I wish Carl would check that, because most companies the window opens one day after earnings, or three days after earnings if there are no negotiations going on that closes the window.

Three days after the earnings release, the window opens for 45 days.

For 45 days. Okay. So, we as investors then can count on these changes we have discussed and we should see some insider buying because I remember our Chairman at the conference saying that he felt when the stock was trading at $0.38 that it was an excellent buy down here and again if you compare to the others, it's just not comparison, it's because the products aren't known. I'll get back in the queue. I'm sorry I abused my time.

Thanks, [ph] Thurman. (51:26) [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Could you double check because I think Andrew Shapiro, right.

We just had one come in from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Actually I just came in, I think, it's been so long that it's forgot that I hit the queue 20 minutes ago. I'll ask you some shorter questions and hopefully...

Yes, sir.

you can have time to answer them all. I have several, I'll back out in the queue to give people an opportunity. But if you could, can you – you've added Myer and Lowe's during the – I think you said the fourth quarter or just 2014? Can you clarify that first?

Fourth quarter of 2014.

Okay. So, you added them in 2014 and of those added here, have they sold their initial inventory build and what's been your re-order experience from these two new distributors?

It's different for each one of them. So, with Lowe's, it wasn't a full door, full go. We're in 500 at the Lowe's stores and based on their metrics to us that it was a success. I don't have the actual POS sell-through because we didn't hit a high enough of a parameter on a dollar amount if you would for them to say we're going to turn on this mechanism which is tracking that. But I can say that March 23, they asked us to come back down to talk about a larger program either repeating what we've currently done or redoing it.

So we on Lowe's side, successful program. They have over 1,800 doors; we're only in 500 of the doors. Sell-through was good. Residual POS sales have been good. No exact numbers to back that up 100%, but they have been ordering since. And now, we're meeting them within the next couple of days to do a broader search and program.

With regard to Myers, Myers was an all door program in their sporting goods section. And they have come back very strongly and we have a full year, full go program with all of their retailers. To note though, Andrew, just on that side, as these have been coming in, there are certain retailers, Sears, K-Mart, that unfortunately their programs were less than successful because their foot traffic has been less than successful.

So, there was a bit of give and take during the year, but we – on a go forward basis, we've aligned ourselves with companies that have strong growth potential and fit a need in the marketplace.

And with Lowe's, how soon or when would it be resolved that you might go from 500 doors closer to their full 1,800?

Well, if all goes well, we would know by the end of March, early April.

And then if you've got the green light for all doors, how soon would you be recording sales in it through basically three times as many doors?

Right. It depends on their cycle, because they go with planogram sets. So, it depends on when that planogram set could hit. We, as the manufacturer, we can be ready as soon as they tell us go. So our goal would be...

Same quarter, is it months?

Pardon me?

Is it months or quarters?

If I was to guess, I would say that they would look at the October period of ramping it up and doing it, because as you can imagine right now if you walk into a Lowe's store, they have their outdoor seasonal, which replaced their Christmas sets. And so, they've got patio furniture in the front of the store where they had Christmas and they would look at cycling us in when it made sense when they knew that their store set team was going to go to the stores, the new planograms were launched at the stores. So, the same set would be like, if they say, hey this is great. We want to build it out outdoors. Boom, it would – if we're lucky, it'd be June. If I'm to guess, I would say October.

Okay. In the sporting goods segment, where competition you've cited to be fierce. What's [ph] the R (56:10) value proposition? Is the Mace brand maintaining or gaining share, and is it more than with price?

It's more than with price. So, reiterating a lot of what we did wasn't 100% related to price. There's a couple customers that we did some price adjustments in order to make sure that we are competitive. [ph] The R (56:31) value is double in my opinion, and when we go head-to-head within a store front, we beat the competitors hands down.

Field & Stream, which is a division of DICK's Sporting Goods, has every pepper spray manufacturer in the world. We outsold everybody. So, on a head-to-head basis, we have no competitor, but in the reality of life today, a lot of buyers want to make a simple solution based on price. We are not the low price leaders, like the low price leaders live in the Midwest, but they're not us. So, we see a great value in our brand.

We know that when the customer goes to pick and if you think in your own mind, I'm buying this for my daughter, I'm buying it for her safety, I'm buying it for my son, my wife, or I'm buying it for myself, do I want some brand I don't know or do I want the Mace brand. And we know 60% to 70% of the people say I'll pay $2 more for the Mace brand.

We do have to struggle with retailers to say, well my charges to get the lowest price and blah, blah, blah. So that's why we spend a lot of time in the research. That's why a lot of the researches even in this presentation because we're the better car in the car analogy, right. We have all the features and all the benefits, but we're not – we're not the low-priced car. We are a little bit higher priced than our competitors for a good reason.

Okay. Take Down less-lethal tactical munitions, you've expanded the offerings, I saw them when I was in Cleveland, okay, back in November for the site visit or your company, investor...

Correct.

Okay. And you presented them on at the SHOT Show, but you said on the last conference call that you would see cash flow streams from this in the back half of 2015, but you also mentioned but because of your partners and your, Mace's, abilities, it could be quicker than that. Is this still the case and does it look like you will be generating cash flow streams from our less-lethal tactical munitions prior than I guess it would be the quarter beginning in July?

And I'll reiterate what I said before. If we're lucky, we'll see it prior to that. But definitively, we feel confidently that we will see it at least in that June period. Being 100% honest with you, I haven't gotten a full report from the IWA, the IWA Show, which was in Nuremberg, Germany that just ended. But all the communications back and forth from the sales representatives, the agencies, everybody, it was – exceeded their expectations with meetings and with conversations.

Now, it doesn't – it's all a gift 'til we get an order, right, and it's all a gift 'til it gets paid for. So with that, I would stick with what we originally had said, that if the gods are with us, we might see it prior to that July period; if not, we feel comfortably that we'll see the order – we'll see the water spigot open up, right. And whether it gushes or trickles, will be the key, but we'll definitely record some orders in the back half of the year.

Okay. Presumably the sale of the broader line of less-lethal munitions would be an easier sell for you in those agencies that you've already been selling the pre-existing Mace products. And I understand you're in a variety of law enforcement agencies and they would be good if you call them reference points and all that. Can you list or identify or maybe provide to investors through a release of some sort as we often see from TASER or others, a list of where you are selling your product, whether exclusively or not. So that..

Oh, sure.

I guess, other agencies who are considering it, would know that we are in the space and who are some of those agencies where we're placing our products?

Well, there are several agencies across the country, and to your point, some of them are exclusive, some of them are non-exclusive. But Cleveland is a good example. So, starting this year, we were their official provider of defense sprays, right. So regardless...

I know. You guys released that.

Right.

But if you're in like 10 smaller agencies, certainly, you're not doing a release on – 10 releases on one, but if you're in a..

No. But our goal is kind of maybe – right, so our goal – and I don't have that list in front of you, but what we can do is we can quickly put – compile that list and we've done it in the past, I think mid-year last year. Our goal this year like looking at our PR and IR and what our needs are is to generate that list on a regularized basis. What a regularized basis might mean, we have to determine. But to your point, if you get five smaller agencies, you put out a release saying now Mace is available in Abilene, Texas, which I know we sell them and Spokane and et cetera and just make that a little more public information.

To your other point, we are using it as reference point. So, it's a bit complicated like the department might not buy directly from Mace, they buy from a distributor. So, for example, a good agency is the Neves Brothers out in Colorado. Well, Colorado Springs, Denver, certain other municipalities in the Colorado area, they get a requisition order that the officer then takes over to Neves or the procurement officer will say, okay, Neves, I'm going to buy this.

We'll get that order from that department. What we'll start to do a better job of to say to situations like that where it's outsourced procurement, if you would, for a department because they're strapped with cash and they don't want to have that type of personnel on hand. We can get that list to say, okay, here is where these were shipped through ultimately from our distributor; Quartermaster, Galls, Neves Brothers are an example of just three or four that actually do the procurement for several departments. But it's a good question and we can be a little more diligent on providing that type of detail.

Right. I'm sure those distributors would appreciate your broadcasting of them as well, but you could ...

To be honest with you, some of those guys like to run under the radar scope. They run almost a Costco style warehouse and quite honestly, you could be in a neighborhood and not even know that they service that, because for them it's a safety and security, that they don't want people to know that they are stacking Glocks and Rugers and Mace because then it becomes a target for thieves, unfortunately

Right. Okay. Well but you can also always say that our products are being used by the following police forces.

Exactly and leave out the distributor side.

I have many more questions, I hope you will extend the call length. I'll back out in the queue to allow others; hopefully, they won't take 20 minutes on a single question.

So, I think if there's any more otherwise we can go back to Andrew to make sure we get all of his questions.

We have [ph] Thurman Willis, (1:04:27) the private investor in the queue again.

Okay.

Quick questions. You said sales were up 10% in January and February. From what period were you referring?

From January, February from a year prior.

And you said that insiders were interested in buying and if they do buy would you please report that?

We can report that. We don't have a mechanism. So, what it would be is if we interview IR firms and PR firms, we can come up with a methodology. We can get into the specifics of, we're a non-reporting [ph] pink sheet OTCB (1:05:08) company. So, the requirement is that we – it's not like we can go on the website and load this information, right. So then we have to create a mechanism in order to provide that information out.

We've done it in the past and we can on a regularized basis provide that type of information. Like I can tell you the management team, the majority of the board are all investors and active investors in the company. And Ancora, for example, is a very active investor, not only the board members, but also the other willing participants of that organization. So, we'll work on a methodology, but I just want to stress because it's not an SEC requirement for us that it just becomes something that we have to figure out how to do it and we've just done it via press releases in the past, and between Garnett and Carl, we can work on a methodology.

I guess not only is it not a requirement, we don't have the capabilities of doing it through the SEC. We're just not registered.

Right. Well, we have to figure out who bought and then put it out and then ask their permission in order to put it out. But we – it's a good question and we can work on it. [ph]

But if (1:06:25) you've done it in the past and there's only one reason insiders [indiscernible] (1:06:31) that's the reason they think the stocks are going higher and I think you should figure out a way to put that out in a press release. And did I understand you to say that you were looking at methods to get rid of this overhang?

Yes, we are – there's no guarantees, but we are – we think we know who it is and we are. But to the point, [ph] Thurman, (1:06:57) and like on the insiders' side, when – my chairman and another director came up with the methodology of like, hey getting rid of the debenture note, it didn't take us but three or four days in order to raise the $2 million put note between myself, Mondale Capital and Ancora. And so that's just even in itself just a good indicator of the people that are active in the stock realize the value of it.

Okay. Maybe we'll go back in the queue, [ph] Thurman, (1:07:33) so we can make sure we get all the questions.

And we're back to Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital.

Okay. I'd like to follow up on a few of your joint ventures and the status on these things. So, can you explain this co-branding in the Mace Tactical training partnership. Just in brief, how it works and what I'm getting that when I ask that, I don't want to get a whole detailed thing about oh, they're going to come here and do it. I just want to know, are there direct revenues for sales and services or is – is the training just sales support via the training that's being offered and what's the timing and rollout milestones for this training program?

Okay. So, the Milestones are and if you refer to the presentation, April, we've had some soft training meeting and put together a handbook and all the things necessary in order to have a very good training program. But then in April, we will have a live training program and, Andrew, I'll make sure you have the dates and anybody on the call is more than welcome to participate in this activity. That's the one bucket.

The second thing is, is that for Mace there could be a small revenue stream but we're not banking on a revenue stream. They have a retail operation; we can record sales out of it. There are reference points for us to say, if let's say for example they brought in a police department from XYZ County, they're going to recommend that their county start buying Mace-branded products, our Take Down products. They'll have full catalogs. So they'll become a marketing arm for us with that regard.

Then the second part to your point in a sale, we're going to sell the products and the training as one bucket, right, then we're going to split the revenue and they're going to recover their cost and how much it costs them to train personnel, so that's theirs. On a secondary training or a third training, there's a little bit of a royalty or a revenue stream that we will be able to drive up of that. So, an officer comes back in and then let's say it's $150 to get trained, we'll take a small piece of that revenue, but Mace Tactical training partners, Tactical Defense Training, will keep the bulk of it. But so marketing sales possibilities slight revenue stream, reference possibilities, referral possibilities, or new introduction possibilities are all available to us, so it becomes almost a Mace retail outlet and training facility that will have no cost.

So, I want to move on because the time here. So that's Tactical. Now I want to move on to something here in the Nite Beams, slide 22. Okay. Can you remind us or explain what the terms of this product arrangement are, [ph] I'll (1:10:42) be purchasing the product from the partner, do we own exclusive rights and what are those, what markets and uses, does Mace have the exclusives in?

Okay. So, basically we have exclusives in almost every market, right. So the inventor and the current company has been more than willing to do anything needed to be done. It's a buy-sell relationship. So we buy the product, he makes his money right off of that, we keep the rest of the revenue and income.

Everything we do will be Mace branded but it will continue to have the Nite Beams name on to it. The other thing is no cost to the company is product development. If you see something that he thinks is unique and different in his travels, this is Tonto, their inventor he is more than willing to share that information with us.

Ultimately, we could buy the entire company and roll it in but for us great product development outsource that we don't have that cost, it's a great deal both for retailers, us, and Tonto, and he has the expertise in the product that we're taking advantage of by him making sure and testing the products before we even bring them to market.

Okay. Now what kind of margins are expected on this vis-à-vis like our other products that we're selling?

They'll be very similar, if not a little bit higher.

Okay, so good margins, you're selling these products in a variety of markets, you talked about the safety outside of the car, I guess, construction crews, other work sites, et cetera, you have a slide here that shows it around the neck of a dog which seems like a big market in and of itself. What I'm getting at is it would seem that the market, the addressable market for Nite Beams is actually far larger than that of pepper spray? Am I correct about that?

You're 100% correct and that's why as we are aligning the company, and I always start with that we want to be the number one brand in safety and security. Just to highlight that example, the pet market if you would and this is total pet market, so you understand the philosophy of what we're trying to do, is $58 billion. $58 billion with a B. So, if you said, let's say 50% of that or more is food and you said this is a $25 billion, $26 billion, $24 billion market, right, and you said of that this is a $10 billion market. Well, it's significantly bigger than pepper spray and that's just one segmentation.

Right.

Looking at it again, the cycling/running world – the estimates are it's between a $10 billion and $15 billion market. Take out the bikes and the shoes and what not and say it's 10% of that. It's still much larger than our market. So, what does this alliance do? Well, we're doing marathons now, which we didn't do. But then it gives us an opportunity to highlight the base brand pepper spray along with these products that make 100% sense if you're running or just walking at night, the pet market is as I had mentioned. The automotive market to say not only should you have a can of pepper spray in your trunk, you should have one of these in your trunks because the battery life on these are over a year, it's a simple camera battery that you put into it and the LED's are guaranteed for life. So, to your point, this is – it's a great opportunity for the company. It's a simple solution. It fits into safety and security and our brand name should enhance the value of the proposition.

Okay.

But you're 100% right.

So, have you done any research on what the addressable market sizes are on some of these segments yet?

Oh, yeah. Well, just as I indicated. Like, we've looked at the cycling and the running segmentation, and the pet segmentation. Just those two segmentations alone are in that $58 billion and $15 billion. That's all encompassing, so you have to take this segmentation. Then on the other side of it, the statistics that we have on bicycle safety, auto safety, walking, are staggering that, I don't have it right in front of me, but I think it's every 10 seconds, somebody's hit by a car on the side of the road in the United States. In L.A. County, it's a 42% increase with cars hitting humans.

Okay. So, then can you update us on what are your rollout plans and the response so far to those rollout plans?

So, the rollout plans as we indicated, we have rolled this out at four shows just far this year. The SHOT Show, the International Houseware Show, and then two sporting goods shows. Then we're doing individual meetings with almost every one of our major retailers, or retailers that we currently don't do any business with, because they don't want to carry a pepper spray product, but love this product.

For example, I closed a catalog account at the Houseware Show that they're saying, great, we have an opening in our June, which our June is related outdoors. We'd like to put this in. Small volume, small cataloger, but you can see, so on our [ph] game chart of (1:16:24) plans, it was develop the product, develop the package, develop the messaging, go to the shows, customer contacts, check out customers, go back to customers. And then segmentation-wise, organizationally, we haven't done a lot in pet, we haven't done a lot in cycling, we haven't done a lot in running.

Now, we're reaching out in those segmentations and say, okay, you have the segmentation you do business in. Now, you have new segmentations, you can go after and then to the point I think [ph] Thurman (1:16:52) was making earlier, we are looking at that direct response. Is this something that you can go on television, on radio, and sell directly to a consumer? Because it fits the needs, and it hits the price point because price point wise, you're from $10 to $100. You're not talking about stealing somebody's wallet to buy these products.

Right. So, what's the timing of landing and selling these products and collecting cash and booking...

Well if you refer to the chart is we are – we're going to have the inventory on hand by the middle of April. We will be reporting sales, let's say, May 1 by the latest and then depending on the segmentations of the customer, we will be shipping to customers, depending on their planogram and their needs, we know that we're revising our website as we speak, we'll sell – we'll be selling direct to customers within the next two weeks.

Okay. And those will be booked revenues in the next two weeks?

Booked revenue.

So...

But like the example was the cataloger that I said. They're going to shoot the product next week. It'll go live in May. We'll be fulfilling orders for them in May and June.

Okay. And what international markets has the company grown and why, and what product lines in new territories are your products now offered in and like what's been the experience so far with these new offerings and are the re-orders?

So, on the international side, somewhat it's a little bit event-driven. So, one of the best – let me take it in two buckets. One of the best markets last year was Korea, but Korea was definitely response to events in that segmentation. So, we did a tremendous job fulfilling orders on almost overnight basis. But that was a new market, had an event, probably bought more products in a shorter period of time than they would otherwise. But now, that customer that continues to come back but the order volume will be a little more stable than the fluctuations of, I need a $100,000 worth of product overnight.

A good example is Italy, Germany, where Germany for example, we are in probably 15 or 20 different retail and law enforcement outlets, Mace-branded products that we sell on a regularized basis. So, German [ph] gun sport, (1:19:40) three or four other retailers in the German market. In Italy, we have a great distribution partner that services law enforcement and retail.

So, those are good examples of where we're seeing growth. We have a unique product that we've developed called StoppaRed that we own the patent on actually through the development of one of our great employees, Bernie Grainy, that it contains no pepper at all, but it's a red dye irritant that does extremely well in that market and we're seeing some growth potentials there. When we look on a worldwide basis, we see Africa, South America, and the Eastern and European countries as tremendous growth targets for us.

Okay. And so what's preventing you and what's the hurdles from ramping up and making more sales there now?

Well as you could see it from our presentation, we actually had a huge increase. Part of it, I think we're over [indiscernible] (1:20:45) so last year, we're up $91,000 in sales. It's not as big as – I'm sorry, that was just the fourth quarter. We're up about $186,000, so we did a little over $600,000 last year internationally.

To your point, that number could double or triple. What we needed to do was we needed to clean up some distributors which we did. We needed to have consistent pricing across the board which we implemented. We needed packaging in seven different languages, but then also specific to several markets, so we did that.

Now, we're aligned with a deeper line of products if you would. So the Shield, we showed at the IWA Show, that we showed at the SHOT Show, that now we have the distributors in place, that we have the contacts in place, and we have the sales group in place that we feel that this year, we should be able to add to the sales that we're able to do last year, which was a pretty healthy increase of almost $186,000, and we feel that will definitely continue.

Still a drop in the bucket to Nite Beams. Do we have the rights to and do we have...

Absolutely and as with my second point was is that, we have three products or four products, Nite Beams included, that we have 100% of the rights to, and that was also showed at the show in Germany and across some other meetings. And we are negotiating as we had mentioned in past conference calls, with a large major – it's a German distributor, but they service the entire Western Europe on Nite Beams and on Take Down and on Mace brand products, the entire lineup.

All right. Now, you also cut a deal with and you have Mace, it's called the Mace Pod and the Mace Ware. Can you update us on the status of that? I think I've seen some of that being offered for sale. Have you been making sales of this? And what is the – what's the terms or royalties, et cetera, that come from it?

Right. So we as an organization have not. So – but the company First Sign has been making all the sales, we get a royalty on the use of the brand, and we also get a percentage of the monitoring because we set it up through our partners, security partners that we had sold Mace Central Station to. So we have twofold revenue. Right now, it's very small, the revenue that we anticipate in this segmentation, but the product is just really getting out there. And like all startups, the deal we negotiated with the use of the name instead of a broader deal because we wanted to make sure that it was the right segment and right product.

Okay.

They're still looking for investors and they're looking for other capital means, but we want to make sure that the company stays...

We get a royalty, we've got no risk, and they can use our name...

Right. Correct.

...something [indiscernible] (1:23:57) after this company to do for years. So, that's...

Right. And it's like we have three or four of these products out there. It's just that some of them just have produced no income. Solo Mace for example is another example, a biometrics company that came to us with something. There is a nice royalty for Mace, but unfortunately, they have not been able to deliver products into the marketplace quickly.

What's the difference...

First Sign, Defender is another example. The Defender is very unique in the fact that we would not only be a royalty participant, we would also actually be the pepper spray that they use within it, and then we had a mechanism using of the Central Station to once again, share in the RMR segmentation of it. But unfortunately they're a little bit behind schedule on where they would like to be with the launch of the product, and I don't anticipate in that launching in 2015 at this point.

And in that one, you guys had to put, you put some money up on either deposit or invested through Indiegogo is that...

Correct.

...already paid and is that at-risk and gone or where is it on the balance sheet?

I'll let Carl address on the balance sheet.

It's not on the balance sheet, it's $100,000 as an investment.

And the further point because we're in conversations with them, maybe we'll hold comment till we finalize some further conversations with them.

Very good, but I – my CFO just said it's an investment but not on the balance sheet, you expensed it or where is it?

I – [indiscernible] (1:25:45) it's on the balance sheet. I have to look to see, it's other assets, it's in another asset.

Okay, so it's not...

It's on the balance sheet. So there is no concern there, like we recognize it.

I guess my comment was more hedged on, them coming through with...

Correct. I think there is a lot of loose parts, we should probably leave it at that. There's a lot of moving parts within this one, Andrew. The big thing we can say is they're a little bit behind. What I can't comment on is that we, Mace as a company, we love this segmentation of smart technologies. We feel strongly that the company needs to constantly look at this segmentation, and I spend a good portion of my time looking at this segmentation, make sure we align the brand with the right players, because there's going to be a shakeout in this segmentation and we want to make sure that we pick the right horse to ride.

Okay. Now when the note got paid off in January, I think you made a comment Carl, that it's going to result in a gain in Q1?

Correct.

Okay. And we've gained on the retirement. And with respect to our receivable, we have a receivable from Security Partners, okay? But there was also a mention of $100,000 note write-off. Can you just briefly describe what's that – the note write off, what was that about and when and then, it looks like...

There was a renegotiation of the loan agreement with Security Partners, which we reduced the note by $100,000.

And then the interest rate got raised, and then the term was extended?

Correct.

Exactly.

The interest rate went up, the term was extended, and a mechanism was put in place in the marketing agreement to make the $100,000 back, which I think, over the next two years, we will.

Okay. And are they allowed to prepay early, or is there a prepayment premium?

No.

No. Okay. And is there any security or seniority with this note?

We're behind the bank.

Okay.

But we're – based on run rate, just to comment on that, based on run rate, we – we're fully confident that there's no issues to worry about. And I'd second that, just one other comment is, it could be the singular best thing the organization did because we are in a better position with dealers today than we were when we were in the Central Station running that. We are probably selling more cameras, and part of the slides – like if I just look at my unit sales on surveillance from last year, cameras, surveillance cameras were up over 8%. So we sold over a couple hundred more cameras, and we know a growing percentage of that is coming from a dealer base on a Mace-branded program that Security Partners is pushing very, very hard as an exclusive with their group. And the last thing I'll say is, they're opening up a brand new Central Station in Las Vegas, Nevada. And quite honestly, there's signs all over, saying that we're partners with Mace. And so for us, it's another great, almost venue for the organization to use while traveling. Salesmen can use their facilities and have meetings, and then we can show the band with them of our partnerships and our alliances with different companies, embedded in the safety and security realm.

Okay. And I think I might have cut you off, was there more activity going on within one of the terms of your deal with First Sign, they're the ones who have the Mace wearable?

Right. There is a more activity, and it's kind of influx, so I should probably not comment until we figure out that segmentation.

Okay. And what is the Mace's NOL tax carry-forwards balance up to now here at your audited fiscal year-end since it looks like you're on the verge of finally being able to use those tax carry-forwards to shield some profits?

Correct. The NOLs at the end of the 2014 are $58.2 million.

$58.2 million?

Correct.

Okay. And regarding your exquisite line of spray, you had as of last quarter experienced supplier stress, if that's that right word, last quarter, I guess, one of the suppliers had shortages because they had a spraying equipment issues and all that. Have those problems been rectified, and are you now able to ramp up and are you fulfilling the requested orders for this popular product line?

It lingered a little bit at the January period, but we're – are fulfilling orders. We had to allocate for the past couple of weeks. Some of it due to Chinese New Year, it's nothing dramatic, and then also, we've dramatically increased our orders, which he needed a little time, he being the factory needed little time to procure the equipment and he also ramped up his abilities to produce more products. So short-term paying, coming to the end, we see no issues moving forward with this supplier.

Right. And it sounds like if you were making those kind of larger orders, it's because you got the demand and you're moving the product?

Correct.

Okay.

And strategically placed in the product, because one of our major retailers, we know already they're going to expand into one of these products, so – but we had asked them that we don't feel comfortable doing it for the back half of the year, because we didn't want to...

Underpromise and...

...overpromise and underdeliver.

Okay. Overpromise, underdeliver. Last quarter, you're starting the soft launch of the new Mace Stun Gun, and there were no sales in Q3. Were there sales here in Q4, and if so, were those initial sales above or below your expectations? And...

They were above our expectations. They were direct to consumer. There was very little retail, but it's a great opening. We just landed Stun Guns at a major retailer in the United States, and we've seen some healthy orders shippable in March, and then order buckets to us all the way through June. We will note, there just full disclosure, there is one patent issue that we're working through, but we think we can successfully solve it, with regards to one of the guns, but that we don't feel it'll be a major issue.

Okay. Only one or two more questions if...

Sure.

...you would, here. One of them is, last quarter, you mentioned you were in pretty high level negotiations or you were talking with one of the camera manufacturers in the wearable segment a.k.a. camera that could be worn by law enforcement officials, regarding maybe joint venturing or doing things. Where do you stand regarding discussions with [indiscernible] (1:33:14) a Mace's brand involved in this set...

We're in constant – right, so we're progressing nicely, and we're working on paperwork back and forth to take it to the next level.

Okay, good. And you had a – you're first and only investment conference presentation in your backyard there in Cleveland surrounding your Investor Day. What are your other investment conferences do you see presenting that this year? Is there approval to go ahead and do that? Do you have anything on the horizon yet, or where does that stand?

So that's an excellent question, and part of it falls back to the board meeting that we had in March, which several investors had raised the issue of the company's position on IR and PR ergo, then adding into an investor conferences and to that point, as I've mentioned earlier, the board's authorized me to start interviewing IR and PR firms with the goal of being much more aggressive in the back half of the year. So to answer your question specifically, there is no conferences that we're signed up for. But we're gearing ourselves up to align ourselves with the right PR and IR companies, separate segments, right? And then, participate at several conferences this year, especially aligned with the right IR guy, kind of what we...

Yeah. It's going to take time.

Yeah. We want to have the right IR team in place, so then you go to the conference and then you have the follow-ups in and the other chatter and buzz that you need in order to make sure your messages isn't just shouting in the wind.

Right. Such as this conference call.

Correct. But we do enjoy talking, Andrew.

Okay. Well, I enjoy being able put the questions in, I'm sorry I took so long.

No worries.

Is that it?

I'm showing you have a question from Thurman Willis with Private Investor again.

Okay.

John, just one final from me. If whether it's a long question and answer or a lot of short questions, my point remains and I hope that the company philosophy, people do not know about Mace like Andrew and I do, nor have they done the research, and it's up to you to put out the press releases and do all of the things necessary that we talked about, direct our sales, et cetera, et cetera, and then, we'll have fans in the stands, and that's the final point I want to make. You don't do it like that, and people stay ignorant to our products, we're not going to increase sales, we're not going to increase profits, and we're not going to increase the stock price. So please, now that we have the products, let's move forward and educate the public. Some of my background information tried to do, because the public totally unaware of previous management, what you have done, and the new products, and it's up to the company to get that word out. And I hope that you have felt that on this conference call.

Absolutely. No we hear you loud and clear and as I indicated from the board meeting and the authorization to start the process of talking to, and I've talked to several IR firms to coincide that with the launch of all the products that you had aforementioned, so got it.

Thank you.

You got it. Okay, I think that's it.

There are no further questions at this time.

Thank you very much.

Okay. So I guess we can end the conference call. We want to thank anybody – everybody for their participation, and all the information will be on the Mace corporate website. So any additional questions, please just feel free to e-mail or call us. Thanks.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.