corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Nicole. I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Mace Security International 2008 Fourth Quarter and


Full Year Financial Results Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker’s remarks,


there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you Mr. Nieves, you may begin the conference.


Eduardo Nieves, Jr., Vice President, Marketing and Investor Relations


Thank you, Nicole. Welcome to Mace’s Investor Conference Call. My name is Eduardo Nieves; I


am the company’s Vice President of Marketing and Investor Relations. Also on today’s call is


Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis R. Raefield; Mace’s Chief Financial Officer,


Greg Krzemien; Mace’s General Counsel and Executive Vice President, Robert Kramer; and newly


appointed Board member, Richard Barone.


Greg will discuss the financial results, Dennis will discuss the status of the business during the call,


and available during the question-and-answer period will be Richard Barone and Robert Kramer.


Before I turn the call over to Gregory, there are some housekeeping matters that I must address.


Certain statements and information made during this conference call will constitute forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will


continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, intend to, or similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995.


Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including, but


not limited to economic conditions, limited capital resources; and the ability of management to


effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially, adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause


Mace’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements


expressed during the conference call. Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from managements’ projections, forecast, estimates and expectations,


are contained under the heading Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, including it’s registration


statements and it’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the


financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly


reports on Form 10-Q.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I would like to add that following the call if there are any follow-


up questions, you may call me at area code 954-449-1313 or you may e-mail me at


ed@mace.com.


And with that, I would like now to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Eduardo. Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us on Mace’s fourth quarter


and year-ending December ‘08 results call. I will try and keep my comments brief. However, I do


want to make sure I cover enough information to explain some of the items that we recorded in the


fourth quarter and the year-ending December ‘08. So please bear with me.


First of all, just to make sure everyone is aware of our lines of businesses for some who may be


new to our call here today. We principally operate in three segments currently. Our Security


segment which includes three divisions, our original and well known Mace pepper spray operation,


our Mace branded professional and consumer level electronic surveillance equipment operations,


and our high-end machine vision and video conferencing equipment operation, IVS.


Our second segment is our e-commerce business within our Digital Media Marketing segment


through Linkstar Interactive. And our third segment, which most of you know we are exiting, is our


Car Wash segment where we have currently 12 full service car wash and detail centers all located


in the State of Texas.


Again with the departure from the car wash business as an update, we’ve sold 37 car wash sites


since we started the divestiture process in December of ‘05 and five truck washes for a total of 42


sites. This included six sites we sold in 2008 and two sites we sold in January of this year.


With these sales we’ve generated about 34.5 million of cash and that’s net of paying down 16.3


million of mortgage notes on these car washes. Again we have 12 sites left, 11 of these sites are


operating. We have closed one site in Lubbock, Texas in the fourth quarter of 2008. And with the


sales of these car washes we have been able to reduce our debt which was about 24 million at the


end of 2006 to approximately 6.5 million at the end of 2008.


So this significant reduction obviously allowed us to reduce our interest expense quite substantially.


We were round about 1.5 million in 2007 and is projected to run a little over 340,000 in 2009.


We noted in the 10-K as a subsequent events note that we entered into agreement in Austin, Texas


to sell two of our sites there for about $6 million. These sites are having book value of about 5.3


million. These sales were contingent and are contingent upon the finalization of some Phase 2


environmental studies being conducted on the sites.


Also I’d like to note and I think Dennis will speak more about some of the car wash activity. But we


also entered into an agreement this week to sell the third Austin site for a sales price of 3.2 million.


This site has a book value of about 2.6 million.


So pretty excited about that our debt outstanding on these three Austin sites is about 2.5 million. So


that should net us some nice cash upon the completion of the sales, which again we cannot give


any assurance that they will close but we are optimistic.


Looking at these 12 remaining sites, the net book value is about 17.3 million at the end of


December after the write-off the impairments we took at December 31. Assuming we sell the three


Austin sites at the contracted price, we think we would be able to generate about 18.5 million in


cash and this would be about 13 million of net cash after we payoff 5.5 million of total mortgages


relating to these 12 car washes, including the mortgage I previously mentioned on the Austin sites.


In the 10-K, just to mention that we do record the majority of the sold or discontinued operations of


the cash washes as discontinued operations. That really includes all the sites except the Austin and


the colonial sites which we’re actively looking to sell.