corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to today’s teleconference. My name is Keisha and I will be your


conference operator today. All lines have been placed on mute and this event will be recorded for


future playback. There will be a Q&A session at the end of today’s presentation.


At that time, I will instruct you on how to ask a live audio question. Welcome to the Mace 2010


Second Quarter results Investor Conference Call. At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Sarah


Din.


Sarah Din, MarCom Manager


Thank you, Keisha. Welcome to Mace Security International’s second quarter investor conference


call. My name is Sarah Din and I’m the MarCom Manager for Mace. Also with us today for this call


is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield, and Mace’s Chief Financial


Officer, Greg Krzemien.


Today, Greg Krzemien will be discussing the financial results for the quarter, while Dennis Raefield


will discuss the market trends, business conditions, and the Company’s plans.


Now, before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some general housekeeping matters that we


want to address. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,”


“will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimate,” “projected” and “intend to” or similar expressions are


intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements are subjected to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties including,


but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and ability of management to


effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace’s financial performance. It could cause Mace’s


actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed


during this call. Additional discussions or factors that could cause actual results to differ materially


from management’s projected forecasts, estimates and expectations are contained under the


heading risk factors in Mace’s SEC filings, which include its registration statements and its periodic


reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K.


All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the


financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s annual reports on Form 10-K, and quarterly


reports on Form 10-Q. You can access these reports on Mace.com through the Investor Relations


section on the website.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Sarah. Good afternoon. Good morning to those on the West Coast. And thanks again


for joining us for our second quarter 2010 investor call. I’ll be discussing the results for the second


quarter of 2010, I’ll be comparing that to the results for same period last year, talk a little about the


six month 2010 results and also refer to some sequential changes in financial information over the


last couple of quarters.


Just a little bit in the way of background for those who may be new to the call. Mace currently


operates in two active business segments, our Security Segment, which is our main business


segment, and within the Security Segment we really have four operations. We have our electronic


surveillance operations, which we sell to both professional line of equipment, mostly to dealers and


our home and small business operation, our second division if you will is our industrial division and


video conferencing division. We have our personal defense, which is our famous Mace Pepper


Spray, and some other personal defense type products. And the fourth division, which we added


last April, is Mace CS, which is our wholesale monitoring station out in Anaheim, California.


Our second segment is our Digital Media Marketing Segment, which consists of Linkstar, our e-


commerce division, selling mostly home and – or beauty type aid products, and health-related


products and Promopath, which is our Media Marketing division of Digital Media Marketing


segment.


As far as the financial statements and the numbers I’m going to be discussing, I’ll be mostly


highlighting information from our continuing operations, which are those two active business


segments. The car wash operations, which we continue to sell-off, and I’ll be addressing those in


one brief set of comments shortly.


But the numbers I’m going to discuss do not include those operations. Those in the financial


statement are disclosed as discontinued operations, in the income statement, and the assets and


liabilities of those car washes are pulled out and segregated on two lines on the balance sheet,


assets held for sale and liabilities related to assets held for sale.


Again, I’m going to cover the financial highlights and then Dennis will be following up with some


operation color commentary, shall we say, to my financial comments. Money income statement, I’m


going to discuss some key points of revenues, gross profits, our operating losses, trends there,


SG&A costs, and EBITDA and I’ll make some additional comments on our cost reduction efforts. I’ll


review a few key items on our balance sheets, and I’ll make some comments on a few other key


areas within our financial statements and disclosures.


Again, everything I’m going to be mentioning now is on a continuing operation basis without the car


washes. So the first thing I want to make some comments on is our revenues and based on the 10-


Q we just recently released, if we look at the revenues for the second quarter of 2010 versus the


second quarter of 2009, there is about a $1.1 million decline or about 15% and the majority of that


decline is in the Digital Media Marketing Segment, which declined about 972,000, and the Security


Segment being off by about 100,000.


If I look at the sequential quarters, the second quarter ending June versus the first quarter ending


March of this year, overall we’re down about $858,000 in revenues or about 12%. The good news


is our Security Segment, which is our main segment, is up about 2% quarter-to-quarter; with our


Digital Media Marketing Segment being down about $945,000 or about 35% dip from the first


quarter.


Also, want to mention that if we look at six months versus six months, we’re down about 9% with


the Security Segment basically being flat on a six-month basis, between 2010 and 2009.