corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2009 Financial Results. My name is


Dana Bunker, and I will be facilitating the portion of today’s interactive broadcast. All lines have


been placed on mute to prevent background noise. [Operator Instructions]


At this time, I would like to turn the event over to Mr. Don Taylor.


Don Taylor, Vice President of Marketing


Thank you, Dana. Welcome to Mace Security’s International second quarter investor conference


call. My name is Don Taylor, and I’m Mace’s Vice President for Marketing and Investor Relations.


Also on today’s call is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield; Mace’s Chief


Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien; and Mace’s General Counsel, Robert Kramer.


On today’s call, Greg Krzemien will discuss the financial results for the quarter and Dennis Raefield


will discuss the market trends, business conditions, and the company’s plans. So before I turn the


call over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters that we must address.


Certain statements and information during this conference all will constitute forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,”


“will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimate,” “projected,” “intend to” or similar expressions are


intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including but


not limited to, economic conditions, limited capital resources, any ability of management to


effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially


adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause Mace’s actual results for future


periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during the call.


Additional discussions for factors that could cause actual results to differ material from


management’s projected forecasts, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading


“Risk Factors” in Mace’s SEC filings, which include its registration statements and its periodic


reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during the conference call should be


considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s annual


reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Access to those reports can be


generated on the website, www.mace.com. Please click on the Investor Relations button.


With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Don. Good morning and thanks for joining us again today on Mace’s second quarter


June 30, 2009 results call.


As most of you are aware, we operate currently in three business segments. Our primary segment


is our Security segment. And we also operate in two other segments, our e-commerce or Digital


Media Marketing segment, and our Car Wash segment, where we operate our 12 remaining car


washes.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 18, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We also operate within several divisions within our Security segment, principally four divisions, our


original and well known Mace personal defense and pepper spray operation, our Mace branded


professional and consumer line of electronic surveillance equipment, and then our industrial


division, which is high end machine-vision cameras and video conferencing equipment, and our


final and fourth division within the security segment is our wholesale security monitoring station


operation, Mace CSSS Inc., which we acquired in April of this current year.


The acquisition of CSSS disclosed in our 10-Q on April 30 carried a total acquisition price of about


3.7 million, including the assumption of $600,000 in liabilities. Net of these assumed liabilities, the


3.1 million of consideration was paid 1.7 million at closing on April 30, with the remaining


approximate 1.4 million deferred in the form of several holdback arrangements.


I just want touch a little bit on the car wash exiting. As most of you know, we’ve been exiting the car


washes for several years now, working to maximize our return on these assets. A quick summary of


where we are with these divestitures. Through June 30 of ‘09, we closed on 42 total facilities since


December of ‘05. This generated about 34 million in cash after paying off about $16 million in


mortgages.


We have 12 remaining sites, as I mentioned a few moments ago. Five of these 12 sites are


currently under agreement, pending closing, including our three Austin, Texas, sites, a Lubbock site


which we actually closed in December of ‘08 and are selling as real estate, and a site in Arlington,


Texas. We hope to close on the Lubbock site within the next week or two and the Arlington site in


September. And the Austin, Texas, sites we just entered into an extension agreement as they’re


working on finalizing some financing arrangements.


These five sites that we have under agreement, we expect to generate about $8.1 million in cash


net of paying off about $2.8 million of mortgages. In that net $8.1 million, about 6.8 million is


expected from the three Austin sites, about 800,000 from the Lubbock site and about 480,000 from


the Arlington site, again net of the debt payoff.


Of the remaining seven sites out of the 12 we currently own, two are in Lubbock and five remaining


are in the Arlington, Texas, area. These are not under agreement. These sites have a current net


book value of about 7.5 million and they carry debt of about 2.9 million.


I want to also note, and we disclose in the 10-Q, as far as asset sales that we did sell a cell tower


easement in Arlington, Texas, at one of our sites. We generated about $290,000 of cash and on


that sale on July 31. I just want to note again as we disclosed in the 10-Q there’s no assurances


when and if these sales that we do have under agreement will close. However, we’re all working


very hard to get to that end goal.


I want to mention that our Arizona, Florida, Lubbock, San Antonio, Austin, Texas, and the East


region car washes, as well as the truck washes, they have all been included and reported as


discontinued operations in our SEC filings, including the June 10-Q. Also I want to note that assets


held for sale include the three Austin sites under agreement, the Colonial or Arlington, Texas site


under agreement and two Lubbock sites, including the Lubbock site that’s under agreement. So all


the remaining car washes – approximately the six remaining would be not in assets held for sale.


Those assets would be in our fixed assets on the balance sheet.


Next I’m going to just highlight a couple key items related to the June ‘09 quarter. From a revenue


standpoint, our June quarter revenue was down as compared to June of last year by about 4.4


million or 34%. The bulk of this, about 2.7 million related to a decrease in revenue in our Digital


Media Marketing segment, a large part of that relating to the closure of PromoPath, our marketing


company last June as well as, some decreases in the e-commerce business as certain of our