Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Results of Operations Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Mr. Steve Rolle, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Stephanie. Welcome to Mace Security International second quarter conference call. My name is Steve Rolle and I am the Corporate Controller for Mace. Also with us today is Mace's Chief Executive Officer, John McCann; and Mace's Chief Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien. Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some general housekeeping matters that we want to address. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal private securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result are expected to, will continue, as anticipated, estimate, projected, and intend to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks known and unknown, and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance, it could cause Mace's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

Addition -- additional discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projected forecasts, estimates, and expectations are contained under the heading risk factors in Mace's previously filed our SEC filings, which include its registration statement and its periodic reports on Forms 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during this conference call should be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes contained in Mace's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. You can access these reports on www.mace.com through the Investor Relations section of the website. You can click on the Investor Relations button.

With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.

Thanks, Steve. Good morning and thanks for joining us on our second quarter 2012 results call. And as Steve noticed -- noted, I will be providing some highlights on the results of our second quarter and our six months -- and our six months ending June 30, 2012, versus the same period of last year of 2011. I'll also be making a few comparison references to the first quarter of 2012. Provide some background for those who may be new to our calls. Mace currently functions in one active segment, that being the security segment. We have discontinued operations within our fleet as Car Wash segment, and we had two remaining sites at June 30, 2012. I will make some brief comments in respect to these operations in a few moments.

As for our Security segment, we currently operate in three operating units or distinct divisions. We have our Mace Personal Defense Operations, Mace Personal Defense Inc., which houses our well-known Mace aerosol pepper spray. And we also have electronic surveillance equipment operation, Mace Security Products, which sells both professional and mostly home and small business, do-it-yourself type electronic surveillance equipment.

Finally, we have a wholesale security monitoring business, Mace Central Station, or Mace CS, which we entered in April 2009 with the acquisition of our base business, CSSS. As a point of reference, we also had an industrial vision specialty camera operation known as IVS, which we sold in October 2011. As I previously mentioned and as we disclosed in our recently filed financial statements, the Car Wash segment is accounted for as a discontinued operations in these financial statements from an accounting and a financial reporting standpoint. In essence, all of the revenues, all of the expenses, including the prior period of this Car Wash segment, were pulled out of the income statement line items and reside in one line item at the bottom of the income statement. This presentation gives a clear picture of the company's operations from the current or ongoing security segment. Likewise, on the balance sheet, the assets and related liabilities of these remaining car washes at June 30 were noted as held for sale, and all the balance sheet amounts are removed from the various balance sheet line items and are housed on the balance sheet, either as assets for sales or viabilities related to assets held for sale. What I'll be doing this morning is again covering our financial highlights. John, our Chief Executive Officer, will follow my comments with some additional comments and color on our operations.

Before I get into the numbers, I just want to mention an important point that we disclosed in our public filings, as well as our recent filed financial statements. So the company made a decision in the last couple of months to be registered shares from the SEC. This decision was made after a lot of contemplation, thoughts, discussions, and the company really felt that this would provide additional cost savings and allow not only funds, but also management's time to focus on additional marketing and sales efforts that I should say, focused on by accelerate marketing and sales plans that the company had put together. So, the company looks at that as a real positive item. We are currently traded on the OTC Pink Market and as I'm sure all of you are aware, you can go to otcmarket.com to find information and trading data on our stock. One thing that we have made a commitment to do is to continue our extremely detailed financial disclosures and keep up our communication for shareholders. And again, you can see that information on the OTC Markets website. The press release that we recently issued actually has a link that goes right to our June 30 financial statements.

Going into our numbers. Revenues in our second quarter of 2012, were $3 million as compared to $3.5 million in the same period of 2011. This represents a decrease of $506,000 or about 14.6%. And we experienced this decline largely as a result of the absence of about $388,000 of sales from IVS, the company I just mentioned that we sold in October of 2011. Exclusive of IVS, we have a remaining decrease of about $118,000 in sales. Despite this, still remaining decrease, we did realize a significant increase in revenues at our Mace personal defense operations of about $155,000 or 13% second quarter this year versus last year from about $1.16 million to $1.32 million. Within this division, we also continue to see nice increases in our aerosol defense products, about 11%, and we saw a really nice increase of about 77% in our law enforcement sales. We achieved this growth through continued penetration of our retailers and increasing focusing on our international and our law enforcement markets. And we also realized an increase in revenues within our wholesale monitoring division of about $73,000 or 7%, all from internal growth.

Our electronic surveillance division experienced a reduction in sales of about $347,000. And this is really due to several factors that we've mentioned before and include the impact on sales of increased competition, direct sales by Asian manufacturers, a reduction in spending by many of our customers, still with the slacking economy and the decision by management to focus on consumer, direct, home and small business products versus the high end more complicated professional items, which cover a higher price tag but also cover a higher cost of maintaining those relationships. What the change in revenues our overall gross profit margins improved slightly to about 36% in the second quarter of this year, up from 35% last year in the second quarter.

Our second quarter margins in our personal defense operations were about 41%. In our wholesale monitoring, about 33%; in our equipment, about 30%. On a year-to-date basis, our revenues in the first six months of this year were $6.4 million as compared to $7.1 million last year. This is a decrease of about $669,000 or about 9.5%. Again, we experienced this decline largely due to the absence of the IVS sales. They were about $903,000 last year. So, exclusive of IVS sales, we actually had an increase in revenues this year in the first half from about $234,000 or 3.8%. We realized this increase mostly, again, within our Mace personal defense operation. That's our aerosol-based business, the increase there, for the first six months was $706,000 or 30% from $1.3 million to $3.0 million in the first half of this year. More specifically, we realized a 27% increase in sales of our aerosol products and about 11% increase in our wireless home security products, and about 184% increase in our law enforcement sales. Again, very happy with what we've realized there. We also realized an increase in revenues within our wholesale monitoring of about $330,000, or about 18%, just partially as a result of the acquisition at the end of March of last year, of The Command Center Inc., and partially as a result of internal growth.

From our Electronic Surveillance division, again, we saw the reduction in sales here of about $802,000, due to the factors I just mentioned a few moments ago for the second quarter. With this change in revenues for the first six months of this year, our overall gross profit margins improved year to date, 38% in the first six months of this year, from 35% in the first six months of last year. So, that's a 3% improvement in margins. Again, these improvements are largely as a result of the elimination of IVS, which was a very low margin, distributor-type sales. We focused on enhancing our pricing in both the personal defense aerosol operation as well as the electronics operations. And we really focused on reducing our product purchasing costs as well as our fulfillment impact or warehousing costs.

On an SG&A basis, SG&A costs decreased $387,000 from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of this year, which is a 19% decrease. On a six-month basis, we decreased SG&A $908,000 or about 21%. Again, this is largely resulting from management's continued cost reduction efforts and personnel, as well as other operating costs. Specifically, we had a net reduction in personnel cost of about 25% from last June to this June, excluding the car washes in the wholesale monitoring operations. We also sold our Texas warehouse at the end of last year. And with that, we further reduced our costs by merging our warehouse operations with electronic surveillance into our personal defense. So, again, we've -- we focused on really trying to reduce our bank debt for selling type costs. And those costs will be reflected starting with the third quarter of this year. We also saw significant SG&A reductions within the surveillance operation of about $842,000 or 67% for all this consolidation. Our SG&A reductions were about 123,000 or about 8% in our corporate cost division. So, again, we're really happy with what we've seen now with the SG&A side.

From operating loss perspective, our operating loss from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2012 was approximately $728,000 or $0.01 per share, compared to a loss from continuing operations last year in the second quarter of about $1 million or $0.07 per share. Loss from continuing operations for the first half of this year, first six months was approximately $1.24 million or $0.02 per share, compared to a loss of 42.24 million or $0.14 per share in the first half of last year. This reduction is a result of the factors I mentioned, including the improved gross profit margins, the reduction in the SG&A costs. And we also saw about $104,000 reduction in interest expense in the first half of this year versus last year.

Our discontinued operations, as I previously mentioned, is comprised of the company's remaining car washes. These operations generate a loss of about $52,000 in the second quarter and about $72,000 for the whole first half of 2011. Our net loss for the three months ending June of 2012, was approximately $780,000 or $0.01 per share, compared to a loss of about $1 million or $0.07 per share last year for the June quarter. Our net loss for six months ending June of this year was approximately $1.3 million or $0.02 per share, compared to a net loss of approximately $2.3 million or $0.14 per share for the six months of last year.

At this time, I'm going to read a few brief comments on our balance sheet and our cash flow. From a balance sheet perspective, we continue to maintain a low leverage ratio, about 5.8% at June 30. This is based on total debt of about $998,000 and equity of $16.2 million. Debt equity is about $0.28 per share. We had positive working capital of about $10.7 million at June 30. Our current ratio of 5.2, which is similar to our working capital of about $11.2 million at December 31, beginning of the year. With respect to our debt, all our mortgages were paid off. The last one with our February sale of our Arlington, Texas car wash. What remains is debt of about $914,000 related to our debenture now with Maryland. That is net of about $486,000, which is the value of the conversion options and warrants related to that Maryland note. And we also have a few small capitalized leases, surrounded our debt position.

From a cash and short-term investments, we have about $7.7 million at June 30, and total assets about $19.9 million. Our inventory was reduced by approximately $430,000 in the first half of the year. With that, we had a actual increase slightly of about $110,000 within our personal defense operations with the significant sales growth we have there, offset by about a 540,000 decrease related to our electronic surveillance operation. That as a result of reducing our purchasing. As I indicated before, reducing our sales of the professional line of equipment, and we actually where inventory auctioned about $280,000 worth of inventory at reserved net book value and realized that cash in the second quarter.

From a cash flow perspective, for the six months ending June, we used about $1.6 million of cash in operating activities. We had used cash of about $535,000 and investing. This includes $2 million actually to purchase short-term investments, offset by $1.6 million of net cash proceeds from the February sale of the Arlington, Wash. We also used about $80,000 of cash for financing activities, which mainly consisted of routine payments on debt. Going into 2011, at the end of last year, the company had NOLs of about $51.3 million, which expire through about 2031.

Before I turn the call over to John, I just want to give a brief update on the two car wash operations that we had at June 30, and the update was disclosed in the press release as well as the subsequent events footnote to our financial statements. The two sites we had at June 30 were a lease site, as we referred to it as our Fort Worth site, and we were fortunate enough to enter into a arrangement with a third-party to have them assume the lease. That lease is still had several years of payments on it and the car wash was continue to bleed or lose cash flow. So, we negotiated a cash payment of about $275,000, transferred some inventory and equipment as well. And for that, we were released out of the future lease payments on that lease, as well as relieving ourselves from the future negative cash flow. That was all completed, approximately August 10, or the first week of August. So, we'll see a significant decrease in the operating loss for the third quarter with that site gone. Also very recently here, we -- on August 29, we were able to lease the last site we have, which is our small site in Arlington, Texas, to a third-party for $4,000 a month, plus reimbursement for real estate taxes. And so, that turns that site into a monthly cash drain into the $4,000 monthly positive cash flow. And we also with that, have a spring up sale that provides the personal leasing at a one year option to purchase the property. So, you know, he's doing well with it so far and he's very excited about pursuing the purchase of the property as he secures financing.

With that, again, I'd like to thank everybody for joining us and I will turn the call over to Mr. McCann, our Chief Executive Officer and President. John?

Hey, thanks, Greg, and thanks, Dave, for the introductions and the beginning. So, I will be brief. I just wanted to comment that we we have significant work left to do. We've made significant progress in bringing the company to profitability. Our goals still remain the same that that we want to dominate the personal finance and home security segmentation of the business as well as continue to grow our monitoring business, which you can see by the results we're doing. There's a lot of reorganization that we've embarked upon that's not completed, so I really won't comment about that. We have an internal goal in mind which, you know, wraps around us going into the Tier 2 SEC reporting status. You know, for the benefit of cost savings and also being able to utilize that money to advertise and really push the brand. We're working on some licensing deals that are getting close, but they're not completed yet that I think will also enhance the brand and also bring in positive cash flow.

So, if you look at the comparables to a year ago, we're doing much better than a year ago, but we're not where we want to be in terms of EBITDA and also with in terms of sales on the personal advance and the security side, we're doing a lot of consolidation of our facilities to make sure that we're in the right facilities. We can ship to our customers in a timely fashion and also take advantage of leveraging the brand across different channels of distribution. And then, with regard to the central station, it's the same thing. We have 500 loyal dealers that we have not leveraged our brand through the other categories we compete in, in order to gain some efficiencies there, too. So with all those things, we have a lot of sales initiatives in place, we have some advertising initiatives in place that throughout the third and fourth quarter, you'll start to see. And I think they'll have a very positive effect on our business. In the past month, we've secured some new business with some key customers that once those are finalized, we'll be more than happy to share with everybody. But that will be a positive impact on the bottom line. And then, lastly, we're still in the process of renegotiating every lease that we own today to make sure that it's more favorable or as favorable as potentially possible. That includes the corporate headquarters that we're reviewing the final of where we'll be, because we need to be that as cost effective as possible.

And the same with our central station facility, we have completed a new lease with our Vermont facility that should save us on an annualized basis, anywhere from $20,000 to $3 0,000 a year. And with our Florida operations, we are looking to do the same thing in the last half of this year. So that's really -- yeah, there's a lot of work to be done. I think there's a lot of positive efforts that have been achieved thus far, eliminating the car washes from our portfolio was a big priority of mine and I was pleased that we're able to get that done. We still have the one car wash, number 7, as we call it, that we need to finalize that transaction. But right now, it's going in a very positive way, which I think will bode well for the future.

So, that's really it. I guess we'll just open it up. Some questions to Tiffany if she wants to do that. We're more than happy to take any questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of [ph] (00:23:30) Spencer Lehman.

Oh, yes. I just want to thank you for making the commitment to shareholders to continue with news releases and information on your website. We don't blame you for deregistering because it's -- the small companies, the government has made it so difficult and so expensive. They certainly understand. But a lot of small companies didn't think that going dark and also just an excuse not to keep the shareholders informed. So, we appreciate you respecting and honoring your shareholders and keeping us informed. Thank you.

Well, and Spencer, just to add to that comment, and I appreciate that, it is why -- when I took over, I saw the cost savings that were there just because of the government regulations. Good, bad or indifferent, I won't comment on that. But then, we internally have taken those. And this, really comes from our chairman of the board that it's not -- we're not going dark. We're going to eliminate reporting standards. And we feel it's our obligation and our duty to make sure that we report anything that we think is is prevalent and needed. And that's why this conference call will continue to do quarterly calls. We'll continue to post information. We are and I will comment quickly and we are enhancing our website. So, I do apologize. We've had some issues with the website going down. We have a new team that's maintaining our website is actually beneficial to the company because they are working on the back side, as you call it. So, it's a small fee upfront. But then, as we sell more on our website, they will be partnering with us because then they can make their money on the more we do and the better our websites are. So, it's kind of a very advantageous situation, but it is that very important to make sure that our investors are informed of what we're doing. Because I can tell you, we have tremendous plan and a lot of these plans are coming into place and it is going to be an exciting company as we move forward, especially top-line, but more importantly, bottom line.

Okay. Thank you again.

Sure.

Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro.

Hi. Good morning. A few things if you could help me with. First off, what is the scope and the timing that you expect to see of the cost savings from the deregistration?

Well, some of that timing is immediate because not having to -- do not having stocks, so we don't have to bring the orders in for the second, third or fourth quarter analysis, which on a basis wise, that $15,000 a quarter. So, we're going to take that, you know, three times savings. Then also with mailings and other initiatives, there's a lot of cost savings there. And then, during the last half of the year, but basically by the first quarter, there's some people savings and some other negotiations with service providers with us that will have a more advantageous position. So by the end of this year, we will have an idea of the savings on a go-forward basis. Next year, 2013, we'll be able to realize those savings.

So in the analysis that the board asked management to provide, because somewhere there was an analysis, how much could we save? Can you provide a general range of what, after everything's all said and done, you guys think you can cut out of the cost structure as a result of the deregistration?

Sure. Just a preliminary basis, what was presented at the board level was over $250,000 on an annualized basis of savings.

Okay. And once that all kicks in.

Once it all kicks in, and the I think it's not included in that is, you know, a little bit more on the people side and structure side.

That's above -- that would be above and beyond the $250,000?

Yes, sir.

Okay. So, we have a $600,000 a quarter burn rate that we're at still, which is still unacceptably high. As you mentioned. There's more work to be done. And how and when do you plan to get rid of this burn rate and return the company to sustained profitability? Can you identify or have you identified and can you share with us the cost cuts areas in general and beyond the deregistrations to get there? Or must revenues and gross profits grow in order to get there?

I've identified them, but if center is not going, I'd be a little hesitant to share all of it. With regard to overhead expenses, like we're pushing to see a margin increase, like in our business in Vermont with the pepper spray because I think there's things that we could do more efficiently that we're working hard to achieve. There's things that we outsource that we should internalize, and there's some other procedures that we're putting in place. We have a new gentleman running the facility. He comes from Under Armour. His name is Eric Crawford. Tremendous experience in our space and tremendous experience working with a, you know, a great company like Under Armour. So he brings a lot to the table as Vice President of those sales and operations. Then with regard to all of our facilities, we are going to shrink our footprint with regard to real estate tremendously. And then, we're also shrinking our footprint with regard to people. And I think when those two things in mind, it's going to help us tremendously with the burn rate. With regard to profitability, my goal is as soon as possible, but realistic, you know, taking into account all the changes and all the other things that we have to have an effect. Ideally, I would look at the first quarter of 13 of us being profitable.

Okay. Good. And I appreciate the sensitivity of getting into any greater detail on it, but this is helpful.

I think by October, Andrew, a lot of this will be in place and I think when we do a fourth quarter call, we'll be able to show that analysis.

Okay, good. And then, I'll reserve the follow-up on that one. Can you give us an idea of the gross margin percentages that you see for each of the three respective product areas and what you think the potential margin range for each is given any of your near-term mix shift goals and other product goals?

That might get in a little sensitive because we're -- you know, we're doing a couple of things differently. You know, I think if you looked at our historic rate, I would say that my expectations are to be at least 10% better than our historic rate, which drops immediately to the bottom line. The facility in Vermont, for example, we shrunk the square footage and then we also negotiated a better lease. We're paying the electric bill now. Now, the lease owner is going to pay the electric bill and we're going to be able to negotiate that rate on a go-forward basis. So, there's a lot of moving parts within it that are somewhat sensitive. With regard to the Central Station, we've gone to a flexible schedule which then, will allow us to actually be more effective in turnaround time with our valued customers and clients. And also, staff less people and so, you know, we'll have people working 4/10 instead of 5/8, and we'll be able to overlap and do some other things. And then, we've also added to our business development staff on the West Coast. And as you can see from the numbers, we are trying to do more with our valued customers and also try and get as much low-hanging fruit as we possibly can. But at the same time, looking at, is there strategic acquisitions we can do? And as you do some of these, it'll affect that margin that, you know, because you have...

Okay.

...the fixed costs as they are. But then, as you add or layer and then become more efficient, this will all have a goal in mind with margin. We're also just -- we're also Kyle, who's come on board and VP of Finance, we're working on a compensation plan that generally does an effective gross margin at that level. But what it does and we will be in satisfying people on making money, not just on selling products, but making money. And I think ultimately, that will also have an effect on the margin.

Yeah. You mentioned Kyle, VP of Finance. Is there any more things you can elaborate on that? If that's a new name for you?

Well, Kyle's on the call, so I can let him speak. But he is bringing in and a staff and part of the restructuring of our corporate overhead is to be a little bit leaner and meaner. Not that anybody didn't do a great job in the past, but we're looking at the new realities of being both a consumer products company and a traditional security company. So, you know, Carl could just -- he's with me now. Just say a couple of words about his staff.

The recently hired and currently right now, they're working in the Horsham office. I personally come with over 20 years of experience in the consumer products arena, if you will. I worked for Saco International and served in executive level in finance in both Saco and Mr. [indiscernible] (00:33:12). So that's my experience.

Okay. I guess you guys will do some release on this at some point.

Yeah, I think my part of it is, is as we do the complete restructures, then we'll have -- we'll announce the entire staff and some of the other changes that we're making to be -- to gain greater efficiencies.

Okay. And then, hopefully you can maybe put some quantification ranges on it, too.

Yes, sir. Okay. I have other questions, but in case someone else is in the queue, let me back out. But please come back to me.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Andrew Shapiro.

Okay. Well, there's a bunch here. On the inventory, while your inventory turns greatly improved from last year at 100 days that remain the same level as last quarter, it still seems kind of high. But maybe for your nature of your business, it's not. What's the -- what is the realistic goal to get your inventory days levels down to?

That I'd have to defer because we're still -- we're still growing our sales with some new distribution and some new customers, though, they might be higher than we would like on a basis rate. But then, with there coming on board, it's one of the tasks that I gave them to look at what is the right amount of inventory and the efficiencies that we can gain out of the facilities in order to really have an effective rate. On the centralization side, there's a -- we've built up some inventories with a couple of suppliers, Videofied and etcetera, because we're a little too tight with what we wanted to do, especially with that product line. It's a tremendous product line. If it's a niche need, but it also, you know, adding more to that sales department with Michael Kallio, we needed to make sure that we had inventory to support as they went out and sold. I'll put that as a to do from me to get back to you because Eric has been on board two weeks now and I was just up in Vermont yesterday just speaking on a very subject. So to give you a better answer, I'd rather take a little time and do a little bit of an analysis, because our goal, still -- there's big things out there that we're not doing business with and we should be doing business with.

Okay. What have been the steps you've taken and response so far for bringing in what would be very high-margin revenues, licensing this mace brand name. Is something I've been after from your predecessors for some time and I'm trying to understand what are the next milestones, how to measure if there's any progress being made.

Well, and certainly, I'm measuring myself every day, I can tell you that. But I agree with you. There's a tremendous amount. We will be in a position within the next two weeks to announce a licensing deal that I think could be pretty dynamic. Gentleman, who has over 30 years of government work and especially in the optical area, has brought us a product that is tremendous. He has over five or six patents on the product. We'll be licensing under the Mace name and then, begin to realize the value of that. There is several other companies that were, I would call them in second or third stages in negotiations that we are going to be able to procure a license from. And then, we have a hit list of over 30 individual companies that we have met, where we participated in a licensing show in Las Vegas. It's the largest licensing show in the United States. We've engaged a company called Creative Licensing Group out of New York that is actively pursuing this from every angle possible. We are trying to stay true to our core; personal defense, home security and stay within those bandwidth where we have some litmus test out there to make sure that their brand enhancing and not brand diminishing opportunities. So, you're not limiting what you're license the Mace brand name on because you want to be -- you had to keep internally our ability to market and sell all things to all people in security.

We are not limiting that. We're just making sure that the partners will adhere to the brand values that we've set out. We've given each company is style guide that we want them to maintain.

Were there any nonrecurring charges or redundancies during this current Q2 you just reported for us to consider? And if so, did they flow through cost of goods sold or SG&A on the income statement?

Yeah, I'll take that one, John. Hi, Andrew.

Hi.

We had about $50,000 worth of SG&A items that I guess I would say are nonrecurring in the second quarter. The bulk of that probably about $44,000 was really related to a couple of consulting agreements we had with some, you know, senior type executives that, you know, left the company. But we kept them on board on a consulting arrangement for a couple of months to make sure we had a smooth transition...

The part -- just exit costs, and they were cost.

Yeah. Basically, yeah. So...

[indiscernible] (00:38:56)

The $100...

That was nominal.

The last quarter was $100,000 gain that reduced to SG&A, right?

Last quarter was actually two different pieces. There was about $81,000 of expenses, again, that were exiting type costs and some moving costs. And that was offset by $100,000 gain on the IVS sale than additional contingent considerations that kicked in. So, and that was about $20,000 to the good unusual items in the first quarter and about $50,000 going the other way. So, year to date, it's almost, you know, a mid-point.

Okay. Some questions on Central Station and in the other segments. In Central Station, in the past, you've provided and I don't know if you can or will provide updated figures as the end of the most recent quarter for the number of monitored accounts and security theater client numbers?

Yeah, that's something that we're actually going through some computer transitions right now in our billing system. And I have numbers that are fairly accurate, but I hate to quote them as soon as we have that conversion completed and...

Great.

...get a very accurate numbers out of the system, I think we'll provide that answer.

But yeah, but on a go-forward basis, we'll continue to provide that. We upgraded our software systems in order to create more efficiencies both for the client and for internally, we have the manual things that we had to do in the past. And now, once it's fully implemented, the software systems that we have should provide that, right. We will definitely do that, and we can even post on the website what they are today.

Great. Well, once you...

[indiscernible] (00:40:37)

Yeah, if you posted and then maybe you could -- yeah, put up the historicals as well. So one can see the trends.

Okay.

Yeah. To what extent is that the two -- that you had about a little less than 3% revenue increase from last quarters, the sequential revenue growth in Central Station. To what extent is this increase the results of incremental monitored accounts and or security dealer client numbers versus any increase in your RMR, your recurring monthly revenue rate?

I don't know, Greg, if you -- I can comment quickly.

I mean...

[indiscernible] (00:41:16)

Yeah, go ahead, Greg.

Yeah. I mean, are you looking for the second quarter versus second quarter and/or year-to-date versus year-to-date?

Second quarter versus second quarter.

Okay. Well, second quarter versus second quarter, we're up about $74,000. And in that $74,000, about $27,000 is really the sale of the new products that we had mentioned in the Videofied products, which we then get some RMR off of it. So, another $74,000 or increase, about $47,000 of it is as RMR increase, which is about 4.5% from last year in the second quarter. So, you know...

And this is what happened...

We're not losing any accounts.

Yeah, I misspoke. I'm actually was just tracking how your performance was this June quarter versus the March quarter.

Oh, okay. I'm sorry.

Yeah. No, that was my mistake. The -- it was a little shy of 3% revenue increase from the prior quarter. And I'm just trying to get a feel for trend and whether, you know, this is rates or, you know, pricing on product or if it's incremental accounts in current numbers because I'm trying to follow the kind of the return on our personnel investment we're making in marketing there?

Sure. And I think it's a little bit of both. And John could expand on that. But we definitely have not seen a decrease, and we've grown new accounts. Again, I just want to try and quote an exact number. And John has done a good job working with Michael Kallio and the other folks out there. Again, selling not only to Videofied equipment that's on the RMR that goes with it and some other other products. So, you know, it's really a combination of picking up some new accounts and really selling some additional products to the accounts that we've had. John, I don't know if you want to add anything to that.

No, it's really twofold. And you got to realize that product revenue sales are generated by the Business Development Department. So, part of it is, is that we've picked up some nice small accounts, not huge, but Laura has done a very good job of being aggressive with somebody that has 10 or 15 or 20 or even 1. But then, also on top of that, besides our base monitoring plan that we sell, we sell Videofied or Visonic with some of these other products that I share with you has added to sale. And so, when we price the products and gain the RMR, we sell the products directly. It falls into both. And the goal I set forth for the business [indiscernible] (00:43:49) and crew out there was is to value add sell. So make sure that our current clients and new clients know that we do more than just basic monitoring, that we have at least six different solutions beyond basic monitor. And I think they've done a good job of going out to our current clientele and then, also not big accounts, I would call them, but smaller accounts. And we're reinforcing that. I've seen our top five customers with regard to this actual stage and then I will visit two of them again just to reinforce some of the things we're trying to do and also leverage the brand a little bit on our DVRs and our cameras and some of the things that we're doing in our products services to make sure that they know these products, they're available to them, dealer to dealer. And then, structured deals that way. So, you will see us not only going after more RMR with current, but also trying to attract the right customers that we can partner with for the long term. Then also looking at what other products that we can sell as we're talking to our especially our dealer network effectively.

Okay. And what's the status and geographic or product line focus of acquisition opportunities into the Central Station segment? It was one of the main premises for which the rights offering was used to bring in new money to make acquisitions on our existing capacity there that would, you know, we're estimated to drop 80% to the bottom line.

Right. We do -- Well, we put no geographic restrictions on it. It is either where they have closed. And acquisition by this time, it is slower and more arduous than I would have imagined coming on board. We are we are actively pursuing several. One is it a little closer with some paperwork being passed back and forth? But so, there's no geographic restrictions that were planning ourselves. We're looking at, if it makes sense, on a redundancy side or duplication side or sharing side. You know, we're -- we've made it clear with the people we're talking to and the folks that we're using that we are open ended on how we could work together because we bring values that they might not have today. And we can work on a sharing war if there -- if they wanted, be fully absorbed into our central, we are more than willing to do that too. So, it is just -- there's -- unfortunately in the space and Greg can speak to his past history, there is not a lot of transaction on the monitoring side. There's a lot of transactions on the alarm side. There seems to be some movement even on the monitoring side coming up, which sometimes sparks more movement because there's been several announcements saying that event is up for sale. ADT is splitting off some of their monitoring business. So I'm hoping that there's a giant shake the trees, that there'll be something that we'll be able to take advantage of.

Okay. Personal defense segment, well, actually, let me back out in case there's someone else in the question queue, but I have a few more segment questions, so come back to me.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Andrew Shapiro.

All right. Fine. I'm going to kick it over the goal line here. In the personal defense segment, the personal defense segment revenues are up from last year, but they're down from last quarter. The last year's second quarter wasn't really seasonally weak. Is there seasonality that went into play here in the personal defense segment or why did your successes from Q1 from Q4 reverse themselves here in Q2?

I think a lot of it from my -- I haven't talked to a lot of the top retailers that we're doing business with as they were getting squeezed under inventory. They're open to buy, as they call it. And consequently, even though our sales on a POS basis, so sales out their doors were still very strong, they're carrying site loads of inventory. I know, you know, several of them are public. And so, they were told by their upper management that that's great, but you're open to buyers is now strong.

Yeah. Do you have visibility into their sell through or are you running blind?

No, no, no. We have -- depending on the account. We have some visibility, a lot through the buyers, through conversations. We have better visibility and then, some [ph] VREDI (00:48:47), we have a reverse link that gives us visibility on their sell-through. So, you didn't see a reduction or a sequential falloff in their sell-through. It was just they worked down their inventories?

They worked down their inventories. We had, unfortunately, several situations where we knew stores were out of stock, but the buyer was somewhat handcuffed in what he could do because general terms than a retailer. If shoes were overbought, they could care less. If they're out of stocks, shoes are overbought. So, the buyer's open to buy is gone. And so, they're sacrificing sales because they have to get their inventory right. And several of them had, you know, they had their conference calls and they're -- and so, they wanted to make sure their inventory levels, like you had mentioned to me, how many days of inventory outstanding we have. We're in line with the expectations.

So, here we are. It is now September. You're almost done with the current third quarter. So as the current third quarter's going on, did you see the buyers come back and return and replenish their inventory? Are they still on tight leash?

We have seen some and some -- we have large open orders in future months that we can easily pull the trigger and move them up if the buyers request. But we see some spacing of orders in order to keep their inventories in line with the expectations of their upper management. And I just happened to be at Dick's Sporting Goods last week. And we're moving along, we're looking at some ideas to expand. But the buyer did indicate that he is trapped and how much he can bring in and when he can bring it in. And if it was up to him, he would be bringing a lot of our product then. All right. Unfortunately, he doesn't make all those decisions.

So, can you detail any new products or end retail locations or new distribution agreements that have been cut over the last few months that would be incremental for the coming year in personal defense?

Sure. We are the now exclusive provider of products for product for Ace Hardware stores. So, we are now in their catalog, we're in their warehouses. We will be the only self-defense spray that they are carry in and they're looking at some other non-aerosol products that fit in in that genre, which I think is a nice win. Ace, not only owned stores but has many partners and mom and pops as we like to affectionately call them that are our run. So that is a nice pick up for us. It's a nice it's a nice win. We also -- there is four grocery stores, dealers, associated grocers, and drugstores that we've gained distribution on that we've already shipped them out their first orders. Some of them have taken, which is nice for us at 36 counts shipper pack that they've taken. Floor space that was not turning a profit into a profitable venue for them and then also added us to their sections and then, we are very close to a large retailer, but we don't have that confirmation yet. That would be a nice win for us also. So, there's a lot of -- we participate in a couple of shows that the organization had participated in the past, namely GMDC and ECRM, which cater actually to the drug and grocery accounts. And by doing that, we're able to get into some stores that it makes much sense for them to carry a product. And now, we figure out a venue in which to make that happen.

If there's any either trade press or joint press release action or these kind of items make any sense. And if you're exclusive to Ace, when the ACE and their system wants to be part of or he surely you've seen that, you know, we now are carrying Mace Brand products just because our brand has some, I don't know, cachet or following?

Say, it's somewhat of a sensitive area that they really didn't wanted. What they do is the people -- as they put it, the people that need to know, they're making sure they know. So, they're doing email blast, they're doing flyers, they're doing communications with, you know, the over, I think it's 4,000 Ace dealers out there. But then, on a generalized basis, they just don't, they just don't do that, you know, because then, it's -- they don't want to, you know, upset somebody else or then, say, okay what you do for him, why don't you do it for me? They could end up constantly writing press releases every day and week with with a lot of the great things that they're trying to do and compete in...

Yeah.

...in a tough environment, so.

And would they allow you to do issues at press release?

We're working with them to see if we can do something like that to announce it, because we just -- yeah, we just formalized it within the last couple of weeks.

Yeah. Okay. And how about new products to go through your existing distribution channels?

Well, there's several names, like we have a new pink jogger that we're pretty excited about that we just finalized. We're working in our Muzzle brand. We've rebranded some of our Muzzle, which is our K9. And also our Bear products that we've added there like to Ace. Ace didn't carry bear spray before and now, they'll be carrying bear spray in the right applications. And in Pink Jogger, we've added to several different accounts, which is a product that we didn't have prior. We had a regular pink self-defense, but now we have a smaller Pink Jogger. So, those are some of the new ones. There's a couple of new products that we -- we're finalizing as we speak. So, I'm a little nervous to talk about them right now.

Okay. And what about the status of single product line focus of acquisition opportunities in your personal defense segment?

There is several that we are actually, Eric has -- had some very good contacts that we're taking advantage of. There are several in the space and we are we are having ongoing conversations with them that if we can do it, it would make perfect sense in the world to expand our range and our product line and also our distribution.

Okay.

So, yes, there -- they're ongoing. There's nothing that I can report today, but they're ongoing. And it falls into that personal defense, home security genre. And then fits also with what we want to try and do in licensing. So, there's several categories that our brand name makes sense. It doesn't make sense for me then to go and start from zero into X category, but it does make sense that somebody that has a number one or number two position in that category to bring in Mace as the upper end brand in that category so they can do some channel management and product differentiation.

On the Mace security products segment, can you discuss the revenue trends continuing in this segment and what's being done to improve sales as well as further cost cuts for that?

Well, it is -- it's -- now that I've initiated some of the other changes that are underway, this is the next hurdle that I need to face. We need to reenergize that sales force. It's a different category that we need to sell. Not only do you have a retail, but you also have a commercial. And with Eric and George, quite honestly, we're working on what makes the most amount of sense to enjoy some efficiencies of unburden them with the Texas facility, which on an annualized basis should be about $150,000 worth of cost savings. So his overall operating expenses will be decreased. We're going to decrease the space, this footprint, significantly on a cost basis, most likely, hopefully starting in the November period. Now, with structure wise, what is the right structure go to market with and how do we do it? And at the same time, is it better for us to do it or is it better to work with with a partner to do it? So, I would call this with all the options are on the table. The goal is to -- on a top-line basis, you know, we should be doing at least $0.5 million worth of sales. And on bottom line basis, we should be in the 15% to 20% margins on that business when it's all said and done. And then, we got to look at how do we get there.

And okay, if you kind of watch follow-ups, to what extent was the Fort Worth colonial wash lease liability on your balance sheet at the end of June before you are paying to get out of that lease? Was there any lease liability on the balance sheet?

No, it was an operating lease, Andrew. We did have and I'm going to estimate I think the -- if you look at our future payments, we probably had about $800,000 plus in gross payments to pay it over the next couple of years. But it was an operating lease, so there's nothing on the balance sheet.

But on a quarterly or annual basis, what was that location costing us losing?

that was probably costing us about, you know, give and take, depending on the weather, I'd say on average about a $7,000 to $8,000 a month loss. So, you know, we're looking at about $100,000 cash drain on an annual basis that we essentially eliminated by paying the...

I think was 2016 was the old lease.

2015.

Yes.

Yeah. 2016, the lease was effective, but we had several years left on the lease. We also internally, you know, on a net basis, they cost us less a $275, but it was definitely -- because the losses were only going to increase because there was investments that were going to have to be made significant investments in the equipment and the site itself. That would have been our responsibility based on the terminology and the lease.

On an...

And this gentlemen, that we work with, I got to say, we hammered out four months to get it done. And I was pleased to get it done because it was not easy.

On the Arlington, Texas, Wash, what's the purchase option price on that wash and what happens if the tenant doesn't exercise this purchase option?

Sure, the option price is $460,000. There's not a lot of skin in it, Andrew. I think, you know, our nonrefundable deposit was $5,000. We were just happy to eliminate that loss, turn that loss of about $6,000 to $7,000 a month and/or $4,000 a month profit. And I think the gentlemen is really motivated to buy it. So, again, it's about $460,000 purchase price. And you know, you said a minimal deposit was put up.

So, no, and the way if he doesn't exercise the purchase option, here he is. We're not in charge of that property for a year. He runs it down, you know, do we -- we're acquiring it at a bigger loss rate. Is that -- what happens if he doesn't exercise the purchase option? It's...

Yeah, I mean, I'll let John speak also. But I -- you know, our plans will be not to reopen it. We would just, you know, at that point, you know, shuttered and just sell to real estate value.

Okay.

Correct. Yeah. The idea was that we had put a goal out there that Greg I and the organization was working through that. No later than September 1, we would be out of the car wash business and if we had expected a sale, we were going to shut down the car wash and then just look at the real estate value to see if we could move it at all. On the backside of this, you're right. There's a risk that he's wrong, but right now, he is. We have a gentleman that helped us broker the deal that is also still pursuing other sale options on it. But the gentleman that took it over shared his plans with us. We think they're pretty sound plans that if he can come up with the financing, it'll be tremendous.

And lastly, how much is this chase credit line available and drawn kind of, Greg, and how much is it deposited with and held by the bank is restricted cash?

Yeah. The line of credit is $250,000. Our deposit with the bank is is approximately $400,000 or $420,000, something in that range, $420,000. And the collateral really is for several things. It's for -- since we have no tangible collateral anymore would chase, the collateral covers $250,000 in our line of credit, which at the end of June, we had one small letter of credit out there for less than $20,000. It also covers our letter credits we have posted against some of our insurance programs, and it also covers our MasterCard program. And we have a line there of about $40,000 or $50,000. So, that collateral restricted cash balance covers those three things.

Yeah, but doesn't that seem like the restricted cash balance is in excess of the entire loan?

It's not when you add up the letter of credit for the insurance, when you add up the MasterCard line, and when you add up the $200,000 line . It's actually to the dollar, you know, the current cash collateral.

I guess it's great bank business if one can get it. No risk...

And it sounds like -- Andrew, like we are reviewing all of our different bank relationships, Andrew. You know, it's another phase in the process to make sure that that we are where we need to be and should be. But it's a good point and worth investigating. I think in the last time, Greg has done a great job of working with Steve and, you know, reducing some of their requirements.

Yeah. Yeah, it's always a lagging indicator. It seems the requirements are always in excess of what their risk is.

Absolutely. All right. I couldn't agree with -- and that's universal with all the banks.

All right. I...

Banks and insurance companies.

I have no further questions for now. Thank you.

Yeah, no further questions at this time.

Well, Tiffany, great. Great job.

Thanks, Tiffany. And just as we put in the press release, you know, the call can be listened to on playback through October 7, 2012. And the numbers to call in are listed on the press release. And in a few days, we will have the transcripts as well posted to our Mace website. So, again, thank you, everybody, and we'll talk to you soon.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.