Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John J. McCann — President and CEO, Mace Security International, Inc.
Carl R. Smith — Senior Vice President-Corporate Finance, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. My name is Caitlin, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

John McCann, you may begin your conference.

Thank you very much, and thank you for taking the time to listen and participate on this conference call. I will save the majority of my remarks until after Carl's presentation, but suffice to say, we have made tremendous progress in the last two quarters, and we are looking forward to any near strong. We've increased our distribution in the quarter and continue to lower our overall costs and overhead structure. I do want to note, we will be participating in the Midwest Financial Conference in Cleveland, Ohio on 11/18/2014 and we were also holding investor field trip on 11/19, which will begin at 09:00 AM at our corporate offices in Cleveland, Ohio. We put out a press release to that effect today.

And then lastly, before Carl begins his presentation, I want to direct you to our website for a PowerPoint presentation that we'll go through after Carl's presentation. If you go to corp.mace.com, Investor Relations, Transcripts and Presentations 2014, Third Quarter 2014, you'll see two different presentations; one about the marketing achievements in the quarter, and then a quarterly recap of everything that we did in the past quarter.

Now, I'll turn over the call to Carl Smith, our CFO and Senior VP of operations to read our forward-looking statement and go through the third quarter results. Thank you.

Thank you. Okay. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management's expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected and intend to, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.

Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance and could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call. I will now go over our third quarter results. John McCann has incorporated some of the data that I'll be covering in his PowerPoint presentation. Consolidated third quarter net sales were $2.203 million compared to $1.951 million for the third quarter of last year, an increase of $252,000 or 12.9%. This increase was mainly attributed to a $340,000 or 25.5% increase in net sales of our pepper spray product, primarily through our consumer channel which was up $275,000 or 52.2% compared to prior year third quarter.

Surveillance sales for the quarter totaled $341,000 compared to third quarter net sales of $310,000, a $31,000 or 10% increase over last year. Offsetting this increase was a $97,000 decline in our tactical line of products. Net sales of tactical products consisting of our take-down line of products for law enforcement and security personnel and our TG Guard protection, security protection systems were $81,000 for the third quarter, compared to $178,000 last year. This is a decrease of $97,000 or 54.6%. This decline is mainly attributed to timing of a TG Guard protection system sale in Q3 of last year.

I want to note, we had a favorable timing variance of $92,000 in Q2 of this year, which is attributed to the sale of a TG Guard protection system, and for the year, tactical sales are up $10,000 or 3% for the year. Non-aerosol, which includes Big Jammer, wireless, alarms and other non-spray products were $83,000, down $27,000 compared to third quarter of 2013. I'll move to gross profit now. Consolidated gross profits for the third quarter totaled $887,000 or 40.3% of net sales, compared to $638,000 or 32.7% of net sales in the third quarter of 2013. This is an increase of $249,000 or 39% and 7.6% of margin. The higher margin dollars and margin percent for the quarter is attributed to several factors. We had an increase in net sales for the quarter of $252,000. We had lower freight costs in the quarter.

And we had favorable overhead variance of $119,000. And this variance is due to a combination of both lower overhead costs and increased production for the quarter. Noting that in the third quarter of 2013, we had some severance and we had lower absorption due to the move where our productivity in the third quarter of last year was down pretty significantly, compared to this quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter ended September 30, 2014 were $1.095 million compared to $1.590 million in the prior year, 50% and 81% of net sales respectively. And this is a decrease of $495,000 or 31%.

The $495,000 reduction in SG&A is mainly attributed to $336,000 in severance and move-related expenses in Q3 of 2013, $108,000 reduction in professional services this year compared to last year, and a $35,000 reduction in salaries and inside sales commissions, even on higher sales of $252,000 for the quarter. Net interest income and expense was $6,000 of income for the quarter, compared to net expense of $39,000 for the third quarter in 2013. The increase in income is attributed to the interest income we are receiving on the Security Partners note, which was a note related to the sale of a central station that place in December of 2013.

Other income and expense included a one-time charge for the write-down of the note that we had receivable from Security Partners. As a result, net loss from continuing operations for the third quarter was $325,000 compared to a net loss of $1.017 million, a $692,000 improvement over last year. Net loss for the third quarter of 2014 was a $0.01 per share both basic and diluted compared to a net loss of $0.02 per share, both basic and diluted in the same quarter a year ago, an $820,000 or $0.01 per share improvement. EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 was a loss of $291,000 compared to a loss of $1.063 million for the third quarter of 2013, a $772,000 improvement for the quarter.

Now, EBITDA adjusted for the one-time charges for the third quarter of 2014 was a loss of $135,000, compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $470,000 for the third quarter of 2013. At this time, I'd like to make a few comments on our balance sheet. Company's net book value was $10.6 million at September 30, 2014, compared to a net book value of $11.9 million at December 31, 2013. Mace had a $13.4 million in total assets, including $6.3 million of cash in short-term investment at September 30, 2014, compared to $7.6 million at year-end. We had positive working capital of approximately $9.4 million and a current ratio of 10.6 compared to $10.8 million at December 31, 2013 and a current ratio of 7.2.

Total debt at September 30, 2014, was approximately $1.2 million, consisting mainly of our debenture note with Merlin Partners, with a maturity date of March 30, 2016. Now, I'd like to thank you, and turn the call over to John McCann, our President, who will go through the presentation that, hopefully, you were able to have a chance to open up from our website.

Thanks, Carl. So once again, if you go to corp.mace.com, investor relations, transcripts and presentations 2014, third quarter 2014. I'll give everybody a minute. Basically, I won't go through the whole presentation because I think Carl hit most of the highlights. I'll just kind of give a brief summary, and basically, obviously page three is the forward-looking statement. Page four, I just want to reemphasize as we disembarked or sold off non-core assets that we have three very core assets, which is Mace International Group which is our operating company.

And then our consumer division, our tactical division, which within our consumer division is where we direct sales – our sales through different channels of distribution, our web sales and also our growing number of big box store sales. For example, in the quarter, we were able to gain a relationship with Meijer. We started shipping Lowe's. We were shipping Walmart. So in that division, it comes with a variety of different store channels. The Mace tactical division is one that I'll spend a little bit of time on talking about, because we have a huge opportunity for growth. We've landed the contract with city of Cleveland on a three-year deal to provide their police department with products.

We've restructured that group and we just left the International Association of Chiefs of Police shows with very positive results on many officers looking at our product versus a year ago when they weren't, or three years ago when we weren't even present in the [ph] genre (11:23) if you would, to now, we feel we're very poised and ready to have a lot of positive activity in that segment.

Page five and page six is basically just a recap of everything Carl did. I do want to note AutoZone, where our sales department has done a wonderful job of re-crafting the program and adding a couple different items, especially a pink personal item.

Their sales have grown tremendously and it hasn't been a cannibalization of sales, it's been an increased in sales because the current SKUs that were in there are not losing sales volume to the new SKUs, and it's additive to the whole, which is good for us, because we can use that – talk to other retailers to talk about having a variety of pepper spray products within their set, in order to make sure they hit every segment of the market.

Page six is basically just what Carl talked about. One of the things that I just want to note is we're constantly looking at our overhead and our variances and how we can improve. If you went back three years to today, it's completely different organization, but yet, we still feel that we need to constantly look at how we're doing things and what efficiencies we can gain by doing them better, and by also making sure that we're monitoring our costs relative to our sales.

Page seven again is just kind of a brief explanation of some of the items that made up some of – especially the positive variances in the G&A. I will note on other expense, other expense increased approximately $100,000 due to the write-down of Security Partners note. And basically, it's somewhat typical in the security field, where you have a period of time where you have a look-back into the sale of the RMR, and there was a couple items in there that we had both agreed that were relevant to the sale and their ongoing RMR and their ongoing customer relationships, and that's what that adjustment is lined up to be.

I would note very positively that we have three or four different programs in their infancy with Security Partners that are keeping our branding and our awareness within that segment. And we still have very good access to all 1,700 dealers that they're doing business with, and we plan on having new products and new programs for that group as we move forward. So even though there was a loss of a couple customers within that segment, it's been a very positive relationship from the sale to today. Not really going to go through slides eight, nine and 10.

Just to re-emphasize that in a quarter year prior, we did spend quite a bit of money to identify who our consumer is. And if you look at the professional expenses that Carl had related in the third quarter of 2013, we have taken that information and used it into selling and into our marketing programs to make sure that we relate to our vendors and our retailers who the customer is, so they make sure we have the proper programs going at the proper accounts.

I just – in slide 11, that's from the U.S. Census Bureau. I just thought it was important to note that retail today is still somewhat fickle. If you look at October, retail sales were down again, where they had from April, May, June, July, relatively healthy sales, where we had another dip in the October period.

I would note that we don't have the final results from October, but we did have a positive October. We had year-on-year growth again in the October period on a net sales basis. And then slide 12 is just another look at that on a monthly basis, what percent it was to a year ago and the change from a year ago. And then slide 13 is just really an analysis from one of the trade association materials that we [ph] get – (15:36) and this is from the Census Bureau of just of what happened. We tracked this in alignment with our sales goals on our consumer side to make sure that we're hitting the segments that make the most amount of sense, and we have the greatest return on investment.

Obviously, slide 14 is just a recap of what Carl had mentioned. And I started doing it in a graphic format just so you can see all the changes and all the patience that you, as investors, have had and the management team has had in order to put together something that's getting closer to that breakeven and profitability that we are striving toward. And unfortunately in this year, the first quarter was a disaster at retail, but the second quarter and the third quarter we've seen positive results, especially with a lot of new things that we've implemented both from an efficiency standpoint and a sales and marketing standpoint.

And then, really I won't go through the rest, but slides 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, just show the channels. I will note, on slide 18, in our opinion, it is more of a timing issue. we are working on some formulas on our direct-to-consumer, which was down in the quarter. Our tactical, I believe, really is just timing, as Carl mentioned, on a year-to-date basis, we're up over 10%, we feel we'll finish the year very strong. And we will look to this segment to be one of the growth providers for 2015 and the same with international. We've done some investing in our international, we've done some shows internationally that we hadn't done in prior years. And I think that will set the stage for a nice growth potential in 2015.

Surveillance on slide 19, I'll just note that, we're really seeing the effects of changing out both our product line and our go-to-market strategy. We've weaving in a very strong direct sales crew with very strong technical support, and we're seeing the benefits of that work, smaller crew selling and a smaller amount of products that they're selling, and we're still looking at more skew rationalization in the segmentation, just to make sure that we have the best products that give us the best chance for monetization on a go-forward basis.

Slide 20 obviously, I think Carl covered in his presentation and the same with slide 21. Slide 22, I'll just note that we constantly kind of track how many employees we have versus how much efficiency we're getting, and we're still seeing a very positive blend, and just even on the employee count I'd note that some of these are temporary employees or part-time employees that we've rolled up into kind of give a comparable FTE year-to-year basis, just to calculate and monitor, where we are and how we efficient we can be and where can we drive more efficiencies out of.

Slide 23 is the biggest one that I'd note is Meijer is a great account in the Midwest, located outside of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and we just launched our exquisite line with them and right now the POS has been very positive. The sales team worked very hard with the account to make sure that we had the right products in at the right time. And the same thing I would say for MC Sports, an account that we didn't have a year ago that we just started shipping, and so far very positive results. The traditional channels, because sporting goods and consumer year-to-year first quarter were disastrous and every quarter since has improved. There is still room for growth and improvement in both segmentations because not every account in each segmentation is doing as well as we would like. But as a whole, it's tracking very well. As we've talked about tactical, I really believe it is a timing issue. And then our surveillance and monitoring products, which we have more to come in 2015, we had a nice 13.5% increase in the quarter.

Just reiterating, on slide 25, sporting goods increased, and then really the consumer channel, which with Meijer's and a couple other smaller accounts that we were able to bring on board, very pleased with the growth and especially the diversification. So we're not be holding to one account in the channel. We have many accounts that we're doing, and they're cross-sectional, from an AutoZone to a Meijer's to an Ace, where you go from automotive to hardware to general merchandise. And it's good for us, because now as we looked at the profiles, we see these are the people that we want to go after, these are the people that buy our products. Now, we want to make our products accessible to their segmentations.

This is just slide 26, that is just a recap. We've maintained all of our exclusives. I always say, I pray that Sears and K-Mart can, kind of, revive themselves to the greatness that they had in the 1970s and even in the early 1980s, but we constantly maintain that relationship. And our sales continue to be strong in that segment, even though their business is not as robust as they would like it to be. Dick's, Sports Authority, Ace, AutoZone are all still exclusives, but then as I mentioned before, we've just started shipping to Cabelas. We have a full program at Meijer and a full program at MC Sports. And there's several regional accounts there, we've been able to rebuild our relationship with product and strategy.

On slide 27, I'll just touch on it briefly, because we signed a deal in the third quarter, and it really have an effect on our 2015, is Nite Beams. And on slide 28, there's a couple of examples of the product, but for us it's a great opportunity to dominate that safety and security segmentation. This is a manufacturer in Michigan that we were able to do a core marketing agreement with, and what we'll be able to do is extend the Mace brand and increase the Nite Beams brand together into different segmentations, which will allow us to have a diversified product portfolio, for example, for running stores, for outdoor and camping stores, where now we can go in there with many products that help that retailer then become a destination for safety and security products.

We will also come up with some unique products where their specialized LED will be able to incorporate our Mace product. And so if you're walking a dog, you'll be easily be able to have your leash on hand with Mace imbedded into it and you'll be able to grab it as you need it in the case of an emergency or in the case of another animal attack. Slide 28, really just shows some of the products. We're still building up the line. On slide 28, you see some of the projected packaging that we've worked through, that we'll launch at both the houseware show and the hardware show in 2015. But we're getting some nice, small placements here and there prior to that. Again, it's another – slide 29 shows another example in the tactical or the law enforcement community, where these products will come in handy in situations of ambulances.

Unfortunately, across America, there's a 35% increase in people with a flat tire or people on the side of the road being hit by other cars, either because of the dimness of the lights or non-working street lamps, or people driving too fast. So this is another product, where we'll be able to come in and have the Mace brand bring a solution. Slide 30 is First Sign Technologies, which has come up with some great wearable technologies that we're able to do a marketing deal with. We have an understanding and then we're just finalizing the LOI, but we're just finalizing how we'll work together.

So I won't go into a lot of detail, but suffice to say, slide 31 shows just some of the ideas that we've been able to incorporate with them that would be under the Mace Wear's First Sign banner, but basically, it will be safety and security products that, especially for our younger generation of people, they will be able to tap their hairclip or headband or there are several other items, that we have under development, and be able to notify our central station, it will be a monitored product and notify parents at the same time because, it would work through some Bluetooth technology in order to alert that they feel threatened or they are in danger. In that way, we can triangulate and find them and hopefully, and avoid a situation that would be negative.

Slide 32 is the projected packaging, this is still being processed, but we're pretty excited about the amount of progress we've made in the quarter just getting the deal together, and looking forward to launching in say fourth quarter, early first quarter of 2015. And then really, reiterating slides 33 through 36, some of the things we're doing, we did re-launch our Mace cameras website, we've seen some nice pick up for that, which is slide 34, reiterating on slide 35 what we're looking at doing and how we're doing it in the main core fundamental channels that we feel we can dominate with our Mace brand name.

So and then slide 36, it's just recapping again our mission statement and what we are doing. There is another presentation on there, that's marketing, and I really won't go through it, but it just talks about a lot of the media that we were able to procure in a quarter, and some of the things that we were able to do. I will note, in the quarter, we did launch our stun guns. We haven't done any sales, but we were able to work with several different manufacturers on bringing best-in-class stun guns to the market, and we will be rolling those out in a soft launch in the fourth quarter of this year and a major launch at the SHOT Show in 2015.

So with that, that was all I had. I want to thank everybody again for their participation. Once again, the management team is very focused on growing not only our top line, but improving our bottom line results. And although I'd say it's taken us longer than we expected, I think we're getting to where we need to be. And we'd love to have a breakeven quarter, but I think we got very close with everything we did. And if you look at all the one-times in there, it was very close to a breakeven, so we're very pleased with the results.

With that, I'll turn it back over to our moderator and we can take questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. Thanks. One of the other products that you had announced and talked about and we've been seeing some buzz on, was a partnership with – I think it's pronounced Pangaea, but basically it's for the The Defender.

Correct.

Where can you update us on where things stand with that and what the prospective financial strategic partnership relationships might be there and the timing of something like that?

Sure. And I should have put a PowerPoint. The partnership is going strong. We actually have been in communication on this weekly. They are a little bit behind schedule, so estimated launch would not be till Q2 of 2015 at this point. But on a financial point-of-view, I think everything that we'll experience will be in that second quarter of 2015. And we expect it to be somewhat of a game changer if everything lines up the way it's supposed to line up, meaning that the software and the hardware come together.

It will be Mace Pepper Spray within the unit itself, and then, obviously aligning the marketing program, because as – just to reiterate again, The Defender is it's everything you possibly need in the palm of your hand, from an emergency alert for a medical issue, to taking a picture of a would-be-assailant, to having a loud buzzer sound to alert the would be assailant and to ward them off, to actually being able to shoot pepper spray, and communicate that you feel that you're in danger to a central station that can then triangulate your position and dispatch. So the Pangaea team is working very hard. They're actually still building out their structure and we're helping them with all the elements in order to launch the product successfully.

On true financial numbers, it's still TBA because once we wrap our arms around the final cost of goods and whatnot, we'll be able to have several different strategies of going to market, whether it'd be a monthly scenario of one-time purchase, or give the product away and then pay a higher monthly fee on an annualized basis. So those are the things that we're still walking through, but to your point, Andrew, it's a great – it can be a great long-term partnership for Mace, because of the brand value that we bring to the table.

So there's a follow up to further clarify, so one thing that came out of what you just mentioned is we would manufacture and supply the pepper spray that would be in the product. There was some investment that was made, that was [ph] on a (30:07) pre-purchase of product for which we would then resell at a gross profit in terms of the product sales itself through our network?

Correct. Both – correct on both counts.

All right. And so those are two examples. Are there other examples of what you envision as moneymakers for Mace to participate or joint venture with Pangaea and The Defender on that you can disclose or talk about yet?

Some of them are still under negotiations but there is a royalty stream that we're finalizing with our friends at Pangaea, and there's also several other [ph] innovations (30:53) of product to hit different segmentations that we have under discussion. So it'd be better not to talk too much about it at this point, but suffice to say, there should be several different ways to monetize for both parties off of the relationship.

So if there's a royalty involved, that's because of the Mace brand name will be used to help move the product?

Correct.

Okay. That gets to my – I have many questions, but that gets to my last question here, before I'll hop back into the queue and let others go. Mace brand name is going to be on the Nite Beams. You've got Mace A Wear with the partnership with First Sign Technologies. You have Mace [ph] name in (31:41) royalty generation obviously down the road a bit with Pangaea and The Defender. What other things have you already signed and are moving forward on regarding generating, we'll call it high margin, very high margin cash flow streams that are basically tied to royalties using the Mace brand name?

There is a major one that we're going to announce by the grace of God at the Investor Call – the Investor Meeting on November 18. It is signed, it's just that some other things have to happen on the other side. It's going forward, it's just that a timing issue that our partner on that side has asked us to wait till the middle of November. But to us, again and our tactical range, we think this will be very profitable and very game changing. Carl said game changing, and I agree.

You've got the deal signed and you're going to announce it fairly soon. Is that also something where the cash flow streams are, like, second quarter, third quarter, or is that something that is sooner that will help put this company finally into a sustained profitability level?

Right now, my estimation would be the back half of 2015. But because of the – both their abilities and our abilities, it could be quicker than that.

Okay. I'll back out. I have more questions. Please come back to me.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

Andrew Shapiro, your line is open.

Well, Okay. Are you already selling the new fashion line of Mace products called – I guess you called it Exquisite, and what's the...

Exquisite, yeah. It's a good and bad problem because we're actually on allocation, because the POS sales are exceeding our ability to manufacture it at this point, because there's some uniqueness in the manufacturing process of this product. So therefore, we are – Carl especially is working on ways to alleviate the inventory stress that we're feeling short term.

Is the bottleneck in your manufacturing facility or in...?

No, this is – we own the license that somebody else has to patent on the – actually spraying methodology of it. And so they have to ramp up because we've given them orders in excess of what they can fulfill at this time.

Okay. I'm assuming it's a good margin product?

Yes, yes. Very healthy.

Okay. Now, with your victory in getting the supply contracts for the Cleveland Police Department, with your TakeDown Stream pepper spray. Is that contract in reference point such that it's opening doors and assisting you, and you're beginning to sign other, smaller police departments?

Yes.

Okay. And is that something where you'll be prepared or you to provide, like a listing of where you're placing your product and making inroads?

Yes. At the Investor Conference, again, we'll go through some of the short-term, long-term successes, like Cleveland's a great example because it's 1,500 officers and it's a three-year contract, which we're trying to use as a model with other departments and we have bids out there as they come up, and we have the mechanism now in order to be able to respond to bids quickly with the right people at the right places and getting the right information passed along. But with the success of Cleveland, which is a larger police force, we will put together a list of even smaller police forces where they're buying our products.

Some departments just kind of, for clarification purposes, only buy as needed. Some departments have a regular purchasing mechanism that they go through. Cleveland's a good example, where they'll rotate through product and make sure they have replenishment for their officers on an if-come basis. Some smaller departments will say, well, I'm buying a case here and there, as I need it, and if I don't use it, I'm not buying again. So Cleveland is the model that most major metropolitan areas follow, that they're stocking and they're maintaining a level of safety stock because they do have broader issues than a smaller department.

Right. And is there shelf life on this, whereby, after so many years, they need to replace it anyway?

Not really, because like our product we recommend that you replace it after a year. But quite honestly, if it's maintained in a safe, and safe I mean, climate controlled environment, the product's good for at least three years or four years.

Okay. You mentioned how your camera sub-segment is kind of getting some re-birth. Do you have any kind of camera or product offerings, small enough that could potentially become wearables such as the Digital Ally and TASER offerings to law enforcement that seems to have caught everyone's eye and attention?

We are in pretty high-level negotiations with one of the best manufacturers in this segment, about a joint venture together. So...

So they're manufacturing...

...by the end of the year, we will be in that segment.

Okay. And am I correct in assuming they're the manufacturer, they make a good product but they don't have your name, and your name is what's going to open doors in the tactical side?

Correct.

Okay. I have more questions. Let me back out again, in case there's others. I don't want to just sit and dominate unnecessarily.

There are no further questions. Continue.

All right. Well, I have more. I'll just go to town on it then. John, you mentioned something about the stun gun, can you – I didn't write it down – what was the timing, and who's the targeted market that would be buying these kind of items?

Sure. So the targeted market is general consumers and the timing is, we're doing a soft launch as we speak. So we really didn't have any sales within the third quarter. We're starting to see sales today, and it basically will be – to start with the web-based community, so our friends at Amazon, our own internal website and then as we broach 2015, a full retail assortment of products. And basically what we – on the product side was we wanted obviously safe, easy to use, ergodynamic, so it would fit in your hand very nicely. And then, we were looking at more of an OXO, if you would feel, which is a rubberized plastic. So that way, it was very user-friendly. And then we're also looking at sub-$150 price points in order to fulfill what we found as the need in the marketplace.

And where would this then retail? What kind of store?

Like Amazon – like today, Amazon and the Mace website. If you went to www.mace.com, you'll see the assortment of products there now, which are black, pink and red.

Some sporting goods.

And there is some smaller sporting goods, by request that some of the distributors and some of the dealers have picked up because they wanted the brand extension on the Mace side, and they prefer to carry a Mace branded stun gun than a non-branded stun gun.

If I can walk back to a prior question. When you talk about this prospective partnership that would provide a wearable camera for the law enforcement community, is that something that, once you sign the deal it would still have then multiple quarter – I understand the time lag to actually supply an RFP and to go through that process, but would the product availability still take as long as, let's say, middle year like The Defender is expected to, or is it one where the product will be readily available assuming a police department wants it?

Right. I'd like to pass on the question if you don't mind, because we have some unique ideas within the segmentations that might transcend just the tactical application, and kind of get us into a broader segmentation, and then with that sense we're still on the negotiations. I'd rather wait till I can finalize now. But suffice to say, we've had very good meetings and we have a working agreement that we both feel we can push across the finish line quickly. To your point, to some extent, on the tactical side, once again, it's a bid, a typical police department has to go to council, they have to go to the Mayor, and the Mayor has to approve it. So it's safe to say, the second half of 2015, it would have a major impact, but there might be some things that, that ideas that we have that could speed as along into different segmentations, that are somewhat underserved today that we saw as an opportunity, and our partner [ph] agrees (42:07).

Okay. With the change in the law in Massachusetts to make Mace and other pepper sprays more easily attainable, have you seen a significant uptick in sales, and in particular, sell-through, of course you had your initial – I'm assuming your initial inventory load was part of the September quarter or is that part of the December, or did it happen even in the June quarter?

It happened, basically, in the second quarter, especially with Dick's Sporting Goods for example, where they loaded 17 stores that had never had pepper spray prior. It's slowly starting because of confusion with the law, confusion with the implementation on some of our distributers and some of our other accounts, and so we're seeing a little bit of that in the third quarter. We expect to see more of that in the fourth quarter because articles now, even the police and other segmentations in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts requesting Mace brand pepper spray and requesting pepper spray in general. So to answer your question, yes, we saw a tick, POS was strong, especially [ph] – got to love (43:13) Dick's Sporting Goods who right away, as soon as the law was passed, gave us orders and asked us for displays and marketing material to put in all 17 of their locations in the Commonwealth. And then, we're slowly seeing these smaller guys that they had to rethink their strategies coming on board.

Okay. I have only a few more questions, but let me back out in case there was someone else in the queue?

There are no further questions.

Okay. So after this most recent quarter, what's the current level of Mace's tax and net operating loss carry forwards?

Andrew, we didn't review the net loss carry forwards on a quarterly basis, and I have that number in front of me. [indiscernible] (44:00).

Can you come closer to the phone? I can hardly hear you.

Sure. We do that on an annual basis to review the net loss carry forwards, and it's the same number that it was at the end of the year as far as what I'm able to communicate to you, and I believe that number is $52 million. If you hold on, I can confirm.

So it's whatever the number was annually. $52 million, plus the year-to-date losses.

Correct.

Okay. And so in the prior calls, John, I mean, you came close this quarter, but I'm trying to feel if there's any one-time burst of cash flow that then [ph] we (44:45) have a headwind in the next quarter. But otherwise, do you anticipate as targeted in prior calls that the quarter-ended December is a cash flow breakeven or better quarter?

At this point, I'd say the fourth quarter should be consistent with the third quarter and closer to a break-even than any other quarter in our history – recent history.

But you're not yet confident that it will be break-even or above?

I mean, there's a possibility, we're having good sales. October trended a little bit higher than anticipated in the Q4 forecast. We do have some advertising in Q4 that we didn't have in Q3 scheduled. And in looking it's going to be close. If November and December trend the way October did based on expectation, there's a possibility.

Right.

But, right now [ph] Mike (45:45) as an accountant, my conservative statement would be, it's probably going to be pretty close to the third quarter.

Right. And Andrew, as you know, a lot of it's reliant on retail. We didn't anticipate like the horrendous retail, like – nor did any of our competitors or consumer product goods company, that we had this first quarter. And right now, all indications are that, this will be a healthy October, November, December. And our POS continues to be strong, but if our POS stops, obviously then replenishment orders stops, that has a negative effect on our overall. But looking at it today, it would be consistent with the third quarter, if not better.

Because at some point, we need to grow this company to where the ups and downs of the POS and the retail reorders don't matter, and we still are profitable.

Correct. And I think we've put in some things that are getting us there, and now we have to be a little more consistent with them. And it's almost like, as you had mentioned, some of the diversification of the product offerings to go beyond just personal defense and the safety and security, I think, are critical. Because like for example, on our camera orders today, we have several customers that we're servicing their needs, so they're working with us on a continuing basis to replace NVRs and DVRs, and replace cameras and upgrade cameras and replace accessories on a more consistent basis than ever in the past.

And then as we diversify the product line, so we have a little peak and valley with just pure pepper spray, it's hunting season and winter season, it has a tendency to tick up because the time change has a psychological effect on people that they think more about safety and security. In the spring, you have the same thing, because you have the time change and the weather change. Whereas stun gun then, in the summer and some of the other months, and some of the things we're anticipating launching will kind of be more consistent on a selling point-of-view which will cover more of the overhead, then obviously bring us closer to that profitability.

Okay. So can you explain – I understand why the note receivable due from Security Partners was reduced. You, I think, explained things that happened on the RMR in terms of a look-back. I think those two are tied.

Yeah.

But why or how was the – did the renegotiation of the note itself come about in terms of extending the term and for how long in the interest rate increase?

Well, part of it was a negotiation because of the timing of the look-back and the specific customer in question. So we, in good faith, entered into negotiations with them, A, because we have several programs with them that we thought were important on our side, as they did on their side; and B, they were willing to say, okay, let's just work this out. So we're able to increase the interest rate that they're paying us. We then extended the timeframe by a couple months to them on the note. And then, right now in full disclosures, we're working on a marketing agreement that will allow us to make up the $100,000 through some products and some partnerships on some programs.

And one program has already started, as you're aware, of our friends, [ph] Dark Pulse (49:30) are actually looking at bringing Security Partners in on the monitoring side of that product, even though it's not branded. It's just branded [ph] Dark Pulse (49:39) today, and that will be a benefit to Mace Security International on the long run because it's an account they wouldn't have gotten otherwise. So it's kind of got a lot of moving parts into it. The $100,000 isn't what they wanted because the look-back, if you looked at it, the account was worth more than that. But it was a good settlement point, with the fact that we thought that we still should be made whole on it and they agreed, and that's why we're entering into yet another marketing agreement that would be [ph] addendum (50:10) to the contract. So I hope that answers that.

Yeah. And I'm glad that some of our strategic introductions to you might be coming through and generating new business for the company. This conference in Cleveland's your first one. And I'm pleased you're doing this whole site visit, field visit tour opportunity the next day. Do you have any other scheduled Investor Relations conference activities that you've been invited to and plan to be pursuing?

Well, it's a great question, thanks, Andrew. So it's two-fold, I would say in that segmentation. We actually – I unfortunately had a death in the family, so we moved the board meeting to next Wednesday where at what time the board meeting would have been of the 31st. And we are looking at the entire IR segmentation as a company with the board's assistance to say, we're entering into the phase that we had talked about that now we need to get the message out and get more fans into the stands.

So ergo, [ph] both (51:28) an IR firm that could help us do this that are talking to gentlemen like yourself; and then B, what are the right shows. Because we – I have a list of shows that we could participate in and we're looking at simultaneously, saying that if we are getting the right message out with the right message provider, then we're participating in shows, we should have a doubling effect, and both should work somewhat hand-in-hand. So it's a board agenda item that I'm bringing forward to say, okay, we have the fundamentals close to where we want them to be, we see the light at the end of the tunnel. Now, we should start spreading the message before we're bathed in the sunlight of profitability and growth. So I hope that answers.

Yeah. No, that does. And I look forward to seeing you in Cleveland, and we can go over more then. If you need some inputs on some of the conference and

other opportunities, call us offline and...

Absolutely. [inaudible]

(52:33).

Yeah, we're going to take your advice both on the IR side and on the conference side because of your experience.

Okay. Thanks.

Okay. Well, I thank everybody. I don't know, Caitlin, if there's anybody else. Otherwise, we can close.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

Thank you very much.