Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Leah, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2012 investor call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After these speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you, Carl Smith. You may begin.

Thank you, Leah. Good morning and thanks for joining us on our third quarter 2012 earnings call. I'm Carl Smith, Senior Vice President of Finance for Mace. Also with us today is Mace's CEO and President, John McCann. I will be covering the financial results of our third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012 versus the same periods of 2011.

Before I begin my discussion of the financial results and need to advise everyone that certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used during our conference call, the words or phrases will likely result are expected to will continue is anticipated, estimate, projected and intended to are similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks known and unknown and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for the future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

Additional discussions are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projected forecasts, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading Risk Factors in Mace's SEC filings, which includes its registration statements and its periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes contained in Mace's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. You can access these reports on www.mace.com through the Investor Relations section of this website. You can click on the Investor Relations button.

Now, I would like to begin my review of the third quarter financial results of Mace. First, as in the past on other conference calls, I'd like to give you a little bit of background on Mace. Mace currently functions in the Security Segment and we have discontinued operations within our previous reported Car Wash segment with one remaining site as of September 30, 2012. Within our Security Segment, we basically have three operating units or divisions. We have our Mace personal defense operation, which is in Vermont. That's where we manufacture and distribute our well-known Mace brand of aerosol pepper spray. We also have our Mace security products, which is our electronic surveillance equipment for professional home and small business. Recently, we integrated the distribution of the electronic surveillance products, Mace security products with the Mace Pepper Spray business in Vermont. And as a result, what we did is we closed our distribution operation in Texas. Legally, we also merged the Mace Personal Defense entity into Mace Security Products Inc., and changed the name of the combined entities to Mace Personal Defense and Security. John McCann will probably have additional comments regarding this later on this call. And then finally, our third operating unit, our division is Mace Central Station, which is our wholesale monitoring operation located in Anaheim, California.

As previously mentioned, the carwash segment is accounted for as a discontinued operation. And then from an accounting and finance reporting standpoint, all of the revenues and expenses, including the prior period that were presented in the financial statements posted on the OTC are pulled out of the income statement and my needs are reported in one line item on the bottom of the income statement.

Likewise, on the balance sheet, the assets and related liabilities of the discontinued carwash operations that are held for sale are removed from the various balance sheet items and are moved to one line in front of the balance sheet. Assets held for sale and liabilities related to assets for sale on the liability side of the balance sheet.

Now I will discuss our quarter and year to date financials. John McCann, our CEO, will follow with some additional comments on our operations when I'm through with this. Okay for the financial results for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011. Revenues were approximately $3.4 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Of the $3.4 million of revenues for the three months ended September 30, approximately $1.8 million or 54% were generated from our personal defense and law enforcement aerosol operations, mainly as our Mace Pepper brand spray $1.07 million or 32% was derived from our wholesale security monitoring operation in California. And $490,000 or 14% of our revenues came from the electronic surveillance equipment operation. Of the $3.5 million revenues for the three months ended last year, $1.4 million or 40% were generated from our personal defense and law enforcement aerosol operations, with $1.06 million plus of $1.1 million or 30% from our wholesale security monitoring operations, and about $1 million or 30% from our electronic surveillance equipment operation. It should be noted that the electronic surveillance equipment operation included $108,000 last year from our high end Digital and Machine Vision Cameras Components operation, which we referred to as IDF. And that business was sold on October 21, 2011.

Overall revenues within the security segment decreased $128,000 or 3.6% in 2012 compared to last year. This decrease is mainly attributed to a $568,000 decrease, or 53.7% in sales from the electronic surveillance equipment operations, which was offset by a 30 point or almost 31% increase or $429,000 in our personal defense and law enforcement operations. And there was also a slight increase of $10,000 or 0.9% in our wholesale security monitoring operation. It should be noted that the decrease in surveillance equipment revenue is attributed to several factors of which we highlighted in our last conference call and continue through today. And that's due to direct sales of Asian manufacturers. The loss of a key customer. And the sale of IDF.

The increase in personnel, defense and law enforcement operations and again, this is our aerosol pepper spray business is attributed significant increases through our consumer and international sales channels for the quarter and a slight increase in our sporting goods channel. For the quarter ending September 30, 2012, consumer sales were $643,000, which is an increase of about $286,000 or 80% over last quarter. International sales were up $135,000. We're 100 – I'm sorry, we're $135,000, which was an increase of $86,000 or 178% over the quarter last year. And revenues derived from our sporting goods channel were $782,000, a $32,000 increase or 4% over the quarter last year. Revenues increased marginally in our Wholesale Security division by $10,000 or almost 1%.

Loss from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2012 was approximately $700,000 or $0.01 per share compared to a loss of continuing operations of $1.9 million or $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2011. The decrease in this operating loss from continuing operations was attributed mainly to the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses of about $891,000 or 32%. And we also incurred an increase in gross profit of $251,000, or approximately 23%. Discontinued operations are comprised of the company's car wash as noted before. The results of these operations are shown as discontinued operations for financial reporting purposes, like I had indicated earlier. These operations generated a loss of approximately $504,000 or $0.01 per share. And $262,000 These operations generated a loss of approximately $504,000 or a 0.01 per share. And $262,000 or $0.01 per share for the three months ended September 30th and 2011 respectfully announces due to the weighting of the average shares outstanding being different quarter to quarter. The $504,000 loss in the third quarter of 2012 included expenses associated with the lease assignment, an agreement on one of the remaining car wash in [indiscernible] facilities with additional accrued expenses that we need to incur to further monitor and test two car wash locations.

Net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2012 was approximately $1.2 million or $0.02 per share, compared to a net loss of approximately $2.1 million or $0.05 per share for the three months ended last year. Weighted average shares for computing loss per share for the three months ending 2012 September 30, 2012 and 2011 are 58,946,000 for the quarter ending 2012 and 43,572,000 for the quarter ending September 30, 2011.

Well, that concludes the three month or the quarter results comparison. Now we'll discuss the nine month or year to date financials. Revenues were approximately $9.8 million and $10.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, versus last year. This year, sales of $9.8 million of revenues included $4.9 million or [indiscernible] just bear with me one second. Okay, then yeah, the $9.8 million of revenues for the nine months ended September 30th, $4.9 million of those sales, or 50% were generated from our personal defense and law enforcement aerosol operations. $3.2 million or 33% came from our wholesale security monitoring operation. And $1.7 million or and law enforcement aerosol operations $3.2 million or 33% came from our wholesale security monitoring operation and $1.7 million or 17% from our electronic surveillance equipment operation. Last year, the $10.6 million of revenues, $3.7 million or 35% were generated from our personal defense and law enforcement aerosol operation, with $2.9 million or 28% derived from wholesale security monitoring operations and $3 million or 28% from our electronic surveillance equipment operation. And it should be noted last year, the electronic surveillance equipment operation included $1 million from our high end IDF operation, which again was sold in October of 21, 2011. So then overall revenues within the security segment decreased $797,000 or 7.5% compared to 2011. The decrease is mainly attributed to the $2.3 million or 57% decrease in sales or revenues derived from the electronic surveillance equipment operation, and offset by a $1.2 million or 32% increase in our personal defense and law enforcement aerosol operation. Again, our pepper brand spray of pepper spray or Mace brand of pepper spray and an increase of $340,000 or 12% in our wholesale security monitoring operation, which includes the acquisition of the monitoring center TCCI on March 31, 2011. The decrease in surveillance equipment revenue is due to several factors, as mentioned in the quarterly results and includes approximately $1 million in revenues which were eliminated from IDF. The increase in personnel, defense and law enforcement operation is mainly attributed to significant increases through our consumer, sporting and international sales channels. For the nine months ending September 30, consumer channel sales were $1.5 million, an increase of $450,000 or 44% over last year.

Sporting channels were $2.1 million, an increase of $381,000 or 22% over last year. And international sales were $465,000, an increase of $269,000 or 137% over last year.

Loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30 was approximately $1.9 million or $0.03 per share, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $4.1 million or $0.17 per share in the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The decrease in operating loss from continuing ops was attributed to the decrease in SG&A expenses of $1.8 million or 26%, and an increase in gross profit of $189,000 or approximately 5%.

Discontinued ops are comprised of the company's carwash operations. The results for these operations are shown as discontinued operations, as noted here earlier, these operations generated a loss of approximately $576,000 or $0.03 per share for the nine months ended September 12 – September 30, 2012, and a loss of $296,000 or $0.17 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2011.

Current year-to-date loss includes a cash payment of $275,000 and a transfer of certain inventories and equipment, having an approximate book value of $70,000 as consideration to the landlord for the early release of this contractual lease agreement that we were in. Net loss for the nine months ended September 30 was approximately $2.5 million or $0.03 per share compared to a net loss of approximately $4.4 million or $0.17 per share for the nine months ended September 30 of last year. Weighted average shares in computing the loss per share for the nine months ending were $58,946 and $25,116 for 2012 and 2011 respectfully. Now at this time I would like to have a few comments on our balance sheet and some cash flow items. From a balance sheet perspective, we continue to maintain a low leverage ratio position of 6.6% as of September 30, 2012, and that's based on debt of about $1 million in equity of about $15.1 million. We had a positive working capital of approximately $9.7 million at September 30th and a current ratio of 5.2.

With respect to debt, as mentioned during the previous second quarter call. Our mortgages were paid off with the February sale of an Arlington, Texas, car wash and then debt at September 30, 2012 is approximate $1 million with our debenture note with Maryland partners at about $950,000. And then there is a few small capital leases included in our total debt. Our cash and short-term investments totaled $5.7 million at September 30th, and our total assets were $18.5 million.

Inventory was reduced by approximately $390,000 from December end of last year to December 31, 2011. And then from a cash flow perspective, for the nine months ending September 30th, we used approximately $3.2 million of cash and operating activities in approximately $1.7 million and investing activities. This included about $3 million to purchase short-term investments, offset by a $1.6 million net proceeds from the sale of in Arlington, Texas, car wash. So from a financial perspective, that pretty much covers what I wanted to go over from the financial statements. But before I turn the call over to John, I'd like to thank you for supporting Mace and joining us this morning.

And at this time, I will turn the call over to John McCann, our CEO and President.

Thanks, Carl. So, I'll keep my comments brief. You know, basically, we've done a lot. There was a lot of overhead that needed to be adjusted and we're in a process of doing that. The results reflect some of the one time severance payments and et cetera that I put in at a press release. So, I'm not going to get into details on that side. But I will say that there's -- we have a lot of activities going on the marketing side. We released a press release this week about a licensing deal that we put together to secure our outcomes on a digital fingerprint machine in a growing market that we're excited about. We're working on a couple other activities in the same range. And then on the consumer product side of the business, where we're working diligently on more distribution and a couple of exclusive deals that we are not at liberty to match it yet, but we're closely closing in on them.

One thing I will mention that we will be featured on Fox News on January 3 at 7:30 PM on the Wells Report. We filmed our marketing and sales operations up in Vermont and our manufacturing operations just this past week. So, I think that would be great for the brand. And everything we're doing is really with that in light of growing and enhancing the brand image and actually looking at what other costs we can take out. So really, I'll turn it over to questions at this point, because I think that would be probably the easiest way to make sure we're given the information that people want to hear. So, Leah, I guess I'll turn it back here for you if you want to get the question queue going.

[Operator Instructions] .

Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Shapiro.

Hi. Good morning. I got several questions I'll ask a few and get it back in queue. Although I don't know how many people are on the call here. You highlighted non-recurring charges in your press release that I want to better understand, to see how close you've come towards breakeven operating results and when you might actually get to this promised land that we've been waiting for so long. So first off is the reference $370,000 charge for severance, legal and moving, all included in this Q3 reported loss.

Yes.

Okay. And where was it all classified? Is it in SG&A or is there a portion of it that was in the cost of goods sold line items so we can back that out and figure out what your true operating margins and gross margins were?

Those services – those services would all be in SG&A.

All 300 and – all $370,000?

Yeah.

Okay. And are there any other non-recurring charges or charges during the September quarter that you feel will be falling off the income statement going forward?

We incurred some moving costs and facility closing costs that, you know, will not reoccur.

And that's not part of the $370,000.

No. That would have been inclusive of the $370,000.

Yeah. Inclusive of the $370,000 really, Andrew if I broke it down it's about $50,000 to $60000 with moving expenses, there's about $10,000 in legal expenses and the remainder is severance payments freight out.

So are there any other non-recurring charges above and beyond the $370,000 that are in this current Q3 loss? Other – other in continuing operations.

loss other -- in continuing operations.

Well, you can look at it two ways. You're going to have some reoccurring costs that are going to be eliminated due to the close down of facilities that we incurred year to date, and consolidation and elimination of those facilities, which both resulted in a reduction in personnel and facility costs. So, they're not one -- they're not one time charges like a severance, but they're recurring charges that won't reoccur.

Right. And that's above and beyond the 370 or that's in the 370.

No. That's above and beyond the 370. And is there any kind of quantification you feel as you are internally projecting to the board when you're going to get this thing to breakeven? Is there some quantification you can apply to those charges you kind of feel like that are in runoff that will come out of if we were to reverse engineer Q3 and try to get to what is our real burn rate this quarter.

It's twofold because there's a couple other actions and activities that are underway with that will help that that will most likely hit in the fourth quarter. So I have an office in Walnut Creek that I inherited that is going away at the end of the fourth quarter and all those expenses. So to your point, what we're doing is not only what we have done, what we're looking at doing, to look at what the burn rate needs to be and what the rate of sale needs to be in order to determine profitability. I can't tell you my goal personally and I'm hoping to achieve this is by the end of the first half of next year, we are at profitability. Because to your point, what I've looked at is the current run rate where it needs to be and then what I need to do to get there. And some of the activities have happened. So the big one like the Horsham The move is a tremendous savings on the company. I'm still negotiating because I'm in a short term, month to month situation today. I'm still negotiating that that situation, central station. I'm in negotiations with the current leaseholder, you know, at that facility. So to answer your question and not try to sound like we're not trying to answer your question is there's many things in flux right now, but ultimately what you want to know is when do we get to profitability? And my goal is, you know, by the first half of next year, we will be profitable.

Right? So that's the fine line.

And I think.

I'm trying to get to a positive EBITDA and I had the impression we would get to positive EBITDA prior to the first half of next year and more likely by the end of this year. And so I'm now trying to work through to find out if that's if that's the case. Are we talking about apples and oranges when you refer to profitability versus?

I'm really on profitability I've got broad strokes. I'm looking at positive EBITDA. You know, this is the conversation that we had even at the last Board meeting when I would say if I if a when I walked in, I thought I was with you. I thought by the end of the year, sure. You know, you do this, you do that but now, you know, looking at all the layers and all the different activities that had to take place and the timeframes in which they have to take place, then you got to throw in the economic factors of the world as it is today. You know, it took a little bit longer than I would like, but I think we are on the right path because if you net out just somebody activities. And in this quarter you know we're closer than we've ever been and coupling on because there'll be some onetime charges again you know in the fourth quarter like the Walnut Creek facility, there's a couple other identified individuals that that were absorbing roles and duties that will hit in the fourth quarter.

and that will lean into the first quarter again. But if we continue the sales trajectory for some of the market in some of the other distribution opportunities we're taking advantage of, if everything goes right, it'll be sooner than the first half of next year. But it's safe to say that the first half of next year it will be positive EBITDA, Michael.

Okay. So is it a quantification of what you'd say your quarterly costs are that are in, call it run off?

We work on that. Look, I think we have some – we have some things there that we have working spreadsheets that can indicate that.

Okay. And then you referenced $100,000 for moving out of Texas into Vermont and $400,000 in annual savings from the relocation of the corporate HQ beginning in the current December quarter because it was a October-November event. So does that $500,000 of expected annual amounts, okay. Does that include the payroll cost savings associated with the downsizing of head count as well as the change in personnel, as you're talking about reabsorption and of roles in this restructuring? And if not, what is kind of the range of the annual cost savings in addition to the $500,000 you've already specifically mentioned in this release?

Right. So it does include and I took the conservative side of that number so the range, if you threw on a range of an additional 50% off of that number, that that's what and the aggressive side of that anticipation...

[indiscernible]

So in broad terms – in broad terms, right, There was there was four people on taxes and a warehouse facility. Warehouse facility averaged at about $15,000 to $17,000 a month, completely eliminated, absorbed into – into – into Vermont. We still have one individual. Our IT director is still in the state of Texas. We're looking, and he knows and we've worked out some parameters with him. He is aware of his role and where the future of that role lies. So that's another, you know, situation. Obviously in Horsham, you know, we removed ourselves from a lease that once again ran in the 15,000 to 20,000 range a month with the additional storage facilities that we had and et cetera. And then we also took that accounting executive staff from, I believe it was nine heads to five or six heads, so...

Yeah

...and adjustments where with, you know, the company. So all those were taking into account of now, you know, I still have three other operating facilities, Florida, Vermont and the central station that I'm working on because there's, you know, some lean, lean techniques that could be applied to each one of those. We've already started, quite honestly, in the central station. I'm very pleased with the results because on a year to year basis, on our – on our March side, you know, we're up tremendously and we're continuing that positive momentum. There, it's simple things that we're factoring in as dumb as it sounds is, it's a flexible schedule. So now, you know, I'm looking for a tremendous reduction in my over time cost out of that facility because we are – we implemented a flexible schedule in accordance with California law that took six months. That's something that should have taken 30 days to do. But nevertheless, I believe it was the middle of October, we're able to implement a flexible schedule. That organization Was running probably about $6,000 to $8,000 a month. And over overtime I'm looking to completely eliminated but cut that number in half. So there's a lot of variables there that, you know, you apply the same techniques to everyone and then and then drive out the costs that do not do not add to the bottom line. But at the same time, because the brand and awareness level has a high awareness level but a low identification level, you also then have to redistribute some of those expenditures into your marketing or sales. And, you know, like we did in an example is the stern advertising helped us with our PR releases. Both the licensing deal and along with the release that we put out today is that we made sure we tried to make it a little easier, a little more information and a little better flow. Next steps, obviously, you know, the conference call, we're still using the same style that we did prior. You know, we're also looking at that to make sure that we maximize efficiencies and that that's like Karl's goal and my goal is to grow the brand but maximize efficiencies.

Okay. Let me back up. I have other questions. Let me back out in case there's someone else that's been patiently waiting. But please come back to me.

Absolutely.

[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Andrew Shapiro.

All right. Well, then I'll continue through here. Your release highlighted and made the phrase upcoming products initiatives, licensing, partnership and marketing campaigns without, you know, violating competitive restrictions, et cetera. Can you at least expand on, on what areas, each of these might be focused on, for Example of it's upcoming product initiatives. Are we dealing in the personal defense product area, the central station area? Can you comment a little, give a little more color on that and where you're focusing growth there? Same thing going with the licensing partnership phrase as well as your marketing campaign phrases.

Sure. So in broad strokes, it's across all the brands. We had never like the gold look, for example, with our with respect to our central station. We had never advertised in the Gold Book this year we did. So now it's already generating some positive responses because we felt comfortable with the systems we had put in place, the people we have put in place. Michael Joseph, who is the general manager of the central station is doing an outstanding job of not only helping sales, but also making sure that we're as efficient as possible. With respect to majority of the product initiatives and what we are trying to do with it is with our consumer products, we merge the cost savings again, the these security products and the personal parts, because at the end of the day, you're shipping widgets and boxes to consumers. If you can do it out of one location versus two, obviously it makes more sense and if you're going to similar locations or you can adapt to the locations you need to go to, then that also makes sense. So, with regard to product initiatives, we have several product initiatives and it really goes across all the lines again. There is video surveillance products. There's products that we haven't taken advantage of with the central station that we're now we're branching out into. Then also with our security products there's some new technologies because of George Martinez, one of the gentlemen that had over 12 years experience GE security is on board and now more directed towards product development and product ideas. We're working on that. Then at the same time, our consumer products are pepper spray business has been over skewed and underdeveloped, I call it. So we did a SKU rationalization, we eliminated many old skills and then we modernized some of the SKUs we have. But the best example I can say is that now, the current team is focused on the idea of Mace as a brand. Mace is not a product is a brand. And so what we've done is when we go to market, we talk about our central station, we talk about securities and our consumer products and our interpersonal fence products, and we talk about Mace being the brand for protection, security and safety. And their products that we've envisioned that we started working on, that we're hoping to launch, early first quarter of next year that will incorporate a consumer aspect of it, a monitoring aspect of it, and it'll be a joint sale. So my ideal situation will be as not only do I make the company make some money on selling a product, it also has an RMR component to that product that fits ideally into the marketplace that is going to take education, training and knowledge. But when you look at the emergence of [ph] Perseus First Emergency Response Systems, you look at the transformation of what's going on with different security products, that the time's right. And we're well positioned as a company to take advantage of some of these opportunities. On the marketing side, we are advertising, which we hadn't done in the past. So the shot show, for example, that's coming up. We've taken out trade ads and consumer ads and the different targeted marketing segmentation, honeying, fishing We've taken out trade ads and consumer ads and the different targeted marketing segmentation, horning, fishing law enforcement and that those [indiscernible] . And then also on the consumer side again there's shows that the company hadn't invested in in the past that were going to ECRM is an example of one we went to GMDC which is a general merchandize distributor council that that focuses on grocery, drug and that channel of trade. So I hope that answers that. But really the it's not like we're taking 100% investment and doing it towards this or that. What we're looking at is that what makes sense for the brand and trying to make sure that we maximize that with our efforts.

And can you expand and you've expanded now in the marketing campaigns, in the product initiatives, are you able to expand at all on the direction or the product areas that you're willing to or seeking licensing in?

Well, where it's across the board, really. Like I had mentioned before, the creative licensing group has been brought on board and it's really in that same world. What I have asked them? And a good example of it is Secure Outcomes, which is a fingerprint machine, great technology, lack of brand name, black brand awareness. You know, we've put that together into a deal that I think works well for both secure outcomes and for Mace, and that if you look at security safety, home protection, those are the areas that we're looking at. We're trying to stay true to the brand and the efforts of building the brand into synonymous with protection, safety and defense. So all the companies that we're talking to are in that genre, right. I do have to say that disappointed in the lack of progress on some fronts, but unfortunately, a couple of the companies we're in the New York New Jersey area, and they did they did get hit pretty bad by the storm. So the company that we were dealing with and we were going hot and heavy, they half their staff went to half days and still are on half days because now they're just trying to stay afloat with what they need to do business wise and they put out some of their new motions so they can kind of get everything back – back in order. But I anticipate that, you know, that one time disaster event, you know, God forbid that, you know, we'll be able to hit some of these conversations back up after the holidays.

Now, with respect to the new secure outcomes licensing partnership on the fingerprint machine for I guess it's primarily law enforcement segment that is that pretty much what these small police departments have federal funds available for upgrading them. This is an upgrade type of product for them.

Correct. But then also there's huge opportunities within the framework of it that we're exploring, whether it be a kiosk, a storefront. There are several opportunities with that – that the majority of it would be in that law enforcement field. But, you know, growing trend in our nation and across the world is that whether you're a coach in CIO basketball or Rec basketball, you have to now be fingerprinted and trained because unfortunately, the nature of the world today. So we say there's a huge opportunity even in a new business venture about, you know, teaming up with somebody that wanted a franchise in open stores. I happened to stop in to a dealer on the West Coast, and he told me that he probably fingerprints 20 people a day using the technology. He purchased the machine and started his own business. So for us, we see that there's a tremendous opportunity. The technology lends itself to be portable. It's encrypted.

It's it scans into the FBI database and it also scans in Interpol's database. So once you use the system, you're pretty much set versus your role. They are in control systems that the police department's dead. And then if the police department had the competitor systems, the cost is higher than that. And this is just the start of what Jack Harper, their CEO, envisions as products and the various warehouses. All the products that he rolls out from this point forward would be will be branded Mace X brands. So yes, it's definitely towards that police, law enforcement, but I think there's tremendous potential of expansion.

Now could we get paid on a per use basis or a per machine basis?

Per machine basis.

So on a per machine basis and uh, this is just basically like a royalty payment, so it would be almost 100% margin revenue?

Correct.

Okay.

Yeah, I'll have some miscellaneous expenses, you know, associated with selling, but most of it will be margin.

And the selling of it is it does his company have a sales and distribution channels or is secure outcomes relying upon Mace and our particular maybe limited sales and distribution channels unless we increase our sales and distribution costs?

It's a combination. He has he has a sales force, he has distribution opportunities, and then we are incorporated into our product line. And so, for example, as we go to the chateau, we will also have this, you know, featured in our booth and he'll have people there selling it. And my sales people are trained on how to sell it also.

So now regarding this Fox News thing, is this

Thanks. Now, regarding the Fox News thing, is this a pay, are we advertising on this show or this is a this – this is an interview, what is this all about?

It was an opportunity was brought to us. We actually paid for the production. And then we don't have to buy the time. They're going to – they're going to arrest. They guaranteed us and airing at 7:30 PM on the Willis report. So what it is, is they sent a crew out to our facility and under their manufacturing marvels segment will be on at 7:30 January 3rd on the Fox Business News Network. But then I'll own the rights to what they've filmed. So for very small like and I mean very small cost, we were able to negotiate. They told me that they're they're looking at several million homes that they broadcast the show into. But then for me, then I have I have the rights to this segment. So it's a combination. We pay for all the production, but then we don't pay for the airtime.

Yeah, but what products are being featured. Is that the pepper spray.

We, we, yeah. We, we had them film the manufacturing facility in Vermont.

Okay. So pepper spray and all that. All right. And then can you give us – are you getting to a point where there's kind of respective general gross margin ranges for your, I guess, three respective product areas or...

I can do a quick commentary. I can't even follow up with you, but I know our highest grossing margin right now is – is our personal finance products, because we can control the manufacturing, we can control the flow. We are increasing the margins on our security products because we've been able to negotiate a little bit better. We've been able to be true to, you know what, we've sold some factories. Unfortunately, most of those are produced in Asia not domestically. So, there's a little bit of fluctuation. But I can tell you we are also improving our margins on our central station business because we're improving our costs. That's really almost on us, because the better we control our cost in our central stations, the more efficiently we can operate.

Okay.

But on a scale, nothing can compare to what we can do at our personal supply side of the business.

Okay, let me back out again, because someone's come into queue. I do have a few more questions to finish up with, so come back to me.

There are no further questions at this time. Your line is now open Mr. Shapiro.

Thanks. On inventory, I saw your inventory turns greatly improved from prior years sequentially. What's the realistic goal to get levels down to? Are you at that point or do you feel that there's even more improvement to squeeze out of there?

I personally think the levels right now at the end of September may be a little bit of high just for the October, November, December preparation and shipping. But the significant reduction and due to the -- taking a real close look at the electronic surveillance inventory that we kept on hand. And we're really monitoring that closely. Any time, regardless of the magnitude of that product being purchased, we get a couple of approvals on that just to make sure that, the product is a product that's currently moving and we keep that that inventory in line. Right, now I would say the inventory levels as of today are pretty much what we would be looking at. The Vermont, there are They turn their inventory very quickly. There are just in time operation and you know, we really focus on the electronic surveillance equipment inventory and we'll continue to focus in on that. But as far as the levels go, I think they're pretty much in line with where they were, where they should be.

Right. Okay.

And we're too far. So we have the checks and balances that we put in place. You know, Carl is really reviewing on this down to the very small numbers on purchasing just to make sure it's justified. Second thing is we're trying to make sure that we have a partnership, that we have a we have an account purchasing before we buy any large part pieces or parts. And the third thing is we're looking at some synergistic ideas where we have shared parts, if you would, from our first finance products to our security products, that if we have shared internal parts. So we have three or four uses for one, you know, holding or case or et cetera, that will further help us with the efficiencies that we're trying to create on the inventory side.

Now, electronic surveillance equipment revenues dropped below $500,000 for the September quarter. Is this the line item that has been formalistically now merged into personal defense? That's the subsidiary?

Yes.

Okay.

You know, and from so we're able to maximize our animals. So we're not we're not really losing any of the NOLs by merging those two. Carl had independent analysis done to make sure that that we protected that. It made sense from a reporting point of view. And it also because I moved that I have a duplication of shipping. We moved all the shipping operations up to Vermont in the quarter. We did suffer because of all that movement and that is one of the areas on the sales side that that I'm talking with the current team that needs to be restructured and a focus on because there's low hanging fruit I would call it between our over 500 dealers now that we have in the – from the central station to the millions of doors out there that that are looking for both monitored and non-monitored solutions. And so that is, you know, within the next 60 days, there will be some more announcements on what we're doing there in order to – to take advantage of the market.

Will you continue, though, to break out the revenues of those type of products, the electronic surveillance from personal, defense and aerosol?

Yeah, we currently set it up so it'd be a line item. So we have it under surveillance because then, you know, as I tried to detail out in the press release and with Carl how we look at the different channels, plus we look at this as a product line under surveillance, is how we categorize it.

Right. It's almost like we're migrating from a three segment to a two segment. And then within that one segment, we have two product lines, if you will.

Okay. Now, there was there was some language here that says, look, the notwithstanding, of course, the sale of the IVS revenue segment, you know, the revenues in the surveillance got dropped. They got cut in half from prior – prior year. And what was referenced is two things that I've seen referenced in multiple quarters. One is competition from Asian manufacturers and the other one is loss of a key customer. And I'm – since I've seen it for so many quarters, I have to ask, are we losing more than one key customer or when does this anniversary such that we're not having such year-over-year declines anymore And frankly, the same thing goes with competition from Asian manufacturers. I mean, how low or how much market share can we cede to the Asian manufacturer quarter in and quarter out?

Yeah, it's two things. I think probably after this quarter, you say that the loss of key customer anticipate. Asian manufacturing, I think we just you know, we copy and paste that, to be honest with you. And we can kind of remove that because the factories that I've talked to that that now we're dealing with the factories that George had experience with are coming up with products that are unique for us, that that will eliminate that. That will bring us to competitiveness in that segment. Part of, you know, the goal within that segment is not only do you have DYA opportunities, our dealer network opportunities, but then you still have retail opportunities that we need to restructure that selling group in order to take advantage of and in the past it hadn't been done in the future will be done.

You're not talking about going back into the highly competitive big box area with these products. Are you?

No, I think there's some strategic retailers that we can do some business with that would be cost effective. We can bring them a difference from what they're doing today and be able to strategically grow with them. If you look at some of our dealers, our 500 dealers, there are some solutions out there that we can provide that could be both monitored or not monitored, but they can help us on the integration side. So I think it'll be a combination. I'm not, you know, I'm not [indiscernible] to get into a boxing match with a £500 gorilla.

That's tried and failed by this company before. That's why I'm you know, you're not going to compete with Asia in the big boxes.

[indiscernible]

Yeah. Now, you had very little revenue growth versus prior year in the call center.

You had very little revenue growth versus prior year in the call center and, in our call monitoring area. Yeah we've made a bunch of personnel changes, we did some new marketing initiatives, et cetera., but over the last several quarters and I'm just wondering how much time it should be taking to gain some traction in terms of number of installed users and number of dealers, customers and, you know, bottom line revenue generation.

It's a slower build, to be honest with you, like being newer to the business, that is a slower build in that business. I can tell you on the RMR side in April of 2011 is when we purchased or we started recognizing the revenues from TCCI. So you had some very strong months from the, you know, starting in April of 2011 and through December of 2011 where those that merger happened.

All right, I understand the year over year numbers had growth and now we've anniversary the acquisition right. I'm talking about evidence of organic growth.

Well, but I think you got to look at it two fold in that world. If the average attrition rate is 11% and we're showing positive growth, it's almost a doubling down, in fact, because not only are we keeping we're also adding because like generic, you know, organically, we added about 800 customers in the quarter, which isn't a huge number, but in a very highly competitive world, you know, the growth rate that we had, I'm not saying I'm happy with it, but I'm not also displeased that we're able to achieve that.

I'm not also displeased that we were able to achieve that. And when I look at year over -- year to year are [indiscernible] if I trap the quarter versus the prior quarter, the results are, we're up close to $40,000 and that's after the integration of TCCI. To your point, though, we have several opportunities that we're pursuing. There's a couple changes that I'm still making within the central station in order to create even more efficiencies. But kind of twofold just to wrap it up, as with everybody else that we're having a high attrition rate and us having growth, you got to say, okay, that's not a bad thing. And then also organic growth in that industry, I would say, it can be anywhere from 6 months to 12 months because I personally have been dealing with two opportunities since January 20. I started on January 20 and January 20, I've been pursuing.

So, we're continuing to pursue that. But I am pleased that, and we've changed the relationship with our dealers and we're trying to change the relationship with our dealers to partner. We view that what they do and what we do we do together. So, instead of it being a buy, sell relationship and I'm going to shop for price, we are trying to partner with them to make sure that they recognize the resource we bring to them. Then also we try and recognize how we can efficiently play in their fields and I'm happy to report that that's improved. There's several marketing initiatives on that side that we're not ready to talk about yet, but I think there'll be an opportunity for the brand to play a bigger role with some of our dealer networks and hopefully throughout the first half of next year. But I can't guarantee you versus going to a retailer this is, it's a longer pipeline for sale.

And when you refer to two opportunities you've been working on since January, you're talking about acquisitions and consolidation in this fragmented industry or something else?

Well, one of them is an acquisition, but the other one is just acquiring. We're acquiring like bringing over a larger player, a larger dealer into the central.

Okay. And last question, so on the car washes, the discontinued ops, but it was a sizable recognition of a $0.5 million of loss, was the lease buyout in Texas that was highlighted and discussed in the last conference call that was expensed in the last quarter, or that is the bulk of the $500,000 expense this quarter?

Yeah, that was the bulk. Yeah, that was the bulk of it.

Okay. So the lease buyout was a Q3 event. And then you do have some expenses, not as many now for me to ask about, but you do have some additional costs that are coming through on that discontinued ops line above and beyond what was referenced before as the lease buyout cost?

Correct.

Can you discuss?

Just some ongoing costs that we became aware of related to some sites with regards to monitoring and testing. Some...

Yeah, I think it's kind of unfortunately in the car wash business, it's some of the ordinary things that you have to go through on a regularized basis.

What price are these that we still have an obligation on like what's all we got out of everything but I guess to.

Yeah. Well, one of of them is the existing site there that we currently have. Another one is a past site that we had some further obligations that we uncovered as we were looking at cleaning these up and making sure that everything was copacetic with. It's a huge amount, but it's a little bit that we're just wary of and we're making sure that we're properly protected on in the future. The site that we own, we are actively trying to market it. We thought we had a lease deal. The lease deal fell apart, unfortunately, the gentleman stopped making the payments. So we seized the property and we now have it locked down, but we're selling it just beyond just the car wash. We're selling it for the real estate value of the site, which is above what we have on the book.

Of the lease to buy deal -- the lease to buy deal sell off. And now we're just selling it as real estate. And so do you have what's happening is this is another impairment charge?

No, no. I think we're still above book value. And according to real estate people that I've been working with and et cetera. That we'll be able to not have an impairment on it as of today...

Right.

...the lease deal to me it was tremendous, because we're covering all of our expenses. And then he had a nice buy price built into it.

So now we have property expenses that are flowing through while we market...

Correct.

...the property for sale, which is we still own it and it's now for sale.

Correct.

And the other one is the lease buyout, which we are done on.

We're done. We're done.

So we're down to one property, but it's now just real estate for sale because of the lease to buy deal sell.

Correct.

Okay. Now I understand that. All right.

Yeah. We'll have -- like you said, we'll have some not nominal facility costs just to keep it, electricity running and somebody to walk in and manage the property and... It's the property and.

Complying with taxes or.

You know, ordinances and regulations.

Now, although that's a pretty far less regulated state than most, since it's Texas in the past on the last call. [indiscernible] On the last call, we asked for some metrics on your central station. You guys thought you'd be able to prepare, prepare and have ready for Q3 and then going forward, which involve the number of monitored accounts and the number of security dealer clients, so that we could compare those to past numbers and monitor in what ways you are growing the business. Is that something you can provide for Q3 and going forward or can you provide it for Q3 first? I mean, do you have it off-hand and is that something you can provide going forward?

You know, it's some internally and respectfully, we're making sure that it's not a competitive advantage if we if we say too much, to be honest with you, I do want to be as transparent as possible. But at the same time, as you understand, that is an all boys network and they will use every piece of information you give them for free to their advantage. And we are the only publicly really reporting central station out there that that delves into numbers and being on the small side of where we want to be. I can't tell you on a year to year basis, both on the account side, on the RMR side, where we are growing, where I need to continue to do is drive costs out. You know, I'm not happy with some of the costs on a regular basis. We put in some policies and procedures to eliminate costs, but, you know, basically have three major costs. Write your lease, your phones and your people. And so I'm looking at two of those three things I still need to taking into the facts the lease I'm working on, the phones I'm working on the people with change, in the flexible schedule, changing some of the internal schedule and changing some of the people. I'm pretty happy with some of the results that we've been able to generate there. And at the same time, we are looking at the sales business development crew over there and saying, okay, how can we maximize what we need to do across all all of our businesses, our consumer business, which I call, you know, our security products and our personal finance and our central station, our wholesale business, then then saying, okay, how can we maximize what we're doing on one side to the benefit of the other side to create greater efficiencies? So I know we talked about it and I just I want to provide the information, but I also want to make sure that I'm not shoot myself in the foot, you know, as providing that sale.

Okay. And the reason we only knew to even ask for it was it had been provided in the past. So you could probably check on in the past, did it then cause some competitive issues for you or not?

Right. And that's where some of it like, as you can imagine, moving files and whatnot. Like we're looking at the different things to say, okay, how was it provided and why did it kind of dissipate a little bit. But yeah, we'll look at a way of, of how we can do that because, you know, what we initially talked about at the board meeting, what we're trying to do is make sure people understand that there is tremendous momentum growing here. There was a – there was a lot to do more than I anticipated, to be honest, starting. And there's a lot yet to do. But the enthusiasm to do it hasn't left. I listed a quote from Lawrence Taylor that he said, When I didn't want to hit anybody, I knew it was time to stop. And here we still are interested and in growing and we've identified what we think we need to do in order to make it happen.

At the same time, the brand and I stress the brand has tremendous potential. There's just tremendous potential. And part of it is, is making sure that we paved the roads and clean the streets so we can drive down with the brand.

Great. Thank you much. I'm done.

Okay.

There are no further questions at this time.

Well, thank you very much.

All right. Thank you. [indiscernible] (

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.