corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 25, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My name is Ken, and I’ll be your conference


Operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone the 2008 Third Quarter Financial


Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. And now I’d like to turn the call over to Mr. Nieves.


Sir, go ahead.


Eduardo Nieves, Jr., Vice President, Marketing and Investor Relations


Thank you, Ken. Welcome to Mace’s investor conference call. My name is Eduardo Nieves, and I


am Mace’s Vice President of Marketing and Investor Relations. Also on today’s call is Dennis


Raefield, Mace’s CEO and President; Gregory Krzemien, Mace’s Chief Financial Officer, and


Robert Kramer, Mace’s General Counsel and Executive Vice President. On today’s call, Greg will


discuss financial results and Dennis will discuss the status of the business.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters I must address.


Certain statements and information made during this conference call will constitute forward-looking


statements, within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will


continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, intend to or similar expressions are intended to identify


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown; and uncertainties,


including, but not limited to economic conditions, limited capital resources; and the ability of


management to effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially, adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause


Mace’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements


expressed during the conference call. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from management’s projections, forecast, estimates and expectations,


are contained under the heading “Risk Factors” in Mace’s SEC filings, including its registration


statements and its periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during the


conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes


contained in Mace’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, I would like to remind everyone that my phone number is 954-


449-1313. After the call, if there are any follow-up questions please give me a call. My e-mail


address is ed@mace.com, and our website is www.mace.com.


With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Eduardo. Good morning and thanks again for everybody joining us this morning for our


September quarter end and nine-month ending September results discussion.


As most of you are aware from joining our calls in the past, we currently operate in three business


segments: Our first segment is our Security Segment, and in that segment we operate three


divisions: our original and well known Mace personal defense and pepper spray operation, located


up in Vermont. We have our Mace-branded professional level of electronic surveillance equipment,


which operates out of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. And our consumer level electronic equipment
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 25, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


operation in Dallas area, where we also have our high-end machine vision and video conferencing


equipment’s operation also.


Our second segment is our Digital Media Marketing Segment, which we operate through Linkstar


Interactive. And our third segment is our Car Wash Segment, which, as most of you know, we are


exiting and we’ll continue to unwind that operations.


We made that decision to exit the car wash several years ago, and to give everybody a total, to-


date, including the sale of full service car wash in October in our Dallas market, we’ve sold 35 car


wash sites and five truck wash sites, and this has been since December 2005, including a total of


seven sites in 2008.


With the sale of these sites, we’re pleased to report that we generated about 34.3 million of net


cash after payment of about 16.3 million of related mortgage debt. And with that, we currently own


14 car washes; we operate 12 of those car washes. And as disclosed in our 10-Q, we closed two


underperforming sites in our San Antonio, Texas market recently.


With the sale of the car washes, this has really allowed us to built some cash balances and reduce


our debt balances. Our debt just for reference was 23.9 million at December of ‘06, that was down


to 13.6 million at December ‘07, and at September 30, about 7.9 million. And that is in the


approximate 6.8 million range after the October car wash sales.


So again, we significantly brought down our debt. Our interest expense in 2007 ran about 1.5


million and based on current interest rate levels and current debt levels, our projected interest


expense is about $400,000 for the next year. So, we significantly reduced some also future cash


needs for interest.


We, again, have 14 remaining car washes. While we’re having discussions currently with parties on


several of these sites, we currently, as of today, have no sites under executed agreement. We


previously disclosed last quarter, being the June quarter, that we had several sites in Lubbock,


Texas and a site in Arlington, Texas under agreements. These agreements were terminated by the


buyers, through the exercise of some contingency clauses and the Company received about


$11,000 in cancellation payments from the buyers.


In the financial statements, in the press release and in the 10-Q, I’d remind everybody that a


majority of the car wash operations are pulled out of continuing operations and moved to


discontinued operations accounting. Basically all of our Arizona car washes, which was sold,


Florida which were sold in the early part of the year; our Northeast region car washes which were


sold last year, and also the car washes in our San Antonio and Lubbock, Texas markets. When we


assist -- when we move assets into held for sale or substantially close or sell the car washes in a


geographic market, we then move that, that entire market into assets sold, or rather discontinued


operations.


In our recent 10-Q, revenues in the nine months ending September of this year and last year


related to the discontinued operations were about 2.9 million this year and 12.3 million last year.


The reduction obviously because of the sales, and our net income was about 5.5 million this year


from discontinued ops, and this included gains on the sale of sites of about 6.9 million related to


Florida car washes, and it also included an approximate $311,000 impairment charge related to the


San Antonio washes.


The net income last year was 1.9 million from discontinued operations for nine months and this


included about $2.1 million gain on the sale of washes.