corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the First Quarter 2009 Financial Results. My name is


April and I’ll be facilitating the audio portion of today’s interactive broadcast. All lines have been


placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions].


At this time, I’d like to turn the event over to Mr. Nieves, Vice President of Investor Relations.


Eduardo Nieves, Jr., Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, April . Welcome to Mace’s Investor Conference Call. My name is Eduardo and I am


Mace’s Vice President of Investor Relations. Also on today’s call is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer


and President, Dennis Raefield; Mace’s Chief Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien; Mace’s General


Counsel, Robert Kramer; and Mace’s new Vice President of Marketing, Don Taylor.


On today’s call, Greg Krzemien will discuss the financial results for the quarter and Dennis will


discuss the status of the business. Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some


housekeeping matters I must address.


Certain statements and information during this conference call constitute forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases, “will likely result”, “are expected to”,


“will continue”, “is anticipated”, “estimate”, “projected”, “intend to” or similar expressions are


intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including, but


not limited to economic conditions, limited capital resources, and the ability of management to


effectively manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially, adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause


Mace’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements


expressed during the conference call. Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from managements’ projected, forecast, estimates, and expectations, are


contained under the heading Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, including it’s registration


statements and it’s periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.


All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the


financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly


reports on Form 10-Q.


Access to those reports can be generated on our website, www.mace.com and please click on the


Investor Relations button.


With that, I’d like to now turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Well, thank you, Eduardo. Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us on today’s Mace first


quarter 2009 conference call.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As many of you are aware, but I’ll go over our lines of business for those may be joining us for the


first time. We operate currently in three segments. The first segment, our main segment, the


Security Segment has three divisions as of March 31, our original and well-known Mace personal


defense pepper spray operation up in Vermont. Our Mace-branded line of professional and


consumer level electronic surveillance equipment operations, and our high-end machine vision and


video conferencing equipment operation.


As many of you may also know, we closed down on an acquisition of CSSS, Inc., Central Station


Security Systems on April 30 and this will provide us with a base for a new security services


division. Dennis, I know will be speaking a little bit later about this new exciting business we


entered and how we intend to integrate it into the rest of our security operations.


Our second segment is our e-commerce or Digital Media Marketing Segment through our company


Linkstar. And our third segment is the operation of our car washes, which as of March 31, we had


12 full service car washes – 11 full service rather and a self service car wash chain left. And all


these car washes were located in Texas, 11 of them, which were actively operated, and one site in


Lubbock, Texas, which actually was shuttered and closed in the fourth quarter of 2008.


As many of you know, we’ve been selling the car washes for several years now. And just to give


everybody an update, during the quarter ending March, we sold two San Antonio sites and again


that’s taken out of the 12 remaining sites. And since we started selling the sites in 2005, we’ve sold


a total of 42 facilities including our truck washes and we generated about $34 million of cash after


the payment of $16 million of debt and defeasance costs. So we’ve been pretty successful in our


efforts there.


As far as debt goes, we have the positive impact of reducing our debt from about 24 million at


December of ‘06 when we really started the effort down to about 6.2 million of debt as of March 31.


Some of this has also the impact of decreasing our interest carry or interest expense from about a


high level of 1.5 million of expense in ‘07 down to what we project to be about 300,000 of expense


in the current year, so we’re very pleased about that.


A little update on the 12 remaining sites, as most of you know from reading the 10-Q, we entered


into agreements during the March quarter for the sale of two of our Austin sites and subsequent to


the quarter, we entered into another agreement to sell the remaining third site in Austin. Plus I also


disclosed in our subsequent events note, the sale of a site in Arlington, Texas and a site in Lubbock


Texas. So we are moving forward on, on moving these car washes.


As far as the Austin sites go, we have total mortgage debt of about 2.5 million against those sites,


which have a total estimated selling price based on the contract of 9.2 million. So these three sites


would provide us with about 6.8 million of net cash. In addition to these three sites, as I mentioned,


we entered into an agreement for an Arlington site and our Lubbock site as disclosed in 10-Q and


also have report we entered into another agreement for a Fort Worth, Texas site yesterday.


So that’s three additional sites on top of the Austin sites and a total contracted selling price of these


three sites is about 4.7 million with a net book value of about 4.5 million. So we’ll have a small gain


there. And we should net about 3.4 million of cash after paying off of about 1.6 million of debt on


those three sites.


That leaves us with six sites that are uncontracted currently. We have book value on those sites of


about 4.9 million and outstanding debt of about 1.4. So that would potentially provide us with


another $3.5 million of cash on those remaining six sites.


To sum that up all up, the Genie sites, the three additional sites we signed subsequent to March 31


and the six uncontracted sites, they can potentially provide us with about $19 million of cash, net of