corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to today’s webcast. All lines have been placed on mute and this


event will be recorded. This event is recorded for future playback. There will be a Q&A session at


the end of today’s presentation. At that time, the operator will instruct you on how to ask a live


audio question. [Operator Instructions]. For web participants, if you need any technical support,


please dial the help button on your console or dial 866-260-4631 or 706-902-5017. Again, today’s


event is being recorded. We will pause for a minute to initiate the recording. Ladies and gentlemen,


please stand by.


Welcome to 2009 10-K shareholders conference call. At this time, I would like to turn the event over


to Don Taylor. Don, the floor is yours.


Don Taylor, Vice President of Marketing/Investor Relations


Thank you, Rachel. Welcome to Mace Security International’s fourth-quarter investor conference


call. My name is Don Taylor. I am Mace’s Vice President for Marketing and Investor Relations. Also


on today’s call is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield; and Mace’s Chief


Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien. On today’s call, Greg Krzemien will discuss the financial results


for the quarter and Dennis Raefield will discuss the market trends, business conditions and the


Company’s plans.


I do have some housekeeping matters to discuss. But before that, I just want to make sure that for


those of you who are just listening to the audio, we do have webcast. There were instructions on


our website as well as in email. If you did not get those and you want to look at the presentation as


we’re going through that, you can go to our corp.mace.com to Investor Relations and you will see


shareholder presentations and the 2010 presentation will be the one that we will be going through


today.


Now, before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters that we want to


address. Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. When used during the conference call, the words or phrases will likely result, are expected


to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected and intend to or similar expressions are


intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subjected to certain risks, known and unknown;


and uncertainties including but not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the


ability of management to effectively manage the business and integrate required businesses.


Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace’s financial performance. It could cause Mace’s


actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed


during this call.


Additional discussions for factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


management’s projected forecast, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading,


Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, which includes its registration, statements and its periodic


reports on Forms 10-K and Form 10-Q.


All statements made during the conference call should also be considered in conjunction with


financial statements and notes contained in Mace’s annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly


reports on Form 10-Q. Access to these reports can be generated on its website, www.mace.com.


Please click on the Investor Relations button.
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


With that, I would like now to turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Don. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call this afternoon


to talk about our 2009 results. For those who may be new to our call, I just want to remind everyone


that we currently have two active segments, which we operate in, the Security segment and our


Digital Media Marketing segment.


We also have a third operation, which is currently recorded as discontinued operations, which is our


car wash operations. This is the first period that we have presented all of our car washes as


discontinued operations in the income statement and classified all of the balance sheet related


fixed assets and debt in assets held for sale and related liabilities, again in our balance sheet. So I


just want to make sure everybody is aware of that change.


Also, whenever we restate for discontinued operations, we have to restate the prior quarter


financial results. So that was also done in conjunction with putting together this December 31, 2009


Form 10-K.


Again, our most significant segment is our Security segment, which we operate in three distinct


divisions: our personal defense, which is our famous pepper spray operation; our electronic


surveillance and access control operation; and our new monitoring service operation, which we


acquired in April of this past year.


During the presentation, Dennis is going to spend some significant time in each of these divisions,


discussing the events of 2009 and his plans and our plans as a management group for 2010. What


I’m going to cover is some financial highlights on income statements. I will make some comments


on some of the cost control measures we have done. I will comment on our balance sheet, some


key items and cash flow key items and talk about our car washes and the dispositions and a few


other key financial items.


On the first slide, here is a slide about our revenues by quarter. What I would like to note here is


that again, these revenues were only for our Security and our Digital Media Marketing segment and


that the car washes are in discontinued operations. For 2009 overall, we had a decline of revenues


of about $9.8 million or 26%. On the positive side, our Security segment is sequentially up quarter


to quarter in 2009 and overall it has increased from approximately – I’m sorry, decreased 20.7 to


18.6 million for 2009. But on a quarterly basis, we have seen sequential improvement in the last


two quarters. In the September quarter, we reported about 4.8 million and reported about 5.1


million in the fourth quarter. So that was a positive trend for us.


Overall for 2009, our personal defense operation is up about 9%, which we’re very happy to see.


Our overall reduction in our revenues in the Security segment, as we mentioned, in our September


call are really significantly impacted by the recession. Construction has been down, renovations


have been down, credit availability to customers is down. But again, we’re continuing to work


through the recession and through some competitive issues and Dennis will be speaking about


some of our plans to overcome the revenue shortfalls as we move through 2010.


On the other side of our business, our Digital Media Marketing segment, we saw a decrease overall


of about $7.6 million in 2009. Part of that decrease is because we discontinued the Media


Marketing division Promopath in 2008. That had about 2.2 million of sales in 2008 and really zero


sales in 2009. So without that, our decrease is about 36% in that division versus 44%.