corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 20, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2008 Financial Results for Mace


Security International. My name Tabitha and I will be facilitating the audio portion of today’s


interactive broadcast. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. For


those of you on the web, please take note of the options available in your event console. [Operator


Instructions]


At this time I’d like to turn the event over to Mr. Eduardo Nieves. Please go ahead sir.


Eduardo Nieves, Jr., Vice President, Marketing and Investor Relations


Thank you, Tabitha. Welcome to Mace Security International’s second quarter 2008 financial


results. My name is Eduardo Nieves. I am Mace’s Vice President of Investor Relations. At the end


of this call, through September 3, I would like to give everyone a phone number if they want to hear


a playback of the call, it’s 1-800-642-1687 and then please just dial in the conference ID of 597-


530-85. You can also hear a playback on our website www.mace.com.


Also on today’s call are the following individuals, Dennis Raefield, Mace’s new Chief Executive


Officer; Gerry LaFlamme who was the Interim CEO through August 18, 2008 and is now an


independent Board member; Gregory Krzemien, Mace’s Chief Financial Officer and Robert Kramer,


Mace’s General Counsel and Executive Vice President. During the call, Greg will discuss financial


results for the second quarter and Gerry and Dennis will discuss the status of the business.


Before I turn the call over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters that I must address.


Please bear with me during this segment.


Certain statements and information made during this call will constitute forward-looking statements,


within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used


during the conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is


anticipated, estimate, projected, intend to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such


statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown; and uncertainties, including but not


limited economic conditions, limited capital resources; and the ability of management to effectively


manage the business and integrate acquired businesses.


Such factors could materially, adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause


Mace’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements


expressed during this conference call. Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from management’s projections, forecast, estimates and expectations,


are contained under the heading Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, including its registration


statements and its periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. All statements made during the


conference call should also be considered in conjunction with the financial statements and notes


contained in Mace’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.


And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Eduardo. Good morning everybody, and thanks again for joining us today on Mace’s


second quarter and six months ending June, 2008 results conference call. I know many of you have
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 20, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


been on our calls before, but for those who may be new, I just wanted to go over our main lines of


business. We operate currently in three segments, our recently acquired July of ‘07, online Digital


Media e-commerce business known as Linkstar.


And then we have our Security Product Segment, which has three operating divisions, our original


and world famous Mace personal defense operation. Our personal security equipment operations in


Fort Lauderdale, Florida, which deals with professional level equipment and our consumer oriented


security equipment operation in the Dallas, Texas area.


Our third segment is the Car Wash Segment, which, again most of you know we made a decision


several years ago to exit that business. When we made that decision we had approximately 50 car


washes and truck washes in total. Again as a cumulative update, we’ve now sold approximately 34


sites and five truck washes for a total of 39 properties.


We generated a net cash amount of 33.7 million, again that’s net of paying off about $15 million


worth of mortgage debt and defeasance costs and we currently have about 15 car washes that


we’re currently still operating.


Obviously this – sale of these car washes and generation of cash have really given us the ability to


build our cash balances and reduce our debt. Our debt was at about 23.9 million at the end of


2006, and at the end of 2007 it was down to 13.6 million. And today we’re down to about 8.1, 8.2


million.


So we really brought our leverage down quite a bit. Our projected interest expense is now based on


this current debt at about $430,000 on an annual basis. So, again a nice reduction in that carry.


We’ve disclosed in our recent 10-K that we also have four sites currently under agreement. They


are subject to some final due diligence and some financial contingencies that the potential


acquirers are working through. These four sites in Texas have a total sell price of about $9 million,


and they carry about $3.3 million of mortgage debt. So those sites, we’re looking forward to


hopefully closing on those between now and the end of the year.


Just in a way of the financial statements to refresh everybody, in that we’ve gotten rid of our car


washes in Arizona, all our car washes in Florida, our car washes in the Northeast region of the


country and we have substantially – the agreements in Lubbock, Texas under agreement, all of


those operations are reported as discontinued operations in our financial statements. And


accordingly, the revenues and the expenses are all netted out and reported as results of


discontinued operations in the six-month and three-month income statement that is contained in the


10-Q. Similarly, car wash operations still in the continuing operation numbers are Dallas, Austin and


San Antonio sites.


Going to go over the results a little bit here, I’ll give some highlights on the income statements.


First, for the second quarter ending June of ‘08, we reported a net loss of 3.9 million or $0.24 a


share versus a loss of 1.3 million or $0.08 in the second quarter of last year.


From a cash flow standpoint, this will be cash flow of about $900,000 and that is net of a couple of


fairly significant notable items: one is, legal fees related to the immigration investigation settlement


of about $157,000. We had about another 65,000 of cost to wrap up the Vermont EPA matter, and


we also paid a charge of $39,000 for the termination of a lease in the Fort Lauderdale area where


we are going to consolidate some office space.


The net loss of 3.9 million also included about 2.6 million of non-cash asset impairment charges as


we do on a regular basis. On a quarterly basis, we look at all our assets from a carrying value and