Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael A. Weisbarth — Chief Financial Officer, Mace Security International, Inc.
Sanjay Singh — Executive Chairman, Mace Security International, Inc.
Gary E. Medved — President & Chief Executive Officer, Mace Security International, Inc.
Andrew Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Mace Security International Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mike Weisbarth. Thank you. Please go ahead. Mr. Weisbarth.

Thank you, Katrina, and good morning, everyone. Joining me on the call today is Sanjay Singh, our Executive Chairman, along with Gary Medved, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mace. Please see corp.mace.com under Newsroom where you can find additional materials including the financial statements and the OTCQX report for the second quarter ended June 30, 2021, as well as our Q2 financial overview presentation.

Before proceeding, I would like to point out that certain statements and information during the conference call constitute forward-looking statements and are based on management's expectations and information currently in the possession of management. When used during the conference call, the words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimated, projected and intended to or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks, known and unknown, and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic conditions, limit of capital resources, and disruptions in domestic and international supply chains. Such factors could materially adversely affect Mace's financial performance. It could cause Mace's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.

I will now turn the call over to Sanjay for some comments about the quarter.

Good morning, everyone. We experienced a tough quarter. For the first few weeks of the quarter, we experienced lower incoming orders. I will discuss the reasons why. Last quarter, we shared with you our plans to address the external supply chain delays by building finished goods inventory and increasing our throughput on the [ph] planned (00:02:51) floor by investing in automation. We accomplished that. However, current economic conditions are different, things are a bit slower than what we expected. We have inflation, transitory or not, cost increases due to strains on demand and supply chains, and the transition of many in the US of getting off unemployment and back into the workforce.

Retail store traffic slowed down in May and April and early part of June and it's slowing a slight – showing a slight recovery. We remain focused on addressing operational efficiencies, developing and introducing new products to the market, adding new retailers, and investing in programmatic advertising to increase our DTC impact for the rest of the year. We will remain on course with our growth strategy and continue to invest in areas of our business that we believe will garner the best return on invested dollars.

I will now turn the call over to Gary to comment on the second quarter 2021 operational results.

Thank you, Sanjay. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. In our second quarter of 2021, we made progress on a lot of fronts within our business and expect the investments we are making will support the growth we anticipate achieving. We've added several pieces of automation to our production and packaging areas and have identified other processes that can be enhanced.

We are constantly assessing our operations for continuous improvement from order recognition to cash collection and all the operational activities throughout the cycle. Our sales for the second quarter were essentially flat for the second quarter of 2020 as we were up against a difficult comparison in our private label business, which was down over 70% from last year in the second quarter. We are focused on building up a Mace brand and product assortment. And as a result, we ended our relationship with some private label customers by the end of 2020.

This has, and will continue, to result in difficult comps throughout 2021 as it relates to private label sales. We are, however, continuing to gain significant traction with our online retail sales, which were up a combined 38% with our e-com business up 80% for the quarter, over an increasingly higher base from the prior year.

In the third quarter, we have more folks going up and adding SKUs in our existing retail customer base along with adding a nationwide brick-and-mortar chain to our portfolio. We're also getting introduced to customers of another nationwide retailer through its website. Our retail sales now represent 55% of our total sales when they were 46% just a year ago.

We did see a softness in some retail traffic as the government unemployment support began to subside. However, that softness appears to be diminishing as we move through the third quarter. Additionally, and to a lesser extent than private label, international sales are still down year-over-year in the second quarter has recovered from COVID is slower in the countries in which we serve than in our domestic market. As pricing pressure is surfacing from some of our international suppliers based on availability of materials, shipping delays, and costs of shipping. We address much of our supply chain constraints coming out of the first quarter, and we continue to evaluate domestic suppliers sourcing opportunities. We incurred R&D costs during the quarter and we'll continue to invest in R&D as we remain focused on developing new products to be introduced in the back half of this year and the first half of 2022 and beyond. We are staying the course to our strategic plan of developing the Mace brand and introducing a first product look, purpose and functionality. We are still striving to have our product assortment as a product category within retail environments and not individual offerings, and believe we can accomplish this through the introduction of new innovative products.

I'll now turn the call back over to Mike to discuss the details behind the financial performance.

Thank you, Gary. Second quarter net sales were $3.4 million, a 1% decrease from the $3.43 million for the second quarter of 2020. This decrease in net sales resulted from the decline in private label sales as certain customers in-source production when their volumes became large. Gross profit decreased $74,000 or 5% from our second quarter 2020 results. Our margin rate was 39%, down 2% from the 41% rate we achieved in the second quarter of 2020, as we partnered with a couple of our customers to assist them in sell-through rates and some product returns for limited number of specific products. This assistance impacted our margins by 2%. So excluding this customer assistance, we hold our margin rate consistent in the second quarter of 2020.

SG&A expenses for the second quarter this year increased by $360,000 to $1.2 million or 35% of net sales. The increase was in line with our plan to expand additional costs for advertising to further penetrate the DTC market, personnel to support our growth plans, R&D to drive product innovation and new product launches, and third-party sales commission as we continue to steer our business model towards the retail and online channels and away from private label. With the forgiveness of our Paycheck Protection Program loan by the SBA, we recognized a one-time gain on forgiveness of debt of $625,000. This was a nontaxable, nonrecurring benefit in the second quarter of this year. As a result of the above, our net income of $702,000 for the quarter was up $249,000 from the same three months in 2020. However, that was enhanced by the PPP gain.

Net income was 21% of net sales. Excluding the benefit from the PPP gain, net income was 2% of net sales compared to 13% achieved in second quarter 2020. EBITDA for the second quarter of 2021 was $815,000 or 24% of net sales. However, excluding the PPP gain, EBITDA was $190,000 or 6% of net sales compared to $596,000 in the same quarter of 2020, which was 17% of net sales. Second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $234,000 versus $655,000 for the same quarter of 2020. For the six months ended June 30, net sales was $6.7 million increased $477,000 or 8% over the first half of 2020. Net income for the first half of 2021 was $811,000 or 13% of net sales, compared to net income of $573,000 for the six months of 2020 for $238,000 improvement. The six months results again were bolstered by the gain from the PPP loan forgiveness. Earnings per share were $0.01 per share for both six months periods.

We also strengthened our balance sheet and were debt free at June 30, inclusive of the pay-off of a long term note associated with the prior acquisition. We maintained our liquidity as cash balance of $770,000 was up slightly from December 31, 2020 cash balance. Our working capital increased over $900,000 in the first half of the year with a build and finished goods inventory to stem some of the supply chain issues we were confronted with, along with manufacturing inventory to support our anticipated sales growth.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Gary for some closing comments before we take your questions.

Thanks, Mike. Mace is committed to improving our top line growth through furthering our online consumer reach, expanding into new retail locations along with expanding within our current locations and developing and launching new products. With our target of 50% gross profit, we will continue to streamline our manufacturing processes through new investments in automation. We have the infrastructure and capacity to support our growth initiatives. So we do not anticipate any significant additions to our cost structure. We're excited about the opportunity in front of us. At this time, I'll stop and open the line for questions. I would ask each caller to limit themselves to one question with one follow-up to allow everyone a chance to participate. If we have additional time, we'll try to get back to you in the queue.

Katrina, please open the line for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] For our first question, we have Andrew Shapiro. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thank you, guys. If you could, I would like you to if you can please clarify and discuss what it means by product returns, as well as customer support of specific products sell-through rates. And in particular, what was the amount for this type of activity in the prior year in that you called out this quarter's number? Is this a recurring item but it was of smaller size in prior quarters or this is a one-time type of item that occurred in this quarter?

Morning, Andrew. Thank you for joining us. There are three components to that number. One was for a large national sports retailer that bought a lot of product for promotion and they weren't quite getting the sell-through that they wanted, so they asked us for some assistance in helping them reduce the price. So it was about a 50/50 split between the two companies. Obviously, we did that for sake of a long-term partnership. Another item or second item was the results of our new packaging going out last year to a large retailer and a national retailer. And they agreed at the time to whatever was going to be left at the end of Q1, they would be [indiscernible] (14:02).

You guys cut out. Hello?

What was the last thing you heard me say?

There was three items, the first one was a sports retailer and you promoted and you gave – you shared the cost of cutting the price. And the second item, you were just beginning when...

Okay. So the second item was a large national automotive retailer. We put them into our new packaging program last year, and we agreed that at the end of Q1 of this year whatever product they had in the old packaging they would give out the return in Q2 of this year. The product is good, we're going to repackage and resell it, but it did mark as a return. And then the last one, the third item was a stop and go customer who stopped the program and now they're back on the burner. So that'll result in a future sales, revenue. So those were the three components. Altogether, there was a 4 times over Q2 of 2020, without getting into specific numbers. So that's the range that we're talking about right there. All of these have been treated as one-offs, we don't anticipate anything further going forward to this extent, but we wanted to address it in Q2, which – timing was the appropriate time to address it. And so it's done and it did, as Mike pointed out in his script, and I think in our release yesterday, it cost us two points on gross profit that we would have otherwise had.

Okay. And carrying over from this because, again, you took back product which you're going to repackage and then resell. I guess there's a sell-by-date. There is some time period on the pepper. What happens to like the pepper that's in those cans? How does that all work when it gets repackaged?

Well, first of all, there's a – I believe, it's a four-year time period on the product. So obviously anything that comes back has already expired which we don't anticipate. If there is any that expired that product would be destroyed. But we're anticipating the bulk of it that came back – and Andrew, we're not talking like 90% of this amount is a returned product. I think it's smaller than three components. So product will be sorted, and anything that has three-plus years of shelf life on it will be repackaged.

Got it. Okay. And related to this is also, can you talk about or can Michael talk about the breakdown, inventory levels were brought up substantially during this quarter understandably why do you address what you're doing. But what's the breakdown of raw material whip and finished goods that you've now increased inventory, and is your build-in days, cost of goods sold day sales at the end of June 30, are they for orders in hand or mostly they have cushion to avoid delivery delays, and is this quarter end level sufficient or is there more build-in days of COGS still needed?

We're sitting right now, Andrew, at around 50/50 split between raw and finished goods. Some of the spike is attributed to international. We're getting one of our supply chain straightened out because the one product we'll be bringing, we do sell quite a few of them. So that is being diminished going forward. We don't anticipate similar pattern moving through Q3 and Q4. We're taking a much stronger look at our numbers right now. We're adjusting it, in fact, just this morning based on just the first couple of days of August what we're seeing. And I sent an email down to operations, adjust for this number going forward for the month and then we'll revisit it in another week. So it's being looked at very closely. Domestic sourcing is less of an issue in terms of causing inventory peaks and valleys as far as the international side. So the supply chain – just a year ago, we were talking about international, there's a six to eight weeks supply chain has now stretched out to six months. And that carries additional costs with it that we weren't experiencing last year.

No. I understand. I'm not sure if you understand the nature of my question, maybe Michael understands better. But I'm trying to – we built up the days. I understand exactly why you're doing it and why you needed to do it. But is it as of 6/30, was the buildup for orders in hand, and if not, have you built up a sufficient cushion now that you avoid your need for airfreight versus containerization, which is higher cost using airfreight? Have you built your level sufficient that you don't need to build up more days in the current quarter that we're in?

Again, as Gary mentioned, Andrew, we were trying to – and I said it in my comments as well, to mitigate the supply chain issues that we were strapped with during the first – almost the whole first half of the year. So we did that to mitigate the supply chain strain that's been going on and just make sure we're well-positioned for the second half.

Okay. And again, I mean, I didn't ask why, I'm asking, do you feel the level is now sufficient or you're building more in the current quarter.

No. We both understood your question exactly how you worded it. We're just answering what we want to answer, and I think we'll leave it at the supply chain issue is why we did what we did and then move on from there.

Fine. Well, I'll back out. I definitely have more questions. Hopefully, you'll get back to me.

Our next question is from [ph] Greg Fisher (20:46). Your line is now open.

Thanks for taking my question.

Sure. Good morning, [ph] Greg (20:54).

My question is about your financial goals, specifically the 15% EBITDA margin and 50% gross margin. So the key data points that we investors rely on are actuals and the goals that you've shared with us. There's a lot of information that you all see that we aren't privy to, and I'm hoping that you can expand upon why you believe those goals are achievable and how. So for me, as an outsider, I look at the past two quarters adjusted EBITDA margin, your communication around continued inflation headwinds, consumer discretionary spending weakness, Q2 SG&A is 30% higher than a year ago, while revenue and gross profits are both lower and you're planning for increased marketing and advertising spend. So how do you achieve those financial goals? What level of quarterly revenue is required, and what do you need to happen on inflation expenses?

Okay. Well, here, let's first start with the gross margin of 50%. So we have a margin that starts with our cost of goods sold as they're structured in our system. We know where that number sits. And to achieve 50% is all going to come down to the manufacturing overhead element, variances, labor variances, purchase price variances, and then of course freight. And so this last number of quarters, probably four quarters, we've been hit with overtime and freight issues when we have to air freight from around the world to bring components in, and that chews into the margin quite handsomely. As we get more and more straightened out like resetting our lead times from eight weeks to six months, that allows us to put stuff on a boat and not on an airplane because we have it factored in and that freight cost goes away. Also with overtime being diminished drastically, that comes into play.

We put a number of operational improvements in place like [indiscernible] (23:13) just went in last week. So that was in July. We didn't witness any of those savings in the month or in quarter number two, but we know what those projected savings are going forward. And a couple of other items we put in place in second quarter were also mid to late quarters. So we didn't realize their full benefit. So there are items that are impacting the gross margin, and we deal with a national retailer who's taken our [indiscernible] (23:43) in. That's expanding quite nicely. I'd like to say that we're making 80-point margin off of that, but we're not. But we are getting a lot of revenue and a lot of sell-through. They're turning the product quite nicely. So from a contribution margin standpoint, we're doing great. From a fully loaded cost standpoint, it's not as handsome as we want, but further to our point about the efficiencies out in the plant and so forth.

Now, moving down to get us to the EBITDA number, [ph] Greg (24:13) that's obviously SG&A in a big way, and we are investing there. We're putting money into digital. We're putting money into personnel. We're putting money into new product development, engineering. Collectively, that's grown to be a sizable nut as a bet on the future. And in-house, we're all in lockstep because that's where we need to invest. I think the pepper spray market needs a facelift in terms of product design and product development. We've put a couple of items out there in Q1. We have a couple of coming out at the tail end of Q3, a couple more we're looking for Q4 and Q1 of 2022. And all these things combined linked up with the increase in our advertising spend digitally, have led to incremental growth. We've seen that already at retail. We've seen that already on the digital side.

But witnessed by the financials, are we proud of a flat quarter? Absolutely not. But when we look at the amount of business private label that we replace with Mace branded product and how well consumer – I should say, how well retail and digital is doing, that kind of confirms that we're on the right path from a Mace brand standpoint. But we're nowhere near where we want to go with this thing. So the programs are working. The strategy is working. But this is a long-term marathon here. This isn't a sprint and it's not going to be handled in one quarter with blockbuster results. But I think incrementally, when it comes down to Mace brand, retail and digital and new products, I think that's where you're going to see continued improvement going forward and the margins are going to follow.

So hopefully, that answers your question. Our internal goals have been and continue to be a 50% gross margin, and our internal goals have been and continue to be at least a minimum 15% EBITDA, and most of the costs we have in now, even though they're variable in terms of ad spend, they're becoming fixed costs for us, and we don't see any large cost sitting out there for CapEx other than new product development. And that will go to the balance sheet before it goes through the income statement. So we got a lot of things going on to get us to that 50% and 15% number. And then, growth of course, with most of these costs becoming fixed, as the top line improves, that will be dropping down to the bottom line to improve that EBITDA number.

Okay. Yeah. I think one of the things that – because, obviously, there is a lot that goes into this, and then thank you for the answer. I think part of this is you have access to a lot of information that investors don't have and so it requires, I think, more imagination in our end. So I think one of the things that might be helpful in maybe your next investor presentation or as a follow up is to maybe just sort of bridge that gap. Like for example, in your answer, you referenced this being a marathon and not a sprint, I'm looking at the slide deck that accompany the presentations, and the 15% EBITDA margin and 50% gross profit margin are included in the short-term. And so I think that was just part of the source of my question, some of the disconnect, where I'm looking at Q2 results and trying to figure out how in the next couple of quarters you get to those goals. And clearly there's data and information that you're seeing that I think investors clearly just don't have access to, and maybe it requires more imagination on our part.

Yeah. A very good point and the short-term, when we first started setting these goals out there, 50% and 15%, I think that wraps back to last year at some point, I can't recall exactly the date, but I think that goes back to last year and we were looking at it as going through this year into the final quarter, that was our target for the end of this year. And honestly half of the supply chain issues wouldn't be impacting us to the extent that they are, we're putting extra labor and freight, but as those diminish and those are sizable numbers, let me tell you.

And as those diminish, those dollars go right to the margin. What we need to do is just keep our foot on the gas operationally here and eke out all the efficiencies that we can, down on the manufacturing floor. And as I said before, the new product development is just going to spur retail, we've got some exciting things going on on the retail front, exciting things we're developing here on the digital front, we'll get into those down the road, we can't share anything today, but internally, there's major emphasis on those key areas, and we're sticking to them and we know they're going to pay benefits down the road. So we certainly appreciate you investing in Mace and hanging with us.

Thanks.

Katrina?

Yes, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from [ph] Vijay Marolia (30:03). Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. I believe part of my question was answered earlier. It was about kind of the breakdown of the inflation, and I think that you said that you're seeing it in transportation and labor but not so much raw materials or did I hear you incorrectly?

We've had a couple of spotty ones in raw materials, [ph] Vijay (30:27). Freight has been a big contributor because of the – again, there's not a lot of different products but just a couple that we're bringing in, there's a lot of freight involved. So freight is a big one. The overtime, as we go forward, and it's certainly putting CapEx down on the plant floor to help automate as much as we can, but the overtime is to become less and less of an issue. And raw materials, we're doing things with purchasing, long term orders, open POs that goes out into next year to lock in current pricing right now, that if any of that inflation is transitory, then we'll miss that. So those are the three key components that are contributing to the margin where it is today. [indiscernible] (31:23).

Okay. Thank you. And just another side question, if the current quarter were to continue at its – I guess, you described it as slower than expected, what type of inventory spend should we expect for the third quarter?

When you say inventory spend, are you asking about the increase from where we are?

Yes. Or would it just be waiting to eat into the current buildup in inventories?

Well, yes, there's that. What I can share with you, [ph] Vijay (32:05) is, we know what level of inventory we want to hold in finished goods and what level of safety stock behind that. And we're paying very close attention, almost on a daily basis to those numbers to manage that inventory level to that. Now, we will have these peaks come in incrementally, yeah, but as time goes forward, as I mentioned, I think, it with was Andrew, as time goes on, when we know the supply chain is six months, yeah, we're taking inventory now, but we know the next shipments aren't coming in for five months from now, planned out with that. So we have our supply chain meetings twice weekly and we're going down through those numbers. And it's less about managing to a sales level, although that's critical, obviously. But we're looking at only sales level, but where we want to hold in finished goods in terms of safety stock to give quick lead times to our customers. [indiscernible]

(33:07).

I think as the business increases X percent going forward, then that's going to be taken and look at to adjust those inventory levels. But we do want to use the inventory we have on hand to fulfill orders within 24 hours, if at all possible.

Okay.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Ken Saul (33:37). Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my call and my questions. Just a follow-up, I guess, to one of [ph] Vijay's (33:47) questions talking about the increases in input expenses for pepper spray and all your products. Are you guys responding to those increase in expenses with maybe some sales price increases, or if you're not, at what point would you do that?

We're in a tough environment, being in retail and we always know that there's competition out there. Our position has been more getting our operation to the maximum efficiency, to the extent that we do get any price increases, those are hopefully negated to the fullest extent possible by improved efficiencies down on the plant floor. So there have been a couple of items we've increased prices to certain customers. We do pass that along, the grand scheme of things, it's not like a blanket X percent across all products for everybody. So it's very specific, it could be customer-specific, it can be product-specific. As we take a look at it and we adjust if we need to, but recognizing the – there's more for us to do operationally to offset any increases in raw materials before we just start increasing prices as a result. And I'd like to get our house in tip top shape first and eke out everything we can first.

Okay. Fair enough. I appreciate that answer. Now, one other question I had was on your financial overview presentation on one of the slides talking about new product intros. You're guiding to two in the third quarter and two in the fourth quarter. Now, it seems to me in the past we've only been talking about two intros for the second half. The increase of two, is that coming from maybe in-house? Or are these from somewhere else?

When you say coming from in-house, are you asking if we're designing them or if they're [indiscernible] (00:36:11)?

Yeah. I mean, you can have some outside entity come to you with a great product than [ph] swapping (00:36:21) maybe the Mace brand name on it and marketing it that way.

No. The – what I can tell you is we have two that are going through the final stages of design before we start cutting, tooling. Those are slated for late Q3. [ph] Doing (00:36:40) everything we can to get them out this quarter. And then there are a couple. – we actually have three. One is more of a product line extension and two are new products. And we've got customers interested in the product line extension already. So that'll be a much shorter term launch than the other two. And then, we have two more that we're going to be kicking off here for, hopefully, introduction in Q4, and we're going to push for that. And all of these products are designed in-house. None of them are passed through or somebody else bring them...

Okay.

...and just put our label on them. So, they're going to have our own mark, so to speak.

Great. Great, Gary. Care to give us a flavor of maybe what they're going to look like or what line it's going to be in?

I think they're going to look awesome, if I must say. [ph]

No (00:37:37) awesome.

We're working with some talented people in terms of the look. The function we already know how to make pepper spray. So, I can tell you that the first couple are pepper spray products but they're different, they're unique. After that, I can't go into detail because that will be giving away too much. Okay?

Okay.

But, the first are pepper spray products.

Very good, Gary. Appreciate all you're doing.

Sure. Thanks [indiscernible] (00:38:08).

Thanks so much. I'll [indiscernible] (00:38:10).

Our next question, we have Andrew Shapiro. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for the follow-up opportunity. Talking a little bit more about the new products and inflation. Is it with new products that you can price real-time or more currently priced and thus building your margin when you introduce a new product versus your historical product, which it's harder to raise price on to your bricks-and-mortar chain? Is that a correct assumption and understanding? And so, if you did more new product introductions, you can basically maintain and build your margin and offset any inflationary issues because of your new products? Is that a correct understanding?

Yes. But my issue with product development, Andrew, has been more about designing for manufacturing and assembly. So basically that means take the cost out of it from the first lines on paper. So, it has everything to do with suppliers, assembly in-house, the whole production cycle, just taking out all the costs that we possibly can from the beginning. And these products are doing that. So we have an internal goal of a minimum number of units that we want to produce per hour of any product that we make. And that's going to get us where we want to be in terms of margin, and it's 3x to 4x of what it was just a year ago. And we're encroaching on that number pretty rapidly.

So I think when we look at new product development, I know when I talk it over with the engineers and the designers, it's – I kind of give the framework of here's how this thing has to go together, how it has to be assembled, and that's got to be taken into account from the [ph] word go (00:40:18).

Now, to your point about the pricing which is the other driver of margin, any time you come up with something new that's relevant to the end user and it has value, okay, wrapped around it, you can command a higher price. Now, don't get me wrong, everything has a maximum price and the market is going to set that before we do. So, I look at the new products and there is a price – there are price points where these things belong, where they'll do well. We have others on our docket that will command a much higher price point, but they do something completely different.

And so, just from the pure marketing standpoint, making sure that we know what game we're getting in to, who we're competing with, what the value proposition is of our design versus what's currently on the market. And then, of course, again, designing for manufacturing and assembly, I think those are all the drivers of margin. So our goal is, when we introduce a new product and we're maximizing margin, anything higher – higher than anything that we're getting on any product currently.

Now I saw on some of your slides you talked about and you showed a slide that had three new products, I guess, two products and the new branding and packaged Bear Spray that these are all big top sellers on the Mace side. And I think some are now being put through the retail channel or what's the timing of that? And what portion of this quarter's sales, Q2 sales, in your combined retail and e-commerce sector were a function of sales of products that were not in existence last year?

Well, we don't break those numbers out, Andrew. What I can tell you is, I have the slide which you're referring to and this information on here is accurate. The Guard Alaska Bear Spray, I can tell you the sales are up even higher than what that number is on that slide. For those of you that haven't seen the slide, it's up 1,200% year-to-date as of end of Q2, but just because of how Q3 has already started, I can tell you that number is going to be even higher than that.

So, it's our product. It's our form. It's our packaging or redesign packaging. The Triple – the Neon Triple Actions are now starting to take off in a specific channel. For us, we won't break out sales volume, but the growth has been nice and there's a lot of interest going forward in this quarter for that product. And then the Palm Stun Devices, those are a little bit more of a challenge at the retail level, okay, but e-commerce wise, we're pretty happy with what they're doing.

So, now going forward, we're talking new products that are designed from the ground up, okay, something brand-new for us and less of product line extensions.

Okay. And can we talk about how – can you expand in what actions and/or time it will take – and obviously, after your anniversary, the loss of the large private label OEM customers, then the year-over-year declines will be gone and the sales growth of your main sectors will dominate and not be offset. Okay. So, can you expand on what actions and/or time will stabilize and perhaps reestablish growth in each of the international and tactical areas? Or are you ceding the tactical area completely?

First of all, on the international front, ever since COVID became a major issue, spring of last year, our international sales directors has done a great job of staying in touch with everybody on practically a bi-weekly basis. We are seeing -- some of that is starting to [ph] thaw (00:44:43) right now. And first, on the international side, you have to understand not every country will allow the sale of pepper spray. So we're talking about a limited number of countries outside the United States. So, you [ph] take that (00:44:57) limited number and those were countries that were severely impacted by COVID, whether it was in Europe or South America or Asia. And like I said, that is starting to [ph] thaw now (00:45:11) the distributors, the master distributors we have out there. So, our foot has been on the gas. It's been on their timeline more than ours. We haven't given up on the international at all. So, we're continuing forward. But, like I said, we're just starting to see the fever break, so to speak, recently.

In terms of tactical, this is taking on a different – we're viewing this from a different perspective, a different business model rather than just [ph] getting to compete for (00:45:42) rates to the bottom on best price, lowest price for that market. So we have some ideas in-house that we're [ph] toying (00:45:53) with. We're talking to law enforcement about these concepts. And it's just going to be a difference in approach. It's going to be different type of product, if you will. And I think it will have value for law enforcement and it will do very well for us. So, we're rethinking law enforcement in terms of doing something different before we just get in and bid on contracts, okay.

The last thing I want to do is tie up our resources, whether it's our equipment or our people for the lowest margin items out there. And, I'd say that before there are 200 – over 200 million consumers that can own our product and there was 800,000 law enforcement professionals. So, we've got a lot of consumers for cuts yet. Law enforcement is important, but I just want to do something different as opposed to just being a [indiscernible] (00:46:43) product with the lowest price. But we have not given up on law enforcement.

Okay. And what initiatives and milestones and/or progress can you discuss towards, I guess, re-establishing retail and e-commerce sector sales growth in the face of basically last year's surge of sales that took place in this quarter a year ago? In other words, that's a pretty big year-over-year hurdle you are facing and what steps or what milestones do you have to face this challenge?

Well, to be sure, we're coming into a period of the year where we're going to be lapping pretty heavy numbers from last year. I think everybody understands that. Social unrest is to us with the pandemic was to big tech, okay? And to the extent that you follow big tech, they're already putting out warning signs that they're going to see a deceleration in growth substantial going forward in Q3 and Q4.

And so, we're not without those types of issues, but for a different reason. Now, to that point, okay, we've already addressed the private label side. But from a Mace brand standpoint in retail and e-commerce, we're up. I can't speak to Q3, but obviously for Q2 and year-to-date, we're up in both of those channels substantially and we're going to keep doing what we're doing. We can't force more foot traffic into a national retailer, okay? We can't do that. The social unrest landscape last year did that for us. It provided unforeseen and [ph] a tragic (00:48:35) way to our advertising than we could have ever afforded to pay for. And all ships got a lift out of that rising tide. Anybody in this phase, whether it was guns, ammunition, pepper spray or home safety systems, whatever it was saw an increase that just isn't there this year due to social unrest, but we haven't lost any retailers. Our business on e-commerce is higher than it was last year.

And so, the initiatives that we have in place or the initiative that we've been sticking to all along, we have a strategy of increasing retail, increasing digital, and rolling out new products. And if something comes around once in a lifetime event to drive sales in the short periods, then, okay, we're going to ride that tide. But strategically, we're not changing anything as a result of it. Okay. We just got to continue doing what we're doing and I think you'll see the results come, so.

So, in terms of the SG&A, you guys broke out in your quarterly report filed on OTC markets a variety of the different incremental year-over-year components of the increase. Can you articulate ways in which your sizable marketing investments are paying back already? And how and when they will continue to pay back?

Well, I think you're seeing those in the scopes that we've always talked about, whether it's retail, okay, or new products or digital. And obviously, digital is going to be the quicker payback, if you will, because that's almost immediate, but we're not doing it – anything we do digitally is not for immediate gain. Okay. We appreciate the immediate gain, but we're doing it for long term. And some of the strategies that we're going to be introducing in the next couple of quarters are even more geared towards the long-term benefit of the Mace brand.

So, when I look at what's our timeline, yeah, we're getting some spank already in digital because we can go to mace.com with a new product, we can increase advertising like right now, we can do the same thing across our [ph] .com (00:51:01) partners. But I think the bigger play here is long term, sticking to what we're doing, and it's going to build over the years. What we don't see us doing is drastically increasing from the spend level where we are right now, okay. We have dollars that we're budgeting going forward. But I think we're settling into a range that we're going to stay at that level of spend for the foreseeable future anyhow, through this year and possibly next year and drive growth. But, again, like I mentioned earlier, a lot of this is going to be the long-term play not the short immediate hit. And that's going to be...

Now, another on those components was compensation rose at a rapid pace in addition to some sizable amount of options that were granted, so wanted to get a handle here, is the head count rising or is the average executive comp rising?

Well, it's not the average executive comp. But in terms of the head count, we've added a couple positions, Andrew, but we haven't gone off the rails with spending. Okay. I think there's been some incentive in terms of options or stock expense or whatever. But where we are, okay, is not – there've been a couple positions added and those are geared towards growth. And I don't have the numbers in front of me in terms of stock or options or anything like that. But we want to keep in mind this is total comp. So, 401(k) is in there and some other things in terms of total.

Correct. But, again, if the head count is not rising, then that's – it really is imperative to know are these head count increases as the compensation increase going into, we'll call it, direct revenue generating executives or non-direct revenue generating executives. You know what I mean? I'm trying to get a handle on the timing and methods for getting the payback on – and these are necessary investments, I appreciate, so -- but getting a payback on it, for example, if you'd spend the extra money on someone who's responsible for the private label business, that would be a bad kind of return on investment, right, because private labels weigh down. So I'm just trying to get a feel for these investments having already a payback or having you articulate how and where we'll see payback from these things?

Well, Andrew, there were some positions last year that we didn't have -- that we have this year, okay? So, like last year, at this point, I don't believe we had a CFO. Last year at this point, we did not have a Director of Operations. Last year, at this position, we didn't have a digital content writer. So there has been incremental add that – but not just for the sake of adding bodies, if you will. Okay. And so whether it's revenue generating or financial stewardship of the company or directing operations to a higher efficiency level and shorter lead times, these are all moves that we're – we view as...

No, no, that's fine. To articulate that, for example, a chunk of this was that this was a CFO expense this quarter that didn't exist last quarter, fine. That means in another quarter or two, that won't be an incremental expense. And this...

Correct.

...this SG&A growth will not exceed the revenue growth, because presently, SG&A growth is exceeding revenue growth?

Right. And when we were sitting here last year around this time, I think our friend, [ph] Willis, Thurman Willis (00:55:09) made a comment, we can't save ourselves into growth, okay. Our cut expense is into growth. So, we've added positions and we've been pretty transparent about that when we were doing it in shareholder meetings and earnings calls. And now the [ph] word (00:55:29) lapping around [ph] where these positions weren't (00:55:30) pocket last year, SG&A has increased on the comp side, okay.

Yeah.

But mostly for the reasons I just told you. Outside of those three positions, we – I don't believe we've added anybody in terms of executive or salary or anything. So...

Have you added sales people?

No comment on the revenue generating side. We're happy with the sales director we're working with and his team, whether internal or rest on the outside. But that's all I can say about that that in terms of just the increase, it's those positions that I talked about.

Right. And lastly and I'll back out. You have a slide, slide 9, and I think I need clarification because I have to be kind of confused based on what's been discussed here. And then...

Okay.

And maybe it's just a definition of what you called DTC, but your first half 2020 consumer sales were $6.3 million. That is bricks-and-mortar plus e-commerce. And your slide 9 regarding the second half of 2021, okay, says that you are "targeting DTC channel growth of 200% to 500% versus the first half of 2021". And I can't believe you're implying – and if you are, that's wonderful. But I'd like to know, if you're implying a greater than $12 million sales target for just the next two quarters combined, that can't be the case. So, are the numbers off or can you clarify the definition of what we're looking to see a 200% to 500% growth in the second half of what was in the first half?

Well, okay. So, consumer sales include retail and e-commerce. Okay? And e-commerce is not only our e-commerce partners but also DTC, which is our mace.com website. So, those are the components in consumer sales. So, referencing slide 9 in the financial overview, targeting DTC channel growth of 200% to 500%, it is strictly that. It's the portion. So, their consumer sales of $6.3 million in the first half of this year had three components, retail, e-commerce, and then our mace.com channel. The DTC channel growth of 200% to 500% is our mace.com channel and that's the...

Okay. So, that's the clarification I needed. DTC means mace.com.

Correct. It's direct-to-consumer. It's us selling right to the consumer with nothing in between. No e-commerce site...

And e-commerce is different than that. E-commerce is basically selling to Amazon or to walmart.com or dicks.com?

Correct. Correct.

When you sell the dicks.com or walmart.com, is that considered retail or you consider that within e-commerce?

E-commerce is where that gets pocketed here. Okay. So, the DTC, just to wrap this up, the DTC, when we talk about SG&A expenses overall going up and we talk about increasing our advertising spend, that's what it's geared towards right here.

Okay. Thank you.

All right. Okay. That's our hour. I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning. Thank you for your continued interest in Mace. And Katrina, we can wrap it up. Thank you for your time. We greatly appreciate it.

Thank you, presenters. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day. You may all disconnect.