corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Teresa and I will your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2010 Financial Results Conference Call


for Mace Security International. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator


Instructions].


Thank you. Mr. Don Taylor, you may begin your conference.


Don Taylor, Vice President


Thank you, Teresa. Welcome to Mace Security International’s first quarter investor conference call.


My name is Don Taylor, I’m Mace’s Vice President for Marketing and Investor Relations. Also on


today’s call is Mace’s Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis Raefield, Mace’s Chief


Financial Officer, Greg Krzemien.


On today’s call, Greg Krzemien will discuss the financial results for the quarter and Dennis Raefield


will discuss the market trends, business conditions and the company’s plans. Before I turn the call


over to Greg, there are some housekeeping matters that we must address.


Certain statements and information during this conference call will constitute forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


When used during the conference call, the words or phrases, will likely result, are expected to, will


continue, is anticipated, estimate, projected, and intend to or similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995.


Such statements are subjected to certain risks, known and unknown and uncertainties including but


not limited to economic conditions, limit of capital resources and the ability of management to


effectively manage the business and integrate required businesses. Such factors could materially


adversely affect Mace’s financial performance and could cause Mace’s actual results for future


periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed during this call.


Additional discussions or factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


management’s projected forecasts, estimates and expectations are contained under the heading


Risk Factors in Mace’s SEC filings, which include its registration statements and its periodic reports


on forms 10-K and form 10-Q. All statements made during the conference call should be


considered in conjunction with the financial statements and those contained in Mace’s annual


reports on form 10-K and quarterly reports on form 10-Q. Access to these reports can be


generated on its website, www.mace.com. Please click on the Investor Relations button.


With that, I would like to now turn the call over to Greg Krzemien.


Gregory M. Krzemien, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks, Don, and good morning to everybody and thanks for joining us on our call today.


I’m not sure if there is any newcomers on the call, but for those who are newcomers, I will just


spend a few seconds describing our different operations. As most of you know, we currently


operate in two active business segments that being the Security Segment and the Digital Media
corrected transcript


Mace Security International,


Inc.
 
MACE
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Marketing Segment. In our Security segment we operate in four different divisions or operations:


Our electronic surveillance equipment both on the professional and more the do-it-yourself level.


Our industrial vision and conferencing equipment division.


We have our personal defense division which is our famous Mace pepper sprays and/or acquisition


of last April Mace CSSS which is our security monitoring station operation out in Anaheim,


California. Our second segment, our Digital Media Marketing has two divisions; Linkstar, which is


our e-commerce, a product sale company and PromoPath which is a digital marketing arm of that


group.


As far as discontinued segments, most of you know, we discontinued the car wash segment. We


sold those car washes down from approximately 50 to 53 car washes a couple of years ago. We


have seven remaining. All of the operations of the car washes are presented in the statement of


operations as discontinued operations. So in essence all of the revenue and expenses are stripped


out of the line items on income statement and put in one line item on the bottom and the assets and


the related liabilities of the car washes were also stripped out of the balance sheet and placed on


one line on the asset side called assets held of sale, and on the liability side, liabilities related to


assets held for sale. So, when you look at the balance sheet and income statement, except for


those lines I just described, you can see the two active segments in the financials.


I am going to spend some time here reviewing some of the various details of our operations,


highlighting a couple of items and then Dennis, our CEO will spend a little bit more time describing


the past and the future in this different divisions.


I’ll provide some comments on income statements, on revenues, gross profits, SG&A, changes in


impairments. I’ll comment on our cost reduction efforts. I’ll make a few comments on our balance


sheet and cash flows and a couple of the highlights and some other financial data.


Again, in my conversations, as I talk about these various line items, I will not be including the car


wash, as they are discontinued operations, but I will spend a minute or two on a couple of highlights


and where we are with the car washes.


So right now, I am just going to go into some revenue points. As far as this first quarter of ‘10, our


revenues were a little soft. We did about 6.9 – $7 million of revenues versus 7.2 million in the first


quarter of last year, that’s a decrease about 228,000 or about 3.2%. We are really up in the


Security segment by about 90,000 but that does include the acquisition of CSSS our monitoring


station in the April of ‘09, which will not be included in prior numbers and that’s about $787,000 in


the current year numbers. And as far as the Digital Media Marketing segment, this is where we


saw our most significant decrease about $318,000 or about 10% from the first quarter of ‘09.


When I look at the Security segment, as I mentioned, we did have a net increase but it was largely


because of the CSSS acquisition. When you look at the other parts that I mentioned a few


moments ago, our personal defense was approximately 6.8% below prior year’s first quarter and


the electronic surveillance was about 21% below the first quarter of last year.


A couple of comments on that. Again on the Security, the electronic surveillance side, we are still


feeling some impact of the recession. Construction level still not being back to where they were,


still some credit adverse effects out there in the market with people buying sizable systems. So we


are still fighting those things, Dennis and his group have been doing a lot of work in the product


area and the marketing area and he will be describing some of that shortly to overcome some of


these revenue challenges.


On the personal defense side, really there is a slight decline, but we are really very positive there.


We are doing well. We do have a backlog of some shipments, some customers who couldn’t take