raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Magellan Midstream Partners second-quarter


2005 earning results conference. This call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Don


Wellendorf. Please go ahead, sir.


Don Wellendorf, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


(audio break) Company are John Chandler, our CFO, and Mike Mears, Jay Wiese and Rick Olsen


who head up the commercial and operational functions for our business units. Also with us is Paula


Farrell who is responsible for Investor Relations.


To begin, I need to remind you that during this call Magellan management might make forward-


looking statements as defined by the SEC. Any such statements will be based on management's


best judgments regarding the factors that will impact the future performance of Magellan. You


should form your own opinions about Magellan's future performance based on the risk factors and


other information in our filings with the SEC.


Now moving onto the second-quarter results. We are pleased to report significantly higher financial


results compared to the same quarter last year. These increased earnings resulted primarily from


the positive contributions of the Pipeline System we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2004, as well


as from debt refinancing costs during the 2004 period that negatively impacted last year's financial


results but clearly put us in a better financial position as a Company due to the elimination of our


secured debt. This is one factor that has allowed Moody's recently to put us on review for a


possible ratings upgrade. Also, our Inland Terminals continued to pick up additional volumes and


hit record throughput during this second quarter.


Second-quarter earnings per unit of $0.48 were $0.03 short of the guidance we provided a few


months back. Of course, we had pluses and minuses during the quarter, but the primary variance


can be attributed to higher-than-expected non-cash expenses. Specifically we wrote off some


assets that were not fully depreciated and we recorded higher equity-based incentive compensation


expense during the quarter than initially forecasted. The asset write-off is partially related to our


terminal automation system which we are in the process of replacing and, therefore, are retiring the


old system that has not fully depreciated. Regarding the equity-based incentive compensation


variance from our guidance, equity compensation is expensed based on our current unit price


which has increased lately, therefore, increasing the related expense on our income statement. We


also experienced a product leak in the second quarter which obviously was unexpected for which


we accrued $1.5 million. Had it not been for this item and the non-cash item as previously


mentioned, we again would have beaten the Street estimate.


Important events during the quarter include the signing of new throughput agreements by the three


shippers on our Ammonia systems. These agreements all have a term of three years and are at


higher rates than the previous contracts. Also, we were pleased that our Board approved another


increase in our quarterly distribution, raising it to $0.4975 per unit. This is our 17th consecutive


distribution increase. Since our IPO we have increased our distribution 9% and have increased it


9% already this year. Due to our strong cash generation, we bumped the distribution more than


required to meet our stated 10% year-over-year growth target. Even with this higher distribution


amount, we generated 1.2 times the cash needed to pay the new distribution this quarter and for


the first six months have generated 1.3 times the cash needed to pay the two distributions related


to that period. Based on our current forecast for the remainder of the year, we will expect, we still
raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


expected an annual distribution coverage ratio of 1.2 times for 2005. Our stated objective


continues to be 10% distribution growth, and this quarter set a higher base to which that 10% would


be applied going forward. John will now provide further details on the quarter compared to last


year, and I will be back to discuss what we see ahead for the rest of 2005, and we will take your


questions.


John Chandler, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Before I begin discussing specific business unit performance, I want to mention that I will be


commenting on the non-GAAP measure operating margin, which is simply operating profit before


G&A expenses and depreciation and amortization. A reconciliation of operating margin to


operating profit was included in our earnings release this morning. Management believes that


investors benefit from this information because it gets to the heart of evaluating the economic


success of the partnership's core operations.


As noted in our press release this morning, Magellan recognized higher financial results for the


second quarter of 2005 when compared to 2004. Our operating profit was up significantly versus


the second quarter of 2004, increasing by 7.9 million or 18%. The increase was the result of 13.6


million increase in operating margin offset partially by a 4.1 million increase in depreciation


expenses and a 1.6 million increase in G&A expenses. The increased profits were the result of


increased earnings in our pipeline segment from the acquisition of the Shell pipeline assets, as well


as increased earnings in our terminal segment as a result of significantly increased Inland


Terminals throughput and strong Marine Terminals utilization rates.


Now going into more detail as to why our operating margin was up $13.6 million. We will first look


at our Petroleum Products Pipeline System which contributed to a majority of Magellan's operating


margin increase with operating margin that was 10.6 million higher or 21% higher than the second


quarter of 2004. This increase was driven primarily by the acquisition of the Shell pipeline assets


which occurred in October 2004 with some offsets on the base Magellan Pipeline system that I will


describe in a moment. The biggest contributor to the operating margin improvement came from


transportation and term league revenues, which were up 17.1 million versus the same period last


year. More than 90% of this increase came from revenues generated from the acquired pipeline


assets. When excluding the acquired pipeline assets, shipment volumes on the base Magellan


Pipeline system were virtually unchanged versus the second quarter of 2004, while the average


transportation rate increased by approximately $0.015 per barrel contributing to $1 million positive


variance in revenues. This rate increase is related in part to the 3.2% tariff increase put in place in


July of last year.


Offsetting these increases was a 1.5 million reduction of revenues related to the reclassification of


tender deductions revenues that are now being recorded as product gains and losses in operating


expenses in 2005, instead of revenues as they were in 2004. For those not familiar with the


pipeline industry, our shippers give us a small percentage of their shipment volume to compensate


us for replacing barrels lost in the shipment process whether through evaporation or other means.


The volume given to us by the shippers is known as tender deduct.


Looking at our product margins and the sales and purchases associated with that, our product


sales and purchases were up significantly in the pipeline segment for the quarter, up 93 million


versus the second quarter of 2004. However, we continue to point out that you should focus on the


net product margins which were up 7.7 million or which were at 7.7 million for the quarter, up 2.7


million from the second quarter of 2004. Product margin is generated primarily from two activities.


First, it’s generated from our refined products management business, and second, it’s generated


from the third-party supply agreement assumed in last year's pipeline acquisition. During the


second quarter of 2005, product margins from our refined products management business were