raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners,


L.P.
 
MMP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to this Magellan Midstream Partners First Quarter 2005


Earnings Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, for opening


remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive


Officer of Magellan, Mr. Don Wellendorf. Please go ahead sir.


Don Wellendorf, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today. With me here from the company are John


Chandler, our CFO, Mike Mears and Jay Wiese who head up the commercial functions for our


business units, and Paula Farrell, who is responsible for Investor Relations. First I need to remind


you that during this call, the Magellan management team might make forward-looking statements


as defined by the SEC. Any such statements should be based on management’s best judgments


regarding the factors that will impact the future performance of Magellan. You should form your


own opinions about Magellan’s future based on the risk factors and other information in our filings


with the SEC.


Now moving on to the first quarter results, we are very pleased to report that Magellan’s


performance in the quarter set records for operating profit, net income and earnings per unit. Its


record performance resulted primarily from the impact of our acquisition of refined products


transportation system from Shell in the fourth quarter of 2004, combined with the impact of


extremely high commodity prices on our petroleum products management business. These


positives were coupled with the continued strong performance from our terminal and petroleum


products pipeline segments.


First quarter earnings per unit of $0.54 beat the street consensus of $0.40 due in part to the


favorable commodity margins that I just mentioned and the impact of what appears to us to be a


strengthening economy on marine storage utilization, inland terminal throughput and this led


volumes on Magellan pipeline, each of which moderately exceeded of our expectations. John will


provide further details on the quarter compared to last year in a few minutes, but first I would like


briefly to highlight some significant events that occurred since we spoke last quarter.


Earlier this month, we completed our first 2-for-1 unit split, our units began trading on a post split


basis on April 13th. Due to the partnership substantial growth since our IPO in February of 2001


our units had tripled in price. This split reflects our confidence in the future growth of Magellan and


will make our equity accessible to a broader retail investor base. Speaking of growth, last week we


announced our 16th consecutive increase in our quarterly distribution raising it to $0.48. This


represents a 5% increase over the previous quarter and a 13% increase compared to our


distribution for the first quarter of 2004. I believe this 5% increase over the last quarter was higher


than most analyst were expecting. Historically we have raised the distribution about 2.5% quarterly


driven by our overall targets of a 10% year-over-year growth. Due to our strong first quarter


operating results and our forecast for the remainder of the year we are comfortable with the


additional bank. Our cash generation for the first quarter was 1.5 times the cash needed to pay the


new distribution. We still expect 1.2 times coverage for the full year based on our current


projections and our continued goal of growing distribution by 10% annually going forward from this


higher base. With that I’ll turn the call over to John to discuss the first quarter results for this year


versus last year and then after that I’ll discuss what we see ahead for 2005 and we will take your


questions. John.
raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners,


L.P.
 
MMP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


John Chandler, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Don. Before I begin discussing specific business unit performance I wanted to mention that


we will be commenting on the non-GAAP measure operating margin which is simply operating profit


before G&A expenses and depreciation and amortization. A reconciliation of operating margin to


operating profit was included in our earnings release this morning. Management believes that


investors benefit from this information because it gets to the heart of evaluating the economic


success of the partnerships core operations. As Don noted in our press release this morning


Magellan recognized record financial results for the first quarter. Operating profit was up


significantly versus the first quarter of 2004 increasing 19.4 million or 56%. The increase was a


result of a $25.1 million increase in operating margin offset partially by 5.7 million increase in G&A


and depreciation expenses. The strong performance was generated by increased earnings in our


pipeline segment from the acquisition of the Shell pipeline assets as well as increased earnings in


our terminal segment as a result of significantly increased terminals throughput and strong marine


terminal utilization rates among other things.


Looking more specifically at why operating margin was up so significantly by $25 million. First our


petroleum products pipeline system had an outstanding quarter with operating margin 22.4 million


higher or 55% higher than the first quarter of 2004. The increase was driven more significantly


from the acquisitions of the Shell pipeline assets which occurred in October of last year. In addition


operating margin was up due to improved commodity from our petroleum products management


business, increased revenues earned from providing pipeline operating services to third-party


pipelines and increased shipments from the pipeline system.


The revenues for our petroleum pipeline system were up $18 million versus the same period last


year. Approximately 85% of this growth came from revenues generated from the Shell pipeline


assets. In addition, transportation volumes on our Magellan Pipeline System when excluding the


Shell assets increased by a little over 1% adding approximately $1 million to the positive earnings.


This growth in volume was primarily related to growth in diesel fuel shipments related to robust end-


use demand, in part due to an improving economy. Also, fees earned for providing pipeline


services increased by $1.5 million. The fees increased in part related to increased earnings for


services that we provide to Longhorn pipeline, now that they are shipping barrels as well as


revenue that we earned from selling and operating services rights agreements related to reopening


of pipelines to the real partners.


Moving to product margin, while product sales revenues and purchases were up significantly, i.e.


the revenues for the petroleum products sales were up $103 million versus the first quarter of 2004,


we must continue to point out that you should focus on product margins which were $50 million for


the quarter up 10.5 million versus the first quarter of 2004. Remember that with the Shell


acquisition, we assumed a product supply agreement that required us to buy refined products, ship


them our pipeline and then sell these barrels to a third-party at the ultimate destination point. Both


the product, purchases and sales prices are based upon formulary prices set during the same


month; so at the moment, the price exposure is limited. Of the 15.5 million increase in product


margins for the quarter, approximately 1/3rd of this came from an unprecedented pricing


environment for our petroleum products management business. The remaining 2/3rds of this


increase comes from the supply agreement that was assumed when we acquired the Shell Pipeline


assets. The product from this supply agreement was higher than anticipated as a result of the


unprecedented pricing environment in the first quarter. And in fact that the inventory we were


carrying to supply the customer under this agreement was written down in the fourth quarter by a


little more than $1 million. In addition, the margin for managing for supply agreement is significantly


impacted by the fact that for financial accounting purposes, we will eliminate the transportation tariff


we charge ourselves for the barrels we shipped to meet the supply requirements of this agreement


which contributes approximately $3 million to the commodity margin. If someone else were


supplying the market these barrels under the supply agreement, our transportation revenues would