raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Magellan Midstream Partners Third Quarter


2005 Earnings Results Conference. This call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks


and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr.


Don Wellendorf. Please go ahead, sir.


Don R. Wellendorf, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and good afternoon. I appreciate you joining us today. Here with me from the company


are John Chandler, our CFO; Mike Mears and Jay Wiese, the Head of our Commercial Functions


for our business units and also Paula Farrell, who is responsible for Investor Relations. Before I


begin discussing the third quarter, I must remind you that during this call, Magellan Management


might make forward-looking statements as defined by the SEC. Such statements will be based on


management's best judgments regarding the factors that will impact the future performance of


Magellan. You should form your own opinions about Magellan's future performance based on the


risks factors and other information in our filings with the SEC.


With that said, I would like to begin by touching briefly on several noteworthy events that occurred


during the third quarter. First, we acquired a marine terminal in the Wellington, Delaware area on


September 1st. This facility expands our presence into the Mid-Atlantic region which includes


Philadelphia. The terminal has approximately 1.8 million barrels of usable storage, bringing our


total marine storage to more than 20 million barrels. The facility currently is fully utilized with


several long-term agreements and another plus is that the terminal has adequate land to allow


construction of additional tankage, which we believe will prove useful in the future.


We also announced during the quarter the completion of two expansion projects that improve the


capacity and flexibility of our pipeline system in Texas. The first project significantly increases the


capacity of our system to move refined products into the Dallas market and also expands the origin


and flexibility for our shippers moving into Dallas. Previously, most volumes moving into Dallas


through our system entered Magellan via a connecting pipeline at Hearn [ph], Texas, which is about


150 miles south of Dallas. The connecting pipeline originates in the Lamar [ph], Port Arthur area.


Shippers now have more flexibility to choose a Houston area of origin and when they do, Magellan


gets a longer haul movement.


The second project created by directional capabilities for our Hearn [ph] pipeline that previously


could move volumes only north from Hearn to Dallas. With this enhancement, volumes can now


move out of Houston up in our Ryan line which is part of the Shell acquisition, up to near Dallas


then move south down the Hearn [ph] line to Waco and Hearn [ph] itself, which in effect provides a


new origin option for barrels moving in to the eastern markets. Total amount of capital for these


two projects was only about $10 million.


I know all of are you fully aware of the next significant event in the quarter, the hurricanes that hit


the Gulf Coast. Our employees worked diligently to batten down the hatches for both hurricanes


and fortunately our assets only sustained about $1.5 million of damage most of which involved


docks at our Mario [ph] marine terminal just outside of New Orleans. This facility remains


operational, but we'll need to replace the damaged dock. Beyond the physical damage from the


hurricanes, due to the shutdown of several refineries and third party pipelines, it provides supply


into our system, we also expect revenue reductions of about 2 million in the fourth quarter as these


facilities restart and inventories are replenished.
raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Now last, but certainly not least, we announced last week that our Board of Directors approved an


increase in our quarterly distribution, raising it to $53 18 per unit which is more than 19% above the


distribution related to the third quarter of 2004 and 6.8% over the last quarter's distribution. For


those of you keeping count, this latest increase was number 18 for us. We're clearly on track this


year to provide distribution growth far in excess of our 10% stated goal. Our cash generation has


continued to be very strong this year, with our distribution coverage in excess of 1.3 times on a


year-to-date basis. Based on our current forecast, we still expect the distribution coverage for the


year to be around 1.2 times.


Now, moving on to third quarter results, we're pleased to report significantly higher financial results


compared to the same quarter of last year. This quarter's results also exceeded the guidance we


provided back in July, primarily due to higher than expected commodity margins. Commodity


margins benefitted from rising refined products prices associated with supply disruptions due to the


hurricanes. We expected that some of these profits will in effect reverse as product prices


eventually moderate, which will reduce future commodity margin profits. I'll talk more about that


later. At this point, I'll ask John to provide further details on the quarter as compared to the same


quarter of last year and then after that, I'll be back to discuss what we see ahead for the rest of


2005 and then we'll take your questions. John?


John D. Chandler, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Treasurer


Thanks, Don. Before I begin discussing specific business unit performance, I want to mention that I


will be commenting on the non-GAAP measure operating margins, which is simply operating profit


before G&A expenses and depreciation and amortization. A reconciliation of operating margin to


operating profit was included in our earnings release this morning. Management believes that


investors benefit from this information, because it gets to the heart of evaluating the economic


success for the partnership's core operations.


As noted in our press release this morning, Magellan recognized higher financial results for the


third quarter of 2005 versus 2004. Operating profit was up significantly versus the third quarter of


2004, increasing by 14.5 million or 37% versus the same period last year. The increase was the


result of a 21.4 million increase in operating margin, offset partially by $4.9 million increase in


depreciation expenses, and a 1.9 million increase in G&A expenses. The increased profits were


driven predominantly by increased earnings in our pipeline segment both from the acquisition of


pipeline and terminal assets from Shell in October 2004 and from increased commodity margins


resulting from high gasoline and diesel prices during the third quarter. During the remainder of this


call, I will refer to the acquisition of the assets from Shell as the acquired pipeline assets.


So, let's look first at why operating margin is up by $21.4 million. Our petroleum products pipeline


system generated almost all of Magellan's operating margin increase, with operating margin that


was $22.9 million higher or 52% higher than the third quarter of 2004. The increase was almost


entirely driven by the acquired pipeline assets. Otherwise, higher transportation revenues and


commodity margins on our historical Magellan pipeline system, which excludes the acquired


assets, were offset by higher expenses.


Looking specifically at revenues on the pipeline, transportation and terminal revenues were $25.7


million more than the same period last year. More than 80% of this increase came from the


revenues generated from the acquired pipeline assets. When excluding the acquired pipeline


assets, volume on the Magellan pipeline system were virtually unchanged versus the third quarter


of 2004, while the average transportation increased by approximately $7.09 cents per barrel or


8.5%, contributing to a $5 million positive revenue variance. This rate increase is related in part to


a 3.63% tariff increase put in place in July of 2005, as we as inventory draws on the pipeline


system that result in incremental tariff revenue with no incremental throughput volume recorded.