raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners,


L.P.
 
MMP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Magellan Midstream Partners Fourth


Quarter 2004 Earning Results Conference. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening


remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief


Executive Officer, Mr. Don Wellendorf. Please go ahead, sir.


Don Wellendorf, President & Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon. Thanks for joining us today. With me here from the Company are John Chandler,


our CFO; Mike Mears and Jay Wiese, who head up our commercial functions for the business unit;


and Paula Farrell, who is responsible for investor relations.


Before I begin discussing the results for the quarter and year I want to remind you that during this


call the Magellan management team may make forward-looking statements as defined by the SEC.


Such statements will be based on management's best judgments regarding the factors that will


impact the future performance of Magellan. You should make your own judgments about


Magellan's future performance based on the risk factors and other information that can be found in


our filings with the SEC.


Now moving onto the fourth-quarter and the full-year 2004 performance of Magellan, I'm very


pleased to report that we had our best year ever both from financial and operational perspectives.


The record quarterly net income we reported this morning for the fourth quarter obviously


contributed to our record for the year. The strong quarter resulted from our base businesses hitting


on all cylinders, combined with the earnings from the pipelines we acquired from Shell on October1.


John will provide further details on the fourth quarter compared to last year in a few minutes.


Before we get to that, though, I'd like briefly to highlight some of the events that took place in the


quarter. The first is the Shell acquisition. We completed this acquisition along with the associated


permanent financing. This obviously was the most noteworthy event impacting the quarter. The


integration of these assets into our existing asset portfolio has gone very well. We continue to be


pleased with the number of ancillary growth opportunities that are presenting themselves as a


result of our ownership of these pipelines.


Also you may recall that our long-term financing was completed within days of closing the


acquisition with terms more attractive than anticipated. Our acquisition economics continue to hold


strong, and initial results support our expectations for at least 15 cents accretion on an annual basis


to distributable cash for our limited partners. Another item that I think warrants highlighting is the


15th consecutive quarterly distribution increase that was announced last week. With this


distribution we accomplished our stated goal of increasing our 2004 distribution by 10% over 2003.


Our new quarterly distribution is 91.25 cent per unit, which equates to 365 per unit on an


annualized basis. Our cash flows continue to support our growing distribution as reflected by a


fourth-quarter coverage ratio of a very healthy 1.3 times.


With that I will turn the meeting over to John to discuss the fourth-quarter results for this year


versus last year. After that, I will discuss what we see ahead for 2005 and we will take your


questions. John?
raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners,


L.P.
 
MMP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


John Chandler, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Don. Before I begin discussing specific business unit performance, I wanted to mention


that I will be commenting on the non-GAAP measure operating margin, which is simply operating


profit before G&A expenses and depreciation. A reconciliation of operating margin to operating


profit was included in our earnings release this morning. Management believes that investors


benefit from this information because it gets to the heart of evaluating the economic success of our


partnership's co-operations.


As noted in our press release this morning, operating profit was up significantly versus the fourth


quarter of 2004. For the quarter, operating profit increased by $20.7 million or 76% versus the


same period last year. The increase was the result of a 22.9 million increase in operating margin, a


$1.9 million reduction in G&A expenses, both of which were offset in part by a $4.1 million increase


in depreciation expense. The strong overall performance of our businesses was the result of


improved earnings in our terminals and pipeline segments, as well as profit from the acquisition of


the Shell pipeline assets. Given that we acquired the Shell pipeline assets on October 1, 2004, this


is the first time that we have reported the results for those assets.


In the financial variance that we will discuss in a moment you will note that a majority of the Shell


pipeline assets were placed in our Magellan pipeline segment, thereby contributing to increased


profits for that segment and increased throughput statistics. In addition we did put a few smaller


assets acquired through the Shell pipeline acquisition in our terminals segment. First, looking at


why operating margin was up by $22.9 million, the largest increase was driven in our petroleum


products pipeline segment, which had a strong quarter. In the petroleum products pipeline system


our operating margin improved by $20.3 million or it was – or 52% higher than the fourth quarter of


2003. This increase was driven most significantly from the acquisition of the Shell pipeline assets,


but was also higher because of profits from our acquisition of 50% in the Osage pipeline in the first


quarter of 2004, higher transportation and terminal revenues resulting from higher tariff rates, both


of which were offset by higher expenses as a result of the Shell pipeline acquisition.


Our transportation and terminaling revenues within the petroleum products pipeline system


increased by $23.9 million more than last year. More than 50% of this growth came from the


revenues generated from the Shell pipeline assets. In addition the average transportation rate on


our Magellan pipeline system when you exclude the Shell assets increased by approximately 10%.


The growth in rates was due in part to the 3.2% tariffing increase instituted midyear 2004, as well


as longer-haul shipments on our pipeline.


Finally over the last year we have been seeing increased revenues from additive injection and from


providing pipeline-operating services. Additive revenues have increased because of restructured


pricing arrangements and more additive injection by customers who are creating specialty blend


products, while our operating services revenues have increased due in part to fees we're earning


form operating the Longhorn and Osage pipelines. For the petroleum products pipeline system our


product margins improved by 300,000 versus 2003, as a result of additional profits earned on the


Shell pipeline assets, primarily resulting from transmix fractionation profits. Looking at expenses,


our expenses for the pipeline system were $4.5 million higher than the same period last year,


driven again by additional cost related to the Shell pipeline acquisition and a little bit over $1 million


of additional cost related to some non-cash asset retirements that occurred in the quarter. These


increases in cost were offset by reduced system integrity spending, as well as reduced


environmental cost.


Now looking at operating margin for petroleum products terminals group, the operating margin for


that group was up by approximately 4.7 million or 45% more than the same period in 2003, driven


by growth in revenues at both of our inland and marine terminals. Our storage and terminaling


revenues for the terminals segment was up 5.6 million more than the same period last year.


Roughly 45% of this revenue improvement came from increased throughput at our inland terminals.