raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Magellan Midstream Partners Fourth Quarter 2005


Earning Result Conference. This call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Don


Wellendorf. Please go ahead, sir.


Don R. Wellendorf, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today. Here with me from the company are John


Chandler, our CFO; Mike Mears, Jay Wiese and Rick Olsen who is the Head of the Commercial


and Operational Functions for our business units and; Paula Farrell who is responsible for Investor


Relations.


Before, I begin discussing in the fourth quarter; I must remind you that during this call, Magellan


Management might make forward-looking-statements as defined by the SEC. Such statements will


be based on management judgments regarding the factors that will impact the future performance


of Magellan. You should form your own opinions about Magellan’s future performance based on the


risk factors and other information in our filing with the SEC.


With that said, I would like to begin by commenting briefly on several noteworthy events that


occurred during the fourth quarter. First we acquired two terminals during the fourth quarter, one


located in Wichita, Kansas and the other in Aledo, Texas which is just outside of the Fort Worth


area. Both terminals already are connected to the pipeline system we acquired in late 2004 and


these terminals will provide more options to our customers and attract more barrels to our pipeline


system. And particular – terminal is part of our Dallas strategy to increase throughput through our


sales system up from the Gulf Coast into Dallas.


Previously both of these terminals were privately held so they were not available – they were


available as destination points for many of our customers. With the acquisitions, we now have 45


terminals along our 8,500 mile pipeline system and as you know we also owned 29 inland terminals


connected to third party pipelines and seven marines storage locations.


The second item I want to mention is the significant buck in our distribution announced last week,


which were 19 consecutive quarterly distribution increase. The quarterly rate is $55.25 per unit


which is 4% higher than last quarter’s distribution and 21% above our distribution related to the


fourth quarter of 2004. Even with the substantial distribution increases this year we generate almost


1.25 times the cash needed to pay those distributions which resulted in more than $40 million of


excess cash generation during the year. A little later I will review the calculation we use to


determine the amount of cash available to pay distributions and provide you more information


concerning our distribution growth for 2006.


Now moving on to the fourth quarter results, you may recall that we expected our operations to be


negatively impacted during the period by about $2 million due to the supply disruptions that existed


in the aftermath of the third quarter hurricanes. That estimate turned out to be pretty accurate. The


impact on our earnings was relatively small due to the fact that our pipeline system can access


more than 40% of the refining capacity in the continent of United States. As a result we were able


to generate net income for limited permanent unit for the quarter of $0.46 slightly beating our


guidance of $0.42 and the average Street expectations of $0.43.
raw transcript


Magellan Midstream Partners


LP
 
MMP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 24, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This point I will ask John to provide details on the quarter as compared to the same quarter of last


year. After that I will back to discuss what we see ahead for 2006 and we will be spending some


addition time this quarter to review some of the significant growth opportunities we see ahead for


Magellan in 2006 and beyond. And then we will happy to your questions. John?


John D. Chandler, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Don. Before I begin discussing specific business unit performance, I do want to mention I


will be commenting on a non-GAAP measure operating margin, which is simply operating profit or


G&A expenses, depreciation and amortizations. A reconciliation of operating margin to operating


profit was included in our earnings release this morning. Management believes that investors


benefit from this information because it does get to the heart of evaluating the economics success


of a corporation. As noted in our press release this morning, Magellan recognized higher financial


results for the fourth quarter of 2005 versus 2004. Operating profit was up by 3.1 million versus the


fourth quarter of 2004 or 6%. The increase was the result of the $5.9 million increase in operating


margin, offset partially by a 2 million increase in depreciation expense and a $900,000 increase in


G&A expenses.


The increased operating margin was driven predominately by significantly increased earnings in our


terminal segment from the additional of the Wilmington, Delaware terminal and from the – among


new segment as a result of the higher tariff rate and reduced expenses offset somewhat by slightly


reduced operating margin from our petroleum products pipeline segment. We will look at each one


of these in more detail in my following comments.


So first let’s look at why operating margin was up $5.9 million. Our petroleum products pipeline


systems operating margin was approximately 1.4 million or 2% less in the same period last year.


Increases in revenues from transportation internally and product margins were more than offset by


increased expenses. Our transportation and terminal revenues were $400,000 more than the same


period last year. Revenues were essentially flat, although transportation volumes increased by 2.8


million additional barrels. This is because the additional volume was more than offset by a rate


reduction of a little bit more than $0.05 per barrel shift. This was the result of a couple of events.


First, we do not recognize revenue in our system until the barrel is delivered; however, we do


record the volume when it is put into our system. Therefore, in a period where inventories are being


built in the pipeline system, we are recording volume being put into the system but are not reporting


income.


And second, to a lesser degree, supply disruptions from the hurricane resulted in shorter haul


shipments on our system. Our longest haul barrel is from the Gulf Coast. Virtually all Gulf Coast


supply was shutdown after Hurricane Rita for a short period of time which did have a slight negative


effect on the rate per barrel. Also offsetting the reduction in rate per barrel were incremental


revenues generated from bulk additives as a result of increased activity related to the lubricity


additives for diesel and also increased loading fees we charge for ethanol and biodiesel which are


products that require special handling and are mandated in some of our markets.


While product sales revenues and purchases were up significantly, for example, revenues were up


42 million versus the fourth quarter of 2004, we continue to emphasize that you should focus on the


net product margins, which were 9.8 million for the quarter, up from 2.4 million for the fourth quarter


of 2004. Product margin this quarter was generated primarily from three activities: first, a refined


products management business; second, fractionating transmix and the sale of the resulting


products; and third, from the third party supply agreement associated with our Magellan pipeline


south system.