corrected transcript


Marathon Oil Corp.
 
MRO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby, the conference is about to begin. Good day everyone and welcome to


this Marathon Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being


recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Ken


Matheny, Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Affairs. Please go ahead sir.


Kenneth L. Matheny, Vice President of Investor Relations & Public Affairs


Thank you very much Patty and I too would like to welcome everyone to the third quarter 2005


earnings web cast and teleconference for Marathon Oil Corporation. Let me begin by reminding


you that if you are listening via telephone you can find the synchronized slides that will accompany


this conference call on our web site at www.marathon.com.


With me on the call today are Clarence Cazalot, President and CEO; Janet Clark, Senior Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer; Phil Behrman, Senior Vice President of Worldwide


Exploration; Steve Hinchman, Senior Vice President of Worldwide Production; and Gary Heminger,


Executive Vice President and President of our Refining and Marketing and Transportation


organization; and Garry Peiffer, Senior Vice President of Finance and Commercial Services for our


downstream organization.


Approximately two hours after this call ends, these remarks and the slides will be placed on the


Investor Relations portion of our web site. They will remain on the site for one year.


Slide 2 contains the forward-looking statement and other information related to this presentation.


Our remarks and answers to questions today will contain certain forward-looking statements that


are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those


expressed or implied by such statements.


In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,


Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended


December 31, 2004, and in subsequent Form 10-K and 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying


important factors, but not necessarily all factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ


materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.


As shown on slide number 3, net income for the third quarter was $770 million and included two


special items totaling a negative $27 million after tax, resulting in net income adjusted for special


items of $797 million. The two after-tax special items were a negative $48 million mark-to-market


loss on our two long-term U.K. gas contracts and a $21 million gain on the sale of a 15% interest in


Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited.


Net income adjusted for special items of $797 million was $42 million more than the second quarter


of this year and 168% greater than the third quarter of last year. The sequential improvement as


well as the improvement year-over-year was largely a result of the elimination of the minority


interest in our downstream business, strong refining and marketing margins along with record


refinery throughput and increased liquids and natural gas prices, somewhat offset by lower


upstream production sales.


A reconciliation of net income adjusted for special items to net income is included on slide 3 and


you can refer to slide 2 for a discussion of the use of this non-GAAP measure.


Moving to slide number 4, net income adjusted for special items on a per share basis equaled that


of the second quarter at $2.16 per diluted share but I’ll note that approximately 19 million more
corrected transcript


Marathon Oil Corp.
 
MRO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


shares were outstanding this quarter. The additional shares outstanding were largely a result of the


downstream minority interest acquisition we closed on June 30
 
th


.


As shown on slide number 5, third quarter segment income was $1.435 billion, $175 million less


than the second quarter but almost double that of the same quarter last year. A major factor in the


decrease from the second quarter was lower upstream sales volumes, partially offset by higher


liquid and natural gas prices in the upstream segment. Worldwide upstream sales volumes were


down largely as a result of liquid hydrocarbon underliftings in the United Kingdom, Equatorial


Guinea and Gabon, and the four storms, two of which were major hurricanes that hit the Gulf of


Mexico during the third quarter.


Upstream segment income of $627 million, as shown on slide number 6, was down $149 million


quarter-over-quarter. Domestic upstream segment income of $397 million, as shown on slide


number 7, was relatively flat with the second quarter. Domestic liquid realizations were up over $10


while natural gas was up a less robust 80 cents. Again, production sold was adversely affected by


the significant storm activity during the quarter in the Gulf of Mexico.


Slide number 8 demonstrates how domestic upstream income benefited over $100 million from


higher prices while lower volumes reduced operating income in the segment by approximately $60


million compared to the second quarter. Other revenues were $27 million lower during the quarter


primarily as a result of the gain on the sale of East Cameron Block 321 that occurred in the second


quarter. Other fluctuations mainly increased production taxes in the current quarter, and second


quarter insurance coverage related to Petronius amounted to a negative $17 million.


Total expenses in the domestic upstream segment, as shown on slide 9, were up $2 per barrel of


oil equivalent compared to the second quarter. Excluding exploration expense, which can vary


based on the timing of dry holes, expenses were up $2.32 per barrel of oil equivalent from $14.64


to $16.96 per BOE. This increase is largely a result of the higher production taxes related to higher


commodity prices, increased per barrel operating costs due to reduced volumes, higher G&A


allocations, and lower insurance recoveries related to Petronius. For the year we’d expect on a


barrel of oil equivalent basis domestic field level expenses to be $3.35 to $3.40, DD&A of around


$6.70, and all other costs excluding production taxes to be about $4.00. At current prices, domestic


production taxes are approximately $2.10 per barrel of oil equivalent.


Moving to slide 10, domestic upstream income per barrel of oil equivalent increased 10% over the


second quarter, reflecting the 18% increase in the average liquids and natural gas realizations,


partially offset by the previously discussed increase in the average cost per barrel of oil equivalent.


Moving to international upstream, as shown on slide number 11, international income of $230


million was sharply lower than the second quarter, mainly as a result of the timing of international


liquids in the United Kingdom, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon.


Slide 12 shows that the underlift in international hydrocarbon sales reduced international upstream


income by over $200 million but this was somewhat offset by lower DD&A of $42 million, again


related to those liftings. Higher price realizations increased segment income $20 million while


exploration expense was $34 million higher than the second quarter, primarily a result of writing off


the Annapolis well offshore Nova Scotia. All other changes amounted to a positive $31 million for


the quarter, mainly a result of lower controllable costs due to the timing of liftings.


Moving to slide number 13, total international upstream sales volumes decreased 32% compared to


the second quarter while liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes decreased 36%, again primarily a result


of our underlift positions. Lower natural gas sales volumes were a result of lower spot gas sales in


United Kingdom and higher injections to storage in Ireland.