corrected transcript


Marathon Oil Corp.
 
MRO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby, we are about to begin. Good day everyone, and welcome to this


Marathon Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being


recorded.


For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Ken Matheny, Vice


President of Investor Relations and Public Affairs. Please go ahead, sir.


Kenneth L. Matheny, Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Affairs


Okay. Thank you very much, Cynthia, and I too would like to welcome everybody to our second


quarter 2005 earnings webcast and teleconference for Marathon Oil Corporation.


With me on the call today are Clarence Cazalot. He is President and CEO. Janet Clark, Senior


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Gary Heminger, Executive Vice President of Refining,


Marketing and Transportation; and, Steve Hinchman, Senior Vice President of Worldwide


Production. Also on with us is Gary Peiffer, Senior Vice President of Finance and Commercial


Services for the downstream organization.


We have changed the format of our call and we will have a slide synchronized with about 15


minutes of second quarter review and then Clarence Cazalot will spend a few minutes talking about


our results and forward plans. We will then open the call up to questions. At approximately two


hours after this call ends, these remarks and the slides will be placed on the 'Investor Relations'


portion of our website, and it will remain on the website for one year.


On Slide 2, you will find our forward-looking statement and other information related to this


presentation. Our remarks and answers to questions today will contain certain forward-looking


statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. And, in accordance with Safe


Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Marathon Oil Corporation


has included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and in


subsequent Form 10-K and 8-K filings cautionary language identifying important factors, but not


necessarily all factors that could cause outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the


forward-looking statements.


As shown on Slide 3, net income for the second quarter was $673 million and included two after-tax


special items totaling a negative $82 million resulting in net income adjusted for special items of


$755 million. Two after-tax special items were a negative $97 million related to the mark-to-market


loss on our two long-term UK gas contracts and a positive $15 million related to a deferred tax


adjustment. The tax adjustment is a result of Ohio changing its tax structure from an income-based


to commercial activity-based resulting in a reversal of previously booked deferred tax.


Our net income adjusted for special items of $755 million was more than double the first quarter of


this year and 86% greater than the second quarter of last year. The improvement sequentially, as


well as year-over-year was largely a result of stronger liquids and natural gas prices, higher


upstream production sales, strong refining and marketing margins and record total refinery


throughputs. A reconciliation of net income adjusted for special items to net income is included on


Slide 3. And, you can refer to Slide 2 for a discussion of the use of this non-GAAP measure.


Moving to Slide #4, net income adjusted for special items was $2.16 per share, again, far


exceeding any of the previous several quarters.
corrected transcript


Marathon Oil Corp.
 
MRO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


You should note that with the closing of the downstream minority interest acquisition on June 30th,


we now have approximately 17.5 million additional shares outstanding. These additional shares


and the elimination of Ashland’s minority interest did not impact second quarter earnings. But,


beginning in the third quarter, our share count has increased, and we will be including 100% of


downstream income in our reported earnings.


As shown on Slide #5, second quarter segment income was $1.6 billion more than double the $772


million in the first quarter. Again, this increase is a result of higher upstream and downstream


earnings attributable to better prices, margins and production. This slide also illustrates the value


of integration as over the past six quarters our upstream and downstream businesses have been


very complementary helping to sustain relatively consistent operating earnings when both perform


– to sustain relatively consistent operating earnings. And, when both perform well, we have a


quarter like the one just completed.


Upstream segment income as shown on Slide 6 was up $221 million quarter-over-quarter. The


increase was primarily due to higher liquid sales volumes and higher oil and gas realizations offset


by lower gas volumes due mainly to seasonality and effects of the restoration costs and insurance


recoveries related to Petronius during the first quarter not repeated in the second quarter and


higher DD&A and production taxes both resulting from higher production and higher prices.


Focusing on domestic upstream operations on Slide 7, second quarter segment income of $394


million was $89 million higher than the first quarter of 2005 primarily a result of higher liquids and


natural gas prices and higher sales volumes offset by lower other revenues as a result of the


restoration and insurance recoveries recorded in the first quarter related to the Petronius damage.


The increase in domestic production sold particularly liquid volumes was primarily a result of a full


quarter of Petronius production.


As shown on Slide 8, while production was up almost 9% quarter-over-quarter, total expenses


decreased 8% on a barrel of oil equivalent basis. Stripping out exploration expense which can vary


based on the timing of dry holes, expenses per BOE were down 11% from $16.41 to $14.64 per


BOE. This reduction is largely a reflection of increased volumes and second quarter damage


insurance recoveries related to Petronius.


Moving to Slide 9, domestic income per BOE increased 17% reflecting increased liquids and


natural gas realizations and the lower average cost per barrel of oil equivalent.


Moving to Slide #10, international upstream segment income of $382 million for the second quarter


increased a $132 million over the first quarter primarily due to higher liquid sales volumes and


prices, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes and prices, and higher production taxes in


Russia.


Moving to Slide #11, total international sales volumes increased 11 percent, liquid sales volumes


increased 46% primarily as a result of ramping up production in Equatorial Guinea from the LPG


expansion and balancing our underlift position in the United Kingdom and Gabon at the end of the


first quarter. Lower gas sales volumes were a result of seasonal reductions in the North Sea and


Ireland. Expenses increased approximately 5% on a barrel of oil equivalent basis as a result of


Russian production taxes and increased expenses associated with the start-up of our EG LPG


plant.


Slide #12 is our last international slide and it shows that income per BOE moved up almost 36


percent. And, this is largely a reflection, again, of higher liquids liftings and prices.


Moving to our downstream business in Slide #13, second quarter segment income of $823 million


was $246 million higher than the second quarter of 2004. Because of the seasonality in the


downstream business, I will compare the second quarter of 2005 results against the same quarter