Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jack Ezzell — Chief Accounting Officer, Masonite International Corp.
Frederick J. Lynch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Masonite International Corp.
Mark J. Erceg — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Robert Grimsley Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Howard Weinberg — Executive Director, UBS
Matt Kaplan — Vice President, Imperial Capital, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Masonite's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, investors are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be accessed until May 19th. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 in the U.S., or 201-612-7415 outside the U.S., enter conference ID 412607.

I will now introduce Jack Ezzell, Masonite's Chief Accounting Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good morning. I'm joined in our Tampa office today by Fred Lynch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Erceg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Access to the webcast presentation that will accompany today's call is available on our website at www.masonite.com, under the heading About Masonite, subheading, Investor Relations. Before we begin the call, let me remind you that the earnings release and the presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations and the results of operations of the company, as well as general economic conditions. These beliefs and related forward-looking statements are subject to risk and uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the financial statements made available to you on our website. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.

We supplement our GAAP reporting with a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of net income is provided in the appendix of the presentation and is also available on our website.

On today's call, Fred will provide a market update. Mark will review 2013 first quarter results, after which Fred will summarize today's call. A question-and-answer session will follow our prepared remarks.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Fred.

Thanks, Jack. Good morning and welcome everyone to the call. Before we begin the market update and financial discussion, I'd like to remind you that in February, we filed the registration statement with the SEC related to a proposed initial public offering of Masonite International common shares. Our most recent amendment to the registration statement was filed on April 26th and it's currently available on the SEC website. Due to this filing and related federal security laws and regulations, we will not be providing any additional comments related to the filing or financial guidance for fiscal 2013 during today's call. I had to get that out of the way.

So let's turn over to the market update. As many of you are well aware, the U.S. housing market continues to demonstrate positive momentum. Just last week, February S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index was released showing a 9.3% year-over-year increase on a seasonally adjusted basis. Not only witnessed the sharpest rise recorded since 2006, but it was geographically broad based with all 20 major metropolitan areas posting year-over-year gains for the second consecutive month, something that has not occurred since 2005.

Inventories of existing homes were up slightly at the end of the first quarter at approximately 1.9 million units. But as a result of increased buyer demand, the supply of existing home for sale dropped to below five months and now stands at roughly half of 2010's level. So not surprisingly the smaller new home market has experienced a very similar dynamic. Sales of new homes have been increasing with March new home sales of 417,000 units, up 38% since 2010. Again, inventories remain relatively flat in spite of increased builder activity, while increased demand for new homes has driven the supply to just over four months, again levels we have not seen since 2005.

Builders are reacting appropriately to address improving demand, as you can see on page 7. Single family housing starts for the first quarter of 2013 were 628,000 units on an adjusted annualized basis, up 29% compared to the first quarter of 2012. And we saw even faster growth in the U.S. multi-family housing sector. During the first quarter of 2013, multi-family housing starts in the United States averaged 340,000 units on an annualized basis, up 55% compared to the first quarter of 2012. Moreover, March multi-family housing starts were particularly strong coming in at 417,000 units, up 85% compared to March of 2012.

So with the growth rate of multi-family starts continuing to significantly outpace the rate of single family starts, the percentage of total housing starts coming from multi-family continues to increase, having risen from a low of 14% during the spring of 2010 to over 40% in March. This is well above the historical average of 28% and represents the single highest month since December of 1985.

Now, to put that in perspective, the last time multi-family starts represented this level of total housing starts, Mikhail Gorbachev was in his first year as leader of the USSR, Pete Rose had just become the all-time hits leader in baseball and should be in the Hall of Fame, Bruce Springsteen's Born in the USA was top of the pop music charts and Villanova won the national championship for college basketball. I know that because I was there then, so suffice it to say it's been a long while.

Now, March's particularly strong multi-family housing starts number pushed the housing market pass an important milestone. Specifically, total U.S. new housing starts in March single family and multi-family combined were 1,036,000. So importantly this is the first time the Census Bureau has reported a seasonally adjusted housing start number over 1 million since June 2008. And if you recall back in that timeframe, it was hard to believe that housing starts would fall below 1 million.

While it's been very encouraging to see the total U.S. housing starts over 1 million units, the ratio between single and multi-family housing starts remains an important factor in determining the full impact of the housing recovery on future door demand. And that's because as we've discussed previously, we calculate the value of a multi-family start at less than half the value of a single family start for two reasons. First, multi-family has roughly half the number of doors per housing unit. And second, the doors utilized in a multi-family construction are often lower priced, lower margin products.

On an equivalent base, as you can see on slide 10, that U.S. housing starts during the first quarter of 2013 were up 28% versus the first quarter of 2012. Again, however, because there is typically a six to 12 month lag between starts and completions, and doors are usually one of the last or at least later items installed in a new home, the recent surge in new housing start equivalents are not expected to impact our financial results until the second half of 2013.

And of course, while we're very encouraged that the new home sales activity has significantly improved, it's not lost on any of us that absolute sales numbers are still well below the historical average, with seemingly lots of room for potential growth. For perspective, while March new home sales of 417,000 units were up 53% versus February 2011 when new home sales bottomed out at 273 units, they are still well below the 30-year average of 732,000 units.

So, with the U.S. housing market beginning to recover, it's not surprising to see improving trends in repair, renovation and remodeling market. As home prices rise, home sales activity increases, more and more homeowners will look to reinvest in what for many is their largest single asset. As evident on slide 12, the Home Improvement Research Institute shows a slower but still increasing trend of U.S. home improvement product sales, over $275 billion spent in 2012, and it's forecasted to grow by 4.3% during 2013 to approximately $287 billion.

And our recent expansion into the North American commercial and architectural interior wood doors provides us with yet another important growth opportunity. Commercial construction has begun to slowly recover from the historic lows of 2010. And consistent with past recoveries, we would expect a full recovery in non-residential construction to lag recoveries in new housing and repair, renovation, and remodeling spending by a year or two.

Before I turn the call over to Mark to discuss our Q1 financial performance in more detail, let me provide a quick update on some important strategic initiatives at Masonite. So with end markets in our largest geographic market improving, we are pleased to report that the early production run that are new, fully automated interior door plant are yielding results in line with expectations. We're currently manufacturing and shipping high quality products from this plant to a number of customers, and will soon be ready for full scale production.

We're very excited about the capabilities of this new plant and recently began the process of evaluating potential locations for two more fully automated interior door slab assembly plants in North America.

One of the misconceptions about our automated interior door slab assembly unit is that it will increase overall capacity in the North American door market. And so, while it's true that our automated facility can produce a significantly higher number of doors per day with far fewer people than a manual operation, we have been able to rationalize older facilities as a result. For instance, the new Denmark facility will essentially replace four facilities that were required to service customers in the past.

And as you can see on this slide, on page 15, the capacity utilization rate at our global molded door facing facilities, which represent our largest fixed asset, also continues to increase steadily with the average for the first quarter of 2013 approaching 64%. Recently, as unit volumes have increased and customers have broadened their ordering pattern, we have taken the interim decision to run all three lines at our largest facing facility in Laurel, Mississippi. This will ensure we can maintain the excellent level of customer service Masonite is known for throughout the industry.

Finally, in addition to continuing to invest in automation, we are also leading innovation in electronic commerce to help our distribution and dealer partners dramatically improve the customer experience through MAX, Masonite Xpress Configurator. This proprietary e-commerce tool allows customers to easily choose options and configure a door to their unique specifications with just a few easy clicks, while simultaneously optimizing the ordering process throughout the supply chain and increasing speed, reducing lead times, eliminating errors and making it easier for everyone in the value chain. While still in the early stages of rollout, feedback continues to be very positive.

Comparing the fourth quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2013, we see that online leads increased 21%, dealership quotes were up 22%, the value of quotes increased 47% and the number of dealers trained on the system increased by 148%. As more dealers are trained and understand the benefits of Masonite Xpress Configurator, we think more and more dealers will choose to partner with Masonite and with Masonite distribution partners.

So with that, let me turn the call over to Mark, who will take you through our first quarter financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Fred, and good morning, everyone. Volumes, net sales and adjusted EBITDA were all up during the first quarter of 2013 versus the base period that benefited from unseasonably warm weather across much of the United States. In the first quarter of 2013, unit volume increased 2.5%; net sales were up 6.1%; and adjusted EBITDA, as reported, increased 33%.

Turning to slide 19, net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased from $400.1 million to $424.5 million, an increase of $24.4 million or 6.1% versus a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $19.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 to $26.2 million during the first quarter of 2013, an increase of $6.5 million or 33% versus year ago. Excluding a $4.5 million net benefit related to the final resolution of the Marshfield 2011 business interruption insurance claim, adjusted EBITDA increased $2 million or 10.2% to $21.7 million for the first quarter of 2013 over the comparable 2012 period.

On slide 20, we present a closer look at our 6.1% increase in total consolidated net sales during the first quarter of 2013 by examining the change in net sales for each of our three reportable business segments and the impact of volume, price mix, component sales and foreign exchange on each segment.

Net sales in our North American segment increased by 13.4% as an increase in volume was partially offset by negative price mix and lower net sales of door components. The volume increase of $40.3 million was due to incremental sales from 2012 acquisitions and increased residential new construction in the United States.

Net sales in our Europe, Asia and Latin America segment decreased 10.1% or $10 million compared to the first quarter last year. Lower unit volumes in the first quarter of 2013 drove $9.3 million of the $10 million decrease. The volume decline was primarily due to the broader market downturn in Europe, our decision to proactively discontinue certain unprofitable product lines in France, and our decision to exit unprofitable Romanian and Hungary markets.

Net sales in our South Africa segment decreased 16.7%, primarily due to unfavorable price mix and negative foreign exchange, partially offset by favorable unit volumes. And during the fourth quarter earnings call, we indicated that due to inflationary pressures, we decided to issue certain price increases principally in North America, and those price increases which were in the mid-single digits were scheduled to go into effect towards the end of the first quarter of 2013.

While it is still early, we are encouraged by the market's receptiveness so far and we are hopeful that after seven consecutive quarters of negative price mix across our largest business segment, the combination of higher prices and more favorable mix, despite robust growth in multifamily housing, will allow price mix to turn positive during the second half of the year.

Turning to our liquidity, cash flow and balance sheet metrics, available liquidity at March 31st, which included unrestricted cash and undrawn ABL and an accounts receivable purchase agreement totaled $229.6 million or approximately 13.5% of Masonite's trailing 12-month net sales. Total debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA stood at 3.7 times as of March 31, 2013, which was within our stated financial policy range of 3.5 turns of total debt, plus or minus half a turn.

Net debt as of March 31, 2013 was 2.6 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBIDTA interest coverage ratio was 3.1 times, and our trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.9 times.

Cash used in continuing operations during the quarter ended March 31, 2013 was $4 million compared to a use of $16.2 million in the comparable 2012 period. Capital spending was $6.4 million and as a percent of sales was 1.5% during the first quarter. With $109.7 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $379.1 million of total debt, net debt was $269.4 million as of March 31, 2013.

I will now turn the call back to Fred to summarize today's call.

Great. Thanks, Mark. At the start of 2013, macroeconomic indicators for the U.S. housing sector remain positive. Mortgage interest rates remain low, home prices are rising, the inventory of both existing and new homes for sale is low, and new housing starts are accelerating. Against this backdrop, at Masonite, net sales increased 6.1% and adjusted EBITDA increased 33%. Net of the business interruption insurance claim recovery, as Mark indicated earlier, adjusted EBITDA increased 10.2%. Our first fully automated interior door slab assembly plant in Denmark, South Carolina will soon be ready for full scale production and we have begun the site selection process for two additional automated interior door plants in North America.

And our e-commerce initiative continues to demonstrate encouraging results with more and more dealers being trained, more quotes being generated and the value of these quotes increasing. We remain committed to our strategic growth initiatives and are encouraged by the improving macroeconomic conditions that appear to be taking hold.

As the pace of residential and non-residential activity accelerates, we believe that our investments in automation, new products, value-added services, proprietary e-commerce tools and commercial and wood – commercial and architectural interior wood doors will result in further top and bottom line growth for the benefit of our shareholders, our customers, our suppliers and our employees.

Thank you for joining us today and we'll now open the call to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu. I just wanted to see how many dealers do you have now signed up with the MAX capabilities? And I wanted to see – I just wanted to kind of get an update and see what you guys are doing in terms of signing these dealers up, and what is the main draw, like how are you attracting them to this, to the program?

Yeah. Today, there is about over 500 dealers that have signed up onto the program. The main attraction for the dealers is it really facilitates the interaction between both the dealer and the consumer by making it very simple for the consumer to come in, and instead of what they historically did was to sit and go through a bunch of paper manuals and tried to figure out which products went with which designs, and which glass, et cetera. They can now do that very simply by a smart computer system which knows the interconnectivity between those different product offerings. And they do that online, either at home first and then connect themselves with the dealer, or they can walk right into the dealer's office and do it sitting in front of the dealer at the desk.

The important part or what's changed in this process is now all that information that will go into the system immediately finds its way back through the entire supply chain, so back to our distribution partners who service those dealers and back to Masonite, so that we have access now to that customer intelligence and that market intelligence about what's being looked and what types of products are being preferred, and it also provides the opportunity for each member in the supply chain to try to then upgrade that consumer to the product offering that they're really looking for as opposed to just buying what they see in the store.

So those are the things that drive it. It's really the ease of information flow and making it simple for a consumer to choose what historically has been a fairly complex buying decision. So a lot of the push is also coming from our distribution partners because they know when the dealers sign up and use MAX, it connects them for the long term, it really adds stickiness to that relationship across the supply chain.

Okay. Thanks. That's a good update. Appreciate that. Also I just wanted to see if you could provide a little more color around the price mix being negative this quarter, but kind of turning positive in the back half of the year. How widespread were your price increases, what was the kind of general level of price increases and do you have any – what types of products saw higher price increases versus lower or whatnot, so a little more color on that that would be great.

Sure. The price increases that we referred to specifically were the U.S. wholesale price increases, and again those took effect towards the latter part of the first quarter. The price range varied, principally mid-single digits was what we put out into the marketplace. As far as total price mix, if you look at the cumulative effect in North America over the last seven quarters, you'd find that price mix has cumulatively been negative to the tune of about $25 million. So it's been a sizable impact against the business over that course of time.

And as we talked, because of the conditions in the marketplace, one, so far the receptivity to the price increase we have taken and, two, just to the overall recovery that we're seeing today, we do believe that price mix and our hope is that price mix at some point during the latter half of this year will turn positive for our largest business segment.

All right. Appreciate it. That's all I had. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from [ph] Matt Sheehan with Gary's Management (23:12). Please proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Just looking at slide 20, with the breakout on the drivers for sales, can you provide a little more color on the volume mix, how much is for North America in particular, how much was acquisitions versus organic growth?

Yeah, I think one of the important factors as we look at North America, in particular, there's really three components in there. There is the acquisition component, which obviously has been positive year-over-year. But also importantly, the wholesale component on a unit basis in the wholesale market which primarily feeds the newbuild construction market, we saw a 15% increase in units in the first quarter of 2013 versus 2012, which was slightly negatively offset in the retail market, the repair and renovation market as a result of some business losses late last year.

Got you. And so, just to try to piece that all together, I mean, of the $40 million, could you at least directionally provide some color on how much was acquisitions?

Yeah. I would tell you that, the acquisitions were the principal share of that. So, over half of that increase was driven by the acquisition themselves. And then as Fred alluded to, we had obviously very strong unit volume in the wholesale channel.

Got you. Okay. Thank you.

And it's important to note, one of the feedback – the feedback that we did get from our customers during the first quarter was the impact of the winter on their sales was much more difficult this year than it was in 2012.

Got you. Thank you.

Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (25:01). Please proceed with your question.

Can you give us a little more color on rightsizing the European operation and some of the cost you might have incurred and expect to incur this year and drag yourself from some of those markets?

Yeah. Well, I would talk a little bit first about one of decisions we made and then we'll come back on the impact to the numbers. There was really three major initiatives that we undertook in the fourth quarter of last year in Europe. One was to exit, as you know, specific product lines in France that we felt were – I should say the fourth quarter into the first quarter that were non-profitable as well as to basically extract ourselves from the Romania and Hungary market – Hungarian market which again were non-profitable and from a cash perspective were not generating cash.

We also announced in the first quarter that we would be exiting our facility in Poland and combining that with our facility in the Czech Republic, while we still might be able to meet that market. We felt that investing in a single site need more sense. So it's been pretty much a comprehensive effort in recognizing the conditions that we're seeing throughout Europe and the belief that those conditions will remain for some period of time that a tighter, smaller and more focused footprint would make more sense. I turnover to Mark on the dollars.

I can just give you little more perspective on that. I think you guys recall that we took a $6.4 million restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of last year, roughly half of that was related to activities in Europe. Within the first quarter of this year, we took another $1.4 million of restructuring, the majority of that, the principal piece related to our automation program in North America, there was a little bit of additional monies put against Europe.

And as Fred correctly said, within Europe, the money that we put against restructuring was principally for Romania and Hungary, some Polish activities as well. And I think you guys will recall that we shut our Vienna office as well. So if you want to do a direct comparison versus year ago, Romania and Hungary last year in Q1, we generated about a $1 million of sales and both those businesses were unprofitable. And we said that we save probably about a $0.5 million on an annualized basis closing the Vienna office.

Our next question comes from Howard Weinberg with UBS. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks guys. Fred, you talked a little bit about sort of the six to 12 months lag between starts and when you guys ultimately get sales of the doors, could you talk a little bit about market share trends of what you've been seeing over the last six to 12 months and how we should think about you participating in that call it 21% to 29%, I think that was the fourth quarter and first quarter single family start growth?

Yeah. One of the challenges has been to try to really understand how that lag time has both contracted and expanded depending on whether the market is contracting and expanding, based on what levels of inventories are being carried within the broader supply chain. What we do know is that a typical time from a start to the completion, depending on the size of the home, location of the home, et cetera, is anywhere from six to 12 months on average. If you've been involved in purchasing or building a home, you know that about halfway through that process, maybe a little bit towards the latter half, the exterior doors go into the home and any interior doors go into the home probably in a very last quartile of the manufacturing process.

So for us, we have to take that into account as well as the supply – the inventory within the supply chain. We've done some empirical studies in the past to determine how that looks. When the market was running at its peak, we would typically say that it was about a six month lag, as the market contracted that lag got shorter. As the market is expanding now, we believe again that lag is moving back towards the longer timeframe. But we really won't be able to tell you what that is until we actually have the empirical data to look at it in retrospect. But at least, that's the indication of which direction it's moving. With respect to share, we don't get into share discussions on our call.

Okay. That's fair. And then just going back to the distribution sort of the channel, I'm not certain if I followed you walk – when you walked me just through it, but is the supply chain fully stocked or do you think they're light on inventory, given the rapid growth in the new housing start, I would think that they'd have less inventory rather than more inventory, unless I misinterpreted you?

Yeah. I think, no, I think that's fair. With more rapid growth particularly in the wholesale channel, that's occurred recently with the unit growth, I think we're finding the supply chain is tighter. I think the other factor to remember which a lot of times people compare our industry to, for instance, roofing industry, where people will take on large amounts of inventory in advance of a price increase.

Our products are big and bulky. It's very hard for our distributors and wholesale channel partners to take on large amounts of inventory. So the system works and we pretty much make to order across our system and our dealers are doing the same, that's why lead times and service levels are so important in the industry. So, for instance, I'll answer a question that would probably likely come up, did we see a big buy forward prior to the price increase and then subsequently a reduction afterwards, and the answer was no. We saw pretty steady purchases on both sides of that price increase.

Great. And then switching over to an organic question, if I could, when we think about your growth in the first quarter and I know you mentioned that potentially a little over half was from some of the acquisitions, is it the way to think about residential and commercial as well that – because most of the recent acquisitions have been primarily in the commercial end of your business that commercial has been growing more rapidly than the residential side of the business?

No. The market has been relatively flat on the commercial side of the business, which we showed on that one slide, the reason that we have higher growth in obviously just from the acquisitions for the year, several of our acquisitions occurred last year in the latter half of the year. So that's where the improvement came.

You are seeing a year-on-year annualized effect of the acquisitions.

I see. Okay. Well, great. Well, good luck, guys and thank you very much.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Matt Kaplan with Imperial Capital. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, guys. Congratulations on the quarter.

Thank you, Matt.

Question on the adjusted EBITDA on North America, that's about $20.5 million you guys reported. Does that include the full $4.5 million from the Marshfield insurance settlement or is that allocated between the three geographies by any chance?

It's the North American entry, the Marshfield production facility based up in Wisconsin, so that's part of the North American segment.

Okay. So if we wanted to kind of give a cleaner operational EBITDA to subtract $4.5 million from that?

Correct.

Okay. And then, did you guys see any impact of labor costs or transportation costs or material on margins in the first quarter this year?

It was actually pretty benign, if you look at our cost of goods sold where you'd see that materials and direct labor were each up about 10 bps versus the prior period in 2012, and then there was actually a 10 bps drop in distribution costs. So COGS actually was fairly flat year versus year.

And then, is that trending similarly into this quarter and through the rest of 2013, do you have a view on that?

We wouldn't think it appropriate to comment on that given our S-1 filing.

Okay. Fair. And then on the South Carolina plant, what was the average utilization of that in the first quarter 2013 versus what you guys can achieve in a full production run?

Yeah. I mean, for the most part, it was not really a factor in the first quarter of 2013. We really just started producing products towards the end of – sort of second half of March, and during that time, we were running obviously test modes and different trials. So as a result of that, we really wouldn't look into the first quarter and say that Denmark had any impact on our business.

Got you. Is that at full production today, or is that still ramping?

We expect it to be at full production on one shift by the start of the – by the grand opening which is in early June.

Okay. And then, you guys were saying that you are looking to do two additional plants.

That's correct.

What is the cost associated with that?

The original plant was about $15 million, $16 million. We would – depending on the site that would probably be a fair indication of what the additional sites would be.

All right. Thanks. And then in Europe, you guys went through the North America volumes, but Europe, there was a $9.3 million decrease. What percent would you say was just general weakness in Europe versus exiting the product lines of France and Romania and Hungary?

Yeah. I would say that a goodly portion of it was exits, because we did walk away from the non-profit businesses in Romania and Hungary. We also chose to walk away from several unprofitable product lines in France. But clearly, the broader downturn is having effect in Europe as well, but at least in the quarter versus quarter comparison, a lot of the discreet choices we took proactively certainly influenced the numbers pretty extensively.

Okay, great. Well, that's all are my questions. Thanks, guys.

Mr. Lynch, there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.

Okay. Thank you. Again, thank you for your questions. I want to remind you that our Annual General and Special Shareholder Meeting has been scheduled for May 29th in Tampa. However, as a result of the S-1 registration process that is currently underway, unlike previous years, this year there will be no management presentation at the shareholder meeting. However, we do want to remind you to please get your proxy votes in, the proxy materials are accessible through the April 24th press release that is on our website. Again, thanks for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you soon. Operator, can you please provide replay instructions?

Thank you for joining the Masonite International's first quarter earnings call. This conference call has been recorded. The replay may be accessed until May 19th. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 in the U.S. or 201-612-7415 outside the U.S., enter conference ID 412607. Thank you. You may now disconnect at this time.