Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne M. Freiberger — Treasurer & Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Frederick J. Lynch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Masonite International Corp.
Mark J. Erceg — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Seth Yeager — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Philip Volpicelli — Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Michael Kim — Analyst, CRT Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Masonite's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, investors are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be accessed until November 18 by dialing 877-660-6853 in the U.S. or 201-612-7415 outside the U.S. Enter conference ID 393459.

I will now introduce Joanne Freiberger, Masonite's Vice President and Treasurer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined in our Tampa office today by Fred Lynch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Erceg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

To access the information for the webcast presentation that will accompany today's call is available on our website at www.masonite.com under the heading, About Masonite, and the subheading, Financials.

Before we begin, let me remind you that the earnings release and the presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations and the results of operations of the company, as well as general economic conditions. These beliefs and the related forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the financial statement documents made available to you on our website. Actual results may vary materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.

We supplement our GAAP reporting with a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA. Our reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of net income is provided in the appendix of the presentation and is also available on our website.

Moving to slide four, on today's call, Fred will provide a market update. Next, Mark will review 2012 third quarter and fiscal year to-date results and update full-year guidance. Fred will then summarize today's call. We will conduct a question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fred.

Thanks, Joanne. Good morning and welcome everyone. As you're already aware, during the third quarter, U.S. new single family housing starts averaged 551,000 units, which represented a 6.8% improvement versus the second quarter and a 13.1% increase versus the first quarter of 2012. More encouraging is the fact that the third quarter U.S. new single family housing starts, which had been lagging multifamily starts, were up 23.3% versus the 2011 full-year average.

Multifamily housing starts also improved 6.8% from the second to third quarter of 2012 driven in part by a particularly strong reading in September. And similar to single family starts, third quarter multifamily starts were up 25.7% versus the 2011 full-year average. So while the overall economy continues to grow at a relatively low rate, with third quarter GDP up about 2%, it now seems reasonable to conclude that the U.S. housing market is improving and is likely at the very early stages of a sustained multi-year recovery.

Growth and repair, renovation and remodeling activity has at least, to date, been a little bit more modest. With Harvard's estimated Leading Indicator of Remodeling Activity expected to increase 2.7% during the third quarter. This is a pattern that one might expect to see during the early phases of a housing expansion. As the overall housing market continues to improve and more homeowners look to personalize or update your homes, the expectation would be for repair, renovation and remodeling spending to accelerate going forward. And as you can see, the Joint Center for Housing Studies outlook is very bullish on this.

With the housing market expanding, pricing, particularly in North America, should begin to improve, but that has not occurred yet. Rather, we expect that the short-term negative price impacts from the past pricing decisions which were taken in response to industry competitive dynamics that they'll be more pronounced during the fourth quarter. This is because, as you can see from this slide 8, the positive carryover benefits derived from early 2011 pricing actions were primarily felt during the first half of the year but have been diminishing more as time goes by. Meanwhile, the competitive pricing pressures have remained relatively constant. [ph]

Four (00:05:05) pricing dynamics we believe played that central role in the recent decision by one of our major retail customers to reduce future shipments of interior doors in the Northeastern and Southwestern United States. And while we're disappointed about the loss, we still look forward to providing the Lowe's customers in other markets with high quality products at a fair price.

A detailed transition plan is being worked but the best estimate of the business impact is approximately $70 million or about 4% of Masonite's 2012 consolidated annual net sales. Looked at another way, the impact is roughly equivalent to our two most recent retail business wins, the premium fiberglass win with the Home Depot and the exterior business win in the Northeast with Lowe's.

On a more positive note, Huttig Building Products, one of our largest wholesale channel distributors, entered into a supply agreement whereby they will exclusively pre-hang and distribute Masonite exterior steel and fiberglass store products in the state of California. And this is new business from Masonite with Huttig which is still in the process of being fully sized.

In addition, the former assets of lumber products, a two-step wholesale distributor which declared bankruptcy during the second quarter of 2012 with several locations in the Western States were recently acquired by Rugby Architectural Building Products, and their decision to purchase and operate lumber products former locations further strengthens Masonite's interior and exterior door distribution west of the Rockies.

Moving to Europe, considerable downward pressure remains in construction activity, with housing permits in the UK down 16% year-over-year. In France, permits have also slowed considerably since the start of the year and are down nearly 2% versus a year ago. So given the lower housing starts in – lower housing permits, rather, in both the United Kingdom and France, and along with the unfavorable foreign exchange impact that Mark will speak to, we remain cautious with respect to our overall European business. As a result, actions have been taken and are being taken to strengthen the core by exiting non-performing product lines and customers in certain regional markets. Specifically, during the quarter, we exited Romania and Hungary and closed our sales offices in Vienna.

While not related to the European situation, but as part of our ongoing efforts to capture synergies from our strategic tuck-in acquisition program, we also closed a small MDF door facility in Greensboro, North Carolina in the quarter that had been acquired as part of the Marshfield transaction, and we consolidated that production into another Masonite facility, again, during the third quarter.

Masonite's adherence to the proven Lean Sigma methodology had us constantly looking for ways to reduce costs while running the business at an optimized level that properly balances supply and demand. Over the years, we've demonstrated the ability to quickly reduce our production footprint when market conditions change, as evidenced by the 35 plants and 14 distribution warehouses we have closed since 2006. Given that retail customer decision announced last week, supply and demand in the affected regions will be quickly adjusted and several other rationalization efforts unrelated to this retail business, which have been under review, are being accelerated.

At the same time that production is being optimized, SG&A is also being reduced. Since 2009, SG&A as a percent of sales, including and excluding recent acquisitions, is down by 140 basis points and 130 basis points, respectively. A proven track record of tightly managing production and SG&A costs throughout the downturn in the housing industry provides confidence that we can successfully manage through the current situation without any long-term margin impacts.

So with that said, let me now turn the call over to Mark to take you through the key financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Fred, and good morning, everyone. Net sales for the three months ending September 30, 2012 increased from $376 million to $425 million, an increase of $49 million or 13% versus a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $20.7 million in the third quarter last year to $25 million during the third quarter of 2012, an increase of 20.8%. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 40 basis points to 5.9% of net sales.

On slide 17, we present a closer look at our 13% increase in total consolidated net sales during the third quarter of 2012 by examining the change in net sales for each of our three reportable business segments. Incremental sales from the strategic tuck-in acquisition program were $48.9 million or 13%, all of which occurred in the North American business segment.

Growth on the base business, which includes volume, price and mix, increased total company net sales by $14 million or 3.7%. Base business growth was strongest in North America at $10.4 million driven primarily by an uptick in U.S. new housing starts on an equivalent unit basis and incremental volume from the Home Depot fiberglass program and the Lowes exterior program.

Meanwhile, base business net sales in Europe/Rest of World increased by $2 million largely due to several targeted price increases in the United Kingdom, taken during the second half of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012. Base business sales in our Africa segment were up $1.6 million during the third quarter of 2012, behind higher unit volumes, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of price and mix.

Foreign exchange was negative across all three business segments and reduced consolidated net sales by $13.9 million or roughly 30.7%. The impact of negative foreign exchange rates was particularly pronounced in our Europe/Rest of World and Africa segments where foreign exchange reduced third quarter net sales by $9.1 million and $3 million, or 9.8% and 14%, respectively.

Taking the base business discussion one step further to include adjusted EBITDA while again isolating the effects of foreign exchange, you will see on slide 18 that net sales in our base business increased by 3.7% during the third quarter, while adjusted EBITDA on our base business decreased by 4.8%. As we have previously discussed, adjusted EBITDA on our base business continues to be impacted by negative pricing dynamics across our North American residential door business.

Consolidated net sales and adjusted EBITDA both continued to benefit from our tuck-in acquisition strategy, adding $48.9 million of incremental net sales and $5.9 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA during the third quarter of 2012.

Importantly, and consistent with the past four quarters, our third quarter results exclude any potential future recovery from our business interruption insurance claim related to the explosion at Marshfield's primary production facility which occurred on July 11, 2011. Completing reconciliation, foreign exchange lowered third quarter net sales by $13.9 million and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $0.6 million.

Turning to slide 19, net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 increased from $1,105.4 million to $1,257.8 million, an increase of $152.4 million or 13.8% versus year ago. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $59.7 million in the first nine months of last year to $71.6 million during the first nine months of 2012, an increase of nearly 20%. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 30 basis points to 5.7% of net sales.

Turning to fiscal year-to-date consolidated net sales by segment, acquisitions added an incremental $142.9 million or 12.9%. During that same time period, growth on the base business increased total company net sales by $47.6 million or 4.3%. Similar to our third quarter results, base business growth for the nine months ending September 30, 2012 was strongest in North America where net sales increased by $40.4 million through a combination of higher volume and favorable mix but lower net pricing.

Europe/Rest of World saw a $1.3 million increase in base business net sales fiscal year-to-date as positive price mix and sales of components were mostly offset by lower volumes. Base business net sales in our Africa segment were up $5.9 million fiscal year-to-date behind price increases taken to counterbalance a significant weakening of the South African rand versus the U.S. dollar. Foreign exchange was negative across all three business segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and lowered net sales by $38.1 million or roughly 3.4%.

Slide 21 shows the base business reconciliation, inclusive of adjusted EBITDA and isolating impact of foreign exchange, for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 compared to the first nine months of 2011. During that time period, net sales in our base business increased by 4.3% while adjusted EBITDA on our base business decreased by 4.4%.

The reduction in base business adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to onetime costs related to the new Home Depot fiberglass business which were incurred during the first quarter of 2012, an increase in second quarter bad debt expense driven by the bankruptcy of a large customer in the West Coast of the United States, and negative pricing dynamics across the North American residential door business. The combination of these items offset positive mix from the new Home Depot fiberglass business, higher volume from an increase in U.S. new housing start equivalence, and positive price carryover from 2011.

Consolidated net sales and adjusted EBITDA both benefited from our tuck-in acquisition strategy, adding $142.9 million of incremental net sales and $17.1 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA during the first nine months of 2012. As stated earlier, foreign exchange lowered net sales for the first nine months of 2012 by $38.1 million and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $2.6 million.

Cash provided by continuing operations during the first nine months of 2012 was $28.7 million, which is up slightly from the prior year. Capital spending was $32.9 million or 2.6% of total net sales. The increase in capital spending compared to the prior year is primarily related to the timing of payments related to the automated door plant being constructed in Denmark, South Carolina. For the full year, we expect capital spending to remain below 3% of net sales and on a dollar basis to be similar to 2011 spending levels.

The acquisitions of Baillargeon, Algoma and Lemieux used $87.7 million during the nine-month period ending September 30, 2012, and the net proceeds from the March 9 issuance of additional senior unsecured notes provided $101.5 million of cash, net of fees. With $115 million of cash and cash equivalents, no short-term debt and $375 million dollars of senior unsecured long-term debt, net debt was $260 million dollars as of September 30, 2012.

Available liquidity at September 30, which included unrestricted cash and undrawn ABL in an accounts receivable purchase agreement totaled $241 million or approximately 14.7% of Masonite's trailing 12-month net sales.

Total debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was down slightly from last quarter instead of four times as of September 30, 2012 which is at the high end of our stated financial policy of three to four turns of total debt. Net debt as of September 30, 2012 was 2.8 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Our trailing 12month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio was 3.2 times and our trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.4 times.

Having reviewed the results for the first nine months of 2012, let's turn to the full-year financial outlook on slide 25. Heading into the final quarter of 2012, we remain confident in our previous top line guidance and continue to expect 2012 full-year consolidated net sales to be approximately $1.7 billion. In addition, we are comfortable reaffirming the high end of our prior 2012 EBITDA guidance range which called for adjusted EBITDA of $90 million, plus or minus $5 million.

I will now turn the call back to Fred to summarize today's call.

Thanks, Mark. So throughout the first nine months of 2012, Masonite remained committed to successfully executing against the balance set of strategies designed to create long-term value. By adhering to Masonite's strategic blueprint and focusing on the three pillars of profitable revenue and EBITDA growth, we successfully advanced several key strategic initiatives during the quarter.

First, both top and bottom line growth continued year-over-year, with Q3 net sales up 13% and adjusted EBITDA up over 20%.

Second, appropriate steps were taken to lower costs in response to changes in the marketplace. For example, we proactively managed the exposure to the Eurozone as evidenced by the decision to exit Romania and Hungary and close the offices in Vienna. As a result of these actions and others, SG&A as a percentage of net sales is down 140 basis points since 2009.

Third, revenue guidance was confirmed at $1.7 billion and adjusted EBITDA at the high end of our range.

And finally, as part of an ongoing effort to ensure we are prepared to respond quickly to changes in the capital markets, controls, compliance mechanisms and internal business processes were all further strengthened.

Today's economic and competitive marketplace is characterized by a lot of volatility. But the good news is that the overall housing market is in the early stages of what is expected to be a long-term multi-year recovery. To successfully manage in this environment, we task ourselves and the organization with being quick, nimble and decisive. That is what you will continue to see from Masonite as we squarely face new challenges head on while striving to improve our total value proposition and increase shareholder value.

So with that, I'll now turn the call back to the operator to open the line for any questions that you may have.

Thank you, Mr. Lynch. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Seth.

So, I realize that line reviews that major retailers happen all the time, but if we could get a little more additional details around that if possible. Was that business – did you ultimately feel like you were underbid by a competitor and just chose not to impact your margins there? I guess, what was just qualitatively the dynamic behind that decision?

The process that is being used at that retailer right now is for vendors to be invited to a line review. It's kind of a net best or best efforts approach. You've got a one-time opportunity to provide a price and a package of services. And then, there's no negotiation past that and they take the – what they consider to be the best value, I guess, for their decision. So, we put in what we thought was a very compelling offer. And unfortunately, the customer decided that they wanted to go with a different offer and offer. And based on our discussion with them, it was primarily based on prices.

Okay. And as far as the other products that you have with that customer, I mean, is it safe to assume that they went through that same sort of process and no changes there?

Yeah. Well, as we discussed, we went through a similar line review with them on the exterior business, and actually, we won business late last year or early this year. This took place earlier this year. So in this process of line reviews, we're going to continue to see line reviews on some regular interview. 18 to 36 months is kind of a typical expectation. Up to this point, we've been pretty fortunate in winning line reviews. This one was unfortunate. We lost the line review but we're continuing to do what's necessary at Masonite to make sure that we're remaining – offering the best services, the best capabilities, the best products and getting paid for value for those.

Yes. Now, understood. And just the guidance around the $70 million impact, is that net of expected business wins or just specific to those volumes?

Specific to those volumes.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And as far as the market dynamic, and maybe it's too early to tell that I think it just recently closed, but with the acquisition of [ph] Prep Master (00:22:41) that was disclosed publicly, do you anticipate any improvement in pricing or just what's your general thoughts on competition following that transaction?

Yeah. We continue to do what we think is right for our business, if you don't have to have the competition what they think is right for theirs.

Okay. Yeah. Fair enough. And then, just any restructuring charges that we should be aware of given some of the capacity rationalization you guys continued to do in Europe and elsewhere. Any...

We did take a series of restructuring charges in the quarter primarily for Romania and Hungary. Total of those were about $3.5 million. I think it would be reasonable to expect that there will be some additional restructuring charges as we work our way through the blueprint rationalization efforts that Fred described earlier.

Okay. And then, just finally, as far as getting your equity listed on a major exchange, is that something that you guys are looking at doing in the near-term or just any thoughts around that? Thank you.

Well, as Fred said we are continuing to do all the things that we think are necessary from an internal standpoint to be prepared to step out if market conditions warrant, but that will be a decision that would be taken at some future date.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot. Good luck.

Thanks, Seth. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. With regards to the line revenue, as a business, $70 million as a business, should we assume that that was at below or above the average EBITDA margin that you're currently operating at?

Yeah. Philip, we don't discuss margins by channel or by customers. So, we're not going to answer that question today.

Okay. All right. That's fine. And then, you mentioned these line reviews go roughly 18 to 36 months. Are there any more coming up in the next, let's say, 6 months that you are aware of?

We get notified by the – with line reviews by the customers when they're ready. Those dates can tend to change on a pretty often basis. So, we'll obviously continue to expect them, but the fact is they come up when the customers feel that it's necessarily appropriate for them to conduct the line reviews. As part of our normal operating business, we discussed the wins and losses. We were very open with the wins. We felt that it is important to be very open with the losses and we'll continue to do that as part of our disclosure process.

Yeah. We appreciate that. And I think I heard that there may be some more plants closed in North America. Is that accurate? And if so, what's kind of the timing on that?

Yeah. As part of this decision, we'll look very specifically at the plants that service the retail channel. As you may be aware, we have what we call door fabs which are exclusively set up to support our retail customers. So obviously, when a move like this happens, we need to take a look at that capability. But we also continue, as you saw from the slide earlier, to constantly look at our footprint and look for ways to improve our footprint and optimize our supply chain for our customers. And so, we have many things that we work on, whether it's automation, whether it's consolidation, we have acquisitions that we've bought in place that we're still going through the process integration. So, you would expect us to continue to look very hard at our footprint using our Lean Sigma methodology and look for ways to continue to drive cost out of the business.

Great. And last one from me on acquisitions, anything eminent that you guys are willing to discuss?

Nothing we're willing to discuss at this point.

Great. Thank you. Good luck.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with CRT. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. I'm not sure if I heard this in the prepared remarks, but did you give a sense of price versus volume for the three different geographic reporting segments?

We do provide some perspective on that. So for the three months ending September 30, what I would tell you that on a consolidated basis, if you look at unit volumes, they did tend to drive the majority, we refer to as base business growth. We have not chosen to specifically break out volume from price for a mix per se, but I can tell you that unit volume was the biggest piece of that reconciliation on a consolidated basis and most of that came from the North American business segment.

And would you say that's pretty consistent across Europe/Rest of the World and the other segment?

No. What I would suggest to you is that the unit volume was strongest in North America where the housing market is beginning to show some signs of progressing and moving forward over in places like Europe where we've talked about housing permits and other things being down. Unit volume is actually then down on the quarter as well. Last time in the second quarter release, we talked about the fact that there actually was some unprofitable business in France that we chose to walk away from. That's also affecting it to some extent.

I see. And thinking about the addition of acquisitions to your top line, could you give us a sense of how that compares year-over-year for the acquisitions that you've made just on sales and perhaps EBITDA?

What I would tell you again is what we referred to earlier in the presentation, if you look for the third quarter results, what we have said is that acquisitions drove close to $50 million of incremental revenue into the quarter. As you think about that from an EBITDA standpoint, that was about $6 million, which, again, is consistent with the language we've used in the past to describe the fact that those businesses, particularly with synergies coming online, tend to be double-digit in nature as far as our EBITDA margins are concerned.

Right. Okay. And could you just refresh us, on a pro forma basis assuming that all these acquisitions are reflected for the last 12 months, what does your sales look like and your EBITDA look like?

On a pro forma basis, if you think about the current year, we've guided to $1.7 billion in sales. What I would tell you is that if you look at the acquisition dates of the businesses that we have acquired this year, Baillargeon, Algoma and Lemieux, when we have acquired those businesses, we've spoken very specifically to what the trailing 12-month sales were and the trailing 12-month EBITDA was. So, you could go back and annualize those effects out pretty cleanly based on our prior language.

Thank you. Okay, great. And in terms of 2013, is there any sort of guidance you'd be willing to provide on either top line or even EBITDA?

That'd be very premature, so certainly, not at this time.

Understood. Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Jonathan Farrugia (00:30:04) with [indiscernible] (00:30:05). Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Just a quick question on the commercial door business. How are you seeing that end market this year and what are you getting from your customers in terms of both repair and remodel, as well as new construction in that work?

That's a great question, [ph] Jonathan (00:30:24). Yeah, I would say that earlier in the year, we started to see an uptick in the commercial door market. There was somewhat of a low in the third quarter and we heard that from our customer base and throughout the industry. There's a lot – a lot of those projects require substantial financing, [ph] active (00:30:43) financing. I think there was a lot of hesitation with the elections upcoming and the decision on the fiscal cliff as to making sure that there was funding in place for those.

Lots of projects on the drawing board, lots of quotes and future looks of things, so we expect based on the data that we're seeing from [ph] Drucker and McGraw-Hill (00:31:05) that we'll start to see a pickup in that business. But I'll tell you right now, there's a lot of uncertainty in commercial. From our perspective, it's allowing us to make sure that we're staying focused on the opportunity to drive the integration of the businesses, which is going very well, and we think we're going to be extremely well prepared as that market starts to pick up and we're looking forward to when that happens.

Got it. And can you just remind us, if you have for what the split is between kind of retrofit versus new construction in those commercial door businesses?

Yeah, that data is a lot more complicated to get at because we've tried to do that by each of the different projects, whether it's in hotel versus government versus hospitality. So, it's not something that we share per se. High level estimates is that today, it's more than half on retrofit, but I will tell you that the data in the way comes in it's very hard to work through that process. It's something that we'll continue to look at ways to provide more information to our investors as we go forward.

Got it. And just one more on that, in terms of end markets, how much of that is publicly-funded sources, I guess? [ph]

Jonathan (00:32:27), we don't have that question with us today, but we can get back to you on that in our best estimate.

Okay. Great. Thanks so much.

You're welcome.

Our next question is a follow-up question from Seth Yeager with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. Just maybe at a high level with some of the damage here in the Northeast. Any sense as to why your market share here is and what impact you may see over the next couple of quarters with some replacement of doors on damaged homes?

Yeah, I would say that the first thing is, listen, this is a very unfortunate situation that is occurred and a lot of families have been very negatively affected, and obviously, our first thoughts go out to those families in dealing with this situation. Between our distributors and our businesses, we're going to make sure that we're available to help and support the reconstruction as that occurs. From a regional market share perspective, we don't give that out, but I will tell you that we have the capability and the wherewithal to make sure that those folks who are negatively affected by this storm are going to have the opportunity to put the Masonite product as they start to rebuild their homes.

Okay. Appreciate it. Thank you.

Mr. Lynch, it appears we have no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, if there are no further questions, we thank you again for participating in our call today and we look forward to seeing you in our next call following up on the fourth quarter. Thanks very much.

Thank you for joining the Masonite International Third Quarter Earnings Call. This conference call has been recorded. The replay may be accessed until November 18. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 in the U.S. or 201-612-7415 outside the U.S. Enter conference ID 393459.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.