corrected transcript


Masonite International Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Masonite International Second Quarter 2007 Earnings Call for investors.


[Operator Instructions]. I will now introduce Fred Arnold, Executive Vice President, Finance of


Masonite International. Sir, you may go ahead.


Frederick Arnold, Executive Vice-President, Finance


Thank you Catherine and good morning everyone. Before we begin, let me remind you that this call


contains forward looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team


regarding the operations and the results of the operations of the company as well as general


economic conditions. These beliefs and the related forward-looking statements are subject to


substantial risks and uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the press release,


issued earlier today. Actual results may vary materially from those described in these forward-


looking statements.


This morning we will review Masonite’s results for the second quarter and first half of 2007. We


released summary results for the quarter earlier this morning and this information is also available


on our website through Interlink and other media. Complete un-audited quarterly financial


statements will be filed with the SEC in the near future. Finally, please note we will not be providing


specific future guidance or projections on expected revenues, earnings, or cash flow for the


remainder of the year.


Without further preliminaries, allow me to introduce Fred Lynch, President and Chief Executive


Officer of Masonite International.


Frederick J. Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Fred and good morning everyone. Before we begin, I want to take a minute to thank Ken


Freeman who stepped into the role of CEO at Masonite a few months after joining KKR. And over


his 20 months’ tenure established a clear direction and strategy, to take Masonite from a good


company today to a great company tomorrow. Much of the progress we have made to date is the


direct result of Ken’s focus on building capabilities and developing talent. It’s been a pleasure and


an honor working with Ken, and we all look forward to his continued guidance in his role of


Chairman of our Board.


In our last few calls, we have discussed how Masonite has been weathering the storm in the North


American housing market. In the midst of these difficult conditions, I am very pleased with


Masonite’s performance in the second quarter. During the second quarter, we began and largely


completed the transition of a significant portion of our business with the Home Depot, to another


supplier. This was a complex operational task and we were unwavering in our commitment to the


Home Depot to maintain the highest standards of quality and customer service throughout this


transition and we did that. As such I am particularly delighted that the hard work of everyone at


Masonite contributed to our ability to expand our profit margin in the quarter despite significantly


reduced sales volume and the added transitional cost.


Without question, Masonite finds itself today in a challenging market environment. North American


housing market, our largest market is not getting any better. And the turmoil, in the sub-prime


lending sector has only added fuel to the fire. I am not telling you anything that you already don’t


know. Most recent U.S. Census Bureau Housing statistics continue to track significantly below last


year. June housing starts came in at an adjusted annual rate of 1,467,000, 19.4% below the


revised June 2006 rates of 1,819,000 starts. The rate of new housing permits issued, which is an
corrected transcript


Masonite International Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


indicator of the future housing starts and an early predictor of Masonite’s volume 6 to 9 months


from now were also very weak in June at 1,406,000 according to the Census Bureau. And that’s


more than 25% below the issuance rate in June of 2006.


Then there is a National Association of Home Builders forecast for housing starts over the next 18


months. Their most recent estimate of housing starts in 2007 is 1,425,000, more than 21% below


2006 housing starts and more than 31% below the peak in 2005. This equates to a second half


adjusted rate of only 1.39 million starts. And the forecasts provided continue to weaken each


month, really making it difficult to predict where the bottom will be. Back in January, the NAHB


predicted starts would rebound to 1.7 million in 2008; their most recent estimate is only 1,445,000


starts in 2008. So basically the same level we are seeing today. At this point the U.S. housing


market continues to be weak and there is no clear indication of when it will begin to recover.


Activity in our markets in Western Europe is also beginning to ebb somewhat. As you recall the


markets in the U.K. and France provided important strength to Masonite in the first quarter, and


they still do. In second quarter, they began to soften though from the particularly strong


performance they experienced in the first quarter. Although we do not expect a major down turn in


Europe like we are experiencing in North America, these markets could be materially less robust in


the second half of 2007. Consequently, we continue to assess additional actions to ensure


appropriate balance of manufacturing capacity needed to support the anticipated customer demand


around the world.


We have currently closed 5 facilities dedicated to the Home Depot I’ve also closed an interior door


manufacturing plant in eastern Canada as part of our plan, to match capacity with demand and to


minimize the impact on earnings caused by this top-line weakness we face. At the same time, we


are aggressively striving to improve our levels of customer service to increase our business with


existing customers and to win new customers in the North American market, while simultaneously


increasing our focus on growing our business outside of the U.S. I will return to these initiatives


after Fred Arnold overviews the second quarter financial results.


Frederick Arnold, Executive Vice-President, Finance


Thank you, Fred. As Fred mentioned, North American weakness and our loss of business with the


Home Depot were the two biggest challenges Masonite faced in the second quarter. Revenues of


$589 million were 10.4% below the $658 million achieved in the second quarter of 2006, and 12.3%


below prior year period on a constant currency basis. In our North American segment, where we


felt only a partial quarter impact of the Home Depot loss, revenues fell 18% on a constant currency


basis. Now it may sound somewhat odd to speak of constant currency in North America, but in fact


the Canadian dollar strengthened rather dramatically during the quarter. This benefited our results


noticeably and there can be no assurance that this trend will continue in future periods.


Strength in Europe, Europe has become an increasing portion of our business as North America


weakened as our businesses in Europe gain traction and as the U.S. dollar has weakened. Our


Europe and Other segment now constitutes approximately 28% of our sales up from 21% in 2005


and slightly over 21.5% in the second quarter of 2006. In the quarter just ended, sales in our


Europe and Other segment of $164.2 million were $22.6 million greater than sales achieved in the


second quarter of 2006 of $141.6 million. This is an increase of 16% over the prior year period and


8.7% on a constant currency basis. Said another way, of the $22.6 million of sales growth quarter-


over-quarter in the Europe and Other segment, $12.3 million of those dollars was due to organic


growth and 10.3 million was due to currency.


In light of the top-line weakness in North America, we are pleased to have achieved adjusted


EBITDA of $91.9 million, that’s only $3.1 million shy of the second quarter of 2006, which many of


you on this call will remember was a particularly busy quarter in the door business. The housing