Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne M. Freiberger — Treasurer & Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Frederick J. Lynch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Masonite International Corp.
Mark J. Erceg — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Adam Rudiger — Senior Analyst - Equity Research, Wells Fargo Securities

Management Discussion Section

Hello. Welcome to Masonite's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, investors are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be accessed until August 18. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 in the United States or 201-612-7415 outside of the United States, enter conference ID 418425 followed by the pound sign. I will now introduce Joanne Freiberger, Masonite's Vice President and Treasurer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Dana and good morning, everyone. Before we begin today's call, we would like to remind everyone that Masonite has a registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Due to this filing and the related Federal security laws and regulations, we will not be providing any additional comments related to the filing or providing financial guidance for fiscal 2013 during today's call.

I'm joined in our Tampa office today by Fred Lynch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Erceg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The access information for the webcast presentation that will accompany today's call is available on our website at www.masonite.com under the heading Investors. The earnings release and presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations and the results of the operations of the company as well as general economic conditions. These beliefs and the related forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the financial statement documents that are made available to you on our website. Actual results may vary materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.

We do supplement our GAAP reporting with the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of net income is provided in the appendix of the presentation.

On today's call, Fred will provide a company and industry update. Next, Mark will review 2013 second quarter results, after which Fred will summarize the call. A question-and-answer session will follow our prepared remarks.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Fred.

Thanks, Joanne. Good morning and welcome, everyone. Before we begin, we want to acknowledge the tragic train accident in Lac-Mégantic, Québec last month. Masonite employs nearly 400 people at our two plants in Lac-Mégantic, which is a significant portion of that town's population of 6,000 people. And we're sad to share that three of our employees and many more family members and friends were killed in that accident and our thoughts and prayers remain with all of those affected.

As participation in our calls have increased lately, we thought it would make sense to briefly discuss the strategies we've been pursuing over the last several years as part of our journey to transform Masonite into a world-class building products company. For those of you who have been maybe more familiar with the story, we appreciate your patience as we walk through this. As you know, Masonite has been investing in three core pillars of growth that guide our strategic decision-making process: strengthening the core, driving organic growth, and pursuing strategic tuck-in acquisitions.

To strengthen the core, we implemented a disciplined continuous improvement culture and adopted Lean Sigma processes which have generated over $100 million in cumulative benefits since 2006. During that same period, we closed 53 manufacturing and distribution facilities and reduced total head count, inclusive of acquisitions by approximately 40%. While these actions dramatically reduced costs and improved responsiveness of our global production network, we recognized the importance and strategic benefits associated with moving away from the slow labor-intensive and antiquated manufacturing processes practiced by the industry. After years of development work, the culmination of that vision can now be seen in Denmark, South Carolina, where we have recently commissioned the industry's first fully automated residential interior door assembly plant.

In addition to strengthening the core, we have been focused on driving organic growth opportunities, in spite of a declining market. At Masonite, we believe organic growth is rooted in innovation, which can take many forms. For example, we have been an industry leader in both new product introductions and e-commerce initiatives, such as Masonite Xpress MAX Configurator, which is a suite of proprietary e-commerce tools designed to simplify and streamline the door ordering process across every step of the value chain.

While we believe our efforts to transform Masonite by strengthening the core and driving organic growth represent business imperatives in their own way, we recognized early on that our position in the door industry needed to change in order to create sustainable shareholder value. Consistent with this, we have completed 11 strategic tuck-in acquisitions since March 2010, building leadership positions and strengthening our level of vertical integration across each of the targeted North American doors markets. As a result, it's not just Masonite that has dramatically changed in recent years. The landscape within which we operate has undergone a rapid and substantial shift as well. As shown on slide 6, significant industry consolidation has taken place in the North American residential interior door and interior molded facing segments within the last three years.

Similarly as you can see on slide 7, our strategic tuck-in acquisition program has led to consolidation in the commercial and architectural interior wood door space for specified applications such as schools, offices and hotels. Most recently, the residential wood, stile and rail door segment has also been transformed with the acquisition of Lemieux last year and the recently announced acquisition of selected assets of Masisa.

Masisa, which is based in Chile, principally serves North American residential wood door customers. This acquisition broadens and complements Lemieux's portfolio of interior wood, stile and rail door products in North America, further strengthening Masonite's position as a leading player in the residential wood door segment. And we welcome the nearly 300 Masonite employees – sorry, Masisa employees to Masonite.

We believe the work we have done to strengthen the core, drive organic growth and help transform Masonite from our tuck-in acquisition program is creating a unique set of capabilities that will be increasingly difficult for others to replicate. For example, we now oversee all aspects of our door manufacturing process from die fabrication, to facings production, to slab assembly, to pre-hanging and pre-finishing. We own over 1,000 molded door dyes, have 5 global molded door facing facilities, 28 residential door assembly plants, and 9 door fab plants that specialize in door pre-hanging and pre-finishing. The replacement value of our five global facings facility alone is in excess of $1 billion. We also make our own door core and fabricate key components such as stile and rails and wood veneers.

With such a large installed asset base, full vertical integration, a strong commitment to new product development, e-commerce initiatives and automation set against the backdrop of industry consolidation, we believe that Masonite is creating a fundamentally new business and becoming a stronger and more important partner to our customers.

And frankly, we don't think these efforts could have come at a better time. With a third of our North American revenue tied to the new housing market, 45% to repair, renovation and remodeling, and over 20% to the commercial construction market, we believe that the transformative company and industry-wide changes just discussed put Masonite in a strong position to benefit from a multi-leg, multi-state recovery over the next several years.

So, with that, I'll turn the call over to Mark to discuss specifically our second quarter financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Fred, and good morning, everyone. Door volume, net sales and adjusted EBITDA were all up during the second quarter of 2013 versus the comparable 2012 period. Door volume increased 3.9%, net sales were up 4.7% and adjusted EBITDA increased 24.5%.

Turning to slide 13, net sales increased in absolute terms for the three months ended June 30, 2013 from $432.8 million to $453.1 million or $20.3 million. During the same time period, adjusted EBITDA rose by $6.6 million. Importantly, this equates to an incremental pass-through rate of 32.5%.

We were able to achieve a high incremental pass-through rate during the second quarter because of several business initiatives. First, our strategic tuck-in acquisition program continues to provide benefits as we leveraged the scale created by our new North American commercial and architectural interior wood door platform to extract cost and operational synergies. Second, the pricing actions taken in the first quarter of 2013 across the U.S. wholesale channel positively impacted average unit price during the second quarter. Finally, the decisions taken last year to proactively discontinue certain unprofitable product lines in France and exit Romania and Hungary positively impacted margins during the second quarter of 2013 versus the comparable base period.

Taken together, these business initiatives and a $1 million year-over-year benefit from a reduction in bad debt expense helped increase adjusted EBITDA margin by 120 basis points to 7.4% in the second quarter of 2013 compared to 6.2% a year ago. While we are pleased with the high level of incremental pass-through achieved during the quarter, we believe it would be premature at this time to expect this level of incremental pass-through on a going forward basis, due in part to an expectation that inflationary pressures may become more pronounced during the second half of the year.

On slide 14, we present a closer look at our increase in total consolidated net sales during the second quarter of 2013 by examining the change in net sales for each of our three reportable business segments and the impact of volume, change in average unit price, component sales and foreign exchange on each segment. Net sales in our North America segment increased by 9.4% or nearly $30 million. Approximately two-thirds of the increase was driven by higher volume due to incremental sales from 2012 acquisitions and increased residential new construction in the United States. The remaining third of the year-over-year increase in North America net sales was due to positive changes in average unit price that trace back to the first quarter of U.S. wholesale price increase previously discussed and more favorable mix, partly offset by negative pricing dynamics across our North American retail business. It is worth noting that this is the first time in two years that we've seen gains in average unit prices across our North American segment.

Net sales in our Europe, Asia and Latin America segment decreased 6.5% or $6.1 million compared to the second quarter last year. The $12.7 million decline in volume was primarily due to the broader market downturn in Europe, our decision to proactively discontinue certain unprofitable product lines in France, and our decision to exit the unprofitable Romania and Hungary markets. This volume decline was partially offset by a $7.6 million benefit from an increase in average unit price behind targeted price increases and more favorable mix.

Net sales in our South Africa segment decreased 14.9%. Since the modest increase in unit volume was fully offset by unfavorable changes in average unit price, the entire decrease was due to the dramatic weakening of the South African rand versus the U.S. dollar, which reduced net sales from our South Africa segment by $3.3 million versus year ago.

Turning to slide 15, second quarter results shows adjusted EBITDA continues to trend upward. This is particularly evident when comparing 2013 second quarter results to the two preceding years, which shows quarterly earnings up 25% versus the second quarter of 2012 and 63% versus the second quarter of 2011. Admittedly, much of this growth has come from our strategic tuck-in acquisition program, but our disciplined approach to cost management has also played an important role. Based on the investments we have made in automation, new products, e-commerce and tuck-in acquisitions to lower cost and strengthen our market position, we expect this generally upward trend in adjusted EBITDA to continue as the emerging recovery in new housing gains momentum.

While adjusted EBITDA has shown steady growth over the past couple of years, it is important to note that historically third quarter adjusted EBITDA is generally flat or slightly below second quarter levels due to seasonal influences like the countrywide slowdown experienced in France each August. While we are clearly encouraged by our second quarter results, we are also mindful of what may be a widening gap between new housing starts and new housing completions.

As the charts on slide 17 illustrate, the growth rate of equivalent U.S. housing completions have significantly lagged the growth rate of equivalent new U.S. housing starts since January of 2010. In previous calls, we have discussed some of the factors that may be contributing to this phenomenon such as a lack of skilled labor, constraints in the permitting process, and the challenge for both businesses and consumers to qualify for financing.

More recently, we heard industry watchers speculate on another factor that may be influencing the gap between new housing starts and new housing completions. Specifically that in an effort to recover margin lost during the downturn and offset increases in construction costs, some homebuilders may be trying to achieve more balance between units sold and average unit prices than during past recoveries.

Turning quickly to liquidity, cash flow and balance sheet metrics, available liquidity at June 30, which included unrestricted cash and undrawn ABL and an accounts receivable purchase agreement totaled $228.6 million or approximately 13.3% of Masonite's last 12 months' net sales. Total debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA stood at 3.4 times as of June 30, 2013, down from 4.2 times as of June 30, 2012 and was comfortably within our stated financial policy range of 3.5 turns of total debt, plus or minus 0.5 turn. Net debt as of June 30, 2013 was 2.6 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio was 3.4 times and our trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.1 times.

Cash flow from continuing operations during the first half of 2013 was $2.8 million compared to a use of $12.3 million in the comparable 2012 period. Capital spending was $16.3 million, which as a percent of net sales was 1.9% during the first half. For the full year, we expect capital spending to be less than 3% of total net sales.

We should also point out that while the acquisition of selected assets of Masisa door manufacturing closed in the third quarter of 2013, the funds for the acquisition were moved into an escrow account and were listed as restricted cash as of June 30, 2013.

With $92.9 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $378.2 million of total debt, net debt was $285.3 million as of June 30, 2013.

I will now turn the call back to Fred to summarize today's discussion.

Great. Thanks, Mark. So we're pleased with our second quarter results. We grew both the top and bottom line, and as Mark indicated earlier, we generated a high incremental pass-through rate versus year ago by making tough choices and focusing on our key strategic initiatives. For example, during the second quarter, we set the stage for our recent strategic tuck-in acquisition, which further strengthened our position in the important North American wood, stile and rail door category, deepens our level of vertical integration and provides our customers with several new product choices.

We continue to invest in our e-commerce initiatives. Having already trained over 600 dealers on the Masonite Xpress MAX Configurator, and we continued our automation efforts by reviewing site selection criteria for the next two fully automated residential interior molded door plants.

While we continue to make strategic investments in support of the business, macroeconomic conditions in our largest market, the United States, remain positive. New home sales recently posted their strongest month in five years. New housing starts continue to trend higher. Repair, renovation and remodeling spending is increasing, and overall economic growth, albeit slower than any of us would prefer, continues to set the stage for a future recovery in commercial construction.

At the same time, we remain cognizant of several factors. First, there may be bumps in the rate of recovery in the U.S. market due to the impact of material and labor shortages, as well as mortgage availability and the affordability dynamics. Second, inflationary pressures may become more acute going forward as the economic recovery progresses and pricing dynamics across our North American retail business still remain challenging. Third, the outlook for much of Europe, particularly outside Germany, remains uncertain. And finally, a strengthening dollar against currencies such as the Indian rupee and South African rand may continue to represent financial headwinds.

So, against this backdrop and despite these challenges, we believe Masonite is well positioned for the future, because Masonite has built leading market positions and a strong portfolio of brands behind a strong innovation and continuous improvement culture at the beginning of what many expect to be a multi-year, multi-stage recovery. As such, we remain confident that the investments we have made and the strategies we are pursuing will deliver sustainable top and bottom line growth and will increase shareholder value.

And finally, since we remain in registration with the SEC, we are unable to comment on our S-1 filing or anything related to a potential equity offering.

So, with that, let me close our prepared remarks by thanking all of the dedicated employees of Masonite whose hard work and passion for winning is driving the force behind our success thus far.

I'll now turn the call back to the operator to open the line for questions.

Thank you, Mr. Lynch. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from [ph] Jeff Jaeger of Jefferies (00:20:42). Please proceed with your question.

Hey good morning, solid quarter.

Thanks Jeff.

Is it a – a nice pickup in pricing during the quarter, is it fair to say the increases that you put through earlier this year were fully implemented and you had mentioned some possible input inflation in the second half, are there any further price increases out there in the market?

Yeah, I would say that and this is Fred, the first, the price increases that we had earlier in the year in the wholesale channel, in North America and some of the price increases that we put in place at the end of last year in our European businesses, all were implemented successfully. We consider them a success. We are concerned about inflationary pressures as we move into the second half of the year and obviously with respect to that, we would be looking hard at making sure we found ways to overcome those inflationary pressures. But to the actual plans, at this point in time we can't comment on whether or not we plan to have any price increases in the second half of the year.00:21:46

Okay, that's fair enough. And you guys have shown some really nice leverage on SG&A really over the past two years now. Is there a certain level of volumes or revenue to think about where you may start to see a little bit of creep on costs that you had previously taken out? And then just with the ramp up of some of your new facilities, do you have any updates on your incremental margin targets?

I'll go through the first answer. With respect to SG&A, I think what we're seeing is a change in how and where we spend our dollars with respect to SG&A. As we do things like automate facilities, as we put more IT capabilities into the company, we take out certain SG&A costs related to what I'd call administrative work and then we replace that with other SG&A costs. So, I think we'll see that on an ongoing basis where we'll be reinvesting in SG&A in areas that will really benefit the company for the long haul.

And the second question was? [indiscernible]

(00:22:50) just the margin – incremental margins with the ramp up of some of your new facilities?

Yeah, we haven't provided any specifics about how accretive we expect the automated facility to become over time. We obviously have talked about the fact that at the last housing peak, our margins were in excess of 13%. And we believe because of all the cost takeout work and the investment that we've made that we should be able to get back to double-digit margins at some point in the future, if our macro assumptions hold.

Okay. And then just last one on the M&A front, is it possible to provide any metrics behind the most recent transaction or cross-selling opportunities and just given the industry consolidation and vertical integration you guys have put together, what sort of opportunities are there out there now given that you still have fair amount of dry powder? Thanks. Good luck.

Okay, thanks. With respect to the recent acquisition, we're not providing any details beyond what we have shared thus far. I will say though that we think the Masisa door operations are very strategic, they definitely bind well with the capabilities that we have in place. It was a gap in our product offering with respect to what we felt we needed to provide to our customers. So, overall, we're very encouraged by the fact that we're able to complete that acquisition.

So, one thing I would say as it relates to Masisa, just to set expectations is that given the assets that we acquired, it is likely that some of those sales will be used to provide our own internal needs. And so, I wouldn't expect to see a meaningful increase in external revenues per se, like you saw with some of the other acquisitions we did bring in.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Two questions on the retail segment. First, can you quantify for us if you can what do you think the impact from the Lowe's loss was? And then can you discuss the – I think in prepared remarks you talked about some more pricing pressure in the retail channel, could you discuss that?

Yeah. Over the last year, we had a couple of activities occur in the retail channel. You rightly recalled that we mentioned back in the fourth quarter that we had lost some significant business at Lowe's. We at the time estimated that to be roughly $70 million on an annualized basis. That is progressing over time. So, what I can tell you is that we did not lose that level in the first two quarters of this year. The number was much lower than that in the first quarter. But we do expect that to continue to move towards that number as we get towards the end of the year.

With respect to the pricing dynamics, there was a line review for both The Home Depot – well, obviously, with line review in the fourth quarter for Lowe's, we had a line review for The Home Depot earlier this year. On an overall volume basis, we were about in the same results as where we ended the following year. And the pricing dynamics were difficult [ph] through that (00:26:05) line review.

Okay. So I mean, can you just talk about how the competition – I mean, does the competition view and you view pricing strategies differently in the wholesale channel versus the retail channel, recognizing that despite some of the same competition?

Yeah. I think it's going to be a more of a timing issue than anything. The timing of the line reviews at retail occurred just as the market was rebounding, and probably prior to some of the inflationary pressures that we saw. So, I think that over time, that those two channels will have to move in concert.

Okay. Thanks. That's all I had. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] I would now turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing comments.

Well, we always love it when we provide so much information on our calls that we don't get any question. So again, we want to thank everyone for participating in the call today and if there's no further questions, we look forward to speaking to you again soon. Thank you.

Operator, can you please provide replay of the instructions.

Certainly.

Thank you.

Thank you for joining the Masonite International Second Quarter Earnings Call. This conference has been recorded. The replay may be accessed until August 18. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 in the United States or 201-612-7415 outside of the United States, and your conference ID 418425 followed by the pound sign.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.