corrected transcript


Masonite International Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Masonite International Third Quarter 2007 Earnings Call for investors.


During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management’s prepared


remarks, you are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is


being recorded. The replay may be accessed until December 8th, 2007, by dialing toll free 1-800-


695-0673 pass code 3626.


I will now introduce Chris Virostek, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Masonite


International. Please go ahead sir.


Christopher A. Virostek, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer


Thank you and good morning. Before we begin, let me remind you that this call contains forward-


looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations


and the results of the operations of the company, as well as general economic conditions. These


beliefs and the related forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties


which are described in greater detail in the press release issued earlier today. Actual results may


vary materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.


This morning, I am joined in our Tampa office by Fred Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer


of Masonite International and Tony DiLucente, our recently appointed Chief Financial Officer. We


will review Masonite’s results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2007. We released


summary results earlier this morning and this information is also available on our website, through


interlink and other media. Complete unaudited quarterly financial statements will be filed with the


SEC in the near future.


Finally, please note we will not be providing specific future guidance or projections on expected


revenues, earnings or cash flow for the remainder of the year. Without further preliminaries, allow


me to introduce Fred Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer of Masonite International. Fred?


Frederick J. Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Chris, and good morning everyone. Hopefully – for those of you were on the call last


quarter – we won’t have any glitches and we’ll able to stay online the whole time. I would like to


take a minute just to introduce Tony DiLucente. Tony joins me tonight with 28 years of experience,


most recently as Vice President of Finance for Johns Manville’s Engineered Products Group. Prior


to this role, Tony spent 11 years at Honeywell International – formerly Allied Signal – in a variety of


positions, including general management roles – and eventually becoming Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer of the Honeywell Nylon Group. Previously, he had spent 13 years with the


DuPont Company; and Tony’s leadership experience in finance and general management at


leading manufacturing companies will add significant value to our global organization. So, welcome,


Tony.


At the same time, , I would also like to extend my thanks to Fred Arnold. As many of you know,


prior to joining Masonite, Fred had previously served as the Group Chief Administrative Officer at


Willis Group Holdings, which – like Masonite – had been taken private by KKR (Kohlberg Kravis


and Roberts) and where Fred played an important role in the turnaround and subsequent


successful IPO of that company.


When Masonite found itself without a Chief Financial Officer in early 2006, Fred agreed to step in


and lead the finance organization to help build capabilities and develop talent throughout the team.
corrected transcript


Masonite International Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Today, we have a finance organization with stronger values, more talent, and better processes


thanks to Fred’s leadership. Fred Arnold has been tireless in his efforts to drive improvements at


Masonite and we thank him for his help, guidance and support.


Now let us get to the task at hand and discuss our performance in the third quarter and what we are


doing at Masonite to weather the storm of this extremely difficult North American housing market.


In spite of the tough conditions, I’m pleased with Masonite’s performance in the third quarter,


especially when you consider that the third quarter represented a quarter that was largely devoid of


any business – of the business that the Home Depot transitioned to another supplier earlier this


year, as a result of price increases that we put in place back in 2006. And I’m particularly delighted


that the hard work of everyone at Masonite contributed to our ability to maintain our profit margin in


this quarter, despite significantly reduced sales volume.


Without question, Masonite finds itself today in a challenging business environment. And North


American housing markets – our largest market – is not getting any better and the turmoil in the


sub-prime lending sector has only added fuel to the fire.


The most recent U.S. Census Bureau housing statistics continue to track significantly below last


year. September housing starts came in at an adjusted annual rate of 1.91 million, 30.8% below the


September 2006 rate of 1.72 million starts.


The rate of new housing permit issues, an indicator of future business starts and an early predictor


of Masonite volume 6 to 9 months from now, was also very weak in September – at just 1.226


million, according to the Census Bureau. That’s more than 25% below the issuance rate in


September 2006.


We all know that 2006 was not a banner year. If these comparisons are measured against 2005,


housing starts are down 45% and permits are down 46%, respectively. The National Association of


Home Builders forecast for housing starts over the next 18 months is not particularly encouraging


either. While back in January, NAHB predicted starts to rebound to 1.7 million in 2008, their most


recent estimate is now only 1.2 million starts – 12% below the current 2000 estimate and more than


42% below the 2005 peak. Frankly, we believe this is an aggressive outlook. Suffice it to say, the


U.S. housing market continues to struggle and there’s not a clear indication of when or if we will


begin to recover.


Activity in our markets in Western Europe is also beginning to ebb somewhat. As you recall, the


markets in the U.K. and France provided important strength for Masonite in the first half – and they


still do. In the third quarter, they began to soften from the particularly strong performance they


experienced in the first half – and, although we do not expect a major downturn in Europe like we


are experiencing in North America, these markets could be materially less robust in the last quarter


of 2007 and in 2008. On a brighter note, activity in our emerging business in Central and Eastern


Europe actually accelerated in the third quarter and Masonite remains focused on further growth


opportunities in these regions.


Starting in the fourth quarter last year, we began proactively addressing our cost structure in


anticipation of the downturn in North America – and we continue to assess additional action to


ensure the appropriate balance of manufacturing capacity required to support anticipated customer


demand around the world. In 2007, we have permanently closed five facilities dedicated to the


Home Depot, an interior door manufacturing plant in Eastern Canada and are nearing the


completion of the consolidation of our manufacturing operations in Florida.


Shortly after the end of the third quarter, we implemented additional reduction in staffing levels


across the company and further tightened our focus on discretionary spending – particularly in fixed


overhead and our SG&A account. Our global staffing level is down approximately 25% since mid-