Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne M. Freiberger — Treasurer & Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Frederick J. Lynch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Masonite International Corp.
Mark J. Erceg — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Stephen Kim — Equity Research - Homebuilding andBuilding Products, Barclays Capital
Lee Dickson Brading — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Nishu Sood — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Masonite's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, investors are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be accessed until March 10, by dialing 877-660-6853 within the United States or 201-612-7415 outside of the United States, and you'll need to enter conference ID number, 409233.

I will now introduce Joanne Freiberger, Masonite's Vice President and Treasurer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Danielle, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined today in our Tampa office by Fred Lynch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Erceg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

The access information for the webcast presentation that will accompany today's call is available on our website at www.masonite.com, under the heading About Masonite, and the subheading Investor Relations.

Before we begin, let me remind you that the earnings release and the presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations, and the results of the operations of the company as well as general economic conditions. These beliefs and related forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which are described in greater detail in the financial statement documents made available to you on our website. Actual results may vary materially from those described in the forward looking statements.

We do supplement our GAAP reporting with a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of net income or loss attributable to Masonite is provided in the appendix of the presentation and is also available on our website. On today's call, Fred will provide a market update. Next, Mark will review 2012 fourth quarter and full year results, after which Fred will summarize today's call. A question-and-answer session will follow our prepared remarks.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Fred.

Thanks, Joanne. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. After the market closed yesterday, we filed registration statement with the SEC related to a proposed initial public offering of Masonite International common shares. Due to this filing and related financial or federal security laws and regulations, we will not be providing any additional comments related to the filing or providing financial guidance for fiscal 2013, during today's call.

Okay. With that let's turn to a quick market update. U.S. new single-family housing start continued to trend upward with a quarterly average increasing sequentially throughout the year, peaking during the fourth quarter at 589,000 starts. This represented an increase of 8% versus the third quarter of 2012, and 21% versus the first quarter.

January's total U.S. new housing starts number, which was just released last week, was down 8.5% below December, but single-family starts were actually up 0.8%. And since a typical single-family home is approximately 24 doors versus 12 doors in a multifamily unit, we continue to believe that single-family starts are a better indicator of expected future unit demand for our products.

Having said that, please keep in mind that the rate of single-family housing completions is significantly lagging the rate of single-family housing starts. And this is important because doors and specifically interior doors are typically installed towards the later stages of new home construction. [indiscernible]

(03:57) sales while single-family housing starts increased 24% in 2012 versus 2011, single-family completions increased by only 9%. Currently, the gap between single-family starts and single-family completions is 49,000 units above the historic average. We believe it may be due to a number of factors, including continued difficulties related to mortgage financing, shortages of trained labor, inefficiencies in the ramping of material supply chains and bottlenecks in the land developing and permitting process. And while all of these factors are increasing the length of time it takes to complete a home and therefore install doors, we expect based on past recoveries that this will all ultimately sort itself out as the recovery continues to move forward.

An encouraging sign from earlier this week was the new home sales, which were very strong in January increasing 15.6% from December 2012. This was the highest monthly gain since 1993, and the highest number posted since July 2008. Like single-family housing starts, multifamily housing starts have also shown impressive growth during 2012. The fourth quarter and December, in particular, were both especially strong with an average of 298,000 seasonally adjusted multifamily units per month and 352,000 units, respectively.

Interestingly, the growth rate of multifamily starts has significantly outpaced the growth rate of single-family starts. This growth has led to multifamily starts now comprising over 30% of new housing starts on a trailing 12-month basis by the end of 2012, which is well above the historic average of 28%. In fact, multifamily starts in December were actually 36% of total starts, which was the highest point of the year.

And again as I mentioned earlier, the distinction between single-family and multi-family is important to Masonite, since we calculate the value of multi-family starts are less than half the value of a single-family starts. And this is because in addition to having roughly half the number of doors per house -housing unit, the typical doors utilized in multi-family construction have been lower priced and lower margin products.

So while the overall trends in both single-family housing starts and multi-family housing starts are clearly encouraging. The historically wide gap between starts and completions and the current mix between single-family and multi-family housing starts likely means it will take another quarter or two before the impact of any sustained recovery in the U.S. new housing construction really begins to show up in our financial results.

Overall residential repair, renovation and remodeling growth was more modest during 2012. But Harvard's Leading Indicator of Remodeling Activity increased sharply during the third quarter from [ph] 115 billion to 122 billion (07:02) and is estimated to have increased an additional 8.8% during the fourth quarter.

Now, time will only tell if these growth rates will be validated as they have not necessarily been reflected and reported industry performance thus far. But with that said, if consumer confidence, job creation and workforce mobility continue to improve, we would expect repair, renovation and remodeling spending to increase further.

In addition to benefiting from recovery in new housing construction and an increase in repair, renovation and remodeling spending, our expansion into North American commercial and architectural interior wood doors provides us with yet another opportunity to accelerate our rate of growth. This is because while commercial construction has begun to recover, the annual rate of commercial construction as measured by square feet, is still well below the historic average, and consistent with past recoveries, we could expect a full recovery in non-residential construction to lag new housing and repair, renovation and remodeling spending by a year or two.

In order to minimize the inflationary effects of our primary input costs, namely wood, steel, energy, glass and chemicals, we continue to focus on cost reduction efforts as part of our overall Lean Sigma program. To-date nearly 600 employees have completed Lean Sigma certifications and Masonite has delivered over $100 million in cumulative savings since 2006.

They've also completed the construction phase and are on schedule for full scale production to commence next month at our new automated interior door plant in Denmark, South Carolina, which we believe will dramatically improve quality, shorten lead times, increase productivity and lower cost of products manufactured at this site.

And finally, as a result of these inflationary forces, we have issued certain price increases principally in North America, which are scheduled to go into effect late during the first quarter of 2013. In addition to tightly managing costs and moving forward with our automation program, we also continue to invest in several key strategic growth initiatives during 2012. For example, investments in e-commerce tools like our proprietary Masonite MAX Xpress Configurator or MC2 and MConnect, all represent unique value-added offerings for our channel partners that we believe will over time make Masonite an indispensable business partner.

We've also continued our commitment to developing innovative new products, such as the Torrefied Door and [ph] exterior real wood door (09:43) with significantly enhanced weatherability attributes which was recently recognized by BUILDER magazine as one of the top seven hot products at the 2013 International Builders Show in Las Vegas.

And finally, we leverage our strategic tuck-in acquisitions program during 2012 to create leadership position in the attractive North American commercial and architectural interior wood door and component market with the acquisitions of Baillargeon and Algoma and in the residential interiors style and rail market with the acquisition of Lemieux Doors.

As a result, we now believe that Masonite holds either the number one or number two positions in the seven product categories we target in the U.S. It's one of only two vertically integrated residential interior door producers and the only vertically integrated non-residential wood door manufacturer in North America.

These strategic growth initiatives we are investing in are all working together to drive higher capacity utilization rates across our vertically integrated production system. As you can see on the slide on – page on slide 13, we have increased our global interior molded basins capacity utilization by more than 10 percentage points over the past three years, despite very modest growth in our principal end markets.

Based on past recoveries, it is our belief that our end markets will improve in stages. First, through residential new housing, followed thereafter by increased residential repair, renovation and remodeling spending and finally, through non-residential or commercial construction.

Moreover, we believe the deliberate steps we have taken to strengthen the core by optimizing our production footprint, invest in automation and lower costs coupled with our efforts to drive organic growth through e-commerce initiatives and new product introductions while pursuing strategic tuck-in acquisitions designed to establish and maintain market leadership has uniquely positioned Masonite to benefit from what we expect to be a multi-year, multi-stage recovery in the end markets of our largest business segments, North America.

So with that, now let me turn it over to Mark to take you through the key financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Fred. Good morning, everyone. Net sales for the three months ending December 31, 2012 increased from $383.8 million to $418.2 million, an increase of $34.3 million or 9% versus a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA, which includes approximately $3 million from a partial recovery of our business interruption insurance claim, related to the 2011 explosion at the Marshfield facility, increased from $22.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $25.6 million during in the fourth quarter of 2012, an increase of $3.3 million or 14.8% versus a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 30 basis points to 6.1% of net sales.

On slide 17, we present a closer look at a 9% increase in total consolidated net sales during the fourth quarter of 2012 by examining the change in net sales for each of our three reportable business segments. Growth on the base business increased total company net sales by $0.4 million or 0.1%. North American base business sales benefited from higher unit volumes, while Europe's last Rest of World benefited from incremental sales of component products.

However, base business sales growth from both reportable segments was partly offset by declines in price mix. South Africa's base business saw a $3.5 million decline in sales primarily due to lower unit volumes. Incremental sales from our strategic tuck-in acquisition program were $34.3 million or 8.9%, all of which occurred in the North American business segment. Foreign exchange was a $2.3 million positive contributor to net sales in North America, reduced fourth quarter net sales by $1.6 million and $1 million respectively for Europe's last Rest of World and our South African segment.

Taking the base business discussion one step further to include adjusted EBITDA, while again isolating the effect of foreign exchange, you will see on slide 18 that net sales on our base business increased by $0.4 million or 0.1% during the fourth quarter, while adjusted EBITDA on our base business decreased by $0.2 million or 0.9%.

During the fourth quarter, consolidated net sales and adjusted EBITDA both continued to benefit from our tuck-in acquisition strategy, adding $34.3 million of incremental and net sales and $2.8 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA. Including the reconciliation, foreign exchange reduced fourth quarter net sales by $0.3 million, but increased adjusted EBITDA by $0.7 million.

Over the past several years, we have taken dramatic steps to optimize our production system and lower costs. Having closed 50 facilities since 2006 that work is largely behind us, but we continually look for ways to optimize our supply network even further. For example, our new fully automated interior door slab assembly plant in Denmark, South Carolina will allow us to provide our North American customers with a higher quality product faster out of fewer locations.

In Europe, we continue to take proactive steps to increase profitability and reduce our exposure to markets, which we feel are structurally less attractive. During fiscal 2012, we exited Romania and Hungary, closed an office location in Vienna and we just recently announced our intention to consolidate post production into the Czech Republic.

Finally, we've acted swiftly to address our North American retail footprint and associated SG&A, given the outcome from the recent line review process we discussed during our last call. Because of these steps, we've recorded $6.4 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Turning to full year results, we achieved net sales of almost $1.7 billion, and adjusted EBITDA of $97.3 million during 2012. Looking at the charts on page 20, North America is clearly our largest business segment, representing approximately 73% of net sales, and 76% of adjusted EBITDA. What may be less apparent is that while our Europe/Rest of World segment represents 22% and 18% of total net sales and adjusted EBITDA respectively, within this segment, the European Union represents about 80% of sales, but only about 60% of adjusted EBITDA. Thus while we would like to see more growth out of our European operations, we do not view Europe as a critical part of our overall growth strategy at this time.

Turning to slide 21, net sales for the 12 months ending December 31, 2012 increased from approximately $1.5 billion to nearly $1.7 billion, an increase of $186.8 million or 12.5% versus year ago. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $82 million in 2011 to $97.3 million during 2012, an increase of 18.7%. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 30 basis points to 5.8% of net sales.

Turning to full year consolidated net sales by segment, base business growth added $48 million or 3.2%, while acquisitions added an incremental $177.2 million or 11.9% of the total sales. Similar to fourth quarter results, base business growth for the full year was strongest in North America, where net sales increased by $42.6 million through a combination of higher volume and lower price mix.

Europe/rest of world recorded a $2.9 million increase in base business net sales in 2012, as higher average unit selling prices and increased sales of components were offset by lower volume. Volumes were lower due to a general market downturn in these regions and our decision to discontinue certain unprofitable product lines and closed selective manufacturing facilities.

Base business net sales in our South Africa segment were up $2.4 million as higher average unit selling prices were only partially offset by lower unit volumes.

Foreign exchange was negative across all three business segments for the full year and lower net sales by $38.4 million or roughly 2.6%. Slide 23 shows the base business reconciliation inclusive of adjusted EBITDA and isolating the impact of foreign exchange for the full year 2012 compared to 2011. During that time period, net sales in our base business increased by 3.2% while adjusted EBITDA on our base business decreased by 3.3%. The reduction in base business adjusted EBITDA during 2012 was primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense due to the bankruptcy of a large customer on the West Coast of United States and negative price mix across the North American residential door business. The combination of these items offset positive mix from the new Home Depot fiberglass business, higher unit volumes from an increase in U.S. new housing starts equivalents and an increase in adjusted EBITDA from South Africa.

Consolidated net sales and adjusted EBITDA also benefited from our tuck-in acquisition strategy adding $177.2 million of incremental net sales and $19.9 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA. This equates to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.2% on our acquired businesses, which is nearly two times higher than margins on our base business.

As stated earlier, foreign exchange lowered net sales in 2012 by $38.4 million and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $1.9 million. Please note this is the last time acquisitions we've broken out separately from our overall results. However, we will continue this year reportable business segment breakouts.

And in order to provide some additional perspective on fiscal 2012, we thought it would be helpful to see how recent results compared to 2010. As you can see on slide 24, volume, sales and EBITDA have all increased. Specifically unit volumes increased at a 3% annual growth rate while net sales and adjusted EBITDA have both increased by 10% per year.

An interesting observation from this data is the growth in net sales on a percentage basis has been substantially higher than the growth in unit volumes. In fact simply taking $293 million of incremental sales and dividing by 1.9 million incremental units suggest that the average unit selling price on each incremental door over this period was approximately $150, which is roughly three times higher than our average unit selling price back in 2010.

Logically, this makes sense given the focus we have placed over the last two years on creating a leadership position in the attractive North American commercial and architectural interior wood door market, where average unit selling prices and margins are considerably higher than residential doors.

Turning quickly to our cash flow and balance sheet metrics, cash provided by continuing operations during the year ending December 31, 2012 was $55.7 million, an increase of 69% or $22.8 million compared to 2011. Capital spending was $48.4 million. The increase in capital spending compared to the prior year is primarily related to the timing of payments related to the fully automated interior door plant being constructed in Denmark and South Carolina. Capital spending, as a percent of sales, remained constant versus 2011 at 2.9%.

The acquisitions of Baillergeon, Algoma and Lemieux used $87.7 million in 2012 and the net proceeds from the March 9 issuance of additional senior unsecured notes provided $101.5 million of cash net of fees and expenses. With $122.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, no short-term debt and $378.8 million of long-term debt, net debt was $256.6 million as of December 31, 2012.

Available liquidity at December 31, which included unrestricted cash and undrawn ABL in an accounts receivable purchase agreement, totaled $247.1 million or approximately 14.7% of Masonite's 2012 net sales. Total debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA stood at 3.9 times as of December 31, 2012, which as we previously indicated it would be, is now back within our stated financial policy range of 3.5 turns of total debt plus or minus 0.5 turns.

Net debt as of December 31, 2012, was 2.6 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio was 3.1 times and our trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.6 times.

I will now turn the call back to Fred to summarize today's call.

Thank you, Mark. Throughout 2012, Masonite remained committed to successfully executing against a balance set of strategies designed to create long-term value for our shareholders. By adhering to Masonite's strategic blueprint and focusing on our three pillars of profitable revenue and EBITDA growth, we successfully advanced key strategic initiatives in 2012.

First, both top and bottom line growth continued year-over-year with 2012 net sales of 12.5% and adjusted EBITDA up almost 19%. Second, additional steps were taken to lower costs and improve productivity in responses to changes in the marketplace. Despite having closed 50 facilities and generated over $100 million of cumulative Lean Sigma savings since 2006, we continue to look for ways to lower costs as evidenced by the $6.4 million restructuring charge we took during the fourth quarter.

As Mark indicated earlier, these charges relate to footprint optimization, related to our new state-of-the-art fully automated interior door assembly line, a selective retrenchment in Eastern Europe and changes to our North American retail business.

Third, we have remained committed to our growth initiatives by developing proprietary e-commerce tools, introducing new innovative products and pursuing strategic tuck-in acquisitions. At the start of 2013, we believe we are seeing positive signs of what is expected to be a long-term multi-year recovery in the end markets of our largest business segment, North America and also believe that Masonite is well-positioned to benefit from that recovery because of the hard work and dedication of over 9,100 Masonite employees around the world.

Through our employees' hard work, we have created for our shareholders, a company with leading market position supported by strong brand recognition, long-term customer relationships and well-established multi-channel distribution, significant investment in new products and e-commerce tools, and vertically integrated manufacturing coupled with next generation automation. And so to those employees, you all have my sincere thanks.

I will now turn the call back to the operator to open the line for questions.

Thank you Mr. Lynch. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays. Please proceed with your question.

Hey guys. It's Steve Kim from Barclays. How are you?

Good morning, Steve.

I guess, I had – my first major question related to a comment I think that, Mark, you made on EBITDA margins on your acquisitions, I think you indicated that they were higher than on your base business. Did I hear that right?

That is correct, roughly two times...

Yeah.

...the base business.

Yeah, not terribly surprising I suppose given that they've been kind of skewed more towards the higher price points. But I guess I was wondering if you could elaborate on what you anticipated in terms of the trajectory from here, particularly with synergy – potential synergy in mind.

Yeah, what I would tell you is that for the total acquisition program related to the commercial and architectural interior wood door market, we paid about 7.7 times, we have stated that with the synergies, we think we can get that down to roughly 5.5 times. And on a post synergy, post recovery basis, we think that that will probably be in the 3.5 to 4 times range.

Great. And, obviously, the post recovery is, obviously, multi-year and we would probably think of 2015-2016 type environment, is that kind of fair?

Yeah. We've, based on history, let ourselves to believe that it would be a one to two year lag between the recovery in new housing, repair, renovation and remodeling. And then historically the commercial non-residential businesses then start to respond more fully.

Got it. Great. And then also you made a comment with respect to the repair and remodel business not really seeing a pick-up yet and then you think it might lag housing by about a year or two. If you look back at previous cycles in terms of when housing had a significant downturn, coming out of the downturn, have you sort of analyzed what's the possibility for a significant ramp in residential remodeling expenditures might be?

I mean we took a look back coming out of 1980s downturn for example, and it looked like some of the sales for flooring and so forth were up very, very strong double digits coming out of that one, but not out of the 1990s cycle. And I was kind of curious if you had any thoughts on what a recovery might look like when it shows up?

Yeah, I think – Stephen, this is Fred. I think the way that we look at the repair, remodeling and renovation market, we spent a lot of time looking at the data out of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard and the LIRA estimates.

Obviously, those are very bullish, that those estimates believe that we're going to have a very strong recovery and that it will not lag the new housing starts. We, as we've looked at, as we said before, we continue to use that as our guidepost. And if that indicates – if those indications are right, it will be a very strong recovery that it actually occurs in parallel with the forecast of the new housing recovery.

Yeah, that's great. And then, I guess, lastly, if you could just comment on material costs, any kind of cost inflation that would be noteworthy and maybe what you think you can do to offset those? Thanks.

Yeah, as we looked at our purchase pool, total commodities and material inputs are roughly about 48% of the P&L. So we look at that very closely, within that wood is our single largest purchased item, roughly $400 million followed by steel, a little bit over $100 million. What we're seeing right now is, there is an increase in wood prices.

One thing to be mindful of, though, is that a lot of our wood fiber comes from facilities and areas that are very closely aligned with our large facing mills. And so you really can't look at like a Chicago [indiscernible] (29:17) exchange, 2x6 lumber board to really get a good proxy for that. It's much more driven by local issues.

Now within that, we still think that there will be wood inflation in 2013. We are hopeful that we will be able to offset that through a combination of lower steel prices as we had gone forward into the steel market and made several purchases, as well as our global procurement group and our Lean Sigma efforts, which we are very aggressively pursuing. So, we think that 2013 will, in conjunction with some price increases, allow us to continue to move forward vis-à-vis our margin progression.

Great. Thanks very much guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (30:00) of Deutsche Bank. Please proceed.

Good morning. With regard to the price increase that you've announced for the first quarter of 2013, can you give us the sense of the magnitude of that increase?

Yeah. Without giving very specifics there, it's low to mid-single digits depending on the product line that we're selling.

Okay. And that is designed to offset that material price inflation or is it going to boost your margins a little bit?

We probably don't want to go into full details on that but clearly the combination of the programs and our intent longer-term is, obviously, to try to boost our margins.

Got you. If I ask the question maybe a little differently, your contribution margin 2012 was about 8.6% year-over-year. Is there a point in which whether that's number of doors or revenue where that contribution margin starts to expand because it's just incremental volume going through your fixed cost base?

Well, I think the math holds for any industrial manufacturer like ours. As we continue to put volumes to our assets, we showed a graph here in the slide that our capacity utilization at our [ph] basins (31:11) plant still has a way to go to reach a more fulsome capacity. So, we obviously will get significant operating leverage, we believe, over time as a result of the hard work we've done to reduce our manufacturing footprint.

So, you're thinking – I mean how much more do we need to go right before you start [indiscernible] (31:29)

Yeah. We're not going to speculate on that one [ph] both at (31:32) this point in time.

Okay. And just to clarify on the IPO, I know you can't discuss specifics, but the majority of what's being sold is being sold by your existing shareholders. The company is going to get a de minimis amount. Can you confirm that? And will all of the stock that currently which traded under [ph] NAF WF (31:51) be converted to the new door securities? Is that accurate there won't be two separate stock listings?

Well, I can answer the second question that there won't be two separate stock listings. With regards to the first question, we can't comment on that at this point in time.

Okay. Great. Thank you. Good luck.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from [ph] Seth Yeager of Jefferies (32:12). Please proceed with your questions.

Hey good morning. Nice finish to the year.

Thank you.

It looks like the pricing was a small tailwind for the full-year, but you lost a little bit during the fourth quarter. How much of that was mix versus just the overall pricing? [ph]

Okay. (32:30)

And then maybe as a follow-up, it sounds like there's some other price increases out in the marketplace right now. [ph] When I look at (32:37) lumber prices being up something like 40%, how large of a discount -as how should we think about your input cost on the wood side? And then, maybe if I can follow up [ph] after that (32:48).

Yeah. I'll answer the first piece. As it relates to price mix, we do not break out price from mix at this particular point in time. What I will tell you is that, if you look at the full-year results, you know, we did have some positive price and mix related to some increases that were taken in Western Europe, principally as well as some of those discontinued product lines that we talked about that [ph] were unprofitable (33:12) to us.

We also did price in South Africa to recover the loss of the rand versus the U.S. dollar. Within North America, there was positive mix related to the fiberglass launch, but there was negative total price mix due to a lot of reasons that we've we talked about previously.

Yeah. And with regard to the wood market in particular. As Mark mentioned, if you think about the wood that Masonite buys, a lot of our wood that we buy is pretty far back – pretty deeply backward integrated into the production. So we'll buy, for instance, logs from – with we're very close to our facilities. So, we're not impacted by the random lengths numbers that you see in the marketplace. We do believe there will be inflation, but the combination of the fact that we are significantly backward integrated that we have a longstanding supply arrangements and agreements and a very focused supply chain team and procurement team, we believe, vis-à-vis, the large prices we're seeing in the marketplace, the impact for us will be significantly less.

Is there some rule of thumb that we can think about in our – are your contract renewed annually?

It's a host of contracts depending on the product that we're buying. It's a host of relationships. So, what I would just tell you is that, we believe, that the combination of our Lean Sigma effort as Mark mentioned, the combination of our procurement programs and the combination of our pricing efforts are all meant to more than overcome the inflationary pressures.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And just with the acquisitions and the most recent restructuring efforts you've made in the past quarter, I think in the past you've talked about – spoke to 25% incremental margins on every $100 million. Is that still sort of the thought process? And, what were the overall expected savings from the – and SG&A or rather that would be the most recent charge that you took in the fourth quarter?

Yeah. We have provided some relationships that we have seen historically between our sales and our EBITDA. And as you indicate, at this point the pass-through rate on that is, 20-plus-percent. Over time, obviously, that can change based on a whole number of different factors.

As far as the charges that we took in the fourth quarter, specifically, again these were really related to the automated program itself, where we're able to service a larger area more efficiently and effectively with fewer people and therefore need less sites, as well as the work that we did on our European footprint to be very proactive, being mindful of the business dynamics taking place over there.

And then we did, in fact, make some additional efforts to make sure that our costs are in line on the retail side given the recent announcement that we had released that on our last quarterly call. As far as the savings associated with that program, I would not want to disclose those specifically, but I would tell you that obviously, we look at these things very closely. And to make sure that anything that we do in that regard exceeds our cost of capital, provides a good return for our shareholders.

Okay. And just a last question on cash flows. Are we at a pretty reasonable run rate for net working capital and CapEx, that roughly 3%? [indiscernible] (36:31). Thank you.

Well, I would just say from – listen we believe a continuous improvement environment. So, we're always going to look at things like net working capital and figure out how do we make that better on an ongoing basis. And so, you know, that's one of the challenges that we put in front of our teams regularly. And I think as Mark talked to you know over the last couple of years, we've been historically around a 3% number. Obviously, that number fluctuates depending on strategic capital, but you know that's a good ballpark.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question just comes from Lee Brading of Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your questions.

Hi, guys.

Hi, Lee.

You guys made a comment about on M&A side and continue to do smaller tuck-in acquisitions. And you also – it's very helpful, I appreciate you've done this in the past as well. Slide 26 kind of showed your financial policy for maintaining certain leverage. Wondering if you could just talk about that M&A policy combined with looking at your financial policy from a standpoint of what your comfort levels would be? How high you'd go from a leverage standpoint?

What I would tell you is that, we at this point have maintained a fairly conservative approach to our balance sheet. We think that's in our best interest and the best interest of our shareholders for building products coming at this stage of the cycle. Obviously, we'll continue to look at that in the context of what opportunities are afforded to us in the M&A market and other investment profile decisions that we have to take. So while that is our financial policy and we'd adhere to it, if we were to make a change or a departure from that, we'd obviously have an open communication with our owners and others about that, but for now, we're very comfortable with where we are.

Okay. And on the RRR versus kind of the new side, last numbers I had and I think these are all little stale. You're a little over 55% RRR and I don't know, if you – do you break that out between say U.S. and Rest of the World?

No. We break it out historically in the U.S. We do not break it out in the Rest of the World. Part of the challenge in the Rest of the World is the information is much harder to get to, depending on which markets we're in. So, we typically do that only in the U.S. market.

Okay. So, is my number around 55% is that still kind of accurate now?

I think the number would probably more came to 50%, about 20% of them are in commercial and architectural side, about 30% is tied to new housing. And of course, that's the percentage that can change materially over time depending on what happens with new housing starts and the rate of growth in RRR.

Right, Right, exactly. And then, if I – last thing, I guess, was on this charge and any kind of restructuring, you talked around return, do you guys – you typically look at payback period a year or less in a year, do you look at it that way at all?

We tend to defer DCF and those types of harder metrics, NTD, things associated with the underlying cash flows.

Can you share what those metric should be?

I would prefer not to.

Okay. And then last, well – sorry, I apologize. The last item now is actually on the recovery in the Marshfield, I think $3.3 million this quarter, any more to come or is that end of it?

It's an ongoing negotiation with the insurance carrier, so I prefer not to comment on that.

I think it's important to note though the impact of that shutdown did last throughout 2012. And even partially into 2013, so it's a pretty significant interruption of business that we've been – fortunately been able to work through and begin to recover. So, well – so I do think it's important for folks to understand that.

Yeah. So [indiscernible] (40:21) comfortable at this point to say if you've recovered 50% or 60% because you're still kind of dealing with the insurance company, I imagine?

Correct. Correct.

All right. Great. Thank you very much, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Nishu.

First question I wanted to ask was about the repair and remodeling market. You talked about the market in aggregate, but the different subsegments call them repair and remodeling have performed pretty differently over the last few years. You look at Home Depot's performance, call it retail, remodeling, paint, that's done terrifically well all through the downturn.

Big ticket stuff like ripping out your floors, your cabinets, so it has seriously lagged. Even on the repair side, replacing some of the roof has seen some lags in terms of a sales recovery. So, I was just wondering if you could help us frame as you guys think about repair and remodeling in terms of those different sub segments, how should we think about your business and which of those maybe in rank order it can be most sensitive too?

Well. I get to the point. If you think about the results that both Home Depot and Lowe's have reported over time and looked at what's happened in their millworks space versus other categories, it has not during this downturn been an area of other improvement for them or recovery for them. So, I would say that what we have seen in the marketplace that we're – we continue to be in a subset of the building products industry that to-date from our customers perspective and repair, renovation and remodeling has not shown positive comps, if it did answer the question you're asking.

Got it. No, I was just thinking, I know obviously Home Depot and Lowe's, I was just thinking more paint has been a pretty strong performer through the downturn. So that – does that so then from your answer does that imply that we should mainly think about your exposure to repair and remodeling is being more a function of the repair side of things and more on the big ticket side of things and so that are two kind of sectors that have lagged a little bit more.

Yeah. It would absolutely be closed work into the big ticket items than it would be to paint. Definitely, if you looked at that spectrum across that we'll be much, much closer to big ticket items.

Okay, got it. And the second question I wanted to ask was, you had a very helpful chart in here. The door volume CAGR over the last few years has been just 3%, but your net sales CAGR has been 10%, because of the mix shift that you've accomplished by some of the pickups you've made in other commercial side. What do you think is going to be a more important driver of that difference going forward? Is it going to continue to be to move into a commercial or as we get a stronger pricing environment improved capacity utilization is actively more important?

Yeah. I think what we're encouraged by the fact that we really have three main market segment drivers that are going to help the business, right. I mean, in all three have very positive indicators at least at this point in time. So, it will partially be a matter of timing. But to believe the [indiscernible] (43:44) with respect to the housing market recovery, new housing market recovery, that's going to substantially – that should position for the ability for us to substantially improve capacity utilization in the residential space. Obviously, the timing of the other recovery in commercial, we believe will be later, but again, we're well positioned to take advantage of that.

And if and when markets really do begin to recover, we think there will be inherent mixed benefits within our portfolio of business offerings. So, for example, we would think we would start to sell more molded doors as opposed to flush doors, more solid core doors as opposed to the hollow core doors, more fiberglass perhaps versus steel. All those other opportunities would also exist.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference back to Mr. Lynch.

Okay. Well, thank you very much. We appreciate your opportunity to share with us today on the call and we look forward to speaking with you at the end of next quarter.

Thank you. Thank you all for joining the Masonite International fourth quarter earnings call. This conference call has been recorded. The replay may be accessed until March 10. To access the replay, please dial 877-660-6853 within the United States or 201-612-7415 outside of the United States. You will need to enter conference ID number 409233. Thank you all again.