Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne M. Freiberger — Treasurer & Vice President, Masonite International Corp.
Frederick J. Lynch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Masonite International Corp.
Mark J. Erceg — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Masonite International Corp.
Philip Volpicelli — Financial Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Seth Yeager — Vice President, High Yield Research, Jefferies & Co.
Keith Hughes — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Howard Weinberg — Executive Director, UBS
Michael Kim — Managing Director & Partner, CRT Capital Group

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Masonite's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, investors are invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be accessed until May 18, 2012 by dialing 1-877-660-6853 or 1-201-612-7415 and entering account number 404 and conference ID 393459.

I will now introduce Joanne Freiberger, Masonite's Vice President and Treasurer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Christine and good morning, everyone. I'm joined in our Tampa office today by Fred Lynch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Erceg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The access information for the webcast presentation that will accompany today's call is available on our website at www.masonite.com under the heading About Masonite and the subheading Financials.

Before we begin, let me remind you that the earnings release and the presentations made by our executives, include forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operations and results of the operations of the company, as well as general economic conditions. These beliefs and the related forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the financial statement document made available to you on our website. Actual results may vary materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.

We supplement our GAAP reporting with a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted EBITDA. Our reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to non-GAAP measure to the GAAP measure of net income is provided in the Appendix of the presentation and is also available on our website.

On today's call, Fred will provide a market update and discuss our two most recent strategic acquisitions in the interior commercial wood door space. Mark will then briefly comment on the key financial aspects of those transactions before reviewing the 2012 first quarter results and then updating our full year guidance. Then finally, Fred will summarize today's call and have a question-and-answer session.

With that, I now turn the call over to Fred.

Thanks, Joanne, and good morning, everyone and welcome. During our last earnings call on March 1, we commented that recent trend in the U.S. new housing starts were encouraging. Specifically, we noted that the U.S. new housing starts averaged 670,000 units during the fourth quarter of 2011. This represented a significant increase versus the prior three quarters of 2011, when U.S. new housing starts averaged just 590,000 units.

We also made the observation that fourth quarter housing data represented the highest level of quarterly U.S. new housing starts since the third quarter of 2008. Based on this evidence and the fact that January's data showed U.S. new housing starts at 714,000 units, we were at the time cautiously optimistic that perhaps, after four consecutive years of historically low new housing starts, 2012 might mark the beginning of a more sustainable recovery.

While that might ultimately prove to be the case, and one would certainly hope so, Q1 2012 U.S. new housing starts were only slightly higher than Q4 2011. And February and March were both sequentially lower than January, and as well as you know, the first quarter U.S. GDP came in at only 2.2%.

If we move to slide six, while the monthly trend line of U.S. new housing starts has turned down recently, the trailing 12-months average of multi-family housing starts as a percentage of total new housing starts had continued to increase, hitting 28% in March of 2012. This is double the level from just two years ago.

So, with total U.S. new housing starts and GDP both slowing and because the multi-family housing unit represents less than half the value from a door perspective of a typical single family home, we at least, for now, are maintaining our 2012 U.S. new housing start forecast of [ph] 600,000 (04:40) equivalent units despite the reported improvements by home builders in buyer foot traffic and new housing permits.

Our wait-and-see approach to the real sustainability of the 2012 housing recovery is we believe further substantiated when you look at the overall market dynamics in North America and Europe. In North America, we continue to see persistent unemployment, significant underemployment and the number of long-term unemployed hitting all-time highs. Real wage growth has been slow and high energy prices are leaving less disposable income in the hands of consumers.

Mortgage interest rates remain attractive, but on the other hand, tight lending standards have made it hard for many consumers to qualify for mortgages and the number of properties in are nearing foreclosure still remains relatively high.

Finally, and perhaps most significantly, when you look at the North American residential door industry specifically, and in specific the interior door industry, negative competitive pricing dynamics continued to persists. For instance, just recently, we made the decision to terminate spot sales of door facings to a large U.S. independent residential door manufacturer when we could not realize the appropriate value and terms necessary to justify an ongoing relationship.

Across much of Europe, many of these same macroeconomic factors are restraining growth while several unique and country-specific challenges such as political unrest, put on by strict austerity measures are adding further complexity to doing business in Europe in general. As such, we remain committed to a very disciplined and a very cost-conscious approach to managing our residential door business throughout the world.

Before Mark review the financials from Q1, I'd like to spend some time and share some insights on our two most recent strategic tuck-in acquisitions in the higher-value added interior commercial and architectural wood door space.

If we go to slide nine, our rigorous approach to tuck-in acquisitions starts with Masonite's strategic blueprint and our balanced approach to revenue and EBITDA growth. From there, we conduct a thorough analysis to understand how our proposed target can create shareholder value by strengthening overall brand positioning, complementing our technology and manufacturing strategy, enhancing our distribution system, being geographically translatable to other markets, and being actionable, meaning we have a willing seller at a fair price and that Masonite has the resources and expertise necessary to successfully integrate the target. If a target successfully passes through all of these screens, we will move forward and acquire the target.

Using this disciplined process, we acquired Baillargeon on March 26, 2012. Baillargeon has been producing high-quality interior commercial wood doors in Quebec since 1985 and had 2011 revenue of approximately $20 million. We believe Baillargeon is the most attractive interior commercial wood door asset in Canada, and we were delighted to welcome the dedicated professionals of Baillargeon to the Masonite family.

Moving to slide 11, we were equally delighted to welcome the nearly 350 hardworking professionals of Algoma to the Masonite team in April. Algoma also produces high-quality interior commercial wood doors from its production facilities in Algoma, Wisconsin and Jefferson City, Tennessee. With 2000 revenues in excess of $60 million, Algoma significantly strengthens Masonite's presence in the North American interior, architectural and commercial wood door market. The addition of Baillargeon and Algoma positions Masonite as a global leader in the interior commercial wood door and component market. These strategic acquisitions also add two additional leading brand names to Masonite's already robust commercial wood door portfolio.

Looking at the map on slide 13, you can see that these two transactions significantly enhanced our geographic footprint and production network allowing us to better service our customers from a combination of commercial and architectural door plants, component plants and commercial door distribution centers. Finally by adding approximately $80 million of incremental revenue to Masonite's interior commercial wood door and components business, Baillargeon and Algoma established Masonite as one of the world leaders in the attractive architecturally specified interior commercial wood door market.

As recently as 2010, Masonite derived approximately 11% of global revenues from interior commercial wood doors and components. On a 2012 pro forma basis that percentage is estimated to be 21% or nearly $375 million.

So, with that let me turn the call over to Mark, who will share some of the key transaction metrics before reviewing first quarter results and providing updated guidance for 2012. Mark?

Thanks, Fred, and good morning everyone. To fund the acquisitions of Baillargeon and Algoma, we utilized proceeds from the $100 million of senior unsecured notes we issued on March 9 as an add-on to our existing 8.25% senior unsecured notes maturing in 2021. The new notes priced at $103.5 million to yield 7.5%. This generated before associated fees, $103.5 million, approximately two-third of which was used to fund the total cash purchase price for the two acquisitions of approximately $66 million.

With combined trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $8.1 million, this equates to a pre-synergy, purchase price multiple of 8 times, which is consistent with our prior deals and which compares favorably to other recent transactions in building products.

Over the next 12 to 18 months, we expect to generate annual synergies in the range of $1.5 million to $2 million. Importantly, this would bring the post-synergy purchase price multiple down to about 6.5 times, which we believe represents good value for our shareholders. We will have more to say about the expected impact of these two transactions on our fiscal 2012 net sales and EBITDA forecast in the context of our guidance update. But for now, let's turn to our fiscal 2012 first quarter results.

Turning to slide 17, net sales for the three months ending March 31, 2012, increased from $348.6 million to $400.1 million, an increase of $51.5 million or 14.8% versus year ago. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $18.6 million in the first quarter last year to $19.7 million during the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 5.9%. A quick high-level reconciliation indicates that excluding the impact of acquisitions in foreign exchange, net sales on our base business increased by 7% for the quarter ending March 31, 2012. During that same time period, adjusted EBITDA on our base business was down $1.8 million. This was expected due to one-time cost associated with rolling out our new premium fiberglass line at the Home Depot and the negative pricing dynamics across the North American residential interior door business, Fred alluded to earlier.

Net sales and adjusted EBITDA both continued to benefit from our tuck-in acquisition strategy, adding $34.9 million of incremental net sales and $3.3 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA during the first quarter of 2012. Importantly and consistent with the past two quarters, this reconciliation excludes any potential future recovery from our business interruption insurance claim related to the explosion at Marshfield's primary production facility which occurred on July 11, 2011. Completing the reconciliations, foreign exchange lowered first quarter net sales by $7.7 million and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $0.4 million.

As you can see on slide 19, cash used in continuing operations during the first quarter of 2012 was $16.2 million. Within that, accounts receivable increased by $32.7 million. The large increase in accounts receivable during the first quarter was due to a seasonal increase in accounts receivable off of December's historically low base and the overall expansion of the business. Capital spending was $15.5 million or 3.9% of total net sales. For the full year, we expect capital spending to be less than 3% of net sales.

The acquisition of Baillargeon used over $10 million during the quarter and the net proceeds from the March 9 issuance of the additional senior unsecured notes provided $101.8 million of cash, net of fees. With a $169.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, no short-term debt and $375 million of senior unsecured long-term debt, net debt was $205.3 million as of March 31, 2012.

Available liquidity which includes unrestricted cash and undrawn ABL and an unused accounts receivable purchase agreement totaled $297.9 million or approximately 19.3% of Masonite's trailing 12-month sales. Total debt to adjusted EBITDA stood at 4.5 times as of March 31, 2012. However, this was a result of the timing associated with the additional $100 million of senior unsecured notes we issued during the quarter.

Our stated financial policy, which calls for 3 to 4 turns of total debt has not changed and we expect to be within the high-end of our policy guidance range by year-end. Net debt as of March 31, 2012 was 2.5 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio was 3.4 times, and our trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.3 times.

Having reviewed 2012 first quarter results, let's turn to our full-year financial outlook on slide 22. Our initial guidance anticipated an increase in net sales from $1.5 billion in 2011 to approximately $1.7 billion in 2012. Taking into account the recent acquisitions of Baillargeon and Algoma, we now expect 2012 net sales to be about $1.75 billion. On the bottom line, we were previously calling for 2012 adjusted EBITDA to be $90 million plus or minus $5 million. At the midpoint, this represented an increase of approximately 10% versus the $82 million of adjusted EBITDA achieved during 2011.

Baillargeon and Algoma, on a combined basis and net of one-time transition costs are expected to increase 2012 adjusted EBITDA by approximately $6 million. This will be partly offset by a provision for bad debt of roughly $1 million due to Lumber Products' recent decision to file for bankruptcy. Taking all this into account, we now expect on an all-in basis, 2012 adjusted EBITDA to be at the high end of our previous guidance range of $90 million, plus or minus $5 million.

I will now turn the call back to Fred to summarize today's discussion.

Great. Thanks, Mark. Throughout the first quarter of 2011, Masonite remained committed to successfully executing against the balance set of strategies, which we believe will create long-term value for our shareholders and our channel partners. By adhering to Masonite's strategic blueprint and focusing on our three pillars of profitable revenue and EBITDA growth, we were able to successfully advance several key strategic initiatives during the first quarter of 2012.

First, meticulous planning and an unwavering commitment to quality allowed us to complete the rollout of our new premium fiberglass program into over 760 Home Depot stores, with virtually no customer service issues. Admittedly, it's still early days, but we've already received numerous positive customer, consumer comments that our high-quality, innovative designs and the attractive in-store presence we have created within the Home Depot.

Second, we began producing products to support the new Lowe's program we recently secured in the northeastern part of the United States. Shipments are expected to begin toward the end of the second quarter and initial stocking should be completed by the end of the third quarter. Third, we purchased Baillargeon in March and Algoma in April. We are quickly integrating these highly strategic tuck-in acquisitions into our North American interior commercial and architectural wood door business.

Since our acquisition of Marshfield DoorSystems in August of 2011, our interior commercial wood door business has grown rapidly. Masonite is now positioned as one of the largest vertically integrated interior commercial and architectural wood door manufacturers and provider of door components in North America and the world. Fourth, we returned to the high yield bond market for additional growth capital at attractive rates and favorable terms.

And finally, as part of our continuing efforts to operate in a manner more consistent with that of a public company, three shareholder resolutions were passed. The first resolution ensures the continued public release of Masonite's quarterly financial information and a public quarterly earnings call like today. The second resolution increased the number of permissible shareholders in Masonite's stock from 290 to 490, and just last week this threshold was increased to 1,990 shareholders to take advantage of the recently enacted Federal JOBS Act. The third and final resolution affect certain changes to Masonite's articles and incorporation and shareholder agreement, upon a listing of Masonite shares on a nationally recognized exchange. While we do not have any specific plans to pursue a listing at this time, we continued to prepare the company should the decision be taken at some future date.

So, again, during the first quarter of 2012, we were able to execute against the balance set of strategies that improved our total value proposition. Strengthen our market position in both the residential and interior commercial wood door market and increase net sales and adjusted EBITDA. Looking forward, we remain hopeful that a sustaining housing recovery is underway. But irrespective of whether this ultimately proves to be the case, we plan to proactively manage our business and protect our market share in order to maximize long-term value for our shareholders.

I will now turn the call back to the operator to open up the line for any questions you might have. Operator?

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] One moment please while we poll for questions. Thank you. Our first question is from Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning.

Good morning, Philip.

My first question is with regard to the acquisitions. Thank you for all the details that you made. I think you said there was $8.1 million of LTM EBITDA for the two businesses combined, yet when you talked about your guidance, you said you're only getting about $5 million – I'm sorry, $6 million of increase from those businesses. Can you tell us why things are slowing there? Is it a price issue? Is it a volume issue? Is it a getting rid of some business that was at low margins? Can you give us a little color there?

Certainly. The $8.1 million that we cited was a trailing 12-month, obviously, these acquisitions will not be with us for a full year effect for 2012 and there will be some one-time transition costs.

Okay. So if they had been with you for a full year, it'd be closer to that $8 million?

That would be reasonable, yes.

Okay, great. And then turning to the base businesses, on the last call, you had talked a little bit about some, I guess, irrational pricing behavior in the marketplace by some competitors. Can you give us an update on what you're seeing? It looks like it might have affected the North American business a little bit, but did not affect Europe. Can you just give us some color on that pricing environment?

Yeah. I think the term we used was hypercompetitive pricing environment. And it remains a very hypercompetitive pricing environment with respect to pricing in North America in particular. I would say that the easy way to explain it, Philip, is in most parts of the world, we actually had the ability to raise prices and we're doing that in line with the increasing cost components that are going into our business. With respect to North America, we are seeing increasing cost components in our business; however, we're seeing prices decline.

Okay. And you have not attempted to put another price increase through it, because it just doesn't feel like it'll work?

At this point, we do not believe that that would work.

Great. And then just if you could give us the change in volumes in North America and the change in volumes in Europe if you have that data?

In North America, we said higher unit volume in the first quarter of 2012 increased sales by about $17.5 million.

Okay. And what was the decline in Europe?

And in Europe, we said that there was a decline in unit volumes that resulted in about a $0.5 million decrease.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Philip.

Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Last quarter, just to follow-up on Philip's question, you'd commented about potentially giving up some margin in order to protect share. Did that occur during the quarter, and I guess what are you seeing as far as share gains or losses right now?

Yeah. I would say that, again, we did see – it did affect the first quarter as we discussed earlier that the pricing decreased in North America in particular, somewhat offset by the fact that we had higher average unit pricing as a result of the acquisitions and also as a result of the increase in our mix of fiberglass products. With regards to share, it continues to remain competitive and we are continuing to maintain our share and protect our business. If you look at the base business, the base business in the first quarter while sales went up $24.3 million, adjusted EBITDA went down by $1.8 million on a global basis. We mentioned earlier that prices went up in Europe and the rest of the world, so you can see the impact of what pricing is doing in North America.

Sure. And is that sort of the strategy for the balance of the year as to remain competitive on pricing just in order to protect what you do have in North America?

Absolutely.

Okay. And just for the quarter, can you help us bridge the – and I apologize, if you broke some of this out already, but just the degradation in gross margins be it mix versus some impact that you have for Home Depot and/or cost inflation?

Yeah, what I would tell you is that the Home Depot fiberglass premium line rollout did cost several millions of dollars related to the conversion cost. We had said that we're going to roll out a 100 stores per week and that process began in around and about mid December. So the majority of those costs fell into Q1. And then, in addition to that, what we saw on the cost of goods sold side was that material cost and distribution cost and direct labor as a percent of sales increased by 50 bps, 40 bps and 10 bps, respectively. What we're seeing is not wild movements in underlying commodities, but they are creeping up by a little bit. And with our inability to pass through pricing in large markets like North America, there were some compression as a result.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And then you had mentioned rolling out some new products into Lowe's. Are you going to being incurring similar cost over the next couple of quarters as well, and if so can you help us quantify that?

Yeah, I would tell you two things. One, if you look at the rollout at the Home Depot that was an entire brand new product offering that went into that business. So, it had higher cost associated with the rollout. In addition, as a cleared inventory from the old product offering that they had, the initial sales started out a little slower than we would have liked to have seen. However, with that said, we're seeing a rapid improvement in that trend as the inventory has cleared through the system. So, we're very happy with the potential of this program at the Home Depot and I believe the Home Depot feels the same way. At least that's the feedback we've gotten.

With respect to Lowe's, it's more of a replacement for an existing program. So, the cost of that is not going to be quite as high, and our expectation is that we'll be able to cover that with the additional sales that we'll see in the quarter.

Okay, great. And finally on – you don't break out Europe specifically. Can you just – well, I guess it's sort of included with some other markets as well. Can you just give us some details to what sort of demand you're seeing across the various markets there? Thank you.

Yeah, I think Europe is a – it's different market. So, we tried to talk about Europe as a homogenous area and it's not. When we think about our position in Europe, we have a strong business in the UK. We have a strong business in France and a slightly smaller business in parts of Eastern Europe. I'd say overall, we're seeing a relatively flat market. In all of the markets, I think the impact of the debt crisis in Europe and the uncertainty associated with that is just really holding back any real legitimate growth. However, on the positive side, we are seeing the ability to pass on cost increase in price so far in those markets and particularly in the UK and somewhat in France as well.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. First question, I'm still intrigued by your pricing comments in United States. Is this a situation where you have one or two large players that are causing a lack of push through or is this more the smaller players or what's your view on that?

We don't want to go into details about what the competitor strategy is, I think you have to ask them. What we'll tell you is that the overall market is very, very competitive right now. And with the market that has excess capacity and with the demand still being relatively low from the highs of where we were several years ago, there's a constant battle for share and that battle seems to have increased since October of last year, and it hasn't stopped. It's continuing at that level and we're continuing to defend our position.

Okay. Second and final question, if you look at your market shares right now, particularly with some of the stranded bolt-on, the deals that you've done, where do you expect you stand on interior doors, particularly interior wood doors?

Yeah. We don't normally provide market share analysis on our call. So we tend to believe that we have a significant market share that allows us to service our customers on a full basis across North America and that's how we want to be positioned to be able to meet their needs and their expectations.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Howard Weinberg with UBS. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Hey, guys. I was hoping we could just go back to this pricing dynamic and trying to better understand how much is controllable by you. So there's a lot of external factors with competitors potentially lowering pricing. How much is in your control that if commodity prices continue to rise and you're not able to pass prices through, how much could you take out of your cost structure to better streamline it?

As you're well aware, if you've been following Masonite over the last four years, we have been working significantly to improve our manufacturing cost [ph] basis (30:07). We've shut down nearly 40 plants in four years. We are at a rate at one point of shutting down a plant every month. We have invested in a Lean Sigma Enterprise process, which has helped us to save costs considerably. But the bottom line is with the lower demand in the marketplace and the high – still I would say, excess capacity in the market for the current demand, you have the old Adam Smith coming to play here and it's just a matter of supply and demand dynamics that are causing the market dynamics to be what they are.

So, maybe you could comment on maybe some new product initiatives that could help drive margin growth or is it really just a much larger macro story of supply/demand dynamics there?

You bring up a good point. I think there's a couple of places. A good example of new product innovation has been this fiberglass launch at the Home Depot, which, as we've discussed in the past, combined with some of the other wins we had there, we'll be in the range of $50 million of sales. That is at a higher value.

And in addition, we've added pre-finishing capabilities across our business, which again provides higher average unit pricing. One of the areas which – the reason we're growing in this business in the commercial space is because of the much more differentiated architecturally-specified product which again provides higher unit pricing and a greater barrier to substitution because you need to be certified to produce those products.

So a significant portion of our growth strategy has been around new products, higher-specified products, as well as we're spending a significant amount of time in developing capabilities with regards to our ability to transact business throughout the value chain using information technology enabled capabilities like configurators.

So we're spending a significant amount of time working to increase the overall value proposition that we are providing our customers. And quite frankly, in spite of this, what I would say, is a very difficult competitive dynamic, the reason that we don't lose share is because of that breadth of product portfolio, that customer service value that we offer, and the value proposition that our customer sees with regards to our capability to service them, not only here in the downturn, but in the long-term when the market recovers.

Makes a lot of sense. Switching gears a little bit on future acquisitions, and I like that you guys laid out your acquisition strategy. But when we think about your capital structure and potential future capital raises to fund the acquisitions, whether they're tuck-in or more transformational, how should we think about your minimum cash balance that you want to maintain through either just cash or I should say liquidity through cash and/or to availability under your revolver?

That's a very good question. We've done a lot of modeling in that regard. What we have generally said is that we believe that a building product company at this point in the cycle should have a liquidity cushion of about 15% of sales. You heard earlier in the prepared remarks, we made the comment that as we sat there at the end of the third quarter, we had about 19% of a liquidity buffer as it relates to our total trailing sales base. So, we do watch that very, very closely. We do have an ABL facility in place which is undrawn. We have an accounts receivable facility in place which is also undrawn. So we're very mindful of the fact that we need to protect our liquidity at all times and we'll continue to do so.

And then, just a final comment on that comment you just made, regarding the $27 million receivables that you could sell, would that – I think the financial statements highlight about a $100 million of availability under the revolver to the extent that you sold those $27 million of receivables, would that be a reduction on the ABL?

It would not.

Or is this -- it's incremental availability?

It's incremental. It's a carve out from the ABL facility itself.

Perfect. Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning, thanks for taking my question. Could you just walk us through the year-over-year weakness in adjusted EBITDA margins for geographies away from North America? Is this more of a mix issue? Are the margin declines even across the various countries? Any color would be appreciated.

The biggest thing that you're seeing if you get outside of the North American segment and start looking into the European marketplace is we have a fairly sizable business in France. That business is split roughly 50% residential, 50% commercial. Right now, we are seeing a little bit of pressure on the commercial side in France in particular. I mean, that's probably what's driving most of any margin integration you would see in the European context.

And the other piece in Europe also is there are some markets on the fringes in Europe that we're participating in that have, I would say, more significant financial issues. We've decided in certain cases while we don't have necessary manufacturing facilities in those markets, we did have distribution agreements in distribution facilities. We found that there were issues which related to customers and their ability to continue to pay us, et cetera. So we've been exiting certain non-value added sales regions in that market as well, which we believe is the right thing longer term, but it does impact short term on both volume and earnings.

Great. I appreciate that color. I guess my next question, pro forma for recent acquisitions, what does repair and remodel versus new construction look like for North America? Is it pretty comparable to the year-end number? I know for door sales, it's about 56% residential repair, renovation, remodeling of existing homes. And do you think this split would change by year-end? Thank you.

I mean, the way to think about this is just the remainder of the residential market we think is staying about the same. So as we add additional revenue in the architectural and commercial wood door businesses, that starts to change the overall profile just by that amount. So if you would think about it maybe on a global basis, again, high level, 20% of our products go into customers that are buying architectural and commercial doors. About 50% on a worldwide basis are going into repair, remodeling and renovation. That's both big box as well as the portion that goes into our wholesale channels. And then we're probably now at 30% that is related to new residential housing. But that's again a very high level reconciliation of the numbers.

And of course, because RRR didn't come down nearly as hard and as fast as new housing did, if new housing does start to return to some more normalized levels, those percentages will shift going forward.

I see. And for your guidance for 2012 revenue is that kind of the mix that we should be assuming as well, nothing to change materially?

Correct.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Our next question is a follow-up question from Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your questions.

Thanks. I just want to touch back on acquisitions. Clearly you've made to here in the early part of the year and you've commented that you want to bring leverage back down to your target range and you've got a little bit of excess, I guess, cash/liquidity. Should I read into all of those different comments that you probably are not looking at additional acquisitions during this year or will you continue to look for acquisitions during the year?

I don't think we want to comment specifically on whether or not we will do so and how we'll use our capital structure to either fund or not fund additional acquisitions. What I can tell you is that we have completed two significant size acquisitions in the short term and we do need to concentrate on making sure we integrate those effectively.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, guys, just one quick follow-up. How should we think about the acquired working capital over the next couple of quarters from these most recent acquisitions?

I think the easy way to think about it is when you look at these businesses, they have similar working capital structures to the existing business that we have today. So, we would anticipate that at least for the near-term that you wouldn't see a significant change in our overall working capital percentage – the percentage of sales.

In the proxies we've thrown out in the past is that for every $100 million of incremental sales, we think we'll consume somewhere in the neighborhood of, call it 13%, 14% from a working capital [indiscernible] (39:23) standpoint. So every $100 million in sales will require $13 million to $14 million of working capital. Now that's on a going basis. Obviously, there's going to be big swings month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter.

Right. But we can extrapolate that for these most recent acquisitions, basically?

I would say that's the safest thing to do obviously over time. One of the synergies that we tried to bring to the table is the improvement in our overall working capital as we integrate these businesses. But I think for near-term planning, that's the right answer.

Got it. All right. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Lynch, it appears we have no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to you for further comments.

Great, thank you. Well, since there are no further questions, I want to thank everyone for their participation on the call today. And I want to remind you that we will be in New York next Friday, May the 18th, for our Annual Shareholder Meeting, during which there will be a brief management presentation and the meeting details and RSVP information are available in the slide deck and in the May 1 press release.

And with that, we want to thank you for joining the call today and we look forward to seeing many of you in person next week. Operator, will you please provide the replay instructions for this call.

Thank you for joining the Masonite International First Quarter Earnings Call. This conference call has been recorded. The replay may be accessed until May 18, 2012 by dialing 1-877-660-6853 or 1-201-612-7415 and entering the account number 404 and conference ID number 393459.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.