corrected transcript


Masonite Canada Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Masonite International Fourth Quarter 2007 Earnings Calls for investors.


[Operator Instructions]. After management’s prepared remarks investors are invited to participate


in a question-and-answer session. This conference call is being recorded. The replay may be


assessed until April 11, 2008 by dialing toll free 1-866-407-9260 with a passcode of 9245. I would


now like to introduce your host, Chris Virostek, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from


Masonite International. Please begin, sir.


Christopher A. Virostek, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer


Thank you and good morning. Before we begin, let me remind you that this call contains forward-


looking statements that are based on the beliefs of the management team regarding the operation


and the results of the operations of the company, as well as general economic conditions. These


beliefs and their related forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and


uncertainties, which are described in greater detail in the press release, issued earlier today, as


well as our periodic filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may


vary materially from those described in these forward-looking statements.


This morning, I am joined in our Tampa office by Fred Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer


of Masonite International, and Tony DiLucente, our Chief Financial Officer. We will review


Masonite’s results for the fourth quarter and year end, 2007. We released summary results earlier


this morning, and this information is also available on our web site through IntraLinks and other


media. Complete audited year end financial statements will be filed with the SEC in the near future.


Finally, please note we will not be providing specific future guidance or projections on expected


revenues, earnings or cash flows for 2008.


Without further preliminaries, allow me to introduce Fred Lynch, President and Chief Executive


Officer of Masonite International.


Frederick J. Lynch, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Chris and good morning everyone. It’s clear that we are in, have been in, and will


continue to be in an extremely challenging market environment in the United States, which is our


largest market at Masonite. I know this is no surprise to any of you on the phone today. The most


recent US census bureau housing statistics show January, 2008, at an adjusted annual rate of just


over 1 million starts, which is 28% below the January 2008 rate of 1.4 million starts. At the time,


back in January 2007, we thought that that was a pretty dismal rate. Year 2007 ended at an


estimated 1.35 million starts, a 25% drop from 2006 and a 35% drop from the recent peak in 2005


and it’s not getting any better. While the December National Association of Home Builders forecast


predicted nearly 1.1 million starts in 2008, we now believe starts could average as low as 900,000


for the remainder of 2008.


And while we continue to make great progress at Masonite, it is clear from the results that we


posted this morning, that the continued downward pressure in the U.S. in both the new housing


segment, as well as the repair, remodeling and renovation segment is beginning to take its toll on


our financial performance in spite of the many accomplishments of our Masonite team. The


markets in the UK and France, which provided important strength to Masonite throughout 2007,


began in the fourth quarter to soften from the particularly strong performance we had experienced a


year earlier.
corrected transcript


Masonite Canada Corp.
 
000TMM-


E
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


And although we do not expect a major downturn in Western Europe, like we are experiencing in


North America, the continued credit liquidity issues are clearly being felt outside of the United


States and we anticipate a somewhat tougher market environment in Western Europe in 2008.


Looking towards our emerging businesses in Central and Eastern Europe, growth is expected to


continue this year although at a more moderate level. So with market conditions, particularly in the


U.S. continuing to be rather uncooperative for lack of a better term, our focus at Masonite is to


ensure that we are applying every lever at our disposal to strengthen our business. We can leave


no stone unturned.


As you are already well aware, starting in the fourth quarter of 2006, we began proactively and


aggressively addressing our cost structure across the board in anticipation of the downturn in North


America. Through 2007, we permanently closed five assembly facilities dedicated to The Home


Depot, two interior manufacturing facilities one in Canada and one in Florida and cut stock


operations in Alabama. Just recently in January of this year, we announced to our employees our


plans to close an additional three sites in Canada, as well as a fourth site in the UK.


And we continue to assess additional actions to ensure that appropriate balance of manufacturing


capacity required to support anticipated customer demand around the world. In each of these


cases, we have retained much of our manufacturing equipment base and have redeployed these


assets into other manufacturing sites in anticipation of the market recovery. Simply put, we are not


reducing our long term capacity or capability. In fact, in certain operations, like door facings, we


have increased our capacity. Instead, we are optimizing our manufacturing footprints and taking


advantage of the reduced demand to consolidate operations into a more effective and a lower cost


operational platform and supply chain.


During the fourth quarter of 2007 and early in 2008, we also made the difficult decision once again


to reduce our salaries and overhead staff by an additional 10% when it became clear that the


markets were declining faster than previously forecasted. And we further tightened our focus on


discretionary spending across the board. As a result of these combined actions, Masonite has


reduced employment by roughly 30% from a high of more than 15,000 in July of 2006 to just over


10,000 employees today, with a substantially larger portion of that reduction being driven in our


North American operations.


All of these actions are part of our ongoing plan to match current capacity with current demand and


minimize the impact on earnings caused by top line weakness, and we will continue to flex our


labor force in line with the market conditions as required going forward.


While we are taking all these difficult actions to lower costs, to balance capacity and reduce


working capital, we are simultaneously focused on the necessary actions to protect and to grow our


share. In fact, I think we’re making great progress in these areas. We continue to improve customer


service and sale rates, we’ve accelerated new product launches and other technology


advancements. We continue to add new market and sales initiatives promoting our strong


competitive value proposition and we continue to aggressively focus on growing our business


outside of the US.


And while 2007 was clearly an extremely difficult year for everyone in this industry, Masonite


focused on taking tough actions to reduce costs while simultaneously strengthening our core


capabilities. As a result, I firmly believe we are a much better company today than we started in


2007. And we are much better prepared to take advantage of the inevitable market rebound when it


occurs. I will return to provide more color on these initiatives after our Chief Financial Officer, Tony


DiLucente reviews the fourth quarter and full results.