Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Scott MacLaren — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, MediaValet, Inc.
Robert George Chase — Executive Chairman & Chief Financial Officer, MediaValet, Inc.
Gavin Fairweather — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay, guys. I think we can begin. So, good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining MediaValet's Q4 and Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Call.

Slide 2, [ph] David (00:00:13). Before we begin, I will read the necessary cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. Certain information to be discussed during this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable security laws, including among others, statements concerning the company's 2021 objectives, the company's strategy to achieve those objectives, as well as statements with respect to management's beliefs, plans, estimates and intentions, and similar statements concerning anticipated future events, results, circumstances, performance or expectations that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to different materially from those anticipated.

Also, our commentary today will include adjusted financial measures which are non-GAAP measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the two can be found in our MD&A, which is available on SEDAR.com and our website.

Slide 3, [ph] David (00:01:29). Yeah. We are joined today by MediaValet's CEO, David MacLaren, as well as CFO and Chair, Rob Chase. If you're an analyst and you have a question, please use the Zoom raise hand function and we will unmute your line at the end of the presentation. Alternatively, you can submit your questions to the Zoom Q&A function throughout the presentation and we will get to as many as possible.

With that, I will hand it over to David MacLaren for his opening remarks.

Thanks, [ph] Corey (00:01:58). Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. 2020 was definitely an interesting and extremely challenging year. Our thoughts and well wishes go out to all of those that had a harder time, either personally or from a business perspective than others. Thankfully, as always during times of adversity, there's still some bright spots.

In March of last year, overnight and without skipping a beat, we seamlessly transitioned to a fully virtual environment and we've maintained it ever since. As of today, we're expecting to reopen our head office in Vancouver between June and September. When we do, things will definitely be different, and I expect they'll never go back to the way they were. For one, our people will never be required to come back to the office. Going forward, we're wholeheartedly and even maybe a bit eagerly embracing the new digital work-from-anywhere workplace. We feel this is a highly effective and strategic way to grow our team and our business in the years to come.

From a company perspective, although our growth slowed and churn increased slightly in 2020, we saw significant improvements in all other areas of our business; product, engineering, support, customer success and marketing. Following the growth you saw in 2019, in January 2020, we increased our investment across the business to drive and support our next level of growth. When COVID hit two months later, we made the tough decision to maintain that level of investment and continued leaning in on product, customer success, marketing and sales. These investments allowed us to increase the velocity of our future development beyond what we saw in 2019, spend the time required to help our customers tackle the challenges they face, thanks to COVID, and expand their awareness of our brand globally. We're extremely grateful that we are one of the few that were able to help organizations, both existing customers and new tackle the challenges of 2020.

Today, our customer base is stronger than ever and the future gap between us and our competitors is as small as it's ever been. And DAM's role in the modern, digital work-from-anywhere workplace is now unquestioned. However, from a maturity standpoint, DAM is still in its infancy, as over 85% of organizations around the world still have not implemented anything beyond simple file management, leaving their high-value assets heavily siloed and generally inaccessible to the entities and systems that need them. This doesn't even touch on security, redundancy, compliance and continuity concerns. Our focus, as always, is on the assets themselves and their data. This continues to set us apart even in today's rapidly evolving DAM industry.

We've seen a lot of growth in DAM, or more specifically the cloud DAM, the cloud-native DAM industry over the past few years. And this growth is expected to accelerate in the foreseeable future. From our perspective, on the frontlines of DAM, we're seeing the same [indiscernible] (00:05:21). Every year, the awareness of DAM, the active interest in implementing DAM and the requirement for DAM continues to grow. This past year, all three perspectives, awareness, interest and requirement accelerated significantly.

Now although we saw a marked increase in leads and opportunities in 2020, we also saw the number of people involved in the DAM buying decision increased significantly, as DAM is now in many cases a multi-department or even company-wide purchase. This combined with budget and employment uncertainties led to the lengthening of the sales cycle. As a result, even though our growth slowed in 2020, we feel our business opportunity, both short-term and our pipeline today and long-term materially increased in 2020 compared to prior years. It almost goes without saying, but I will, content today is more important than ever before. Just have a look around. We're all consuming more content at a higher rate than ever. This earnings call is a great example. It's the first time we're giving a video call and once we're done, it'll be loaded into our own instance of MediaValet for IR, training and archiving purposes, as well as for parts to be repurposed in the future.

What I find interesting of late is the divergence in how analyst firms classified DAM and other related media management software and how organizations are actually using and thinking of the same software. In our case, we solidly started in the DAM space. But then, our customers very quickly started asking if we get to help their video production teams manage their assets or media asset management channels. Then they started asking if we get to help their creative teams manage their assets or creative asset management, DAMs.

Next, just in this past year or so, they began asking if we can help their HR teams archive and manage their internal video communications or enterprise video content management DAMs. As an enterprise DAM, we manage all asset types of all sizes and formats at an enterprise-scale, meaning millions of original assets per customer, let alone versions and renditions. In our world, we don't think about DAM, MAM, CAM or EVCM. We strictly focus on helping our customers manage their digital assets, all of them across their entire organization, throughout their entire asset lifecycle, from ideation to archival.

Our goal with each of our customers is to first determine their business objectives, then identify how each department is creating, storing, managing, distributing, updating and securing the assets they create to achieve those business objectives. And finally to establish a foundational layer in their IT stack to manage their business assets, from all departments, via a central single source of truth, highly secure, compliant and redundant digital asset management platform. This foundational DAM layer then connects to all internal and external systems, entities and people required to achieve the business objectives of the organization.

Digital assets are used to run organization's entire ecosystem, from internal departments including engineering, sales, marketing, creative and customer success to external, partners, channel, vendors, and agencies, the customers. Digital assets are the lifeblood of organizations today. They simply can't survive without them. They're required to produce, mark and sell all products and services today.

Now, the reality of DAM adoption and usage today, even with an industry size of $2.5 billion is still in its infancy. Almost all organizations today are sitting somewhere between chaos and compartmentalized. Both stages are not optimal as it has individuals and teams and departments working independently with no corporate level security, compliance, redundancy, oversight, or continuity in place. This is where we meet most of our customers. Our mission is to move into to the third level of DAM collaborative as quickly as possible. Once at level three, the benefits of DAM start to be felt beyond just one or two departments but across many. This is when organizations start realizing DAM could impact the velocity of their entire business, ultimately increasing their top and their bottom lines.

The next level up is connected. This is the highest level of DAM maturity that we can reach today. This is where a foundational DAM there can be achieved. That single source of truth for all media assets, including source, work-in-progress, final creative and final consumable or content. At Level 4, everyone in an organization's ecosystem has access to the assets they need when they need them, all within a highly secure, strictly governed and fully compliant platform, with no risk of loss or misuse at any time. An asset productivity, efficiency and ROI maximized.

The fifth level, converged, is our ultimate goal and our vision for DAM. Everything we do today in product and engineering is focused on enabling us to deliver converged as quickly as possible. At this level of maturity, DAM is fully automated. It's omnipresent, intelligent and aware. It's almost entirely hands off. Over the last 12 months, we've seen more organizations than ever see this benefit of moving to Level 3 and Level 4, and some are even contemplating how to attain Level 5 today.

In Q4, we signed up dozens of new customers from a wide variety of industries around the world. These included one of North America's leading airport authorities; they signed a three-year, $441,000 deal that includes our enterprise DAM platform, our CreativeSPACES application that supports creative teams, and integration into Azure Active Directory, Office 365 and Workfront. Another was a North American unified health system that includes many of the well-known hospitals in the US today. We moved this customer off of one of our major competitors and their workflow partner to MediaValet and our leading workflow partner, Reich, who recently purchased – who was recently purchased by Citrix for $2.25 billion.

Our last customer example for today is a global $5 billion chemical company that produces many other products that we all use in our households today. This organization is currently at Level 3 on the DAM maturity chart and is already contemplating a plan to move to Level 4. Although we're not clear of COVID yet, our entire team is more excited about our business than ever before. We're looking forward to another strong growth year in 2021 as we continue to lean in to product, sales and marketing and channel.

Rob, over to you man.

Thank you, David. And thanks to everyone in attendance on today's call. We value your interest in and support of MediaValet and our mission. Overall, we are happy with our fiscal 2020 results. While our top line was impacted by COVID, it also gave us an opportunity to invest in our operational infrastructure and to onboard new staff in a down cycle. We believe this is a prudent strategy when you've got a large and growing market opportunity to address. And as outlined by David, we ultimately expect to be a benefactor of the cloud-native and digitization trend that COVID has accelerated. And we've already seen encouraging signs of this.

Turning to our operating results. Revenue grew 45% to CAD 7.5 million in fiscal 2020 and grew 26% to CAD 2.1 million in Q4 over the prior year period. As you know, the majority of revenue is from recurring SaaS revenues and accordingly reflects the growth in ARR in both fiscal 2019 and 2020. However, revenue also includes onetime implementation and setup fees for new clients, which is down this year due to the impact of COVID on new customer acquisition. This means that recurring – the recurring SaaS portion of revenue actually grew at a faster rate increasing at 34% for Q4 and is 55% for fiscal 2020, and representing 94% of revenue in fiscal 2020 versus 88% in fiscal 2019.

Our gross margin, while continuing to be strong, was also impacted by COVID due to lower onetime setup revenues and increased customer usage of our system as they shifted to remote work environment and it was also impacted by the step increase in customer success and support undertaking at the start of 2020. Excluding the Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy, gross margin for fiscal 2020 was 82% for the year and also for Q4. Operating costs, which are a non-IFRS measure, equal to operating expenses minus stock-based comp and depreciation which thus aligns with expenses included in EBITDA, were up 30% for the year and up 44% excluding the Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy. Importantly, the 45% increase in revenue exceeded the percentage increase in our costs, which we consider a positive outcome in a year of a step increase in spend and a pandemic.

Our EBITDA loss increased 13% in fiscal 2020 over last year, which is expected given the step increase in operating infrastructure toward our long-term growth plan and mission.

Over to next slide, [ph] David (00:16:18), on ARR and billings, we are happy to report a 30% increase in ARR to CAD 8.6 million and a 97% net dollar retention rate. While the rate of growth and net retention is below that of fiscal 2019 levels, we would like to draw your attention to a few important aspects underpinning these changes. We increased our sales and marketing by 45% over last year, which has increased our new sales potential and our ability to focus on customer success to retain and expand existing customers. While the economic fallout from the pandemic has muted the return on these investments, as David mentioned, our pipeline remained strong and we continued to see improving metrics each quarter following Q1 2020, which bore the brunt of the COVID impact on new customer acquisition.

In fact, we had a record year for large customer activity, adding a number of new top 10 accounts and increasing the value of our top 10 customers to CAD 2.2 million or 25% of the ARR, up from 40% – up 41% from CAD 1.6 million last year. Not surprisingly, it was the small- to mid-sized new customer activity that suffered this year, which we believe bodes well for the future, as the larger customers have indicated the importance of cloud down to thriving in the digital economy. We believe the small- to mid-sized customers will start to bounce back here as things settle from the pandemic.

We attained 100% net retention in our fourth quarter and are about to complete a full annual renewal cycle in Q1 2021 since the pandemic began. While our net retention was lower in 2020 than last year, the average ARR of churned customers was about 64% of our overall average customer ARR. So, we generally churned our smaller customers who are most likely to be impacted by a greater degree from the pandemic downturn.

Ultimately, we believe this will strengthen the quality of our customer base, and combined with the increased large customer activity, we – this has actually resulted in a 13% increase in our average ARR per customer this year over the last year. Our fourth quarter net new ARR was the highest quarter in fiscal 2020 and was the first quarter where net new ARR actually exceeded that of the prior year, was up 3% from last Q4.

I'd also like to highlight that we obtained our first quarter of positive billings based cash flow adjusted over CAD 200,000 versus above CAD 300,000 in burn in Q4 last year. This matches our invoice customer sales or billings to our cash-based operating expenses to provide a measure of our operating cash requirements. In addition, we closed the year with a billing of run rate at a breakeven level with our fiscal 2020 total operating costs and cost of revenue. This is the second year in a row of attaining this level and we are very pleased to achieve this despite our step increase in spend and the pandemic -- and of course the pandemic. It also earns us the opportunity to take the next step in our long-term growth plan.

Finally, turning to the balance sheet, we completed the year in a healthy financial position, thanks to the support of our shareholder base. We now have CAD 14.2 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand and modified working capital at $16.1 million. Importantly, this exceeds our fiscal 2020 billings-based cash burn by over 8 times, implying we had eight years of operating cash flow if we continue to hold our burn at the current level.

Coupled with attaining breakeven run rate billings in fiscal 2020, we are now looking to complete our next step increase in our operations to accelerate our mission and growth in the years to come, look for us to lean into research and development in order to continue increasing our pipeline opportunities, new customer win rates and existing customer retention rates, and lean into customer success in order to deliver best-of-breed support and adoption rates and to earn us the opportunity to increase retention and expansion. And then, into sales and marketing, including partnerships, to increase our global market reach and provide the sales team with sufficient opportunities to reach their potential capacity, just as they did in 2019.

And with that, I'd like to again thank you for listening in and to open it up for questions. Over to you, [ph] Corey (00:21:11).

Great. Thank you so much, gentlemen. Our first question is from Gavin at Cormark. So, I'm going to open his line here. Gavin?

Hey. Can you hear me?

Yes, we can.

Okay. [indiscernible] (00:21:26) but that's okay, we can go with that. Hey, guys, good to talk to you. Maybe this first one here is for David. I thought your commentary around DAM going wider within organizations that are quite interesting. I guess, I'm curious how many of the deals that you're seeing now coming in are more multi kind of departmental and perhaps wider than what you may have seen in the past?

So prior to 2020, a lot of organizations would come to us with one to three specific use cases that they're trying to address within maybe one or two departments. As 2020 started and COVID hit, those discussions changed quite quickly, because people are more concerned about larger groups of departments getting access to the assets they need that were sitting internal on servers, and going through VPNs was clogging the VPN network and preventing challenges. So, it became a much broader decision starting around February, March, when companies were making this transition to that digital work-from-anywhere or remote environment. And since then, those conversations have continued to grow and expand within all the organizations we've talked to. I would say there isn't one today that we talked to that isn't talking broader than they were before 2020.

That's great. And so, when I think about the implications of that, on average, I guess it would pull up your deal sizes, but maybe also complicate kind of the sales cycle, will that be fair?

It definitely complicates the sales cycle. As I mentioned, there's more parties at the table during the sales cycle, making that DAM buying decision. It doesn't necessarily increase size right away of a deal. It increases the potential for sure, but a lot of the deals had the same potential before. It's just moving those discussions closer and closer than before. What we're finding is adoption is broader. Instead of having 100 users, they have 500. They take Active Directory sooner and part of, so that does increase our average deal size, putting Active Directory in sooner. But it's that usage, that adoption that they're really focusing on initially, making those marketing assets, engineering assets, IR assets, HR assets just available to more people throughout the organization immediately instead of part of their plan down the road.

That's helpful. And then just another one on the sales front here. Hoping you could just touch on kind of top of funnel and how kind of inbound interest is being kind of progressing here as we're now starting to lapse obviously a year of being in kind of a COVID environment here?

So throughout 2020, we saw the increase. We saw an increase in the interest in DAM. Because of the challenges of people are facing with their VPNs and just general remote access to siloed assets throughout organizations, they are exploring ways to get access to those assets and quickly move them to cloud-native applications. So those conversations started quite quickly, but at a very high level within the – within our pipeline. So, at the same time, we did experience some faster moving deals in the bottom of the pipeline, where companies had to move really quickly and it was a single point or maybe two-point decision-making process within the organization because of the necessity to move fast. But as I was mentioning in my commentary, overall, we saw our pipeline grow throughout 2020 because of that level of interest and need for DAM for this access to assets throughout the organization got heightened, that pain point was stressed all throughout 2020. And that's helped increase our pipeline, both top and bottom, throughout 2020 and now into – as we start 2021.

And then just lastly on the sales front, is there anything notable in terms of how enterprise deals are kind of behaving now? You obviously got a few kind of across the line there in Q4, which was great. Anything to note on that front here in 2021?

As we start 2021, they're moving faster than ever.

Great. And then maybe a couple for Rob, can you touch on kind of the hiring plans here for 2021? And then, secondly, just also on the cost front, I understand you've been looking to do a bit of an upgrade on your user interface. Can you give us an update on that project as it related to kind of budget and spend and whether any of that kind of budget hit in Q4 versus the first half of 2021?

Well, I'll take the – I'll let David update you on the actual status of the UX updates, but first touch on the financial side there. Yeah, some of the expansion, the efforts to do the UX update did come in Q4 in terms of increased consultancy fees. That was offset by the Canadian – well, obviously they weren't related, but the credits taken from the Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidies sort of masked that increase. So, you wouldn't have actually seen it in the reported numbers, unless you add back this use. So, yeah, it did begin.

And in terms of the overall hiring plans, I mean, last year we went from 44 to 59 people. We absorbed those easily. We're able to get the right hires. We're very happy with the team. And where we'd love to be able to do at least that and then some in the coming year, but it takes time to add people, right? So, rest assured that, look, as we mentioned, we're very happy with what we did see from the market and the opportunity and our ability to get sort of cash breakeven on a billings basis in the same year at the step increase, we have the capital resources to do so. So, we're leaning in as much as we can. If we could double the head count, it would be amazing. That likely won't happen in the year, because we won't be able to add those people, but the focus is to grow as fast as possible to match the opportunity that we have and within obviously the means and capital resources we have, bearing in mind of keeping some aside should other inorganic opportunities present themselves as well.

And on the UX and UI front, it's one of dozens of the projects that we're working in our road map right now, both back-end to the front-end as well as true UI. Both are being done and in full progress today.

Okay. Great. I'll pass the line. Thanks so much.

Thank you.

Thank you so much, Gavin. I remind our listeners that if you're an analyst and you wish to submit the question, please use the Zoom raise hand function or you can submit questions through the chat portal at the bottom there as well. So, our next question actually comes from [ph] Suzanne at Eight Capital (00:29:02) has written in. [ph] Suzanne (00:29:06) would like to know if David, could you expand on the level of traction in land and expand to date, given some of the initial investments in upselling and cross-selling activity within the existing base?

From our smaller set of customers, we didn't see much expansion within that set. However, in our larger customers, we saw quite a bit of expansion in 2020 as they took the opportunity of maybe slowing down a little bit to focus on operations and strengthening that, so they could come out of 2020 much stronger than they went in operation.

Great. Thank you. The next question asks if you could provide some color on some of the growth investments over the course of 2021, in particular areas of investments over the course of this year.

So, we started in 2020 leaning into customer success. It's something that's been important to us for years now. And with 2020, we started to lean in further. Now that's prior to COVID starting. We maintained those investments throughout the year, so adding staff to that team. So, we were allowed to able to spend more time with our customers being more proactive and more strategic with them. Another would be the beginning of the year we started hiring more in our product and engineering teams. And we maintained that investment throughout the year and that allowed us to accelerate our road map for the year. So, we are now into 2021 much further ahead than we had – than we had expected back in ending 2019. And then marketing and sales, we lean further into both of those with a heavy emphasis on marketing to increase both global brand awareness, which I mentioned in my commentary, increased significantly in 2020, but also in more regional markets, just growing that brand awareness as well as bottom of funnel opportunities.

Fantastic. The next question states if we could provide some color on M&A to possibly accelerate tech road maps or go-to-market capabilities?

Rob, I'm answering a ton. So, why don't you jump in?

Gladly. So, clearly, some of the focus here, we still believe we have a massive organic opportunity and that's the focus, by really executing well and leaning into those areas we spoke about. And that's what we're quite excited about doing. That said, as you can see from the screen up, if you just [indiscernible] (00:31:52) able to see it, we obviously have a very healthy cash position. And back to the slides there, anyway, a very healthy cash position. And so that does afford us the opportunity to consider inorganic opportunities as they arise. I think that there's probably higher likelihood that there's opportunities to consolidate some of the smaller DAM vendors that maybe are struggling with an on-prem type of a system that has some good customers that are – yet they've stagnated. There might be some wins there. And so, we'll check that out, we do have the ability to do so. If it's not the core focus of our growth strategy, that said, if we can find some, it would be nice to augment if possible.

Great. Thank you. Well, that's all the questions from analysts that we have for today. So, I'll hand it back to you David, Rob, if you have any closing remarks by all means and then we can close our shop here.

All right. Thanks, [ph] Corey (00:32:56). I just want to thank everybody, all our investors, our customers and our teams for sticking with us throughout 2020 and giving us that base that we need to continue growing our business, our ecosystem and our customer base. We're super excited about the future, tomorrow let alone, next year and the years to come. So, thank you very much, everyone.

Thank you, everyone. Well done. Thanks, David.

Thanks, Rob. Thanks, [ph] Corey (00:33:26).

Thank you very much, everybody. Good afternoon.