Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Scott MacLaren — Founder, Chief Executive Officer & Director, MediaValet, Inc.
Robert George Chase — Executive Chair & Chief Financial Officer, MediaValet, Inc.
Gavin Fairweather — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Christian Sgro — Analyst, Eight Capital

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. I think we can begin here. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining MediaValet's Q3 2021 Earnings Call.

Before we begin, I will read the necessary cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. Certain information to be discussed during this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable security laws, including, among others, statements concerning the company's 2021 objectives, the company's strategy to achieve those objectives, as well as statements with respect to management's beliefs, plans, estimates and intentions, and similar statements concerning anticipated future events, results, circumstances, performance or expectations that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.

Also, our commentary today will include adjusted financial measures, which are non-GAAP measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the two can be found in our management discussion and analysis, which is available on sedar.com. Just a reminder to our analysts, at the end of the presentation, we will do a Q&A. Please use the Zoom raise hand function and we'll be sure to unmute your line.

We are joined today by MediaValet's CEO, David MacLaren; as well as CFO and Chair, Rob Chase.

With that, I will hand it over to you, David, for your opening remarks.

Thanks, Corey. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I hope all of you and all of those that you know and love are healthy and well. With over 85% of organizations around the world living in the chaos stage of DAM, that is still using a mishmash of file management systems and processes both on and offline, throw their entire ecosystems and the demand for and cost of creating publishing content continuing to grow. The market for DAM is expected continue growing at double digits well into the future.

From our perspective, however, it's not just the demand for basic DAM that's growing or the demand for offshoots of DAM. It's the demand for more complex and more intelligent DAM solutions that's growing and growing faster, outpacing the demand for other solutions offered by industry verticals such as CMSs or PIMs that only address very limited, highly targeted DAM or file management use cases. The more complex, intelligent DAM solutions being sought address enterprise use cases, those we've focused on since the beginning when MediaValet was founded in 2010.

Having said this, something has changed off late, since COVID began, the percentage of mid enterprise and SMB organizations that reach out to us on a daily basis looking for a DAM solution has increased materially. And these organizations, although much smaller in size have similar DAM use cases as our largest enterprise customers. This trend although quite telling was not unexpected, but it did happen much faster than we expected and with a higher volume. As we have discussed over the past few earnings calls, we need the majority of our customers in the chaos stage and our objective, literally our commitment to them is to move them left to right across this maturity model as fast as possible. As organizations move left to right, the continuity, security, productivity, the efficiency and ultimately the profitability of their operations increases. With our stepped increase in operations in 2021, we've begun leaning in on the technologies and innovations required to achieve Level 5 converged, our ultimate objective. Each of the advancements in DAM that we're working on in MediaValet labs, our R&D department, will not only help our customers move from chaos to connected, but then enable them to achieve the converged state where DAM moves behind the proverbial curtain and has almost entirely hands off.

In Q3 2021, we added another [ph] record rating (05:20) number of customers, this time for a third quarter surpassing 360 organizations around the world in total now that not only rely on us to protect and manage their high value assets, but to help them distribute them, make them more protective and increase the ROI in effect of those assets. Our ARR topped CAD 10 million achieving a level where our maturity and size is starting to positively influence our growth. Our gross margin hit 83% in Q3 and remained above 82% for the year-to-date period, continuing to reinforce our pricing and product model. And our SQOs again surpassed all previous numbers, giving us our largest sales pipeline of qualified opportunities in our history. And remember, SQOs stand for sales qualified opportunities.

In Q3, we signed up dozens of new customers from a wide variety of industries around the world. As you already know, these included a global leader in home audio operating in 60 countries with over 1,500 employees and CAD 2 billion in revenue, and a Leading Tech Forward South American University that delivers over 80,000 online classes per year. They also included one of the world's largest sports entertainment center operators with hundreds of locations across the US; a global manufacturer, a life sciences equipment that makes many of the devices that improve our lives every single day; and a community bank with 63 locations throughout the US.

Each of these new customers came to us in the chaos state and chose us specifically because of our vision for DAM, our product roadmap for 2022 and beyond, and our people-centric approach to sales, customer success, support and product development. I say this frequently, so please excuse me, but I do have to say, I'm extremely proud of the MediaValet team and their growth and market share that they're driving every single day.

That's it for today from my side. Rob, over to you.

Thank you, David, and thanks to everyone in attendance on today's call. We've recently reported some new customer wins and go-to-market partners, which we hope will help to underscore the impact of our stepped up operational foundation. While we expect the impact from this investment to be more apparent in 2022, it has already helped us to achieve some exciting milestones in Q3 2021, including reaching CAD 10 million in annual recurring revenue, growing our customer base to 360, at the same time is significantly reducing our logo churn to historically low levels, expanding our team to 91 people and expecting to be at 100-plus by year-end and expanding our go-to-market reach with new partnerships and ramping our new sales and marketing people to increase our sales capacity in time for 2022.

I'm incredibly pleased with the performance of our team as we scale, which has enabled us to continue deploying capital in pursuit of growth. As David noted, there is an exciting market opportunity in front of us and we are focused on efficiently deploying our capital to further our position as the leading enterprise DAM solution in the industry.

Once again, I'd like to highlight that our Canadian dollar ARR growth understates our performance due to the weakened US dollar. Our US dollar growth in ARR was 33% year-on-year, compared to 26% in Canadian dollars. Put another way, in constant currency, our ARR would be CAD 10.53 million a full CAD 0.5 million higher than reported, if we had consistent currency with last year. I believe this is important to keep in mind when evaluating our performance this year-to-date.

Turning to our operating results, revenue grew 24% to CAD 2.4 million in Q3 2021 and grew 26% to CAD [ph] 68.8 million (09:26) year-to-date. The majority of revenues from recurring SaaS subscriptions, which generated 94% of our revenue to-date, and it's indicative of the high quality sticky revenue generated by Software-as-a-Service businesses. Note that the revenue growth rate is slightly below our ARR growth rate due to COVID-related price concessions one-time and excluding these, growth would have been more in the 28% range.

Our gross margin remains strong at 83%, as David mentioned. Our operating costs, which are a non-IFRS measure equal to reported operating expenses minus stock-based compensation and depreciation, thus aligning with EBITDA expenses, were up 57% for the quarter to CAD 4.1 million and up 62% to CAD 11.3 million for the year-to-date. This is primarily due to payroll and R&D consulting as we have increased our head count from 59 people last year to and 91 people at the end of September. The increased spend is primarily focused on R&D and sales and marketing. The R&D spend is up 76% year-to-date and includes both higher people costs and consulting costs as we significantly enhance our ability to execute on the product vision highlighted by David. The sales and marketing increase of 55% year-to-date has extended our go-to-market reach with more salespeople, marketers, and partners, which we expect to increase our sales capacity for 2022. We continue to add in these business units as they are critical for our scale and success moving forward.

EBITDA loss for the quarter totaled CAD 2.1 million compared to CAD 1 million for the same period in 2020 and for the year-to-date totaled CAD 5.7 million versus CAD 2.6 million last year. This is a result of our stepped up increase in operational foundation in order to build towards a bigger long-term opportunity for MediaValet. With our growth capital in place we continue to believe that sacrificing near-term profitability for long-term success is the right approach given the market opportunity in front of us.

And now, I would like to spend over to the next slide, David, a little more time on our key non-IFRS metrics. As mentioned, we're happy to have attained the $10 million milestone in ARR with 33% underlying growth in US dollars. [ph] To further impact (11:42), emphasize the importance of understanding the underlying fundamentals of our performance, our net new ARR increased 14% to $580,000, making in our second strongest net new ARR quarter in company history.

Conversely, on a Canadian dollar basis, it would appear Q3 2021 was 13% weaker than Q3 2020. However, on a year – however, if you look at it in US dollars, it's actually up 14% and it's even more apparent for the year when which it was up 35% for the year-to-date. It's also important to understand that our investment and this performance comes despite the continued impact of COVID on organizations' willingness to tackle new projects. While it is clear that they need to implement a successful digital strategy to thrive today, many have been cautious to act in the face of the fourth wave of COVID and the reduced government stimulus. We see this in our pipeline as new leads often stay top of funnel longer, we believe this is a short-term trend and that we will ultimately see a release of pent-up demand at some point in the coming year or so.

Turning to our customer retention rate stats, while we continue to be at 97% net dollar retention, we believe that we've turned the corner on the COVID impact at retention levels. In fact, the number of logos churned this year is down 42% from last year-to-date, and our third quarter net churn was down 44% from what it was in Q3 2020. We expect to finish the year with the lowest logo churn in company history and well below the SaaS industry levels. This gives me great confidence in the health of our growing customer base.

In terms of net billings, invoice – which are invoice sales in the period and billings based cash burn, which is the invoice sales minus the period expenses for Q3, both increased over Q3 last year. We consider both of these to be positive developments. Q3 billings increased a healthy 20% and year-to-date increased 15% and both were impacted by the weakened US dollar and by one-time COVID price concessions, as mentioned. For billings-based burn, the increase over the prior year period reflects our strategic investment in scaling our operations for future growth. Note that the burn improved 41% sequentially over Q2 2021, reflecting our renewal cycle, which is strongest in our third and fourth quarters.

From a balance sheet perspective, we now have CAD 9.4 million in cash and cash equivalents on-hand and modified working capital of CAD 10.3 million compared to CAD 14.2 million and CAD 16.1 million respectively at the end of fiscal 2020. The reduction reflects our deployment of growth capital, which was calibrated to a level we believe is fundable within our available cash resources. At the average quarterly billings burn levels, year-to-date we have 5.2 quarters of working capital on-hand in addition to another CAD 2 million expected to come in from warrants that are expiring in the next year. This gives us confidence to continue investing in a bigger future in light of our performance to-date and the market opportunity in front of us.

And with that, I'd like to turn it over to – so, thank you again for listening and to open it up for questions. Corey?

Thank you, Rob. Thank you, David. Our first question here will come from Gavin at Cormark. Gavin, you can go ahead when you're ready.

Hey, can you hear me?

Yeah.

Yes.

Hey, good afternoon. Wanted to start out on the partnership side, been kind of a flurry of announcements kind of over the past few weeks, which is quite exciting and I think always the challenge from the onset is just kind of figuring out which ones can be pretty meaningful. And when I look at your existing partner network obviously Wrike has probably been the most impactful for you. So, I guess curious for your perspective as you look at the different partners that you've been announcing recently. Do you see maybe one or more that potentially could be as impactful as Wrike over time and maybe just talk about your level of excitement with some of these new partners?

Thanks. Great question. So, as you know, partnerships and our new partner ecosystem we've been developing in the last few years, each year has been driving more and more of our revenue. So, this year, year-to-date, partnership, that ecosystem is influencing roughly around 40% of our revenue and influencing meaning our partners, either vendors we're working with, similar technologies or technologies that are add-ons to ours, or us to theirs, or implementation partners. Either way, that group influences close to 40% in Q3 of our revenue. Now, when we look at our new partners that we've announced recently, those partners, whether they are agencies or workflow like monday.com similar to Wrike, these are areas where we're seeing lots of demand and opportunity for us, for our partners and working with us and for us directly. So we have announced them, because we do feel they are material and do have quite lofty expectations for each of those partnerships we've announced off late.

Interesting with monday.com's marketplace, a marketplace like that with an integration into monday.com and a vibrant marketplace bodes really well for us, because it makes it easier for customers – organizations to transact with us directly through that marketplace instead of multiple people being involved. It just helps make those sales easier to happen. The Microsoft Marketplace and our inclusion in that that we recently announced, that one's really interesting and that this is the first time that Microsoft has really put together a solution, a channel for organizations like ours that are built on Microsoft Azure to be introduced to other Microsoft customers directly through that marketplace, but also make that transaction really easily through that Microsoft, through that Marketplace mechanics that Microsoft is providing, like monday.com's Marketplace. So, both have a ton of potential for us, but it's early days, we've just launched on both. And we're generating leads and opportunities for both already, and we'll see where both go. But both do hold a lot of promise for us.

That's very helpful. And you kind of touched at the end there on you know part of my next question, which was kind of the timeline to going live with some of these new partners. It sounds like you're up and running with monday.com and on the Azure Marketplace, but maybe you can speak to any kind of partner enablement initiatives or plans that you have there to help these get up off the ground and start to flow more leads to you.

So, every time we do this, whether it's through an agency like FFW or through a marketplace at Microsoft or monday.com's, their way of introducing us to new customers and facilitating the sales process, but it is still a complex sale. So, the lead, the sales cycle, we still do expect to be 60 to 120 days. I don't know where that's going to fall yet in that normally nowadays we're in this kind of 90 to 120 day cycle throughout COVID. It's stretched beyond pre-COVID. We were sometimes as low as 70, 80 days in that sales cycle. In COVID, we've been as much as 120. So, our best though has been 60 in the last few years. Now, with marketplaces and partners doing some of the selling ahead of us, that might shorten the sales cycle, but it still takes a while to get on boarded and get used to new process, like, the marketplaces are unique. There is a lot more marketing that gets involved in delivering and making sure that those marketplaces work smoothly and that the customers' experience in buying is excellent and not cumbersome. So, it makes – it encourages that sales process more so than a direct sales where you're involving, just people like normal. So suffice to say, we don't know yet, but both our marketing team and our product team have both grown this year and both have grown with this in mind that we need more people to be able to put these partnerships in place and enable them better.

It's great. And then, maybe shifting gears to the enterprise deal side, it's been great to see a few different kind of enterprise deals get announced kind of over the past month or so. I guess, do you think that that's indicative of any kind of shifting trends within your pipeline with respect to kind of sales cycles or velocity, maybe just kind of walk us through what you're seeing within the pipe with respect to some of those larger deals?

Sure. So the larger deals we do find had slowed down a little bit in the sales cycles, so the sales cycle has lengthened with the large enterprise deals. And that's primarily because their view of DAM has broadened or their initial launch point for DAM has changed. Initially, when they were coming to us, this is pre-COVID, they were looking at one or two departments, maybe marketing, maybe sales, maybe [ph] creative (20:58) operations or some mix of those three. Now what we're finding is they're including more departments than ever in their initial discussions. Because with COVID, with this move to work from anywhere and some of their risk or volatility that's COVID has introduced to the workplace environment and stability of that environment and how it happens, they're now considering larger rollouts of DAM. So more people involved, more stakeholders, more decision makers, so that sales cycles lengthened a little bit. Whereas with SMB and mid-market, as I mentioned, what's interesting there is, we're seeing way more as a percentage [ph] of just operating is (21:38) coming in of SMB and mid-market that have enterprise use cases that they want to address. So, they're stepping up and moving a little bit quicker, whereas the big enterprise organizations are broadening their DAM launch point and initiative, but slowing down in the sales cycle a little bit. So, definitely a different mix today than there was last year, [ph] little bit on the year (21:57) before that. But as I was saying in my comments, it wasn't unexpected. It's just faster than we had expected and at a higher volume with the SMB specifically.

Great. And maybe one for Rob, when I look at your operating costs relative to Q2, they were roughly kind of flat around that CAD 4 million level and I know that you've been active in terms of adding some head count. So, I kind of had expected those to step up a little bit. Maybe just speak about that dynamic and how we should be thinking about kind of your level of head count additions and costs, your cost run rates as we start to think about Q4 and Q1 here. Thanks.

Yeah, good question, Gavin. And certainly a lot of as you've seen through the year, the head count increases have certainly come later and a lot of them later in the quarter. And as mentioned on the call, we're pretty much around 100 now. And [indiscernible] (23:00) in the coming quarter in Q4, we've got an opportunity with some R&D initiatives to accelerate some work that we have contractors doing. So, I would expect to spend more in Q4 on consultants than we did in the prior quarter, upwards to 400 or so thousand more than we did. And then also we'll see the tail end of a full quarter of those new hires. So, that'll definitely push things higher. And I would say ideally if all the hires come as expected, we could expect CAD 1.5 million or so in increased cost overall versus Q3.

Great. I'll pass the line. Thank you.

Thanks, Gavin.

Thank you, Gavin. Our next question is going to come from Christian Sgro at Eight Capital. Christian, you can go ahead when you're ready.

Hi, David. Hi, Rob.

Hi, Chris.

My first question today, I wanted to ask on the interest that you're seeing from the small to midsize businesses, the lower end of the market there. I was wondering, it's good to see the interest more broad based despite some larger enterprise wins that you've announced recently. Are there any drivers that you would call out that's maybe making some of the smaller enterprise more engaged or interested? Do you think that some of these trends are driven by COVID or do you think this is part of a longer term shift where you'll see more and more interest from small to midsize customers?

I think COVID has accelerated digital transformation in general across all industries. As we all know and COVID detrimentally affected some businesses and positively affected other businesses. So the businesses that we see, the SMB, and really all businesses that have reached out to us throughout COVID have reached out with grander plans for DAM, because their digital transformation is being driven further faster because their businesses are growing throughout COVID. There are the odd ones that their businesses have been impacted negatively, but they're in a position from a cash flow standpoint that they want to double or triple down on their operations and infrastructure to prepare for post-COVID. Those are rare, a smaller percentage, for sure, because most of the companies that we're seeing moving faster, their businesses are busy. COVID is driving further growth in their business year-on-year. And so, they are now investing and having to invest and accelerate that digital transformation, which DAM, as we always talk about, is the foundation of that digital transformation, because we focus primarily on the digital assets themselves, protect them, so aggregating them, protecting them, securing them, making them accessible, but controlling that access and then making it that accessibility available globally throughout the entire lifecycle of those assets. They are high value assets and companies today are truly media companies. They're producing more content than media companies did decades ago, so those traditional media companies from the 1980s, 1990s, 2000s, that produced media as their product.

We now, as individual companies produce so much media for social media, for sales, for service, for support in general, educating our clients, educating our teams, all of those media assets now we spend a lot of money creating them. And as organizations, we need to preserve them, protect them and then repurpose them to make it productive and efficient use of those resources. So we're seeing that now across all types of businesses because it's no longer someone coming to us and saying, I'm using Dropbox, I'm using SharePoint. I'm using some type of file management system. I want to up the game a little bit in file management. I want to do a little bit more. So that's where we would reach down and say, okay, you can use a few of these features. That's changed. They're truly looking for DAM now and core DAM. Not an offshoot of DAM where it's basically very highly focused DAM or file management, but foundational DAM across their organization, where they're starting in chaos moving to compartmentalized, but with a vision towards converged. What's truly behind the curtain and no one is having to do anything with them other than connect them to their network, that ecosystem, and everything else happens behind the scenes. That's truly how people are starting to think today because COVID is driving them and their businesses are going to have to think of this, because it's coming sooner than they expected.

Got it. That's really helpful color. I think I have two follow-ons both on the small to midsize business segment that you guys are more active in. First I will ask, do you think the average deal size across the business might trend steady in the next couple of quarters, just seeing the pipeline diversified from smaller to larger enterprise? And the other question I have is, if there is the potential for the sales cycle to shrink if there is a larger proportion of smaller customers coming in, I don't know if the sales team is equipped [ph] to get them off the ground (28:36) and running sooner, but could it lead to conversions and sooner than the normal cycle.

Well, we definitely know we can convert deals fast. We convert – some of our deals will convert within a week, a small percentage for sure, but some are very fast moving. They come in, they know DAM well and there they have selected us and they want to move really quickly. So, we've found that those deals can be closed as long as legal agrees within a week or less, a small percentage, but we know it's possible. Usually it's when there is more DAM people, more DAM decision makers involved. And at that point and legal sometimes will add two, three, four weeks to deal with larger organizations or more legal focused companies [ph] or legal is just more (29:24) important. So, it could shorten, yes, more SMBs because they do tend to move faster. The monday.com and Microsoft Marketplaces could reduce sales cycle as I mentioned, so that's yet to be seen. But I am very interested to see the numbers and we are tracking them carefully to see [ph] if they are (29:45) going to be a trend.

With regards to our average deal value it's a really interesting question and I don't know yet, because we have definitely more SMBs coming into our pipe and they do tend to have a smaller price point than our larger customers. So, we've got volume and lower, but then we've got some of our bigger customers getting bigger. So, it's really going to be interesting each quarter how it effectively [indiscernible] (30:13) in the bottom and in the end. I don't see a specific trend at the moment. But to your point earlier, I love diversity as well. And as long as, as a business and as a product, we're addressing enterprise use cases, meaning thousands of users, hundreds of thousands and millions of assets, hundreds of thousands of vendors, multiple locations, lots of products, lots of logos, lots of SKUs, lots of categories like into the thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of categories. This is where our strength is because it is truly really difficult to break MediaValet and a lot of analysts that come in and check us out, a lot of consultants, one of the things that we hear consistently is it's really hard to outgrow MediaValet. That's where we really lean into. So, as long as SMB mid-market enterprise are still coming to us to have us address an enterprise use case, then we'll keep growing I think across the board in all of these sectors, SMB and mid and enterprise.

That's really helpful, David. And that's all for me today. Thanks for taking my questions. [ph]

Thank you (31:32).

Thanks, Christian.

Thank you, Christian. We actually do have one more follow-up from Gavin. Gavin, you're back on the line.

Hey, there. Yeah, I just wanted to circle back on some of your commentary around some of the wider use cases, perhaps, going across more departments and more seats. I guess, how does that change your thinking around kind of the customer success department within your organization? I mean, does it make sense to ramp that more to maybe look to uncover more of these opportunities in the base if that's how the overall market is thinking about these things now? And that's it.

Gavin, it's a great question. And thank you for asking it, because it is. We started growing out our customer success team this year. And really for the first time earlier this year, we started focusing on success plans for our customers that were longer than 12 months. So what's it looking 12, 24, 36 months out, where are you at today within the maturity model and how do we move left – [ph] how to move your (32:37) left to right. That maturity model, we launched late 2020 and it's been really impactful for us and our customers, helping explain what our vision is, where they're at and how they can move left to right and what moving left to right even means. Because before that, before we launched the maturity model, a lot of customers would come in and a lot of organizations and their mind was, we want to solve marketing's DAM issues, we want to solve sales DAM issues, maybe product, maybe creative operations. And it kind of stayed there, and it was hard to move them beyond that. Some would, some are very progressive, but the majority they were focused on solving those DAM issues.

When we launched that maturity model, it changed that. It was like an aha moment for people, because they could just visually see where they could go and how it would help their business. That's what customer success is digging into. And we've grown and expanded the team this year, and we'll continue doing this year. And for everyone on the call, if you remember, one of our biggest go-to-market promises to our customers is that when you sign on with MediaValet, you're not just getting a piece of software, you're effectively getting a DAM apartment down the hall, as we like to say, in that you're getting a DAM team that's going to help you with all your asset-related DAM-related issues, because many people to them, DAM is extremely daunting. 5,000, 10,000, 30,000 users, 1 million, 2 million, 10 million assets spread across multiple divisions, multiple offices, multiple teams and vendors and suppliers, really hard for some people to just comprehend even step one, step two. So this helps them understand that and this DAM department down the hall that we're here to help you throughout every step of your DAM journey. So building out that team as part of that and we've been doing that now throughout COVID, but leaning into it more in 2021, as you've seen from our numbers.

Excellent. Thank you, David. Thank you, Gavin. That's all we have for questions today. So David, Rob, I'll leave with you, if you have any closing remarks and then we can close up shop here.

Rob, you want to go first?

Thank you everybody for attending. Very good to hear the questions from Gavin and Christian, and thank you all. Looking forward to reporting another quarter, as we continue to make progress on the mission.

And I just want to say a big thanks to all of our investors, who support us, all of our families who are supporters and our friends and the entire team at MediaValet for making what we're achieving today and our vision for the future possible. Thank you, everybody.

Thanks, everybody. That concludes today's call.