Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert George Chase — President & Chief Executive Officer, MediaValet, Inc.
Dave Miller — Chief Financial Officer, MediaValet, Inc.
Christian Sgro — Analyst, Eight Capital
Gavin Fairweather — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Neehal Upadhyaya — Analyst, Industrial Alliance Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...during this call, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable security laws, including, among others, statements concerning the company's 2023 objectives; the company's strategy to achieve those objectives; as well as statements with respect to the management's beliefs, plans, estimates, and intentions; and similar statements concerning anticipated future event, results, circumstances, performance or expectations that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.

Also, our commentary today will include adjusted financial measures, which are non-GAAP measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the two can be found in our MD&A, which is available on sedar.com and our website. We are joined today by MediaValet's CEO, Mr. Rob Chase; as well as the company's CFO, Mr. Dave Miller.

With that, I will hand over the call to Rob to provide his opening remarks. Please go ahead, Rob.

Thank you, [ph] Babak (01:17). Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for our earnings call. I hope you've had a chance to review our press release and financial reporting materials, all of which are now available on SEDAR. With me today is Dave Miller, our CFO. And together, we'll provide a business update and review of our key financial software-as-a-service performance metrics, and then we'll open it up for questions.

Now, six months into my new role, I am pleasantly surprised by the adaptability, courage, resilience, and creativity of our team and customers. The urgency with which the MV team has tackled the macro challenges and adjusted to improve operationally is exemplary. Through it all, we have delivered solid growth and near 100% net retention rate at an accelerated path to profitability.

Our year-to-date performance can be summarized into a few key takeaways. One, simply put, we're excited about the future of DAM, which we see is growing in significance. Recent developments, such as gen AI, are helping to fuel this positive outlook. The possibilities are endless from truly harnessing gen AI, combined with DAM's ability to provide a single source to the truth for content at scale. Accordingly, our DAM market thesis remains intact, despite tech spending being impacted by longer sales cycles as organizations seek to rationalize their tech spend and increase purchase scrutiny.

Two, as you can see from our ARR chart, we continued to deliver solid growth despite these macro challenges. We believe this is a testament to the importance of DAM and MediaValet's ability to provide impactful value to customers. It also reflects our go-to-market and product strategies as we execute with urgency on our HotDAM! vision.

Three, in addition to the optimization efforts, which have helped us to contain year-to-date spend, we have now taken steps to strategically align our organization and our HotDAM! vision. This has enabled us to further streamline our operations and to accelerate our path to profitability.

Delivering on our HotDAM! Vision. The strategic alignment announced today is all about ensuring we can deliver on our HotDAM! vision to the benefit of our customers, employees, partners and shareholders. At the crux of the changes is aligning product and revenue, each with a single owner so we can better service and deliver the critical elements that make the MV DAM hot.

This graphic depicts our vision, which emphasizes that HotDAM! is a whole product solution made up of not just best-of-breed technology, but also best of breed user experience and tech stack integrations that enable our customers to realize the true potential of DAM within their environment. A key to winning at this strategy is to ensure we are structured to amplify the voice of the customer in charting our product roadmap, and at the same time, ensuring we're delivering innovative and easy-to-use use case activations for our customers today. By aligning the customer journey and revenue under Eric and the product under Jean, we have provided the structure required to make this happen. We have a fantastic customer experience team with best-in-class ratings, and this change will ensure that they have the support to attain industry-best net retention rates and impact the value of our products.

Standing out in the crowd. As we have set, the bold goal of being number one in adoption. We believe this will be the result of executing on our HotDAM! vision with an intentful approach that is built upon unrivaled support, innovation, and ease of use. This is the how behind delivering on our HotDAM! vision, and it is central to driving impact every day for our customers and our business.

Through clarity of vision and inspired execution, we believe we will continue to rise above the competition and successfully build our leadership position in our focused market. As you can see from the slide, we focus on the mid-market. We are solving the need for content at scale. This is a theme that has wide applicability across customer sizes, industries, and geographies. I need to support all asset file types with the right mix of organization, [ph] automization (05:38), security, AI, scalability, workflow, flexibility, and simplicity. As organizations continue to optimize operations to unlock efficiencies such as with gen AI and to be stand-out digital leaders, we believe that this need for DAM will just continue to move up the must-have list, particularly in times of economic uncertainty.

What's new for HotDAM!? On our HotDAM! journey, we have recently launched some exciting new features and enhancements and have many more coming this year and beyond. Face Recognition is our most recent launch, and has been very well-received by our existing customers and new prospects. This is a capstone of our cognitive AI suite, which we believe is an essential component of the future of DAM. AI has brought much promise for all of us to operate more efficiently, which is why cognitive services have been a central theme for us for over the past five years.

Through our AI suite, we are able to automate metadata tagging, search and collection of assets to enable our customers to easily harness the power of AI. The use case is also accelerating DAM adoption through enabling a single source of the truth against which customers can apply gen AI to save time and money on new content development.

We have been encouraged by the interest in Face, and have already secured our first existing customer upsell, all positive signs that we're on the right path. We've also had good feedback from our release of in-app notifications in Q2. This is a key workflow component that enables our customers to stay on top of critical asset development and usage activities.

Both new features are examples of us executing in our HotDAM! vision with our intentful approach that focuses on unrivaled support, innovation and ease of use. I'm looking forward to updating you on further initiatives like this as we continue to execute on our roadmap.

On the topic of what's new, we announced a large customer win for Q3 this morning – sorry, this afternoon. This is important as our year-to-date performance was impacted by lengthened deal cycles and fewer larger deal announcements. The win this morning is indicative of this, as in any other year it would have completed in Q1 or Q2. It's great to be off to a fast start for Q3 and gives me cautious optimism that the larger deals in our pipe are now getting led to the end of their lengthened deal cycles, just in time for our traditionally stronger second half bookings quarters.

Moving on to the strategic restructure. We are very excited to have implemented a strategic restructure to align our organization with our corporate mission. The changes announced today are powerful, and will enable us to streamline our decision-making and operations to clarify ownership in areas critical to our success and to execute with urgency on our HotDAM! vision. Existing customers are our life's blood, and the changes today have heightened our ability to deliver customer value and have amplified the voice of the customer in building our product roadmap.

I believe this structure will enable us to achieve best-in-class software-as-a-service performance for our customer acquisition and retention. At the same time, it ensures our operating structure is streamlined and efficient, removing friction and increasing focus to accelerate our path to profitability. We have taken this step today as after six months of assessing our operations, I see a clear opportunity to improve our performance through strategic alignment. So, why now? I say, why wait to be better for ourselves, our strategy and our customers.

With that, I will pass it over to Dave to take us through our key metrics and financial results. Dave?

Great. Thanks, Rob, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today.

We have continued our strong year as our operating results for Q2 2023 show our resilience to market turbulence and support our consistent growth projections. In Q2 2023, our revenue grew to CAD 4.06 million, up 30% compared to the same period in 2022, and was up 5% compared to Q1 2023. In the first six months of 2023, revenue was up 34% to CAD 7.94 million compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in revenue is attributed to growth from new customer acquisition, strong net dollar retention from existing customers at 99.3% in the quarter, and as well as the relative strength of the US dollar to the Canadian dollar, given the majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars.

Gross margins increased by 28% for Q2 2023 to CAD 3.27 million compared to the same period last year, and the gross margins remained strong at 80.6% of revenue, down 1% compared to the same period last year. For the first six months of 2023, gross margins increased by 31% to CAD 6.39 million, and the gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 80.4%, down 1.7% compared to the same period last year. The decrease in the gross margin percentage relates to a higher mix of professional services revenue compared to the same period last year, an increase in personnel costs related to delivering unrivaled support to our customers, as well as the timing of customer adoption in advance of revenue from expansions and feature upsells. We continue to expect to generate strong gross margins in the 80% to 82% range as we unlock lower operational and platform costs of scale.

Moving on to adjusted operating costs, a non-IFRS measure, which the company defines as sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses, excluding share-based compensation, depreciation and other non-recurring expenses. Adjusted operating costs for Q2 2023 were up 1% to CAD 5.11 million compared to the same period last year. For the six months of 2023, the adjusted operating costs were up 3% to CAD 10.28 million compared to the same period in 2022.

As Rob highlighted earlier, we executed on a strategic restructuring yesterday that has streamlined our organization and made several roles redundant, enabling us to do more with less. As a result, we eliminated 10 positions or approximately 10% of our workforce, predominantly within the research and development team, resulting in up to CAD 1.8 million of annualized savings. While this is a hard action to take, and we thank all of those involved in our journey in HotDAM! vision, we are confident that this additional focus and alignment will improve our overall offering to the benefit of both of our customers and our shareholders.

The restructuring was completed subsequent to Q2, so we expect an increase in nonrecurring expenses in our Q3 results of between CAD 400,000 and CAD 425,000, primarily related to severance costs. And the full impact of the reduction in spend will be reflected in our Q4 operating results. These changes will accelerate our path towards positive billings-based cash flow, as well as positive EBITDA. Prior to the strategic restructuring, we had already made significant progress in reducing our adjusted EBITDA loss, which for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, were CAD 1.83 million and CAD 3.8 million, respectively, a decrease of 22% and 24% compared to the same periods in 2022. The decrease reflects the revenue growth, as mentioned previously, offset by holding our operating costs flat in line with the company's long term growth strategy and available capital resources.

Turning now to some non-IFRS measures. At June 30, 2023, our annual recurring revenue in Canadian dollars was CAD 16.27 million, up 27% year-over-year, and our Canadian dollar billings on a trailing 12-month basis was CAD 16.98 million, up 30% year-over-year. We believe this is a testament to the importance of DAM and MediaValet's ability to provide impactful value to our customers.

I've provided a couple of examples of customer wins this quarter, which include a leader in the audio experience space, a mutual insurance services business, both of whom are going through large-scale digital transformations, where digital asset management was the foundational component to complete their vision and to realize the full value of their strategy.

We continue to see growth in the enterprise and mid-market deals in our pipeline. However, prolonged approval processes in deal cycles, as a result of executive alignment, have become commonplace. As a result, average deal ages have increased from 86 days in 2022 to 123 days during the first half of 2023.

We ended the quarter with CAD 0.4 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand compared to CAD 0.2 million at the end of fiscal 2022, and modified working capital of CAD 0.3 million compared to CAD 2.3 million at the end of fiscal 2022. The decrease in modified working capital compared to the end of fiscal 2022 is expected due to the normal seasonality in our billing cycle, with higher billings in the second half of the year as customer annual contracts renew.

To-date, operations have been funded through a mix of sales growth, cost management and optimization, equity raises, and a secured operating credit facility. We believe the new org structure announced today will enable us to continue our strong top line growth as we execute on best-in-class software-as-a-service performance for customer acquisition and retention, and at the same time provide a streamlined operating structure that is efficient and focused on accelerating our path to profitability.

With that, I'd like to thank you again for listening in; and opening it up to questions.

Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Rob. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Christian Sgro of Eight Capital. Christian, your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking my questions. The first one I'll ask on was the theme from last quarter. It was MediaValet's vertical-specific targeting, and that helped, I think, with some traction in the education sector and elsewhere. Would you say that vertical-specific targeting is still a theme into the back half of the year? And are there any verticals that you're targeting you're seeing success with as you deploy that strategy?

Hey, Christian. Great question. Thanks for asking. Yes, we continue to see success, particularly you mentioned education and continues to be strong. So, we're continuing our efforts to specifically target the segment of the industry with dedicated materials that are relevant to our education-type customers. So, that's been very effective for us, not for profits as well, but we're seeing a bit more in the CPG and retail side of the house as well. So, we're starting to do a little bit more there too. But again, these are tweaks. We still have a very general message going out into the market, and we're going – which we won't stop doing. It's just we augment that with some specifics from time-to-time when it makes sense to do so, to highlight some of our strengths, and certainly has proven successful so far.

Yes. I'll ask on the head count reductions, the restructuring referenced in the release and your comments, the 10 positions I think you noted were mostly in research and development. And I'm sure it was a tactical move, not cutting into muscle. How do you see, not the redundancy, but do you see some of the sales personnel kind of lapping over more to provide some direction on the customer feedback development side? Or do you see R&D getting more involved, listening to customers and on the sales arm of things? Just wondering if you can walk us through your rationale on the restructuring, how you see everything either coming together or the new strategy going forward.

Yeah. Good question. So, let's start on the product side of the house. I mean, we have great team members, but I think we were lacking a single voice in terms of leading the product charge. Jean was the founder of the technology right from the beginning, and he truly understands what our DAM is capable of. From a technological perspective, he also has a great customer-centric and solution-oriented focus. So, having products separated from him kind of insulated him a bit from the voice of the customer, I think. So, bringing them under one roof here, I think we're going to be so much better by being aligned with a strong customer-focused technology leader who has a true interest in product, actually being front line and owning the whole product road map. So, this is just going to make us so much more aligned, create great clarity, and give a very, very strong voice for product, and align the road map between product and technology really tightly, which I'm very excited about.

Jean works very well with Eric as well, and they both worked together for years and developed a great rapport and equally has a great concern for not just winning customers, but making sure that we deliver on our promise to our customers. It's a natural thing to slide customer success under Eric because the entire customer journey can get disjointed if you're not really tightly aligned. And I believe that's where we needed to go to make sure we can deliver the best experience possible for our customers and make sure we leverage some of the information that you discover and things you understand about the customer and the sales process, learning about really what they're trying to accomplish, what the most valuable use cases are for them, and what the growth opportunities together are. That information is something that you really focus on in winning a customer.

When you start to service the customer, you're really focusing on the champion and making sure you're trying to deliver for them, but maybe not so much on the global account management in terms of where that fits into the broad picture for the customer. And I think that's somewhere where bringing the two together will really increase our ability to go and execute on the full vision for customers, and also give a very strong single voice from the customer side and new customer side, with Eric being able to represent that and work together with Jean [indiscernible] (21:26) to develop the best customer-led innovative road map possible. So, yeah, just as you go through things, you see opportunities to streamline and to get us more focused and clear. And I think we're going to be so much better because of this. I'm really excited.

Okay. Thanks for that clarity, Rob. I'll ask one more question before passing the line. The deal elongation cycles is a commentary that's come out of virtually every North American software company, but maybe from your seats, how do you reconcile where we are in August, a larger pipe? That you're seeing some pipeline strength with that deal cycle elongation? I guess my question would be, do you have some visibility into for the back half of the year, continuing to be seasonally stronger? Is it tough to call at these points when deals will close and where things will land?

Yeah. I would say that the pipeline remains strong. It's certainly got greater proportion of deals in the bottom part of the funnel, which is indicative of deals just pushing out, right? So, it feels like a lot of those deals are maturing. So, gives us a good, as I said earlier, cautious optimism about for sure Q3. As Dave mentioned, our deal cycle is hovering around 123 days. So, our visibility into Q4, obviously, isn't quite as strong. We know we've got a great pipeline building. We've got great processes in place. You touched on some of the vertical targeting. You're going to see some really good initiatives coming out here at the end of August as we continue to push forward, both on product and on how we go to market. So, I'm really looking forward to that.

A little teaser for you, some things will be coming, but I'm confident that those are the right steps and we're doing the right thing. As we continue to do, we wash, tweak, rinse, repeat, right? Tweak it and repeat. It's been effective for us to build the pipeline we need. The team is really focused on it. I feel confident that we will continue to build that pipe into – throughout Q3, so that we enter Q4 in equally of a strong position as I feel we are in Q3 here.

That's all good, Rob. Congrats in the execution in the June quarter. And I'll pass the line.

Thanks, Christian.

Thanks, Christian. Next question is from Gavin Fairweather of Cormark. Gavin, your line is open.

Oh, hey. Good afternoon.

Afternoon.

Hey, Gavin.

Just maybe discussing the macro a little bit more. Can you just touch on the impact that you're seeing within the base both from an upsell perspective and the appetite for upsells versus kind of what you're seeing in terms of churn or customers looking for discounts? What's kind of the tenor of those conversations?

Yeah. Great question. And you're hearing this throughout the industry. Churn rates are up, no doubt about it, right? Organizations are looking to consolidate and to rationalize. So, it's a constant battle, as it always is. But I would say it's peppered with a little more customers kind of either going out of business, getting acquired, and acquire or leading the charge in terms of what technologies they have, and also dealing with constrained resources, right? So, I think those bits are certainly up, not fully controllable. Some of it is, and we're focused. The exchanges we've made will help us certainly do our best to minimize the controllable aspect of churn. But certainly it's up.

Our first half of churn this year is a record for churn. It's also a record for expansion. So, we've got both sides expansion doing really well. And I think that's in advance of our new Face Recognition features while we've already had our first upsell of Face. Really excited about that. About 25% of our customers showed interest as soon as we announced it, and [indiscernible] (25:35) already had one become a new customer of Face is pretty exciting for us. So, I think we've hit a chord there, and it also helps with new customers as well. So, I think – I feel like we're in a strong position. You can see that we finished the quarter with 99.3% net retention for the year, which is a little under the 100% that we have been hovering at and would like to stay at. I think we still got a great shot based on our visibility for the rest of the year to go make sure we ended the year at 100% or better.

So, I'm feeling good about it, but it's definitely something that we're jumping on with urgency as a team, to make sure we address the customers' needs and value so that we can again showcase why it is that we're part of the story for times of consolidation and contraction. As we save customers' money, we help with continuity, and we make them more effective at the same time, so.

Super helpful. And then we chatted last quarter on a couple of major product initiatives, both from a back end optimization perspective and a UI perspective. So, maybe you could just provide us with an update on both of those fronts and any impact you're seeing on customer conversations and how are you feeling about the ability to move the needle on with rates as those fully roll out here?

Yes. We're – definitely a big focus for us on both areas still. A lot of the optimization work has already been done. There's still more to go. We've actually, in the reorganization, being able to appoint one of our senior managers to focus on optimization as well. So, that's exciting for us. As you know, the story there isn't just saving money. The story there is also being able to have pricing flexibility and then also to be able to tackle additional market segments, particularly with video, which is extremely intensive in terms of its storage needs and compute power needs, right? So, yeah, it's a very important piece of the puzzle. I think we're making great strides on it. We'll keep doing that, and you'll see us – I don't know, you'll see – doesn't necessarily see anything major from an announcement or what have you. But you will see our margins remain strong. And, hopefully it'll just be reflected in the growth.

And then in terms of our new front end, we're running hard with urgency on that. Team is very focused. We're going to be implementing what we call episodes along the way, a little bits of value. The first is mobile. It's coming out here, and we're full steam ahead to bring that to market as fast as we can. But excited. It's a multi-quarter rollout, but it's in good shape. And the team is focused on delivering. So, still a key focus.

Okay. Great. And then just lastly for me, maybe an update on the partner front would be helpful. How are things working with [indiscernible] (28:39) and some of the other partners in the roster there? That's it. Thank you.

You bet. Yeah, I'd say, year-to-date, as you know, we're in a rebuild there with our partner. I'm happy with the people that are on the job now looking after partner. But as you know, it was unmanned for a period of time. So, it's coming along. We like some of the early signs that we see. But to be fair, our year-to-date performance is mostly reflective of our direct marketing efforts, and partner is continuing to improve, but it isn't back to where it was before the changes. And I think it's an area, as you saw from our HotDAM! vision slide, that we're going to be leaning into more and more here as we grow because partners are an incredibly important piece of our integration into the tech stack as well. So, more to come on that, but really not too much to update you on at this moment.

Thanks so much.

You bet.

Thanks, Gavin. Next question is from Neehal Upadhyaya of Industrial Alliance. Neehal, your line is open.

All right. Hey, guys. Congrats on the strong quarter.

Thanks, Neehal.

You're recently selected by a leader in the insurance vertical.

Yeah.

And then the press release mentioned that it was one of the three new customers in the sector that was – that selected MVP in this quarter. Can you maybe provide some color on how insurance is quickly becoming an important vertical for you, and then why MVP solutions are so attractive to them specifically?

Yeah. And to be clear, that's the finance sector, right? Finance and insurance go together. But you know what, part of it is that the way MediaValet is architected, and right from the beginning, we've been architected to be enterprise class hyperscale, hyperflexibility, a deep feature set, but also very configurable and customizable, at the same time without jeopardizing security. And security is somewhere where we stand out. And in the original days of DAM, it was really just finished goods, and it was just finished marketing materials, really, right? That's changed, Neehal.

Now, we have work and process assets, but we also have, from time-to-time, confidential assets. So, knowing that you're with one of the most secured DAMs available is very important to these customers. And I think that's an area we can definitely – we're architecturally built to win in, which obviously makes it a little harder to compete because competitors just can't all of a sudden become high security. So, yeah. So, I think that's what I – we're seeing some good traction in those industries in that finance sector because obviously security is integral to them.

Perfect. And then correct me if I'm wrong, Rob, but MediaValet doesn't really want to compete on pricing as much as it competes on product and how futuristic it is and the strong customer support it provides. In times like this, is there any temptation on your end to tinker with pricing to potentially shorten the timing of the deal? You just...

Yeah. Pricing is an interesting one, and it definitely has some strategic element to it. Obviously, as we continue to execute here and on our road map is to deal with our pricing structure for sure. But, really, we find out about this in our sales cycles. And the optimization work that we're doing enables us to introduce some flexibility there, without jeopardizing our overall margins.

That said, I mean, there are some, on the SMB side, certainly there's some competitors who have recently really dropped their price. And for those deals, our approach is, yes, we can be flexible somewhat, but we will be a premium to those competitors. Traditionally, it's been – we've kept that premium at a level that really balances well the differences in the depth of features. So, I think that is going to be the approach. We're certainly not going to go and drop down to bottom basement pricing and just compete solely on price. But there are segments of SMB that are very interesting to us. And long term, we know we can provide a better service to them. And they do care about content at scale and they care about security and they care about that feature richness. And so, we just need to make sure that the premium is correct for those.

Perfect. Thanks. And then maybe one last one from my end. You recently introduced the Face Recognition AI technology. Can you talk about maybe some other AI products or the product road map in general that maybe we can see in the next, I don't know, let's say, two to three quarters?

Yeah. I mean, AI is definitely part of the fabric with us, right? I mean, it's made our meta-tagging better, it's made our search better, it's made the organization better, all incredibly important pieces of the DAM. And, traditionally, our focus has been mostly on that side. So, maybe we'll call that AI-assisted, right? And that's a big part of what DAM is all about, surfacing the right assets at the right time. You need to have great AI to help you organize and search.

That is the focus. We'll continue to build out our metadata tables, cognitive metadata, and add new features as they come available. Gen AI is going to be a longer road map. Right now, we can build the asset pickers that intelligently bring a collection of assets together that you can share with gen AI so that you can use that to create new materials. The day will come when we'll be able to point gen AI in [ph] a tentative (34:47) fashion directly into the DAM, and then that's when things really sizzle. We're ready for that today, but the gen AI technology isn't ready for that yet today.

That's when it really gets super exciting, but it certainly has given people another reason to want to have a hub for their content, and DAM provides that in spades. So, it's going to continue to be a piece of it. We're going to continue to surface areas where we've had customer successes in cognitive AI. There is some visual search type capabilities and things that we're working on; and, for some customers, those will be incredibly important. There is also some actually grouping that we need to do in things that can help customers get better as well in terms of who sees what attributes within the company and whether they see cognitive metadata or not. So, really controlling that data cube is really important, and we'll just continue to build out our capability, as we have been over the last five years.

Perfect. Thanks, Rob. Congrats.

Thank you, Neehal.

Thanks, Neehal. There are no further questions. I would like to thank everyone for joining us for today's call. I will now hand over the call back to Rob for his closing remarks.

Thank you, [ph] Babak (36:05), and thanks for the questions, gentlemen. Appreciate that. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. With our restructure completed, a maturing pipeline, and a solid lineup of HotDAM! enhancements, we're looking forward to updating you on our progress in the months ahead. Thanks for attending, everyone.

Thanks, Rob. Thanks, everyone. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect.