Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Babak Pedram — Press Relations, MediaValet, Inc.
Robert George Chase — Executive Chair, MediaValet, Inc.
David Scott MacLaren — Founder, Chief Executive Officer & Director, MediaValet, Inc.
Dave Miller — Chief Financial Officer, MediaValet, Inc.
Gavin Fairweather — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Christian Sgro — Analyst, Eight Capital
Gabriel Leung — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.

Before we begin, I will ready our cautionary note regarding forwarding-looking information. Certain information to be discussed during this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable security laws including, among others, statements concerning the company's 2022 objectives, the company's strategy to achieve those objectives, as well as statements with respect to management's beliefs, plans, estimates and intentions, and similar statements concerning anticipated future events, results, circumstances, performance or expectations that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements reflects management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management, and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.

Also, our commentary today will include adjusted financial measures which are non-GAAP measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the two can be found in our management discussion and analysis which is available on sedar.com and our website.

We are joined today by MediaValet's Executive Chair, Mr. Rob Chase; CEO, Mr. David MacLaren; as well as the Company's CFO, Mr. Dave Miller.

With that, I will hand over the call to Rob to provide his opening remarks. Please, go ahead.

Thank you, Babak.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us for today's earnings call. By now, hopefully, you've seen our press release and financial reporting materials for our first fiscal quarter of 2022, all of which are available on SEDAR.

Before handing the call over to David and Dave, I'd like to highlight a few of the key themes which we hope you will take away from today's call. Firstly, Q1 was an all-time record quarter for us with net new ARR of CAD 1.15 million, pushing ARR growth to 39% in US dollars and revenue to 30% growth. This is an unprecedented result given our historic first quarter seasonality and the tough macro environment that we're operating within. I hope you'll come away with an understanding from today's call that this is the result of, A, the investment we made in our people in 2021 which is already providing – proving its merits; B, our durable product positioning and go-to-market strategies that are creating a stable growth platform; and C, strong tailwinds in the DAM market driven by the need to both implement a sound digital strategy and, at the same time, reduced operating costs, a need which we believe may actually increase in tough economic times.

Secondly, having completed our step-up operational expansion in 2021, our operating costs are now starting to level off, up only 5% sequentially from Q4. At the same time, we are now starting to tap into the productivity increases inherent in our expanded operational capacity. And thirdly, we calibrated our expansion plan to ensure we can deliver our objective within our available capital resources while also maintaining our ability to quickly adjust our spend levels if needed. The good news is that Q1 has already put us ahead of this plan.

With that, I'd like to pass the call over to David MacLaren for our business update. David?

Thanks, Rob.

Good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to start by highlighting some of our key metrics that we follow internally as I think they're a good representation of what's happening in our business over time.

The top-left chart here that you see shows our net new ARR in US dollars. They're in US dollars as this takes out the currency noise as nearly all of our contracts are billed in US. As you can see, Q1 set a new all-time record for net new ARR and follows a fiscal 2021 where each quarter ranked first or second for that quarter historically. The same trend shows in the bottom left chart for the number of new customers added each quarter. The top-right chart shows our new customer billings in US dollars for each of the past 13 quarters. This, again, highlights that Q1 2022 was a record quarter for us. Moreover, if you look at the less than CAD 50,000 customers added in Q1, you'll notice that we would have had a record Q1 on those customers alone.

I would like to emphasize this point. While our largest deals are exciting, by addressing an enterprise DAM use case across all sizes of organizations – that's SMB, mid and enterprise – we've increased the size of our addressable market, we've increased the future expansion potential of our customer base, and we've built a stronger more diversified customer base. Today, when we do add larger deals to our sales pipeline, we're no longer relying on them to achieve our budget that quarter and they give us a shot to go well beyond our budget as we did in Q1. This speaks volumes for our business as a whole. As we're increasing in scale, we're doing so with a view of creating a stable platform for the long-term benefit of our people, our customers and our shareholders. We believe these key metrics validate our investments to-date in people, infrastructure and technology and provide a good indication of where our business is headed this year and beyond. Specific to Q1, these metrics reflect how our product and go-to-market strategies are driving increased win rates across all customer sizes, industries and geographies; and that there's an increasing demand for DAM as organizations are shaking off the pandemic and doubling down on their digital strategies and ways to reduce their operational costs.

As you know, we significantly increased our investment in people in 2021, increasing our team size from 59 at the beginning of the year to 102 at December 31. Our plan for the time being is to hold the line on head count with only marginal volume-based operational increases, for example, in support, customer success and sales, to allow time for our teams to norm and perform, as they say, and for our revenues to catch up. As a SaaS business, our people and our culture are critical to our short-and-long-term success. This continues to prove true with each new customer that we sign and as our net retention continues to remain near 100%. I'm humbled by the talent of our team and the talent that we continue to attract each day. I strongly believe we have the right team, culture and intent to continue the trends seen in previous slides and to achieve our vision for DAM and that for MediaValet.

To add to the previous metrics, our marketing team delivered another record quarter for new sales qualified opportunities in Q1, and our customer success team delivered another strong quarter in low logo churn and high upsells. It goes without saying, but I will, our sales team did a tremendous job in Q1, significantly outperforming their sales targets for the quarter indicating what they can achieve when operational and market forces align.

I also want to call attention to the Herculean efforts of our product and engineering teams. Over the past year, they've doubled in size and continued to deliver while establishing all the new processes, reporting structures and infrastructure required by team double the size. We could not have achieved the metrics we did in Q1 without their dedication to our products, to our customers and to our vision for DAM.

This is a great segue to our DAM maturity model. At the center of our vision and our strategy is our customers and their journey from a chaotic digital world to a fully connected and eventually converged world where their digital assets are everywhere they need them to be when they need them and in the format needed all through automation and AI. This can and will be done sooner than many think, and all with an entirely secure, scalable and compliant environment. For us, our vision, our strategy and our increasing ability to deliver are translating to higher win rates and average deal values, broader market opportunities and increasing customer stickiness.

As you've seen from some of our recent announcements, our efforts are having an impact on our growth and our momentum. In addition to enabling us to win a record number of customers in Q1, we also delivered our second-best quarter for large deals that's over $50,000 from a dollar perspective. And from a number of large deals perspective, Q1 tied for first with Q3 2019. This type of momentum and customer retention doesn't happen without there being a synergy between our people, our product and our customers, and we're only just getting started.

From our very beginnings, we've always been product and customer-led. However, as we grow and mature as a company and as a team, we're listening more intently to our customers today to truly understand their pain points and how to solve them whether our team ramping up, our product road map accelerating, our key metrics are improving quarter-over-quarter.

Looking to the remainder of the year, we've got a solid pipeline of opportunities covering SMB, mid and enterprise organizations across a wide variety of industries and geographies, and we're hyper-focused on delivering.

With that, I'd like to pass it over to Dave to dive into our Q1 financials.

Thanks, David.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.

During Q1 2022, the company generated record-breaking net new annual recurring revenue of CAD 1.15 million, bringing our Q1 2022 ARR to CAD 12.0 million, an increase of 33% or 39% in US dollars, compared to CAD 9.0 million at March 31, 2021 and an 11% increase from CAD 10.8 million at December 31, 2021. Q1 2022 net new ARR of CAD 1.15 million increased 207% from CAD 0.38 million in Q1 2021 and increased 38% from CAD 0.84 million in Q4 2021. In our view, net new ARR highlights our ability to continually add new clients based on the growing demand that David highlighted for DAM solutions.

As mentioned, this is our strongest quarter to-date, and the increase reflects the company's operational expansion completed in 2021 which has increased its sales capacity and marketing reach, bolstered its product development capacity, and expanded its customer success programs. In addition, it reflects improved market conditions for digital asset management and an accelerating shift towards digital transformation by organizations of all sizes and industries.

We achieved a second straight quarter of 100% net retention in Q1 2022 compared to 99% in Q1 2021 and 100% in Q4 2021. We generated net billings for the quarter of CAD 3.2 million, up 55% from CAD 2.07 million in Q1 2021 and down 22% from our seasonally higher Q4 quarter of CAD 4.12 million. Net billings during the quarter was higher than planned due to the record net new ARR achieved, and reflects a strong start to our plan towards positive operating cash flows.

Turning to our operating results, I am encouraged by the growth momentum that we are already seeing in 2022 as a result of the increased investment levels in 2021. In Q1 2022, revenue grew 30% to CAD 2.8 million compared to the same period in 2021 and up 10% compared to Q4 2021. The growth is due to the increases in ARR and deferred revenue from ramping customer acquisition and net retention performance. Our gross margin in Q1 2022 was 83%, up slightly from the 82% achieved in both Q4 2021 and Q1 2021. Operating costs, which are a non-IFRS measure equal to reported operating expenses minus stock-based compensation and depreciation and thus aligning with the expenses included in EBITDA, increased 58% compared to Q1 2021 and increased 5% sequentially compared to Q4 2021.

As indicated in our Q4 earnings call, we are now seeing operating cost costs level off roughly at our Q4 run rate following the 2021 expansion. The 5% increase over Q4 reflects general inflationary increases in wages and services, revenue-driven variable costs as well as transactional volume costs. Head count was at 98 at the end of Q1 2022 compared to 102 at Q4 2021 and 69 at Q1 2021. While these employees are still ramping up, we expect 2022 to be focused on unlocking the productivity gains to continue the solid growth trend and increasing global market reach to attain our baseline growth targets for cash-positive operations.

EBITDA loss for the quarter totaled CAD 2.6 million, up from CAD 1.4 million for the same period in 2021 and in line with Q4 2021. The increase from Q1 2021 is primarily due to an increase in operating costs in line with the company's strategy to grow our market position as an industry leader.

We have calibrated our expansion plans to ensure we can deliver our objectives within our available capital resources. Q1 has put us ahead of this plan. However, as many of our expenditures are discretional, we have the ability to quickly adjust spend levels should the macro environment dictate the need to do so. We have proven to be dynamic in our approach, capitalizing on growth opportunities within our resources, and this same dynamic approach will be used in assessing cost reductions as it is in expansions. With the market opportunity for DAM and the accelerating growth we've shown over the last year, we are excited to see what we can accomplish as our expanded team begins reaching their full capacity.

We ended the quarter with CAD 4.1 million in cash and cash equivalents on-hand and modified working capital of CAD 6.7 million, which represents 3.6 quarters of average billings-based cash flow on-hand. We have also begun to receive additional capital from the exercise of warrants which enabled us to repay our CAD 1 million short-term debt in early April. And with the remaining warrant proceeds expected of CAD 1.7 million combined with our undrawn CAD 7 million operating line, we are confident we have sufficient capital resources to fund our operations and calibrate our spending levels as necessary through to cash-positive levels.

With that, I'd like to thank you again for listening, and pass it back to Rob to provide some closing remarks before we open it up to questions.

Thanks, Dave.

And, Babak, I'll actually pass it over to you to open it up for questions first.

Sounds good. Thanks, everyone. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Gavin Fairweather of Cormark. Go ahead, Gavin.

Hey. Can you hear me?

Yes, we can.

Hey, congrats on the strong numbers. I thought I'd start out just on the sales performance there. I mean, it sounds like it certainly even surprised you a little bit and was definitely nice to see. I guess, what I'm trying to think about is, was this driven by kind of a shift in the market or your competitiveness, or was there also an element of the stars aligning here, too? Maybe can you just provide your perspective on the sustainability of some of these tailwinds you saw here in the Q1?

So, for us, Rob, I'll jump in and just kind of start with this one. It's a little bit of aligning of the forces. We had a lot of things that are just coming together. The work we've been doing on the product, all the marketing and sales efforts throughout the pandemic that we've been working on. We saw some customers come back that had disappeared from before the pandemic come back. Some come back from early on in the pandemic. So, we saw a bit of this pent-up demand, or it was at least indicating that there was a little bit of demand from prior quarters and years that was coming back in Q1. And we saw a bunch of customers come in within the quarter, those sales-qualified opportunities, and then close within the quarter. At the same time, we've brought a new UI to market. We bought brought things like CDN linking to market and a bunch of other new features to market. So, there's a bunch of things happening at the same time that all contributed to having such a great Q1.

That's helpful. And I thought maybe we'd zero in just on the win rates. I mean, it certainly sounds like you think that the enhancements you've made to the product are contributing to that. Would it be fair to say the sales execution was contributing to that or any changes to the competitive landscape that you'd highlight as well?

I think it's a great question, especially drilling in on that. Our sales execution has been excellent for years. We always get really good accolades from customers who choose us and even from those that don't choose us in the end. Our sales process is really good and our sales team does a tremendous job of educating sales-qualified opportunities through the sales process.

But for Q1 specifically with win rates going up, what we've seen is that, every single quarter, we track why we lose deals. And our product and engineering team does a really good job of tracking that and then addressing it over time. And as we continue to invest in our team, in R&D and in product, we continually address those reasons why we've lost deals in the past. So, over time, you see our win rate going up. It's because we're addressing those things that are missing in our product. So, our product is maturing over time in the things that we've done for a while, but also now we're increasing our addressable market by adding new features and add-ons and integrations. So, that's what's increasing specifically and predominantly increasing our win rate year-by-year and quarter-by-quarter.

Yeah, that's helpful. And then, it sounds like you're seeing really strong demand in the market. So, I guess, I'm curious. Given the strong bookings we saw here in the Q1, were you able to kind of backfill at the top of the funnel and continue to drive conversations with newer logos to maintain that pipeline size overall?

Yeah. As we go throughout the year, we end the year and go, we have these lines in the sand that happen all the time as a public company. But sales opportunities and leads and closing deals is happening every day. And every 90 days, we draw a line in the sand, but it continues to grow that momentum. And again, the momentum is growing for multiple reasons, increasing marketing over the years, increasing the features that we have to increase that addressable market. And you have to think, over the years, we're continuing exposing our brand to more and more companies.

So, where we get a lot of joy is companies that we've spoke to many years ago, they've gone through the DAM cycle, they might have chosen somebody in the past, and they come back to us because they're looking for many of the things that we offer at a more mature level within that DAM maturity model. When security and redundancy and compliance and accessibility and reliability and the global accessibility become major features that a customer or organization requires, they end up circling back to us because that's where our strength is in that scalable component which all companies are going to eventually get to. And it's one of the reasons why SMB is really interested in us. When we realize that even smaller organizations have an enterprise DAM use case or some of them do; and when they do, they're part of our ideal customer profile. They're just early on in that journey. So, by bringing them onto the MediaValet platform early in their DAM evolution, it provides a lot of potential growth for that customer because we're getting them very, very early on, but they also then get to benefit from our scalability in that in future years.

That's helpful. And then, maybe just lastly for me, I know you added a bunch of new kind of partners and channels kind of late in 2021, and that seemed like a pretty steady and solid quarter for partner contribution here in Q1. Maybe you can just discuss kind of how much upside you see with some of these remaining channels and how the partner enablement process has been progressing there?

Rob, I don't want to dominate the answers. And I know we talk a lot about products and you're close to the numbers. Do you want to jump in?

Sure. I mean, you're doing a great job. So – but yeah, in terms of the partners, obviously, we're certainly excited about the potential we see there. Obviously, the new ones that we've announced in the fall, it's still early for those. We're in rollout phase, but we are starting to see impact from them and others as well in our partner programs. Q1, in fact, in terms of partner referrals and influence deals, generated 38% of our new customer wins. So, that was an increase of 59% over Q1 last year and with a record contribution. So, absolutely, we're seeing some good results there from those partners.

As for the new ones, we'll be rolling out some enhanced versions of the integration with many of our partners in the coming quarters. And that, coupled with our co-marketing efforts, we expect they'll be impactful in our growth ahead. And certainly, at the very least, we'll also be adding valuable new capabilities to our mutual customers. So, definitely part of the equation and certainly helped with us producing the quarter we did in Q1 here.

Great. That's helpful. Congrats again on the strong numbers.

Thanks, Gavin. We really appreciate it. I just – and would I just want to emphasize one thing on the discussion you took us through there and add on a little bit with David's comments about SMB and things as well. It is important to realize that we've built a really stable base, baseline for growth with the smaller-sized deals. I think David mentioned earlier in his prepared remarks that on those small deals alone in Q1, Q1 would have been a record just on those. So, that gives us some nice baseline stability for our growth and gives us good confidence for our Q2 and beyond, but it also sets the stage for breakout quarters like we've just had. So, we definitely will continue to work that strategy. And as those larger deals get ready for closing, that gives us a chance for another outlier. So, I'm pretty happy with where that's at and the stability that it provides.

Thanks, Gavin. Thanks, Rob. [Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Christian Sgro of Eight Capital. Please, go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon and congrats on a strong quarter. The first question I wanted to dig into is on the average deal cycle. It looks like the average deal cycle decreased in the quarter, so two questions. First, just wondering what you think caused that? And is that a trend that we could expect to continue through the year as the company matures?

So, prior to COVID, we had our deal cycle was quite low. We were in around 60 days, 62 days, really quick deal cycle. And for us, what that means to a lot of listeners in that within this 90-day quarter that we have, when you have opportunities that are qualified by sales come in within the quarter under 60 in that range, 60 to 62 days, they can also close in that quarter. So, that means within a quarter, your pipeline can continue to build and won deals can come from it. So, it's really good to be under 90 days in your sales cycle. As we entered COVID that started to lengthen in that DAM became very important, but also the number of people making decisions at the table to do a companywide DAM [ph] recommendation (00:27:23) lengthened those sales cycles. And for the last two years, for 2020 and 2021, we saw the sales cycles get 110, 115, 220 days. But in Q1, they came sliding back down below 90 days. And we see that when we mentioned, you'll hear us talk a little bit about this potential pent-up demand for DAM and other SaaS and digital strategy-related pieces of software because we're seeing indicators like this where the sales cycle is decreasing rapidly and quickly.

That's very helpful context. And then, would it be safe to assume that some of the smaller-sized deals could naturally have a quicker sales cycle and the longer ones might be more involved to take more time? Is that a good way to think about the progress across the size of customer?

I would say in general, yes, but we are surprised. Sometimes, we'll have billion-dollar companies with large deals with us make decisions in 30, 40 days. They're rare but we do get surprised by those. And on the flip side, we'll have some smaller deals, CAD 10,000, CAD 20,000, CAD 30,000 level and they could be SMB. They could be 100 days, 180 days. But in general, you're correct. We do find that SMB and midsize organizations are making decisions faster than larger organizations or enterprise organizations as long as we're looking at companywide decisions and implementations. If it's a department level, say, for a marketing for an enterprise organization, those are still made relatively quickly.

Got it. And there's one other question I wanted to ask. It was on one of the wins in the quarter with the advertising agency. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about this. It looks like a sell-through win. And if there's any other opportunities like this, other opportunities with this customer, any color you could add around that?

I think advertising agencies have always been really interesting to us because they produce content for their customers and they produce a lot of content. And the advertising agencies that are really interesting to us are the ones that are the media they're producing for their customers is large-scale. So, big meaty files that need a DAM to manage them, and when especially when there's lots of volume within those files or of those files. So, any time you see something agency-related from us, there's directly with the agencies providing a DAM for them to use internally and with their customers, and then the ability to sell-through to their customers their own DAM instances.

Okay. No, that's very helpful. Maybe I'll just ask only one follow-on on that same thread. Are there a healthy mix of ad agencies in your customer mix? I forget if I – I apologize if I forget off the top of my head. But is that a common type of customer cohort or is that a newer type of win?

It's more within our partner portfolio that you see agencies not so much in the customer side. So, we do have agencies within our customer base, but you would see more within our partner base.

Yeah. And we have like three or four within our customer base that are and some of them are some of our largest. So, two of our top 10 customers are actually in the space as well.

That's great.

Yeah.

Awesome. Thank you, Rob. Thank you. That's great context. That sounds like a great customer to have. Thanks for taking my questions, and I'll pass the line.

Thanks, Christian.

Thanks, Christian.

Thanks, Christian. Next question is from Gabriel Leung of Beacon Securities. [indiscernible]

(00:31:22)

Thanks a lot, guys.

Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the strong quarter. David, in an earlier – in your preamble, sorry...

...barriers here at...

Oh, Christian, sorry. You're – there you go. Okay, Gabe, go ahead.

Sorry about that. You hear me okay?

Yeah.

Okay, perfect. David, in your preamble, you talked about successfully addressing some pushback from kind of customers that prevented them from signing on with you historically. So, I'm curious to hear what some of these pushback points were that you were able to successfully address?

Yeah.

And maybe in more recent conversations with customers, if there are customers who are continuing to push back, what some of those points are that you get to address?

So, I think, a really important thing with our business is we generate a certain number of leads on a monthly basis. We convert those down to sales-qualified opportunities. We convert those down to won deals. And when we talk about win rates, no matter what our win rate is, there's also the deals that we don't win. That's the opposite, the flip, the other side of the coin of a win rate; there's the loss rate. And within that group of organizations that don't choose us as their DAM, there's a tremendous amount of information in there that we can use to improve our business over time.

So, if you go back, looking back several years ago, our win rate was in the single-digits. Today, it's double-digits and higher up in the double-digits. And that win rate is there. It's improved every single year, year-on-year, because we listen really carefully to people who don't choose us and why they didn't choose us. It's never because they don't like us. They always love our people. They love the process. And as I mentioned, we're actually really well-known in our industry for our people and for the sales process. People constantly comment on how much they enjoy the interaction with our teams, that our sales team, our sales engineering team, our DAM experts, our customer success experts, our onboarding experts and our technical support teams. Everyone enjoys those interactions and we hear that a lot with customer feedback. But customers invariably are looking to solve very specific pain points. And when they come to us, if they don't choose us, there will be something in the pain point that we can't address. And one thing that we do very well at MediaValet, we listen to our customers intently and we write everything down that they say. From that, we know exactly what to build. And then, we just have to prioritize based on our resources what and when we build.

So, when we grow our team double in size, as we mentioned our R&D and product team last year, we're doing that because we know what to build and we know it's going to increase our win rate and we've got a really good idea by how much. But we need more people to do it to move faster. And as you've heard from Rob in the past, we're growing faster than the DAM market is. We're doing that because we're releasing new features faster than the market's growing. So, it's allowing us to increase those people that we can solve their pain points for. So, our addressable market keeps growing every time we release a new feature.

Earlier, I mentioned CDN linking. This is a feature people have wanted for a long time, and it's just been released in the early stages here in the last little while. Because of that, anyone that's looking for CDN linking, now we can solve that pain point for them. And usually, there's multiple features that will enable us to address a pain point for our customer. And eventually, we deliver all the features required to address that specific use case. And we're always looking for dominant use cases within the market so we can address those, so we can move the needle as fast as we possibly can and the needle being win rate. [indiscernible]

(00:35:52)

I might just quickly elaborate on that a touch, and that is what we just talked about was features and CDN linking, things like branded portals. Other things that we brought out in the last year have generally been features that can be table stakes at times that keeps changing depending on what the other vendors might be pushing. And so, we're playing catch-up a bit there, so the higher number of staff will help us address that quicker. But also, at the same time, the team's working towards features and capabilities on our DAM maturity model that nobody else has and that we stand out as different in the market with. Those are things like our audio visual intelligence, how we do AI, creative spaces, and those things will often help us to overcome any of the smaller features that we may not have, right? So, at one point, it was watermarking or [indiscernible] (00:36:44). So, we're continually adding those little features that help us just reduce the things that other vendors might try and highlight. We build in to enterprise grade. They often are perceived as building them to a plain vanilla grade and, at the same time, which was why maybe it takes us a bit longer on some of them. We're deeper but also we're busy working on features that they don't have and won't have for some time so that we can make sure we continue to win more and more of the opportunities that come across our desk.

Yeah. I think, Rob that's a really good point. AVI, just we released in the last six months and it's been a major competitive advantage for us.

Got you. Thanks for that feedback. Maybe just one more question for me. Either David or Rob, are you able to provide where your direct sales rep count currently stands? And can you talk a bit about what sort of quotas have been placed on these reps? And where were most of these reps? I know, there's obviously been a lot added over the last 12 months. Where these reps currently stand in terms of their sales effectiveness against close rates and effectiveness?

Yeah, I can take that. We are out of eight reps now. Actually, we did have nine entering the year, but we've one to an enablement manager. She's been great and I think that's going to be have great impact on our team as well, helping everybody else get to their numbers. And again, we might have talked about this before, but we really subscribe to the Insight Capital Partners to periodic table of SaaS that says, for a good inside rep, you should get between $500 and $750 a year of new business. And we kind of look at that as our direct marketing capability, getting us to that $500 to $650 range and getting all the way up $750 range. It takes some of these partnerships to really weigh in to help us get there. But – and they could also help us go beyond, right?

So, we're always tweaking and playing with quotas and all of the things that David's referred to in terms of what we're building and also the approach that we take to market to refine and continue to help the sales folks get into that range. With Q1, we had half of our reps were well over our quota, which is pretty impressive. And the others are still onboarding, so I wouldn't have expected them there anyway. But on a portfolio basis across the team, definitely highest Q1 ever in terms of the per head performance and puts us well within – likely to be well within that range we talked about per head already off the start here. So, I'm not going to give out our specific quarters per rep and things, but it gives you an idea of how we're looking at it and where we're trying to guide our team to.

Great. Thanks for that and congrats on the quarter.

Thanks, Gabe.

Thanks.

Thanks, Gabriel. There are no further questions. I will now hand over the call back to Rob for his closing remarks.

Wonderful. Thanks, everybody, for attending the call and for your questions as well. It's great to hear from you. And I know there was some other questions and things. I think Babak was managing those, so he'll ask those as appropriate. But yeah, I hope it was informative for everybody and helped to better understand the opportunity for MediaValet.

And just in summary, again, Q1, unprecedented performance for us, built upon internal productivity gains and market tailwinds for DAM. And both of these, we see as continuing trends. Our investment in our people is paying off and we're starting to see the impact as they continue to ramp to their potential. And our planned spend levels have been calibrated to fit within our available resources and Q1 has put us ahead of that plan. So, I'm very excited about the quarter, looking forward to reporting to you next quarter. And thank you all for listening in today.

Thanks, everyone.

Thanks, everyone. Have a great day.