Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Ryan Asay — Vice President & Head-Corporate Affairs, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
David D. Meek — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
Charles M. Baum — Founder, President, Director & Head-Research & Development, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
Laurie D. Stelzer — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
James G. Christensen — Chief Scientific Officer, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
Benjamin Joseph Hickey — Chief Commercial Officer, Mirati Therapeutics, Inc.
Michael Schmidt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Tyler van Buren — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Jonathan Miller — Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Andrea Tan — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Benjamin J. Burnett — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Andrew Berens — Analyst, SVB Securities LLC
Evan David Seigerman — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Corp.
Yigal Nochomovitz — Analyst, Citigroup
Michael E. Ulz — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Chi M. Fong — Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Maury Raycroft — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Jay Olson — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, and welcome to the Mirati Therapeutics Second Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. My name is Danielle and I'll be the operator for today's call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the conclusion of the speakers' prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

It is now my pleasure to introduce Ryan Asay, Vice President of Corporate Affairs at Mirati. Ryan, please go ahead.

Thank you, Danielle, and welcome, everyone, to this afternoon's call. Joining me on the call today are David Meek, Mirati's Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Chuck Baum, Mirati's President, Founder and Head of Research and Development; Laurie Stelzer, Mirati's Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Jamie Christensen, Mirati's Chief Scientific Officer; and Ben Hickey, Mirati's Chief Commercial Officer, are also with us and will be available for the Q&A portion of the call.

Please note that this conference call will includes forward-looking statements. Because such statements deal with future events and are subject to many risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. For a full discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please review our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

This afternoon, we released financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2022 and recent corporate updates. This press release is available on the Investors section of our website at mirati.com.

With that, David, I'll turn the call over to you.

Thank you, Ryan, and good afternoon, everyone. On this afternoon's call, I'll provide an update on key developments since our last earnings call, including steps we are taking to prepare for a potential commercial launch about adagrasib this year. Chuck will share an update on our R&D programs, and Laurie, our recently appointed CFO, will summarize our financial results. I'll then provide closing remarks before we open the line for questions. So let's get started.

The second quarter was a very productive and important one for Mirati and we have a lot to be excited about. We made significant progress towards achieving a number of important milestones and strategic priorities in the second quarter, including presenting our latest data on adagrasib at ASCO and building out our commercial capabilities in advance of its launch.

At ASCO, we shared several significant adagrasib updates and Chuck will touch on the specifics. I'd like to point out a few key takeaways that are worth noting, as we believe there was a lot to be excited about with the data released. At a high level, these results highlight important points of potential differentiation, including CNS penetration and combined ability of adagrasib with concurrent pembrolizumab and position us very well for both near and long-term commercial success.

Our results give us confidence in our ability to secure US approval and execute a strong commercial launch of adagrasib in the second line and beyond non-small cell lung cancer, which is a key priority for the company. We are very comfortable competing in the KRAS G12C inhibitor market, especially in the tablet formulation.

Our ongoing interactions with FDA are productive, and we continue to collaborate closely and effectively through the review of the adagrasib new drug application. We recently had our mid-cycle review and have added clarity that there will be no advisory committee and no REMS program. The FDA has voiced no major safety issues to date or expectations for new studies prior to approval. As such, we are preparing for the approval of the NDA with a tablet formulation and are finalizing our commercial readiness plans.

As a reminder, our PDUFA date is December 14, but we will be ready to go if approval comes before then. We recently hired the remainder of greater than 100 person customer-facing US field force and believe we have the talent needed to drive a successful commercial launch. In addition, we've built out our marketing, market access, patient support and medical affairs capabilities and now have in place all the components of a successful commercial organization necessary to execute our commercial strategies.

Our commercial team will be fully trained and launch-ready in the US by the end of the third quarter. Some of you know, I have considerable commercial experience in pharma and biotech, and I can say without hesitation, I'm very impressed with the quality and caliber of the team we have been able to assemble at Mirati.

Our commercial strategy is built on several pillars that we believe will enable us to be successful. First, adagrasib's differentiating molecular profile and 24-hour half-life have enabled us to generate meaningful clinical data, including the recently presented greater than 30% overall response rates in non-small cell lung cancer patients with active brain metastases, and the longest median overall survival data to date of greater than 14 months in our pooled analysis.

Second, we have been able to attract top talent across biotech, pharma and healthcare provider organizations, giving us a team with extensive lung cancer experience and demonstrated success in launching top oncology products. There are opportunities to increase both testing and identification of KRAS G12C eligible patients. In response, our field teams are working to assist in market development activities to improve both patient access and outcomes.

Third, we have purpose-built our commercialization team with a singular focus on adagrasib. We have built this team with an optimized design and focus on integration, digitization and speed of execution across functions. Fourth, we have the capital necessary to invest for success, both in terms of executing on the initial launch as well as investing in the long-term value optimization of this differentiated program.

In summary, we're very excited about the potential launch and the opportunity to deliver adagrasib and make a positive impact on patients living with cancer.

Beyond the US, we completed the submission of adagrasib's marketing authorization application for the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer harboring the KRAS G12C mutation who have received at least one prior systemic therapy through the European Medicines Agency. This submission is an important step in bringing us closer to possibly expanding the availability of adagrasib to patients in the European Union.

From a management team perspective, we made an important addition to our leadership team in the second quarter. Laurie Stelzer, joined Mirati as our CFO, bringing with her an invaluable skill set acquired over her 25-year career in the biopharmaceutical industry, including a wealth of finance expertise and strategic insight.

Laurie has considerable experience navigating the needs of a company transitioning from a research and development stage to a commercial stage, which will be beneficial as we prepare for the commercial launch of adagrasib in the US and finalize our strategy outside of the US. We are very fortunate to bring Laurie on at this pivotal time in our history.

And finally, we continue to be in a strong financial position, which enables us to execute on our strategy and provides us with the flexibility to prudently invest for success across our target oncology pipeline and prepare for a successful adagrasib launch, pending FDA approval later this year.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Chuck for a clinical update.

Thank you, David. I'll begin with adagrasib. It's an exciting time for the company as we approach our first potential regulatory approval this year. Our breakthrough therapy designation and real-time oncology review status enable our ongoing engagement with the FDA during the review process, and we remain confident in the approval of the NDA this year.

We had a significant presence at ASCO, where we shared positive adagrasib data in patients with KRAS G12C mutations living with non-small cell lung cancer across lines of therapy. These ASCO updates included positive results from the registration-enabling Phase 2 cohort of the KRYSTAL-1 study evaluating adagrasib 600 milligrams administered twice daily in patients with non-small cell lung cancer harboring the KRAS G12C mutation, who have received at least one prior systemic therapy.

These positive results were also reported concurrently in the New England Journal of Medicine publication. We also presented compelling results from a prospective analysis of the Phase 1b cohort of the KRYSTAL-1 study, demonstrating intracranial responses to adagrasib in patients with KRAS G12C mutated non-small cell lung cancer with active and untreated cerebral central nervous system metastases.

Adagrasib is the first KRAS G12C inhibitor to demonstrate substantial clinical activity in this large and poorly served patient population. In addition, we showed encouraging early results, demonstrating the feasibility of combining adagrasib with pembrolizumab in first-line non-small cell lung cancer patients. These first-line results provide meaningful context and clarity as we aggressively advance our first-line non-small cell lung cancer strategy. Finally, the results presented at ASCO were based on the capsule formulation.

In agreement with the FDA, all of our trials have now switched to the tablet formulation and feedback from investigators has been positive regarding the tolerability. We expect the tablet to be our approved formulation for launch. We plan to present data from patients treated with tablet formulation at a future medical meeting. Feedback from key opinion leaders, investigators and oncologists on the profile of adagrasib has been overwhelmingly positive.

KRYSTAL-12, our randomized Phase 3 confirmatory study in previously treated non-small cell lung cancer patients with a KRAS G12C mutation continues to enroll well worldwide and is on track to complete enrollment in the first half of 2023. Mirati expects to provide key updates in the second half of 2022 in the following areas: in first-line non-small cell lung cancer, we expect to share updates across our multipronged development approach.

This includes providing additional clarity on a possible regulatory pathway for accelerated approval as a single agent in patients harboring KRAS G12C and STK11 co-mutations as well as KRAS G12C mutated patients with TPS score of less than 1%. We expect to share initial data from these subpopulations in 2023.

Our initial and most advanced adagrasib combination approach in first-line non-small cell lung cancer is the concurrent dosing of adagrasib tablets at 400-milligram twice-daily with full dose pembrolizumab. Our Phase 2 KRYSTAL-7 study evaluating this combination is enrolling well, particularly following our initial update from this study at ASCO. We plan to share more mature data with a larger number of patients in the fourth quarter of 2022.

We continue to evaluate or have plans to evaluate adagrasib in various other first-line combinations, including targeted and chemotherapy-based approaches. We are finalizing our first-line non-small cell lung cancer strategy with our scientific advisers, which we will align with the FDA and provide an update later this year.

Beyond lung cancer, we are advancing enrollment of patients with a variety of cancers driven by KRAS G12C mutations. We expect to provide more mature data in late-line colorectal cancer at the ESMO conference in September. We also expect to provide additional clarity on a possible pathway for accelerated approval of adagrasib in late-line colorectal cancer later this year. Full approval will be based on our ongoing KRYSTAL-10 randomized Phase 3 registration study in second-line colorectal cancer patients.

In addition, we are continuing to enroll patients with other solid tumors that carry the KRAS G12C mutation, including pancreatic cholangiocarcinoma, non-colorectal cancer gastrointestinal and other solid tumors based on our positive data presented earlier this year at the ASCO GI conference. Adagrasib has the potential to treat multiple tumor types across a range of cancers and we believe this could be another important differentiated characteristic of our program.

Shifting to sitravatinib, which is being studied in a registrational Phase 3 study called SAPPHIRE. This study enrolled patients with second- or third-line non-small cell lung cancer who derived prior clinical benefit following treatment with a checkpoint inhibitor. The SAPPHIRE study is fully enrolled and is on track to reach the number of events needed to trigger an interim analysis for overall survival in the fourth quarter of 2022.

If positive, this interim analysis could be the basis of full approval in the US and Europe with regulatory filings in both markets being submitted by the middle of next year. Sitravatinib has the potential to treat a large number of patients. Since there are approximately 70,000 patients with second- or third-line non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer in the US and Europe.

Finally, I'm pleased to announce that we've completed the submission of the investigational new drug application for MRTX0902. MRTX0902 is a selective SOS1 inhibitor that shifts KRAS into its inactive state, potentially enhancing the activity of adagrasib by addressing KRAS feedback reactivation and intrinsic and acquired resistance to KRAS inhibitors. This agent has the potential to complement other agents in the Mirati pipeline and exert an impact on KRAS mutant cancers and across KRAS mutation types. We expect to initiate clinical development with our SOS1 program before year-end.

We're pleased with the significant progress we are making across the breadth of our R&D portfolio and look forward to a number of significant updates later this year.

With that, I'll hand it off to Laurie.

Thank you, Chuck. First, let me begin by saying that I now have more time to learn about the company, our technology, our team and our pipeline, and it's very clear why there is so much internal excitement about the future of Mirati. From a financial management perspective, we will be vigilant in utilizing our capital in a disciplined manner to ensure we remain able to advance our pipeline, invest in innovation and effectively launch products to drive sustainable long-term growth.

Research and development expenses for the second quarter of 2022 were $128.3 million compared to $134.6 million for the same period in 2021. The decrease is primarily due to adagrasib manufacturing costs incurred in Q2 2021 ahead of our NDA, which is partially offset by an increase in salaries and other employee-related expense, including share-based compensation expense associated with an increase in head count to support our growing pipeline.

General and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2022 were $54.2 million compared to $29.6 million for the same period in 2021. The increase is primarily due to an increase in commercial readiness costs in preparation for a potential product launch, an increase in salaries and other employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation expense as we grow our sales, marketing and G&A staff and an increase in facilities and IT costs to support the organization.

Net loss for the second quarter of 2022 was $176.4 million or $3.18 per share basic and diluted compared to a net loss of $166.4 million or $3.23 per share basic and diluted for the same period in 2021. We've ended the second quarter with approximately $1.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which gives us a cash runway into 2024. Please see our press release from earlier this afternoon for additional details about our second quarter 2022 financial results.

And with that, David, I'll hand it back over to you.

Thank you, Laurie and Chuck, for your updates. As you have heard today, we made considerable progress in the second quarter, advancing our clinical pipeline and advancing our commercial efforts to be fully launch-ready in the US by the end of the third quarter.

I'll close our prepared remarks with a brief comment about the depth and breadth of the company and portfolio we are building. We have the products, capabilities, people and capital needed to compete and succeed. Our pipeline spans numerous targets and tumor types and positions us well for tremendous value creation and meaningful operational and commercial synergies.

We expect target oncology to play an important role in the fight against cancer. We have generated compelling clinical data showing KRAS inhibition has potential well beyond the second-line setting in non-small cell lung cancer. As that proves out, we will be able to help many people in need and create considerable value for the patients, physicians and other stakeholders that have supported Mirati in that endeavor. It is a privilege to lead a company whose team never loses sight of why we come to work each day.

And Danielle, I'll turn it over to you. We're ready to take questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from the line of Michael Schmidt with Guggenheim. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a question on your KEYTRUDA combination study of adagrasib where we've seen some very interesting early data at ASCO. And I think the median follow-up at that time was only two months. There are some general questions about the safety profile of PD1 inhibitor combinations with more follow-up. And I guess now that it's been some more time since then, I was wondering where your confidence level is with respect to the tolerability profile as more time has passed now since the ASCO data presentation.

So, Michael, it's David and I'll turn it over to Chuck. The data we presented at ASCO, yes, it was our early data and the median time was 2.1 months of time on the combination therapy. So we realized that at that time. We're continuing all of the trial. And we feel based on that trial as well as the earlier seven patients we have that were drug for more than a year at that point at ASCO that we're building a nice database here of patients being on drug for a good amount of time. And we'll give an update later this year on where we are with the KRYSTAL-7 trial. But we're encouraged by what we saw and we're anxious to give an update later.

Yeah. I will just reinforce that by saying that honestly in our previous experience with combinations of targeted agents and I/O that oftentimes adverse events occur in the early cycles. So that does give you some initial read at least on tolerability of the combination.

Also, as David said, we did have the seven patients that were treated for over a year, which gives you an idea of the tolerability of the combination as well over time. And there were patients up to six months on treatment even in the data. We presented the data update for K7 even though the median was two months.

So, so far, we're feeling confident and looking forward to presenting more data later this year.

We'll take our next question from Tyler van Buren with Cowen. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Congrats on the progress and thanks very much for taking the question. Regarding the ongoing adagrasib regulatory review, I appreciate the update. Can you confirm that the final Phase 2 data, the CNS met data and the tablet data have all been submitted and when they were submitted? And as a related follow-up, have label discussions started yet or what are the outstanding items in the review?

So, Tyler, yes, we can't confirm the brain mets data that we shared at ASCO, that information, all the clinical data has been shared with the Agency, that's important we do that so that data was share with the agency. They have everything that we have regarding the tablet formulation as well, and that's why we've talked about we're preparing for an approval and approval with the tablet formulation.

Regarding anything else with the ongoing and productive conversation with the Agency, I think it's premature to get into some of the details of the conversations. But as Chuck and I both said during the prepared remarks, it's constructive, it's active and ongoing with the Agency as we move along in the FDA process.

We'll take our next question from the line of Gena Wang with Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

This is [ph] Harshita (00:23:10) on for Gena. Thank you for taking our questions. Our first question was on the [ph] K-12 2.0 plus (00:23:15) confirmatory trial for lung. If you remember correctly, the initial plan was to enroll 450 patients. And I think the powering assumptions disclosed at ASCO last year, the trial was sufficiently powered to detect the treatment effect of PFS and OS at an alpha of 0.05. But now that the enrollment has been decreased to 340 patients, can you remind us the rationale for decreasing the patient size and also comment on how this changes the powering assumptions? And then I have a follow-up, if I may.

So, yeah, the design of the trial was changed, which is the reason for the change in numbers. So that the primary endpoint was – is now PFS. And so with PFS as the primary endpoint that it was possible to decrease the overall patient number without decreasing the power to detect the difference. So that was the rationale. And partly, that was based on the fact that we were allowing cross-over since that enhance – significantly enhances enrollment. And when you do that that could potentially compromise the overall survival. So that's the rationale for the design, but in terms of the patient numbers, we're still having similar power to detect the difference, but that's going to be on PFS.

Okay, great. Thank you so much. And the second question we had quickly was on the tablet versus capsule formulation. We know you previously noted improvement with the tablet formulation. But I was wondering, can you comment on how much improvement you saw for the GI tox.

Yeah. We haven't gone into the specifics, we will when we have more experience and have more patients. I can say that the difference clinically and it was related from the ongoing trials by our investigators is in the gastrointestinal, so things like the nausea, vomiting, those are the primary differences, but we don't have the exact quantitation at this time, but we will present it later when we have more data.

We'll take our next question from Jonathan Miller with Evercore. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I'd love to ask, now that we've seen a little bit more data on the first-line combo and you're feeling confident about the tolerability profile, what are the remaining gating factors on beginning a potentially registrational study at this point? And I know you said you'd give some clarity on what that path would be later this year, but what are we waiting for to get that clarity at this point?

I think as the trial matures, we have more patient numbers, longer time on the combination therapy, that's important. And then, importantly, we want to have a conversation with FDA as we [ph] wrap (00:26:26) together a registration trial. So that's all going to take a little bit of time. And as soon as we're ready for that, we will come – we'll let you guys know, but we expect that to be by the end of this year. As the trial advances, have a conversation with our scientific advisers as well as the agency before rolling out that trial. But we're encouraged by it. Chuck, anything you'd like to add on?

Just that, of course, the efficacy in terms of response rate and early reads on PFS will be part of the evaluation in triggering a Phase 3 randomized study. So that takes a little bit longer, as you know. The tolerability profile was really the first thing that you start to see and then looking at the efficacy is what we're doing as we get closer later this year to getting ready to start a Phase 3 program.

Yeah. This is Jamie. I think one thing I'd like to add is that the ada plus pembro combination will be our first foot forward just to note that we have additional activities ongoing. We believe chemo-immunotherapy may be an important combination and some first-line settings we'll be evaluating that. Secondly, I think we have an increasing understanding of how KRAS signals and what some of the feedback pathways are and what might ultimately cause resistance.

So a number of the targeted combination strategies are ongoing starting in the second-line lung cancer space, but should they look compelling there, there's an option to bring those up to earlier lines of therapy either as doublets or even in combination with immunotherapy. So this is really a first foot forward with additional work ongoing.

We'll take our next question from Salveen Richter with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. This is Andrea on for Salveen. Maybe a question on the competitive landscape with Amgen having their first KEYTRUDA combo data this weekend at World Lung. [World Conference on Lung Cancer] Just curious what you'll be focused on to understand differentiation in your approaches. And then as a follow-up to that, can you just remind us on your thinking of sequential versus concurrent combinatorial approaches. And mechanistically, is there a reason to believe that one approach might be more efficacious than the other?

So, yeah, it's David. [ph] I would say (00:28:51) we're going to wait to see the data this weekend like everybody else. So we'll see what is released by Amgen at World Lung, and we'll take it from there. But I would say what we're looking forward is, for us, to release that data. As Chuck just mentioned, you want to see immediate tolerability, tolerability over time with any combination regimen. So that's what we're looking for. Then ultimately, you want the efficacy in that. So that's what we'd be looking for. I think relative to the other combinations and so on, I think Jamie just answered that a moment ago, other strategies we would have. So Chuck?

I think the only other thing I'd add is that we believe pretty strongly that the co-administration of adagrasib with pembrolizumab is going to be the most appealing to investigators, and we think will be the most successful way to combine the two. So that's what we want. That's why we're focusing on that approach. But we'll see what – as David said, what Amgen presents and that will give us a better idea of where they're going as we explore additional approaches as well.

And so that's why we're really careful to say and deliberate to say it's 40 milligrams twice a day of adagrasib plus full-dose pembro concurrently. That is where we think the greatest opportunity for activity is for the patients.

We'll take our next question from Ben Burnett with Stifel. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hey. Thank you very much. I also wanted to ask a question about the competitive landscape. I guess does the outcome of Amgen's LUMAKRAS confirmatory study have any impact on how you guys are thinking about the regulatory path for adagrasib, whether that's a successful study or not?

So, for us, with our KRYSTAL-12 trial, when we look at our registration trial that was presented at ASCO Cohort A as well as our confirmatory trial, it's the same patient population. Remember, 98.3% of our patient population in the registration trial were patients that had followed the KEYNOTE-189 regimen, if you will, and that's also our confirmatory trial. We look at that. We figured the pooled analysis we've also shared at ASCO. So we're pretty confident with our KRYSTAL-12 trial design and the outcomes. And the trial will finish enrollment next year, and we'll see what happens.

I think, obviously, we'll be watching to see what their results are once presented to see if there's anything there we can learn from. But at this point, we don't see any reason to change our plan.

We'll take our next question from Andrew Berens with SVB Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. A couple on the ongoing 400-milligram BID monotherapy cohort on KRYSTAL-1. Can you give us an idea when that cohort started enrolling and how far along it is at this point? Are the patients getting tablets or capsules? And is this a cohort that the FDA specifically [indiscernible] (00:32:09)

So the trial started earlier this year regarding that to get into the details, so I don't think we'll get into the details. The trial is actively enrolling and it is in a tablet formulation. At this time, the patients were on the 400-milligram twice a day of the tablet formulation. And the trial is up and the FDA is, of course, aware of the trial, as they are, of all of our ongoing clinical trials in the second-line plus non-small cell lung cancer patient population, the patients with KRAS G12C mutation. So, they're aware of that trial. We will not have data for that trial until next year.

We'll take our next question from the line of Evan Seigerman with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. Just thinking ahead to the launch, now that you are second to market, I guess, what feedback have you gotten from physicians and KOLs that you're interacting with, as you build up the commercial force regarding differentiation? And then also, you seem to be pretty optimistic that you'll be able to secure approval ahead of your December PDUFA. What indications have you gotten from regulators that that may be the case? Thank you.

So I will start and Ben will jump in, too. So we're preparing and we're preparing for a launch as early as the end of Q3. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve us early. We want to certainly be prepared if we are fortunate enough to be approved early. So I just want to be clear on that part of the conversation.

The feedback, especially at ASCO, and all of us were there, we spent a significant amount of time with the community-based oncologists, the investigators went over all the data that was shared at ASCO and the enthusiasm level is very high regarding the totality of the clinical data that's been published for adagrasib in the second-line setting. The Cohort A data was – we reviewed that, the response rate, the overall survival data was very compelling to physician, the CNS brain mets data for active and untreated. This is a real differentiator in the minds of the physicians. Anything they can do to treat those patients and even control brain mets is a good thing for patients.

So the feedback was great. The feedback on the lifecycle management programs that we have in place, such as a combination regimen with pembro, with the frontline setting, colorectal cancer, the response rates across the board were very appealing, especially to the community-based oncologists where these – most of these patients are treated.

So, overall, the feedback has been good. It's given us confidence and is – for us to go to the market and we're ready to compete in the marketplace. Ben's got a few more points to add.

Sure. As you know, we've been out there for a while. So we had a number of interactions with physicians. We've actually with our field force to date been able to actually interact with 90% of the top 100 plans across the country and have just very positive feedback and it really is around some of the differentiation. Obviously, the molecule's been designed for a 24-hour half-life and that's enabled some of the response rates and up to 14 months of overall survival with our core data set.

So coupled with the CNS data in the active and untreated CNS mets, we think we have a compelling story to bring to physicians. We're working very hard out there and also ensuring that we'll have unrestricted access. So we've also engaged on the payer front and ensure that we've actually been able to reach out to almost 90% of covered lives and had great deal of engagement with the payers to ensure that we can bring adagrasib and gain access to it in an affordable fashion as soon as possible and as soon as we're approved.

So, yeah, very positive today.

And I would – to add on to that, Ben has done an outstanding job of bringing on board a commercial organization. As I mentioned, we're north of 100 people out there customer-facing right now with sales, market access, medical affairs and so on, and all of us around the table who've been doing this a long time. And it's a very impressive organization that we have that's out there interacting with customers. And they know lung cancer, they know targeted oncology, they know these physicians well, they know the clinics at the local level well. So the people, I would say, are going to be the real secret sauce in addition to the profile that we have with adagrasib.

We'll take our next question from the line of Yigal Nochomovitz with Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thank you very much for taking the question. I'm curious regarding your thoughts on the differentiating properties for adagrasib at the med-chem level versus how it would behave differently from sotorasib from a tox perspective when combined with pembro. Obviously, the molecules have lot of structural overlap, but there are also some important differences when you compare the two. Thank you.

Jamie, you want to take...

This is Jamie. So I think when you look at adagrasib and sotorasib, there are a few key differences. Although they share part of the same core chemotype, a lot of the polar surface area and other characteristics are a bit different. And the other difference is really in the reactivity of the molecules when you look at KI/Kinact. So one difference for adagrasib relative to sotorasib is its reactivity. We've kind of tuned down the electrophilicity of adagrasib, which results in decreased binding to other cysteine-containing proteins and reduced propensity for off-target effect.

With regard to other physiochemical properties, one might notice some of the differences in pharmacokinetics. For example, sotorasib has a high peak-to-trough ratio when administered once a day and essentially it clears out of the system once a day. So that Cmax to Cmin is quite different. And adagrasib only changed at 7% within the interval. And that's really related to the high tissue distribution and kind of physiochemical properties of the drug. And this reduced Cmax to Cmin ratio may also allow us to avoid certain off targets that may be achieved at very high concentrations. So the drug really never hits a high Cmax relative to the Cmin.

What might be different in terms of the toxicity from a target perspective, I think, is an unknown, but at least those two kind of theoreticals on the physiochemical property side could be a key difference.

We'll take our next question from the line of Mike Ulz with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Maybe a follow-up just on the adagrasib formulation. So you're planning to launch with the tablet, but just curious how that might look in the label. Do you expect to have any tablet data in the label, like, for example, on safety? Or is that something that might get adjusted at a later point in time? Thanks.

Mike, I think it's a little early to be having that conversation about what will be in the label, the tablet formulation. So I think we'll punt on that one as we get a little bit closer to the PDUFA date.

We'll take our next question from the line of Jason Gerberry at Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good afternoon, good evening, everyone. This is Chi on for Jason. Thanks for taking our question. Curious on – when you said you had shared the other clinical data including the brain mets data with the FDA, I'm curious in what context do you think the brain metastasis data might play a role in the NDA or the label. And in terms of what might ultimately make it to the label, if I recall correctly, RECIST 1.1 was sort of the standard for sort of all these intracranial [indiscernible] (00:40:40) oncology drugs. So I'm curious, do you have sort of data – the similar CNS data in RECIST 1.1. How does that compared to the data you have presented previously at ASCO? Thank you.

So I'll start regarding the labeling. And I'll go back to my previous reply to Mike. It's a little bit early to talk about what's going to be the label or not. The brain metastasis data has been shared with the Agency. So they have all of that information. We think in totality when we look at the risk benefit profile, it's certainly a benefit for the patients to have that impact on the brain mets patients. So I believe that's a good thing. So they have it. We'll see what happens over time as we move forward – move closer to the approvability. I would say it's not just having it in the label. And ultimately, we'll get in the label at some point in time, for sure. So let's see what happens with the approval, but also it's important for guidelines. So we'll work on NCCN guidelines, Compendia listing and so on. That's also very important along with the publications of the data.

Yeah. This is Jamie. Just two quick things to add. So just following up on David's comment on risk-benefit profile. This is part of a package that we've submitted that I think it should be recognized that with a drug on the market, a first time presented activity in CNS mets is unique to the class. So it would be part of a favorable overall risk-benefit picture, especially in consideration that this would be the second drug to the market.

I also caught a question in there about RECIST 1.1 or intracranial RECIST. And just to say, we've looked at multiple ways of looking at the activity of adagrasib on brain metastases and the IC RECIST is very similar to the (inaudible) outcome. So we wouldn't expect a difference via methodology for determining response.

just two quick things to add. So just following up on David's comment and risk benefit profile, this is part of a package that we've submitted that, I think it should be recognized that with a drug on the market, you know, a first time presented activity and CMS is unique to the class. So it would be part of a favorable overall risk benefit picture, especially in consideration that this would be the second drug to the market. I also caught a question in there about RECIST 1.1 or intracranial RECIST. And just to say we've looked at multiple ways of looking at the activity of adagrasib on brain metastases and the IC RECIST is very similar to the m-renal outcome. So we wouldn't expect a difference be a methodology for determining response.

We'll take our next question from Maury Raycroft with Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. You saw a similar overall response rate for patients in the registrational trial stratified by TPS score. Are you commenting on what the difference is in duration of response or PFS were based on TPS? And how are you currently thinking about combo versus monotherapy for TPS-low patients?

Hi. This is Jamie. So, yes, I think you're referring to the data presented at ASCO and that were the journal where we [ph] look by (00:43:19) the three TPS strata and response rate, and we'd say that there's a minor difference in response rate. We've also looked at outcomes by other measures, PFS OS duration of response. I would say we have not presented that data yet, but I wouldn't expect large differences there based on our experience thus far. We will be more replete in our characterization of outcomes by TPS strata in the future.

With regard to how we might develop the drug in different settings, one thing we've talked about previously is the strong unmet medical need and the TPS less than 1 in KRAS-G12C population. Here, it's recognize that the outcomes on chemo-immunotherapy are fairly poor. Let's note in KEYNOTE-189, the overall response rate was 32% and the PFS and OS was a bit lower. Maybe that lower bar is viewed distinctly by the regulatory agencies and that there's a chance that adagrasib would work as a monotherapy in that setting to demonstrate response rate and durability greater than what might be anticipated for chemo-immunotherapy.

So we have a study ongoing in the TPS less than 1 as a monotherapy. And then secondly, the STK11 subpopulation where we've seen signs of clinical activity. And again, poor outcomes on chemo-immunotherapy presented by Memorial Sloan Kettering, Dana-Farber, MD Anderson, indicating the response rates are really in the low 20s there. And that's a place where we believe we can observe a higher response rate. And that study is ongoing, so we'll be talking about it when the data is mature.

Just to say then when we look across TPS strata, we're interested in all strata. And we believe we can devise a combination strategy, in addition to what I just mentioned for the monotherapy in the defined subset, the overall combination strategy would cover all of the strata. And just to note here that slightly different study designs may be required for a different strata. These are all part of our overall strategy for the program.

We'll take our next question from Jay Olson with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hey. Thank you for taking the question. Is there any read across or other observations you'll be looking for in the data for the combination of LUMAKRAS with [ph] RevMed (00:45:41) SHP-2 at World Lung. And then as a related follow-up, you've indicated that adagrasib will be administered concurrently in combination with pembro. So can you comment on the pros and cons of parallel versus sequential administration in adagrasib combinations such as pembro or SHP-2 or any other combos? Thank you.

Yeah. So it's one of the things we're looking at – we've looked at preclinically as well in terms of the co-administration versus sequential. And so far, at least, there hasn't been any clear advantage for sequential approaches versus co-administration.

I think you asked about SHP-2. We do have a study that's now ongoing, but it's in early stage. So we don't – we haven't reported the data of the same SHP-2 combination with adagrasib. So that data would come out sometime next year. But we are interested in the mechanism. We believe that the SHP-2 combination and certainly, the preclinical data is supportive of doing that combination. So I think it's just a matter of seeing how that clinical data develops.

And then in terms of the IO combinations, we think that the pembrolizumab co-administration is the best way to go and is most consistent with standard of care in clinical practice, so that's the best approach. And we don't have any reason to think that sequential would be superior to that. So it just makes it more simple. And Ben, any comment on that?

I would just say, yeah, the feedback has been unanimous around that. Our medical affairs team has held numerous advisory boards around that. And that's the way they treat today and that's the way they'd like to treat in the future. So the concurrent with pembro is [indiscernible] (00:47:25).

The chemo sparing targeted agent would also be good. So having adagrasib plus pembro concurrently, that's something that we would be very keen on for patients with a KRAS G12C mutation.

And then maybe just to add one point from a scientific perspective. So concurrent administration with immunotherapy, I think one thing we've been able to recognize through mechanistic studies both in preclinical and clinical studies is the impact of adagrasib on antigen presentation, so the upregulation MHC-dependent antigen presentation.

The second is a fairly acute effect on some intratumoral cytokines that result in the uptake of T cells, expansion of T cells, reduction of immunosuppressive cells. And you could see there, we're having the KRAS inhibitor on board at a comparable time so the immunotherapy agent would be desirable.

I think same story with SHP-2. SHP-2 functions at least in part by shifting KRAS into its inactive state, desirable to have those two drugs administered concurrently. And that's currently our focus for both of those areas.

This concludes today's question-and-answer session. David Meek, I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional closing remarks.

Thank you, Danielle, and thank you, everybody, for joining us this afternoon. We appreciate your interest in Mirati and we look forward to sharing additional updates with you in the very near future.

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.