Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Charles Grubsztajn — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, MethylGene Inc.
Klaus B. Kepper — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, MethylGene Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to MethylGene's First Quarter 2011 results conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I will now repeat in French. [Foreign Language] (00:00:30-00:01:01)

I would now like to turn the call over to [ph] Karen McTavish, (00:01:05) Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to MethylGene's first quarter 2011 Conference Call. Please note this call is being recorded and webcast. Remarks may be accessed live on our website during the call and will be available on our website for the next seven days.

On the call today from MethylGene are Charles Grubsztajn, President and Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Jeffrey Besterman, Executive Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer; and Mr. Klaus Kepper, Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Charles will begin the call by providing our corporate and clinical update and then Klaus will provide a brief recap of the financial results. We will then open the call for questions.

Before we begin, please be advised that today's call may contain forward-looking statements. As stated in our news release, these include statements about the company's objectives, expectations, beliefs,

intentions, and strategies for the future. All forward-looking statements reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.

Important factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include the factors contained in our first quarter news release. The reports filed by the company from time to time with Canadian regulatory authority, the company's annual information form for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and all other documents filed by the company and available on cedar.com. MethylGene bases it's forward looking statements on information currently available and does not assume any obligation to update them. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Charles Grubsztajn, MethylGene's President and Chief Executive Officer.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. So far, 2011 has been a banner year for the company. In April, we closed the $34.5 private placement with several highly regarded life science investors, including the Baker Brothers, Tavistock Life Sciences, OrbiMed Advisors, QVT Financial, Tang Capital Partners and ProQuest Investments.

The proceeds of this financing will be used to advance our two product candidates, MGCD265, our Met/VEGF inhibitor for cancer and MGCD290, our antifungal into Phase 2 clinical trial. What has emerged is a more focused company that is now sufficiently capitalized to achieve its goals with the cash runway into 2014.

At ASCO in early June, we presented a poster presentation and a poster discussion for MGCD265 Trial 103 for both the docetaxel and erlotinib arms. These posters were well attended, as was our investor and analyst events. At this event, Dr. Amita Patnaik from the South Texas Accelerated Research Therapeutic Center and a Clinical Investigator for MGCD265 presented data from our ASCO posters. If you haven't done so already, I invite you to listen and view her presentation, which is posted on the home page of our website.

This past Tuesday, at our Annual General Meeting, our shareholders elected Dr. Peter Thompson to MethylGene's board of directors. Dr. Thompson is a medical oncologist and seasoned executive with over 20 years of industry experience. We look forward to Peter's contribution to our company.

In summary, MethylGene now has a clear path forward, two promising product candidates, is well financed and has strong shareholder support. And I'm very pleased to have this opportunity to update you on our development plans for our two product candidates, MGCD265 and MGCD290.

I'll begin with MGCD265, our Met/VEGF inhibitor for oncology. In our first quarter news release that was issued on Tuesday evening, we announced that we will be pursuing development of MGCD265 in three indications, non-small cell lung cancer, gastric cancer and prostate cancer. We selected these indications, because we have seen activity signals in our Phase 1 program to date. And also, there is compelling biological rationale from the scientific literature and also from what we've observed from competitor compounds for development in these indications.

We will begin to evaluate MGCD265 in these indications by expanding the cohorts in two of our ongoing clinical trials, Trial 101 in which MGCD265 is administered as a single agent and in Trial 103, the two-arm trial in which MGCD265 is administered in combination with docetaxel or erlotinib.

Expansion of the cohort allows us to rapidly confirm the signal we've already seen, as well as the dose, safety profile and biomarkers that we can then use in later larger studies. We expect to begin enrolling patients as early as next month and to begin to report data in 2012. For Trial 101, we expect to enroll approximately 20 gastric and prostate patients, who will be administered MGCD265 twice daily as a single agent. For Trial 103, we expect to enroll a total of approximately 60 non-small cell lung cancer, prostate cancer and gastric cancer patients. The docetaxel arm will focus on patients with non-small cell lung cancer and prostate cancer, whereas the erlotinib arm will focus on patients with gastric cancer.

As you may recall, we've seen some promising patient responses, particularly in non-small cell lung cancer and gastric patients. In eight non-small cell lung cancer patients, who are treated with the MGCD265 docetaxel combination, two experienced partial responses and prolonged stable disease and four additional patients had prolonged stable disease.

We're also beginning to see favorable effects in prostate and ovarian cancer patients. We've also reported data in the MGCD265 erlotinib arm of the study for two gastric cancer patients. One achieved complete resolution of ascites and a reduction in the thickness of the gastric wall and remained stable on study for longer than a year. Our second patient has also demonstrated a reduction in ascites and has been stable on treatment for nine months. And from what I understand, one of the patients has been feeling well enough to visit Las Vegas.

I'd like to now touch on MGCD290, our proprietary oral antifungal. As previously disclosed, we've completed four single agent and combination trials with the antifungal drug fluconazole in over 100 healthy adult volunteers. We've been pleased with the safety pharmacokinetics and combinability of the two drugs that we saw in these Phase 1 trials, and the preparation for Phase 2 studies is well underway. We're planning superiority trials of the combination of MGCD290 and fluconazole over fluconazole alone in acute vulvovaginal candidiasis and also in recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis.

What we hope to see in these Phase 2 trials is that MGCD290 administered with fluconazole will be superior to treatment with fluconazole alone, as it moves fluconazole to cidality. And we will provide an update on our clinical development plan, including the start dates, number of patients and trial designs later this year.

I'll now turn the call over to Klaus Kepper to summarize our financial results.

Thank you, Charles, and good morning. I am pleased to provide you with MethylGene's financial performance for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. Please note that these statements have been prepared for the first time in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting for International Financial Reporting Standards. The financial impact of adopting IFRS was minimal, with no material impact in the restatement of the first quarter of 2010 nor the full year of 2010 and no material impact for the 2011 first quarter results.

Total revenues for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011, were $1.3 million compared to $474,000 for the same period last year, due to the accelerated amortization of deferred revenue in relation to the research and license agreement with Otsuka [ph] and the (00:10:06) research component of the research and license agreement, as well as our substantive obligations relating to this agreement will conclude on June 30, 2011.

Gross research and development expenditures in the first quarter of 2011 were $1.9 million, a decrease of 49%, compared to $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2010. This decrease is due to lower compensation costs, the termination of four of our leases and lower clinical development expenses for MGCD265 and MGCD290.

General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2011 were $1 million, a decrease of $207,3000 compared to the first quarter of 2010, reflecting lower compensation and lease costs and lower professional fees. As a result, the net loss and comprehensive loss for the first quarter ended March 31st was $1.6 million or $0.04 per share compared to a net loss of $4.5 million or $0.11 per share for the corresponding period last year, reflecting the higher revenue and lower operating expenses.

As at March 31st, we had $6.5 million of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, a decrease of $2.1 million from December 31, 2010. We have made a concentrated effort to reduce costs, and it is our goal to maintain these efficiencies, and as such, including the proceeds of the private placements of $34.5 million, we believe that our current cash resources are sufficient for our clinical development and operating plans to extend into 2014.

This concludes our financial summary and I'd like to turn it back to Charles for some closing comments.

Thank you, Klaus. In closing, I'd like to reiterate our goals for 2011 as they relate to our two lead product candidates. For MGCD265, we'll be enrolling new patients into expansion cohorts of Trials 101 and 103 beginning in the third quarter of this year, focusing on non-small cell lung cancer, prostate cancer [indiscernible] (00:12:16).

The purpose of these trials is to rapidly confirm the signal, dose, safety profile and biomarkers for use in later larger studies. We expect to report data from these trials in 2012. For MGCD290, our clinical planning is well underway, and we expect to provide additional details [ph] as at (00:12:37) the start of the Phase 2 trials in vulvovaginal candidiasis, number of patients, trial design and other information later this year.

I'm extremely excited about the momentum we've built and the prospects for our products. We have two promising product candidates, clear clinical goals and sufficient cash resources to reach these goals. Operator, please go ahead with the Q&A.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions] I'm showing no questions from the phone lines at this time.

Okay. This concludes our conference call for today. Thank you all for joining us and we look forward to updating you in the future.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you all for your participation. Now we ask you to please disconnect your lines. Thank you and have a good day.