raw transcript


National Instruments
 
NATI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the National Instruments Corporation’s First Quarter


2005 Earnings Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. You may refer to your


press packet for the replay dial in number and pass code. The replay will be available from 7:00


PM Central Time today and will end at midnight Central Time on May 4th of 2005. With us today


are Dr. James Truchard, President and Chief Executive Officer; Alex Davern, Chief Financial


Officer; and John Graff, Vice President of Marketing. And now for opening remarks, I would like to


turn the conference over to Mr. David Hugley, Corporate Council. Please go ahead sir.


David Hugley, Corporate Council


Good afternoon. During the course of this conference call, we shall make forward-looking


statements regarding the future financial performance of the company, including statements


regarding our expected revenue and earnings per share, reduced budget and spending plans, and


expanding market opportunities. We wish to caution you that such statements are just predictions


and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to the documents the company


files regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company’s annual


report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. These documents contain and


identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those


contained in our forward-looking statement.


With that, I will now turn it over to the President and CEO of National Instruments Corporation, Dr.


James Truchard.


Dr. James Truchard, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Our key points today are revenues of 130 million, up


4% year-over-year. Highest quarterly gross margin since four years of 75% and reduced budget


expanding and hiring plans for the rest of 2005.


For the softening economy, during Q1 we saw a sequential reduction in our system level sales as


well as a decline in our instrument control business year-over-year on varied cost compares. We


are pleased so that with the continued strong sales of our core virtual instrumentation platform,


including software, PXI and Motorola instrumentation. In our call today, Alex Davern, our CFO will


review our financials, John Graff, our Vice President of Marketing will discuss our business, and I


will close with a few comments before we open up for your questions. Alex?


Alexander M. Davern, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President – IT and Manufacturing


Operations


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. Revenues for the quarter were $130 million, up


4% over Q1 2004, and our diluted earnings per share was 14 cents per share. Our revenue for Q1


is down $7 million or 5% from Q4. In our conference call on January 27th, we had anticipated that


our revenues will be flat sequentially with Q4. For the revenues were below our expectations, we


are pleased to deliver our 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth in Q1. And


we will see easier comparison to second half of the year. While we anticipated that Q1 will be a


tough year-over-year compare due to our strong revenue growth in 2004, we are disappointed with


our revenue performance.
raw transcript


National Instruments
 
NATI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In Q1 2004, our revenues were up sequentially with Q4 2003 on the strength of record highs in the


JP. Morgan Global Purchasing Managers Index. In hind site it was optimistic to expect to see a


similar sequential performance this year on a global PMI number that has been driven lower by


high oil prices and the increased interest rates. As the percentage of our revenues coming from


system sales for more than $20,000 has increased over the last few years, we have become more


susceptible to seeing revenue fall in Q1 as customers finished the fiscal yearend spending.


One key reason of the shortfall in our revenue occurred was due to a reduction in our average


order size as companies restricted our capital spending in Q1 and as we saw some continued


erosion in the average selling price of our data acquisition products. Our average order size fell


from $2,900 in Q4 to $2,700 in Q1, a 7% sequential reduction. The vast majority of this reduction


came in orders over $20,000, which were down by $7 million sequentially. Last year we saw the


normal fiscal year-end budget spending of Q4 we replaced in Q1 by new orders driven by the


record level PMI. We did not see that strength this year.


In Q1, the M series and our new USB data acquisition [indiscernible] success and drove the


double-digit increase in the number of data acquisition unit shift. However, with ASP significantly


below our average for data acquisition, they are also having the effect of reducing our average


selling price. As a result, while unit volume was up double-digits in Q1 2004, our total data


acquisition revenue was only up in the low single digits. Addition of these new products has


significantly strengthened NI’s competitive position. And, the improved gross margins of our M


Series products will help as they continue to scale. Recently, the biggest shortfall came in our


Asian business, which was up 4% year-over-year, compared to the 29% year-over-year growth we


saw in Q1 2004. The majority of this shortfall came in Japan. But, we saw a 9% year-over-year


reduction in Q1 sales compared to our expectation of double-digit growth. We believe that this is


as a result of a weakened Japanese economy and a reluctance of companies in Japan to commit at


our normal March fiscal yearend spending.


Sales in the rest of Asia were up 17% year-over-year. On a regional basis, revenues for the


quarter were flat in Europe, up 4% in Asia and up 7% in the Americas, giving overall growth of 4


percent. On a product basis, we saw the impact of our weekend global economy on sales on our


instrument control products, especially to test and measurement in semiconductor capital


equipment suppliers. These products, which represent less then 15% of our revenue, were down


19% year-over-year. Due to the mature nature of these products and our strong market position


sales of these products are usually the most sensitive to changes in the growth rate of the global


economy.


Q1 2004 is our toughest comparer for these products and as we go in to the rest of 2005 our


compares will get easier. As a group, our own products continue to grow with 9% year-over-year


growth lead by our software, PXI and Modular Instrument products. Our year-over-year growth


compares for these products will get easier as we through the second half of 2005.


Moving down to income statement, gross margins for quarter increased to 75% up from 73.5% in


Q4. This represents our best quarterly gross margin in four years almost driven by the increase in


software as a percentage of our revenue, the sale of our German system integration subsidiary and


the improved gross margins of some of our newer products.


On the expense side, total expenses for the quarter were $83 million up 8% year-over-year. On the


year-over-year basis, R&D expenses were up 2 percent. Software development costs capitalized


in the quarter were $3 million and previously capitalized costs of $2 million were amortized to cost


of goods sold during the quarter.


Sales and marketing expenses were up 10% or $5 million with 40% of the increase being driven by


the weakness of the US dollar.