raw transcript


National Instruments Corp.
 
NATI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the National Instruments Corporation Second


Quarter 2005 Earnings Release Conference. Today's call is being recorded. You may refer to your


press packet for the replay dial in number and the pass code. The replay will be available from


7:00 PM Central Time today and will end at midnight Central Time on August, 02nd. With us today


are Dr. James Truchard, President and Chief Executive Officer; Alex Davern, Chief Financial


Officer; and John Graff, Vice President of Marketing.


Now for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. David


Hugley, Corporate Counsel. Please go ahead.


Mr. David G. Hugley, Corporate Council


Good afternoon. During the course of this conference call we shall make forward-looking


statements regarding the future financial performance of the company including statements


regarding our expected revenue and earning per share, success of our new products and


expanding market opportunities. We wish to caution you that those statements are just predictions


and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to the documents the company


files regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the company’s annual report


on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended


March 31, 2005. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause our


actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements. With that,


I will now turn it over to the President and CEO of National Instruments Corporation, Dr. James


Truchard.


James J. Truchard, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, David. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Our key points today are record


revenue of a 141 million up 11% year-over-year, record revenue from new products and year-over-


year GAAP net income up 32 percent. We are pleased with the strong sales of our virtual


instrument patient platform in Q2 and the penetration of our new products into new application


areas including RF communications tests, MD echo test and [indiscernible] industrial control. Our


strong sales in marketing execution coupled with record new product revenue resulted in record


revenue for the quarter. In our call today, Alex Davern, our CFO, will review our financials; John


Graff, our Vice President of Marketing will discuss our business; and I will close with a few


comments before we open up for your questions. Alex?


Alexander M. Davern, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you for joining us today. We had a strong second quarter with revenue of $141 million up


11% year-over-year and up 9% from Q1. This represents the highest quarterly revenue in NI’s


history and is a very good performance given the decline that we saw in the J.P. Morgan Global


Purchasing Managers Index during April and May.


GAAP net income was $15 million up 32% from Q2 2004 with fully diluted GAAP earnings per


share of 19 cents. Included in GAAP net income are number of items related to acquisitions. It


includes a $400,000 non-cash charge to cost of goods sold and a $200,000 non-cash to R&D


related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
raw transcript


National Instruments Corp.
 
NATI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Additionally, as our patent litigation with Measurement Computing was settled on acquisition, the


company reversed its remaining accruals of $1.9 million, which is equivalent to 2 cents per share.


This is netted with our other patent litigation expenses on the income statement. The resolution of


this litigation and the addition of several additional graphical programming patents strengthens our


overall IP position. Our instruments revenue growth was driven by the success of our new products


along with record revenues from our data acquisition, industrial communications, PXI, modular


instruments, and motion control products.


The improvement in our growth was also driven by significant increase in revenue from our larger


orders over $20,000, which helped increase our average order size by 6% sequentially to almost


2900, close to the record we saw in Q4. It is likely that some of this increase in orders over


$20,000 is largely related to pent-up demand after a pause in Q1. Our instrument control products,


which now represent 13% of revenues continue to show a year-over-year decline, falling by 16%


year-over-over and by 5% sequentially. Year-over-year revenue growth for our other products was


plus 16 percent, reflecting the success of our new products in what was a tough quarter overall for


test and measurement companies. On a year-over-year basis the acquisitions of electronic


[indiscernible] Measurement Computing, net of the divestiture of our German system integration


business added $2.4 million in revenue in Q2.


During Q2, we saw year-over-year revenue growth in all regions. Year-over-year revenue was up


19% in Asia, up 11% in Europe, and up 8% in Americas giving overall growth of 11 percent.


Moving on to income statement, gross margins at Q2 were 74 in line with Q2 last year or down


approximately 1% from Q1. The main drivers of the sequential decrease in gross margin are the


addition of the lower gross margin sales from the acquisition of Measurement Computing and the


amortization of $400,000 of intangibles related to acquisitions. This non-cash amortization charge


will continue to appear on our GAAP financials for several years; however, we are specifying the


amount in future earnings calls.


Total expenses dropped from 62% of revenue in Q2, 2004 to 60% this quarter. Our R&D expenses


increased by $2 million or 9% sequentially from Q1. This includes the incremental R&D cost we


picked up in the acquisition of electronic [indiscernible] Measurement Computing as well as a


$200,000 non-cash charge related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles. In Q2 we


actually capitalized $3.4 million of internally developed software costs, up slightly from $3 million in


Q1. We expect this total of capitalization to continue through Q3. Amortization, the cost of goods


sold from previously capitalized software development costs was $2.1 million in Q2, up from $1.8


million in Q1. SG&A expenses were flat sequentially. Our GAAP operating income increased by


35% sequentially and represented 14% of revenue compared to 11% in Q1.


Now, turning to the balance sheet. Inventory was flat sequentially with inventory days dropping on


the higher revenue level. Accounts receivables were down $2 million and our day’s sales


outstanding falling on the high yield revenue. Net cash from short-term investments were $157


million compared to $221 million on March 31st. This is net of dividends, stock repurchase, and


cash payments related to the acquisitions of Measurement Computing and high perception.


headcount as of June 30th was 3632, up 119 from March 30th. Excluding personnel added via


acquisition personnel was up by 48 in the quarter.


During the quarter the company paid $4 million in dividends and paid $41.5 million to repurchase


1,741,000 shares of the company’s common stock at an average price of $23.85 per share. This is


equivalent to 2.2% of the company’s outstanding stock. On July 22nd, the Board of Directors


declared a cash dividend of 5 cents per common share payable August 25th, 2005 to shareholders


of record on August 8.


Now, looking at Q3. Due to an attributable seasonal pattern and the impact of the recent


[indiscernible] of the Europe, which will have a negative effect on revenue in Q3. We are expecting