Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Theodore C. Petrone — Director & President-Navios Corporation, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Seth R. Lowry — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Urs Dur — Analyst, CIS Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Navios Maritime Holdings Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; President, Mr. Ted Petrone; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis. As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Holdings' website at www.navios.com.

Before I review the structure of this morning's call, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth in this conference call should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this call. Thank you.

We'll begin with formal remarks from the team, and after, we'll open the call to take your questions.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We are pleased to report our results for the second quarter of 2013. We had a solid quarter and reported $38.8 million of EBITDA. We continue to maintain our operating discipline and have moderate leverage of 44% and cash flow of about $277 million. As we focus on execution, we continue returning capital to our shareholders through dividend payments and declared a $0.06 dividend for the second quarter to record holders on September 18, representing a yield of almost 4%.

Slide two shows our current corporate structure. The value of Navios Holdings primarily derives from four areas; the drybulk fleet within Navios Holdings and three principal operating subsidiaries. In our view, the whole is still valued at less than the sum of the parts. As of the close of business on Wednesday, August 21, Navios Holdings' common share traded at $6.30 per share. In contrast, Navios Holdings' ownerships stake in the two publicly listed subsidiaries were valued at $4.27 per share. This implies a valuation of less than $210 million for Navios Holdings' core business of 58 drybulk vessels and our controlling interest in Navios Logistics.

We believe that the value of Navios Holdings' interest in Navios Logistics alone is much larger. Navios Logistics continued to leverage the growth prospects of the Hidrovia region and reported $17.6 million of EBITDA for the quarter. Also, Navios Logistics announced that it will be deploying three new convoys locating iron ore for an existing client.

Slide three highlights our strong competitive positioning. We have a conservative balance sheet with net debt to capitalization of 44% and liquidity of $277 million. Our liquidity should be viewed in the context of our cash requirement. The company has no unfunded CapEx and no material debt maturities for the next four years. As a result, our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and operating needs of the company.

As you can see from the table in slide three, our contracted cash flow coupled with a dividend from our subsidiaries ensures significant operating cash flow. We also have 2,447 days – vessel days open in 2013, which we are in the process of fixing. We have provided the current one-year time charter rate for the various vessel classes, as well as a 20-year average of the one-year time charter rate. These rates provide a proxy of [ph] what might the (04:20) open days generate.

As you can see, given the low cash breakeven requirements of $5,365 per day and the rising rate environment, we anticipate that not only would the cash requirement be covered, but that we will generate a sizeable surplus. I also want to note that the profit sharing market exposure mechanism, that we are building into the charter contracts, would provide us with a $2.2 million in incremental free cash flow for every $1,000 in profit sharing achieved.

Slide four reviews our chartering strategy. Navios' adaptable chartering strategy has been formed in context of its conservative business philosophy. While we're subject to the volatility of the industry, we dampen the impact by maintaining low-operating cost and a flexible chartering policy. As an essential element, we seek to first protect against the downside risk. Only after we assure that we have done what we can to mitigate downside risk, do we focus on maximizing the market opportunity of the government.

We have implemented our chartering strategy by using period charters appropriate for the time. At the peak of the market in 2006 through 2008, we entered in long-term fixed contracts. More recently, we have been negotiating previous charters that provide a floor above our cash flow breakeven and a mechanism for market exposure so that we can enjoy the upside of the market. Structural net flow in our charter rate contracts ensure that we never charter a vessel below our breakeven rate and these charter are EBITDA and cash flow positive. Having market exposure, allow us to take advantage of the market recovery through our profit saving programs.

Currently, 11% of our fleet and 33% of our charters fixed since June include some sort of mechanism that allow us exposure to the market. I would note that even the Index related contracts average above our cash flow breakeven rate as measured during the past few years.

Turning to slide five, we provide an update on the acquisition of the 10 vessels from a private Japanese owner. So far, we have acquired the four charter free vessels outright at cyclical lows. These vessels have already appreciated by about $4 million. We are financing these four vessels with a $40 million in debt and cash in our balance sheet. The loan has an age adjusted amortization profile of 18.4 years and a margin of 325 basis points. The cash flow breakeven for this vessel is $7,445 per day per vessel.

Navios Asia, which is the joint venture entity with a private Japanese owner, will receive directly delivery of two of the six vessels in the third quarter of 2013. Navios Asia intends to partially finance these vessels with bank debt in terms that are consistent with our existing credit facilities.

Slide six offers an update of our strategic relationship with HSH Nordbank. We, along with our affiliates, from an entity named Navios Europe. It will be the acquisition entity under the letter of intent we signed with HSH in the April of 2013. Navios Holdings will own 47.5% of Navios Europe. Navios Europe recently arranged for the technical and commercial management of five out of the 10 vessels in the transaction. To date, we have taken over the responsibility of two container vessels and we anticipate taking over the responsibility for three tanker vessels through September 2013.

Navios Europe is expected to take ownership of all 10 vessels by November 1, 2013, at which point management of the remaining vessels will also be transferred. This deal is an example of the excellent working relationship that HSH and Navios have developed, and their mutual goal is to complete this deal and work together toward similar transactions.

Slide seven shows our liquidity position, our net debt to book capitalization is 44% in the end of quarter, second quarter. In addition, we had a liquidity of $277 million. As I mentioned earlier, we have no material debt maturities for four years and all of our CapEx is funded.

Slide eight sets for the Navios' cash flow breakeven. As a reminder, we restructured our credit default insurance last year and moved about $175 million from future cash flows on to our balance sheet without any discounting for the times value of money. The credit default insurance restructuring was a well-researched and strategic decision by Navios Holdings.

We prefer to have cash on our balance sheet over insurance for an event we thought was unlikely to occur. We have a cash flow breakeven of $12,806 per day in 2013. We have adjusted our contracted revenue to reflect that portion of the $175 million prepayment that was attributable to 2013.

As you can see, these $52 million allocation rate have contracted revenue to $14,790 per day. We do not show the impact of the mitigating benefit that we receive, but under current condition we quantify this benefit to about $6 million annually, as we no longer have to turn this proceeds from daily charter vessels to the insurance company. Navios Holdings has a fixed 84.6% of available days for 2013 and is readily positioned to capture market recovery. Our cash flow breakeven will further decrease as we successfully expand our fleet with attractive acquisition at historically low valuations.

I remind you that as I do every quarter that our breakeven analysis includes our operating expenses, drydocking expenses, charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses, including credit default insurance expense, as well as interest expense and capital repayment.

And at this point, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Petrone, Navios President, who will take you through Navios operations in an industry perspective. Ted?

Thank you, Angeliki, and good morning, all. Please turn to slide nine. Our long-term core fleet consists of 58 vessels, totaling 5.8 million deadweight. We have 45 vessels in the water with an average age of 6.4 years.

Please turn to slide 10. Post the restructuring agreement with our credit default insurer, Navios' average daily charter-out rate for its core fleet is $11,488 for 2013 and $15,968 for 2014. As depicted on the left side of slide 10, the white portion of the bars represents previously mentioned post-insurance restructuring levels. The blue portion represents an allocation of part of the $175.4 million cash settlement received in 2013 to 2014, the year in which such portion would have otherwise been earned.

As you can see, Navios has already received $3,302 a day for charters in 2013 and $1,770 a day for charters in 2014, providing effective rates of $14,790 for 2013 and $17,738 for 2014. 84.6% of Navios' fleet is chartered-out for 2013 and what is expected to be an improving market, 21.5% for 2014.

Please turn to slide 11. We enjoy vessel operating expenses about 32% below the industry average in all asset classes. Navios' current daily OpEx is $3,841. The $1,799 daily savings per vessel in operating expenses aggregates approximately $20 million in annual savings, which goes directly to our bottom line.

The right hand chart reflects the changes in the daily charter-out rates for the ships we have on long-term charter before and after the lump sum payment from the credit default insurer. We continue to enjoy good relations with these many industry participants. Our Navios Asia joint venture is an example of our strong ongoing relationships in the Far East, dating back to the formation of Navios as a subsidiary of U.S. Steel in the 1950s. This allows Navios to expand the fleet with minimal capital expense.

Please now turn to 12. The Baltic Dry Index opened Q2 at 896 and hit a low of 801 on June 5. Since then, increased exports of iron ore, coal and grain out of South America pushed the index dramatically up to a peak of 1,179 on July 1, its highest level since January 2012. In fact, the BDI recorded its highest monthly average since 2011 in July at 1,123. Subsequently, after a slight pullback through mid-August, the index continues to rise, and as of August 21 stands at 1,156. This increase has been concentrated in Cape rates, which increased over 200% since the beginning of June with more gradual increases in the smaller sizes.

During the second half of the year, a slowing trend in fleet growth along with significant additional iron ore export capacity in both Brazil and Australia, should at least support, if not, increased earnings, especially in the Capsize sector. Both the Panamax and Supramax sectors should receive support over the medium to long-term by Chinese coal and grain imports. The UN expects China to double grain imports between 2012 and 2022. A further slowdown in deliveries combined with gradual recovery in the world economy should bode well for improving fundamentals in 2014 and 2015.

Please turn to slide 13. Developing economies continue to be the engine for world GDP and developing economies contribute a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies. In fact, developing economies now consume over half of the global requirements for most commodities. The IMF projected global GDP growth for 2013 and 2014 at 3.1% and 3.8% led by emerging and developing markets growth of 5% in 2013 and 5.4% in 2014.

Turning to slide 14, the primary engines of trade growth continue to be China, India and Brazil, with other emerging countries adding strong growth. Drybulk trade has expanded by an average of 5.5% per year in the last decade since China joined the WTO. Consensus forecast for 2013 are for global drybulk trade to grow approximately 5% and ton mile growth to be about 7%. A similar growth rate is estimated for net fleet growth, leading to balanced supply-demand dynamics for the first time in four years.

Please turn to slide 15. In order to continue their urbanization, industrialization, China and India continue to invest heavily in infrastructure throughout Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. Both countries are securing supply lines of natural resources with these infrastructure investments to ensure continued growth. As a larger portion of world trade is occurring between emerging and developing economies, trade patterns are shifting eastward and southward.

Please turn to slide 16. Currently, just over 50% of the world's population resides in urban areas, that figure is expected to grow to 67% by 2015, adding approximately 2.8 billion urban residents with a large portion of urbanization occurring in the Asia-Pacific region. As you can see on the right hand graph, income growth supports increased metal demand. The rise in global income and the shift in the global economy towards Asia should support increased ton miles in world bulk trade.

Moving to slide 17. Iron ore from the major mining companies continues to be the lowest cost, highest quality source of this commodity. With iron ore prices forecasted to decline to the $100 range, significant Chinese domestic production, which is represented by the red boxes in the lower right hand graph, will become uneconomic. The currently planned expansions of mines feeding seaborne iron ore could add an additional 200 million tons per year in 2013 and more than double that amount in 2014 with further growth in the following years. While the majority of these expansions are in Australia, over 30% will come from the Atlantic Basin adding ton mile.

Moving to slide 18. Over the past three years, Capesize average time charter rates respond positively to an increase in Brazilian shipments of iron ore. This increase in shipments usually happens between Q2 and Q3 each year and tends to affect rates later in Q3. We are seeing an early start to the trend this year due to delayed Brazilian shipments in the first half of 2013, the increase in Australia iron ore shipments, earlier than normal Chinese restocking, and a decrease in Cape deliveries.

Moving to slide 19. The continued development, urbanization of China will contribute significantly to steel consumption in 2013 and beyond. Infrastructure, housing construction and consumer spending growth will all underpin future development. Underlying this trend is the over 20% year-on-year Chinese fixed asset investment growth through July 2013. Crude steel production in China through July was about 9% more than crude steel production for the same-period in 2012. China imported 458 metric tons of iron ore, 8% more than the same period last year.

More importantly, as you can see in the upper left graph, imported stockpiles have been drawn down steadily from 98 million tons in August of 2012 to about 71 million tons as of last week. At about 20 days inventory, this is the lowest level since Q2, 2009, which we believe sets the stage for restocking. Domestic iron ore production increased an estimated 7% year-on-year, but decreased 22% between Q4, 2012 and Q1, 2013.

Going forward, the substitution of high quality imported iron ore for low quality domestic iron ore is expected to grow and will increase to tons carried and ton miles. China is the world's largest coal importer today. Having imported 226 million tons in 2012, China turned from being a net coal exporter to a net coal importer in 2009. As the chart on the upper right indicates, China's seaborne coal imports have grown at a 20% CAGR rate since 2009 and imports are forecasted to grow over the next several years, which will add to tons carried and tons miles, as over 15% of imports come from the Atlantic Basin.

Turning to slide 20. Scrapping rates for older, less fuel efficient vessels have continued at very high rates this year. Through August 16, about 15.1 million deadweight has been scrapped. If this trend continues, scrapping could reach about 25 million deadweight tons in 2013. The current rate environment should keep scrapping levels high as about 11% of the fleet is over 20 years old, providing 74 million deadweight of scrapping potential. Of note is that the current 2013 scrapping totals already includes 15 ships that were less than 20 years old, five that were less than 15 years of age and three that were between 10 and 14 years old. As demolishing price has appeared to depend on overall steel prices and not on the supplier vessels, they're expected to remain high. In our mind, we will continue to see the scrapping of older, less efficient vessels.

Moving on to slide 21. 2012 non-deliveries amounted to 30%, resulting in net fleet growth of 10.3%, the lowest level in the last four years. Net fleet additions in 2013 are expected to be much lower than last year. Non-deliveries through July amounted to 42%. This combined with high scrapping means that net fleet growth could approximately equal to the expected increase in demand during 2013. The order book declines dramatically through 2014 and beyond and is expected to remain that way as banks continue restrictions on newbuilding loans.

Please turn to slide 22. Slide 22 provides a retrospective of the rate environment and considers the impact of supply-demand equilibrium on rate recovery for 2013. As we all know, for any rate recovery to be meaningful and lasting, fleet growth rates need to fall below trade growth rates. As said earlier, our global GDP is projected to increase in 2013 and 2014 at 3.1% and 3.8%, respectively, from the more subdued rates of 2011 and 2012. To-date, the improvement has been moderate. However, the rate of change suggests that demand for drybulk vessels will increase in 2013 as newbuilding deliveries continue to decelerate and scraping remains at record levels.

In sum, we note that for the first time in four years, there's an expectation that net demand will equal or exceed supply. Consequently, rate levels could sustain their current rise during the second half of 2013 carrying into 2014. We note this as these conditions were not evident over the past few years.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis for our Q2 financial results. George?

Thank you, Ted, and good morning, all. Please turn to slide 23 for the review of the Navios Holdings earnings highlights. Before I begin the review of the financials, I would like to remind you that the comparison between 2012 and 2013 reflects the effect of the restructuring of our credit default insurance. As Angeliki mentioned earlier, of the $175 million cash received in 2012 from the restructuring, approximately $52 million was allocated to 2013. This represents about $3,300 per vessel per day. Because of this a more meaningful comparison of our Q2 results would be a sequential one with Q1 2013, as these are the two quarters post the restructuring.

Revenue in the quarter decreased to approximately $126 million compared to $172 million in 2012. Revenue from drybulk operations reduced to approximately $62 million from $99 million in the same period in 2012. The decrease is caused mostly by a reduction in the daily TCE rate achieved in the quarter from $19,821 in Q2 2012 to $10,600 in Q2 2013. Of course, this does not take into account the reduction of the $3,300 per day, due to the additional payment from the restructuring of the insurance.

The decrease in TCE was mitigated somewhat by a 5% increase in the available days of the fleet. Revenue from the logistics business also decreased by approximately $10 million in the quarter, mainly as a result of a decrease in the sale of products at the port in Paraguay. Revenue for the first half of 2013 decreased to $259 million compared to $324 million in 2012. Revenue from drybulk vessel operations decreased from $201 million to $123 million mainly as a result of the decrease in the TCE rate achieved. Revenue from the logistics business increased by about $13 million, which partly mitigated the decrease from the drybulk operations.

EBITDA for the quarter was $39 million compared to $61 million in the second quarter of 2012. The decrease was primarily due to the lower TCE rate achieved in the quarter compared to last year and a $4 million decrease in net earnings from affiliates. The decrease was mitigated by approximately $12 million compensation from Korea Line shares received in the quarter, a $2 million decrease in G&A expenses and an increase of $2 million in the EBITDA contribution from Navios Logistics.

EBITDA for the first half of 2013 was $77 million compared to $124 million in the first half of 2012. Similar to the quarterly results, the decrease was mainly due to a reduction in the TCE rate achieved in the period. The decrease was mitigated by the $12 million compensation from Korea Line shares, a $6 million decrease in G&A expenses, a $1.6 million increase in net earnings from affiliates and an $8 million increase in the EBITDA contribution of Navios Logistics.

During the quarter, we recorded a net loss of $16 million compared to net income of $5 million in 2012. The reduction is mainly due to the reduction in EBITDA and $2 million higher interest expense in Navios Logistics due to the $93.6 million add-on to its senior notes completed in March 2013. Net loss for the first half of 2013 was $26 million compared to net income of $15 million in 2012. Similar to the quarterly results, the decrease was mainly due to the reduction in EBITDA and an increase in interest expense of Navios Logistics. The reduction was partly offset by a $3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization, a $1 million decrease in share-based compensation, and a $4 million income tax benefit at Navios Logistics.

Please turn now to slide 24. We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with low leverage and a healthy cash balance. At June 30, 2013, we had $277 million in cash compared to $283 million at December 31, 2012. The current portion of long-term debt reduced significantly from $33 million at year-end to $14 million at the end of June 2013. The long-term portion of our bank debt also reduced to $277 million compared to $291 million at the end of December.

Senior notes increased by $93.6 million following the add-on to the Navios Logistics bond in March 2013. We don't have any significant debt maturities until 2017. The net debt to book capitalization ratio remains low at 44%. This is a very low ratio for a shipping company operating in a capital intensive industry. It's particularly strong as we're at the low point in the cycle. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the full market value of our investments in our affiliated companies is not reflected on our balance sheet. If these investments were valued at the current market values, our leverage ratios would be even lower.

Turning to slide 25. The company continues to provide a return to its shareholders through its uninterrupted dividend. A dividend of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of September 18 to be paid September 26. The total expected cash dividend inflows from the two investments in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition exceed by over $16 million, the annual cash paid out by Navios Holdings to its shareholders.

And this concludes my review of the financials. At this point, I'll turn the call back over to Ted for a review of Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition. Ted?

We will now briefly review our subsidiaries. Please turn to slide 26. We currently own 23.4% of Navios Partners, including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners operates a fleet of 25 vessels equaling 2.7 million deadweight with an average age of 6.5 years. Since its inception in 2007, Navios Partners fleet capacity has grown by more than four times.

Please turn to slide 27. Navios Partners provide significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since its start of operations, Navios Partners has grown distributions by over 26%, and through 2012 we received about $106 million in distributions from Partners. 2013, we expect to receive about $29.4 million in distributions. This is about 120% of Navios Holding's expected annual dividend. Including NNA dividend, Navios Holdings receives about 167% of its expected annual dividend from its ownership in these two companies on an annualized basis.

Please turn to slide 28. We have an approximate 52% economic interest in Navios Maritime Acquisition. Navios Acquisition's current fleet consists of 41 tanker vessels totaling 4.2 million deadweight. Navios Acquisition currently has 29 vessels in the water with an average age of 4.7 years. We believe anticipate that NNA's newbuilding program for product tankers positions NNA to take advantage of favorable long-term industry dynamics.

Please turn to slide 29. Navios Acquisition is summarized on slide 29. It has a large, modern and diverse tanker fleet worth more than $1.5 billion. Navios Acquisition has long-term contracted revenue that is well above the company's low operating breakeven. This cash flow can sustain Navios Acquisition for a long period in uncertain market conditions. And then it also has profit sharing arrangements in about 84% of its contracted fleet. These arrangements limit the downside risk to the base rate and allows Navios Acquisition to enjoy the upside volatility. For example, first half 2013 profit sharing about $3 million was greater than the total profit sharing for 2012.

Please turn to slide 30. This slide demonstrates how Navios Acquisition's newbuilding deliveries are increasing EBITDA and building cash flow. Since 2011, available days have grown by 138% and the fleet has grown by 143%. EBITDA has grown by 33% in 2012 over 2011 and will continue to grow as Navios Acquisition takes delivery of new vessels. Based on the first half of 2013, Navios Acquisition's annual EBITDA will be about $115 million and this does not include the EBITDA from the four unchartered product tankers delivering in the balance of 2013.

Please turn to slide 31. Navios Acquisition provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Including the expected dividends in 2013, Navios Acquisition has provided about $20 million in distribution since its start of operations. The $9.5 million expected from Navios Acquisition this year, represents about 38% of Navios Holdings' expected annual dividend.

This concludes my presentation. I'd now like to turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis, Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning for a review of Navios Logistics financial results. Ioannis?

Thank you, Ted. Slide 32 provides an overview of Navios Logistics. Navios Holdings owns 63.8% stake in Navios South American Logistics. Navios Logistics has three segments, the port terminals, the barge business and the cabotage business.

Slide 33 presents the highlights of Navios Logistics. We are one of the major logistics providers in the Hidrovia region of South America, where we see significant opportunities to grow our business. While pursuing growth, we maintain our focus on contracted revenues from a diverse portfolio of high-quality clients that provide visible cash flows.

As shown on slide 34, we have recently acquired three new dry cargo convoys for approximately $49.2 million, including transportation costs. We acquired three second hand push boats in the United States and entered into an agreement for the construction of 36 Parana-type dry barges of 2,800 deadweight tons each in China. We leveraged the Navios network to globalize – globally source shipbuilding services for new barges and achieved a competitive all-in cost of $736,500 per barge.

The Parana-type barges we have ordered are significantly larger compared to the Mississippi-type barges. As a result, each of the new 12 barge Parana-type convoys will have a capacity of 33,600 deadweight tons and 4% higher than the typical 16 barge Mississippi-type convoy, while operating costs will be similar. We expect delivery of the three convoys in Q4 2013 through Q1 2014. We have an agreement in principle with the high quality counterparty to employee the convoys for transporting iron ore under take or pay seven-year contracts. We expect to generate annual EBITDA of $9.9 million from the three convoys.

Please turn to slide 35. In the past three years, revenue has been growing at 14.6% CAGR. At the same time, EBITDA has been growing at a 21.7% CAGR. In the first half of 2013, the EBITDA growth rate has accelerated. Revenue increased by 10.7% and EBITDA increased by 31.6% compared to the same period last year.

Please turn to slide 36 to discuss the results for the second quarter of 2013. We had a strong second quarter with all segments performing well. Our EBITDA for the second quarter was $17.6 million, 14% higher compared to Q2, 2012, and net income was $4.4 million, 85% higher compared to Q2, 2012.

Port segment EBITDA increased by 10% to $7 million, due to higher volume and increased rates in our dry port in Uruguay. The 25% or $7.6 million decrease in revenue of port terminals is attributable to $9.7 million lower sales of liquid products in our port in Paraguay, a low margin activity that has relatively low impact on EBITDA, but affects revenue. EBITDA in the barge business increased by 21% in Q2, 2013 over Q2, 2012 to $4.5 million mainly due to a reduction in voyage and operating expenses.

Cabotage business reported a 15% increase in EBITDA to $6.1 million in Q2, 2013, from $5.3 million in Q2, 2012 due to improved efficiency in fleet operations.

Interest expense and finance cost net increased to $6.7 million in Q2, 2013, compared to $5.1 million in Q2, 2012 due to the add-on to the bond in March. Depreciation and amortization expense was $5.8 million in Q2, 2013 compared to $6.1 million in Q2 of 2012. Our net result was also positively affected by $1.3 million lower taxes compared to the same period last year due to the reorganization of certain of our local subsidiaries.

Please turn to slide 37. Slide 37 shows our strong balance sheet. At the end of the first half, cash was $124.5 million compared to $45.5 million at the end of 2012. Most of this increase represents the net proceeds of the $90 million bond offering completed in March. Net debt to book capitalization was 30% compared to 33% at the end of 2012.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis, and this completes our formal presentation. We'll open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Christian Wetherbee of Citi.

Good morning. This is Seth Lowry in for Chris. If I could start off on your core drybulk business, with the increase in the rates you're seeing particularly on the Capesize front, how much of that would you attribute to seasonality and maybe repositioning versus just overall strength in the overall drybulk market?

The realities at this point, I mean, actually, August is not the month that you'll have a strong quarter. Reality is that we're seeing an overall [ph] dries are (36:39) up, I mean, usually is a Q4 event. So you're seeing a very – we have seen in the middle of the summer, which is unusual, a very strong recovery. I mean, when we were reporting Navios Partners four weeks ago, the market was totally different. I mean, we're looking on a three-year market around $15,000 for a Capesize, and today, we see period market for a three-year reaching almost $20,000. So you're seeing a substantial recovery that is happening and is actually much earlier than the seasonality.

Angeliki is right. I think – remember, as we go into the second half of the year, the supply-demand fundamentals start tightening and go into the owner's favor. So any small movements really get magnified as we go forward. So that's – I think that's why we're seeing an early movement here on the Capes, which is normally followed by the other sizes moving up.

Okay. And so with the – I guess, with the fundamentals being a bit more sticky in nature, how do you see the discount between newer tonnage and older tonnage trending over the next six months? Do you expect that to catch up a little bit? Maybe just talk about like the trends in the rates for the various vessel ages that you see going forward.

I think the biggest issue right now is a good described vessel. So if you have a good quality vessel that you can give good [ph] Ecospeed (38:05), you can really command a much better rate. And I think that is really the difference. If you have, let's say, a Chinese [ph] over-consuming (38:19) vessel, that will not perform as well. I'm not trying – I mean, it depends really on a good performance vessel with a good description.

And I do think over the years, you can see that at the bottom of the market and at the top of the market that differential really squeezes because everybody just needs a ship. It's at the middle part of the market that you're seeing this differential and I – we expect that to actually narrow going forward as ships become less available.

So if that's the case, does that mean that – I mean, do you find that the second-hand purchase opportunities, especially for the slightly older tonnage that may be in higher marginal cost carriers, does that become more attractive going forward?

Listen, I mean, the acquisitions we did on the Panamaxes recently had been extremely great success. It's not only that the short-term gain that we had of about $7 million, it's actually these vessels have a breakeven of $7,400, and you can charter them out today on a short period of over $9,500. So you can see that it makes sense. You get vessels that are very well described and you can actually monetize a much better return.

Okay. And then lastly, last question, switching gears a bit. With the agreement to manage the 10 vessels with HSH, is that an area that you foresee as increasing your presence going forward? I mean, are there other opportunities to pursue management and are you looking to grow your presence or is that just more of a one-off opportunistic transaction?

No, we are not a third-party manager. I mean, we have enough vessels of our own. The reality of this and what we're trying to discuss is that we have moved – we follow a process in Navios Europe. In order to get the vessels, we had – you have to acquire 10 vessels. So you have to do it in one moment. So the way it could be done is first to start getting the management of the five vessels, realign the other five so that you have one day of closing where ownership and management transfers to Navios Europe.

Okay. I got you. Okay. Thank you. That's all my questions. I'll turn it over.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Urs Dur of Clarkson Capital Markets.

Good afternoon.

Hello.

Hi, Urs.

Hey. I think the questions about the market you just addressed there, and looking at the brighter spot, I know that the drybulk markets have ticked up here and there's some long-term positivity there. I'm not taking away from that. But the real bright spot I see in today's results is South American Logistics. Revenues came in a bit below my expectations, but your margins are quite strong and that brings up the question that you get every quarter. What are the prospects of realizing or making more liquid your investment in Navios South American Logistics with a spin-off and – yeah, what's your view there?

I think we have – I mean, we see that this opportunity is becoming far more mature. Of course, we have certain – more projects that are materializing and that will create a better opportunity. So we are in no rush. But we can see that in South America we are moving on a very positive direction on – on almost on our ports [ph] front end (42:14) and on barge [ph] front end (42:17).

Great. So, no concept of timing other than just keep growing that business in a high growth area?

Yes. And we see the conditions of the markets being actually better. And that creates – at this point, you have the window open and you see also that we are materializing on projects on both of your segment.

Okay. Okay. You mentioned – just back to the drybulk side, what's the outlook of the Panamax here? It seems to continuously underperform in a lot of spaces and now it's – with the Cape kick up here, you're looking at their Cape – Panamax ratio well above 2 on an average basis globally. What's your outlook there? What's your outlook, I guess, for maybe coal demand and use of Panamaxes and such? Is it a ship class that is simply going to be pushed out by Supras on one end and Capes on the other?

I don't believe that. Again, I will give you my short answer. Ted can give you a much longer answer, but the reality is one. Whenever you have a move upwards in the market, you don't forget in the beginning of the year, we had the BDI at almost 700 and today we're at 1,150, which is a 65% increase, but we are still 50% below the long-term average of the BDI, which is around 2,000.

Yeah.

So you realize it's the early stage of a recovery. So in every recovery we have seen in all the cycles, Capesizes are the ones that they will move first followed by Panamax and Handymax. In the down of the market, the best performer is Handymax. One of the things that Navios has articulated from the first time we have been public, is we create a balanced portfolio of Capesizes with Panamax and Ultra Handymax. So we can have the ability to withstand any markets having the smaller sizes to be less volatile on the down of the cycle to support your Capes, but, of course, then you have the Capes which can be a quite substantial driver. That's why we see Navios has 58 vessels in the drybulk fleet and we have a portfolio approach giving us the ability to really return to our shareholders as markets recover.

All right.

Urs, I think your question on the ratio was a very good one. Over the last decade, the ratio has been about 1.8, but as the market starts moving in the upward part of the cycle, that ratio can get up to 3 to 1, as we all know. And I think that's what we're seeing now, that ratio will pull away, but as the market starts going into the fall and the Panamaxes and the Handymaxes start following up, which is a natural occurrence, that ratio will fall back probably under 2 to 1 going forward. I think there's a natural market for the coal that's going to go into India and also China going forward. So, listen, we've heard a lot about Panamaxes being squeezed; I do think they're actually going to be the workhorses, the Panamax [indiscernible] (45:37) range...

Right.

...and in terms of the [ph] follow (45:39) going forward. I don't see that ratio changing over the next five years in terms of where it was in the last 10.

Okay. No, I tend to agree with that. It's just the topic of discussion right now when we finally see the Capes move a little bit at an unusual time of year, so just trying to get a view on that point in the market. Excellent. Most of my questions have been answered. I guess, if – maybe if George has time over the next couple of days to give me a call on some basic modeling questions later, that would be great. But thank you very much, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you, Urs.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions. I will now return the call to Angeliki Frangou for any closing remarks.

Thank you for listening to our second quarter results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.