Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Theodore C. Petrone — Director and President – Navios Corporation, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios South American Logistics, Inc.
Chris Wetherbee — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Urs Dur — Analyst, CIS Capital Markets LLC
Omar M. Nokta — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Navios Maritime Holdings First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company, are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; President, Mr. Ted Petrone; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis. As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Holdings' website at www.navios.com.

Before I review the structure of this morning's call, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth in this conference call should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this call. Thank you.

The structure for today's call is as follows. First will be formal remarks from the team, and after, we'll open the call to take your questions.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, hi and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We are pleased to report our results for the first quarter 2013. We had a solid quarter and reported $38.5 million of EBITDA. We continued to maintain our operating discipline with moderate leverage of 42% and increased our total cash position to about $322 million. We also focused on shareholders' value and returned capital to our investors through dividend payment and declared $0.06 dividend for the first quarter to record holders on June 18, 2013.

Slide two shows our current corporate structure. The value of Navios Holdings primarily derived from four areas; the drybulk fleet within Navios Holdings and three principal operating subsidiaries. In our view, the whole is valued at less than the sum of the parts. As of the close of business on Friday, Navios Holdings' common share traded at $4.77 per share. In contrast, Navios Holdings' stake in the two public listed subsidiaries was valued at $4.41 per share. This implies a valuation of less than $37 million for Navios Holdings' core business comprised of 58 vessels in Navios Holdings' ownership interest in Navios Logistics combined.

These are testament to us seems to have missed the mark as we believe the value of Navios Holdings' interest in Navios Logistics alone is much greater. For the first quarter of 2013, Navios Logistics reported a $14.1 million of EBITDA and this company has significant growth prospects. In addition, the core business of Navios Holdings has 58 vessels which have significant earnings power.

Slide three highlights our strong competitive positioning. We have a conservative balance sheet with net debt capitalization of 42% and liquidity of $362 million. Our liquidity should be viewed in the context of the company having no material debt maturity for four years and no unfunded CapEx. Therefore, our liquidity is dedicated to the operating needs of the company and expansion opportunities.

In terms of revenue at the peak of the market from 2007 through 2008, we focused on generating long-term charter revenues from creditworthy counterparties. This proved to be correct in light of the subsequent market collapse. Now, five years after the market correction, we are 69.3% fixed for 2013 and almost 16% fixed for 2014. Navios increase in open days is recurring five years into this cycle. These open days are an outgrowth of our strategy to fix long-term charters when the market rates justify it and be patient when the market is less robust. Therefore, we are well positioned to capture any market recovery.

In light of our strategy, we provide you with our 2013 cash breakeven analysis. As you can see, our contracted cash flow is around in a manageable deficit for 2013. However, we also have 5,127 vessel days open, which when you do the math means that we need to average only $7,151 per open vessel day to breakeven. Looking at our open days, about 55% is Handymax days, 34% is Panamax days and 11% is Capesize days. The current one-year time charter market weighted to reflect our open days by vessel time type is almost $9,776 per day. Using this rate, our 5,127 open days would generate almost $50 million of additional tax, putting us in a comfortable position in the growth of the market. Looking forward, we also do not foresee that the market will materially weaken from here as we take some comfort from the 20-year rate, which are significantly higher than the current market rate.

We have further strengthened our competitive positioning in the marketplace by securing strategic relationships in Germany with HSH Nordbank and in Asia with one of the top two private Japanese showrooms that's controlling over 100 vessels. Each partner brings its own strength to the table and provide crucial relationship for a creative expansion on our business.

Turning first to our partner, HSH Nordbank. We recently announced the acquisition of 10 vessels through the debtors of HSH Nordbank. We will be making this acquisition through a joint venture with Navios Acquisition NMA. Slide 4 reflects the innovative financing structure we developed, it allowed a Navios venture to achieve 20 plus percent economic interest for only a 5% equity investment.

Looking at this in another way through this acquisition, we will control $200 million of assets, 10 Vessels that will only be 5-year old for only $130 million of cash. The cash payment will be funded by approximately $120 million of senior bank debt, equal to 60% of the current fair market, [ph] slightly (07:39) on the vessels and $10 million equity investments by the Navios JV. The transaction provides the opportunity for Navios to leverage its expertise in order to acquire a significant fleet at historically low values and allows HSH to move its assets from insolvency into a stable situation. We feel that HSH values as a partner because of our economies of scale and excellent technical and commercial management. With our partnership, HSH is able to meet its corporate directive by taking assets from an insolvent owner and placing them with us. We worked long and hard at this transaction and accomplished many firsts.

Turning to slide five, you can see that Navios joint venture will enjoy favorable economics, the joint venture will receive 12.7% annual preferred return on its $10 million investment and a preferred return of this investment upon vessel sales. Thereafter, 20% of cash flow from operational sales will be paid to Navios until HSH subordinate loan is repaid. Once HSH loan has been satisfied, the Navios joint venture will receive 100% of any excess. The HSH loan is important in what it does not represent. There will be no corporate guarantee on HSH subordinate loan by either NM or NNA, nor will this loan be consolidated into either NM or NNA. If cash flow from operations is insufficient to pay the HSH subordinate loan, unpaid amount will not constitute a liability for Navios joint venture outside for – over for closing.

While the loan will be secured by second priority vessel mortgage, their loan will be subordinated to any senior bank financing, or HSH subordinated loan all will be repaid from net cash flow from operations to the extent there's any available after payment on Navios preferred return. And the HSH subordinated loan will be repaid from the net profit of the sale of the vessels after satisfying any unpaid priorities to Navios in the return of Navios investment. Navios will also have the ability to invest up to $5 million in working capital at a 12.7% return compounded quarterly.

The working capital will be paid out of free cash balances before any distributions. We have been working closely with HSH over the past year to develop this program and are extremely proud to have reached a deal which benefits all parties. We are committed to the excellent working relationship and look forward to doing similar deals in the near future.

Turning now to our partner in Japan, macroeconomic condition in Japan have opened up new opportunities for Navios. The depreciation of the yen has allowed Japanese owners to participate with global partnership deal which was previously impossible to execute. We recognize that we're going to meet in Asia with a number of shipowners and shipyards. We are pleased to find a similar minded owner, one of the two largest private shipowners in Japan seeking to expand its network of global relationships and announce its strategic partnership with them in the form of Navios Asia, as outlined in the middle of the slide six.

Through Navios Asia, we enter into a venture with a Japanese owner whereby we will both invest in an entity that will purchase six vessels, five Panamax and one Kamsarmax vessel from our Japanese partner. Their fleet being acquired is valid at $114 million with five out of the six vessels having current employment, plus optional year at higher rate. Navios will have a 50% ownership in the JV and provide commercial management for the fleet. In addition, for $66 million, Navios purchased four Panamax vessels with an average age of 7.75 years.

Slide seven sets forth the financial summary of the two transactions with the Japanese partner. For the acquisition of the four Panamax vessels, $26.4 million of equity is required. We anticipating financing the $39.6 million balance with debt. We estimate that this will create an annualized EBITDA of $11.1 million and annualized free cash flow contribution of about $5.8 million. Therefore, vessels would have a low cash breakeven of $7,898 per day per vessel. We anticipate financing the Navios Asia with about $40 million of equity of which Navios Holdings will invest $20.4 million and that partner the remaining $19.6 million. The $74 million balance will be financed with debt. We estimate that we will create an annualized EBITDA of almost $16 million and annualized free cash flow of $5.8 million. The six vessels will be having an average age of 6.1 year, and cash flow breakeven of $8,808 per day per vessel.

Slide eight shows our strong liquidity position. Our net debt to book capitalization was 42% at the end of the first quarter of 2013, unchanged from the year-end 2012 and reflecting an 880 basis point reduction from year end of 2011. In addition, we have cash liquidity of $362 million of which $322 million was cash. As I mentioned earlier, we have no material debt maturities for four years and no overall CapEx requirement as funded.

Slide nine is for Navios' cash breakeven. We have provided breakeven on both at pre and post restructuring of our credit default insurers that we concluded last year. We show our cash breakeven this way because we wanted to emphasize the benefit of this restructuring. We moved about $175 million of future cash flows to our balance sheet without any discounting from the time value of money. When the insurer requested that Navios Holdings restructured its credit default insurance, we'll consider whether to go along with the request or insist [ph] on arrive at (14:51) applicable contracts.

We've concluded that significant processes were unlikely given the depth of the cycle and felt that we understood each of our charter's financial position. Thus, we prefer to have cash on our balance sheet over insurance remaining when we thought was less likely for occur.

Focusing on our cost side. we have a cash flow breakeven of $12,782 per day in 2013. Our contracted revenue is $12,065 per day in 2013. Navios Holdings has fixed 69.3% of the available days for 2013 and a revenue position to capture market recovery. Our cash flow breakeven will further decrease. As we have said, we'll expand our fleet with attractive acquisition at historically lower valuations. I remind you, as I do every quarter, that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, drydocking, charter-in expenses for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses including credit default insurance expense as well as interest expense and capital repayments. The sum of our competitive positioning is the following. We believe that our stability and demonstrated ability and willingness to honor our commitment are a competitive advantage. The service we offer is becoming distinguishable from our peers because of this and we're becoming a preferred commercial partner for industry participants. Indeed, this attribute allowed us to develop very significant strategic relationships in what appear to be a short period of time. These attributes are what attract charters and fliers to us, as they know that they can engage with us knowing that who will meet a requirement. I wanted to emphasize that while these attributes might appear to some as earned overnight, they're actually the results of years of good work by our employees in pursuing excellency and creating the Navios standard.

I would like now to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Petrone, Navios President, who will take you through the Navios operations in an industry perspective. Ted?

Thank you, Angeliki, and good morning all. Please turn to slide 10. Our long-term fleet consists of 58 vessels totaling 5.8 million deadweight. We have 25 vessels in the water with an average age of 6.2 years. We have delayed the delivery of two long-term time charter newbuildings to 2015 and 2016 respectively. This provides an annualized savings of $7.3 million.

Please turn to slide 11, post the restructuring agreement with our credit default insurer, Navios' average charter-out rate for its core fleet is $12,065 a day for 2013 and $17,213 a day for 2014. 69.3% of Navios's fleet is chartered-out for 2013 and 15.9% for 2014.

As depicted on the left side of slide 11, the white portion of the bars represents pre-insurance restructuring levels. The differentials in the charter-out rate and contracted days reflect changes as a result of the acceleration of charter payments through this $175.4 million lump sum payment from the credit default insurer.

Please turn to slide 12. We enjoy vessel operating expenses about 25% below the industry average in all asset classes. Navios' current daily OpEx is $4,219. The $1,444 daily savings per vessel in operating expenses aggregate to about $16 million in annual savings, which goes directly to our bottom line.

The right hand chart reflects the changes in the daily charter-out rate for the ships we have on long-term charter before and after the lump sum payment from the credit default insurer. We continued to enjoy good relations with these owners. Our joint venture with a major Japanese ship owner is an example of our strong ongoing relationships in Japan, dating back to the formation of Navios as a subsidiary of US Steel in the 1950s. This allows Navios to expand the fleet with minimum capital expense.

Please now turn to 13. Q1 saw the BDI fall to its lowest quarterly average since 1986 to 796 with every uneven earnings between vessel sizes. Capesize earnings slumped to a six-month low in March to $4,210 a day on the back of over 30% reductions in both Brazilian iron ore and Colombian coal exports due to weather and strike issues. In contrast, both Panamax and Handymax have benefited from seasonal strengths from South America grain exports and Pacific Basin coal movements. Since the end of the quarter, rates of Panamax and Handymax vessels have deteriorated slightly while Capesize improved [ph] marginally (19:58).

Brazilian Q1 iron ore exports this year were reduced due to seasonal weather and one-time permitting issues. Vale recently stated it's going to achieve the same levels of iron ore exports in 2013 as 2012, which implies significantly increased Brazilian iron ore shipments through the rest of 2013. Vale's statement, combined with higher Australian ore exports, higher Colombian coal exports and the expected decline in vessel deliveries in the second half of 2013 to just increase demand for transportation in the balance of 2013.

Please turn to slide 14. Developing economies continue to be the engine for world GDP and developing economies contribute a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies. In fact, developing economies now consume more than half of the global requirements for most commodities. Recently, the IMF slightly lowered its forecast for world growth from 3.3% in 2013 to 4% in 2014. In contrast, developing economies are projected to grow at 5.3% in 2013 and 5.7% in 2014. The Chinese economic growth is unchanged at 8% in 2013 and 8.2% in 2014.

Turning to slide 15, the primary engines of trade growth continue to be China, India and Brazil and other emerging countries, adding strong growth. Dry Bulk Trade had expanded by an average of 5.5% per year in the last decade since China joined WTO. Consensus forecast for 2013 are for global Dry Bulk Trades to grow approximately 5% and ton mile growth of about 7%. A similar growth rate is estimated for net fleet growth, leading to a balanced supply-demand dynamics for the first time in over four years.

Please turn to slide 16. Currently, just over 50% of the world's population resides in urban areas. That figure is expected to grow to 67% by 2015, adding approximately 2.8 billion urban residents with a large portion of urbanization occurring in the Asia-Pacific region. As you can see on the right hand graph, income growth supports increased metal demand. The rise in global income and the shift in the global economy towards Asia should support increased ton miles for the world bulk trade. According to the Bloomberg and Miners websites, the currently planned expansions of mines feeding seaborne iron ore could reach annualized rates of 205 million tons in 2013 and accelerate from there. While the majority of these expansions are in Australia, over 30% will come from the Atlantic Basin iron ore ports adding ton miles.

Moving to slide 17. The continued development and urbanization in China will contribute significantly to steel consumption in 2013 and beyond. Infrastructure, housing construction and consumer spending growth will underpin future development. Underlying this trend is the 21% year-on-year Chinese fixed asset investment growth through April of this year.

Crude steel production in China through April was about 9% more than crude steel production for the same period in 2012. China imported 254 million tons of iron ore, 4% more than the same period last year. More importantly, as you can see from the upper left graph, imported stockpiles have been drawn down steadily from 98 million tons in August of 2012 to about 70 million tons as of last week. At less than 20 days inventory, this is the lowest level since Q2 of 2009, which we believe set the stage for restocking.

Domestic iron ore production increased 10% year-on-year, but decreased production 22%, since between Q4 of last year and Q1 of this year. Going forward, the substitution of high-quality imported iron ore for low-quality domestic iron ore is expected to grow and will increase the tons carried and ton miles.

China is the world's largest coal importer today, having imported 226 million tons in 2012. China turned from being a net coal exporter to a net coal importer in 2009. As the chart on the upper right indicate, China's Seaborne coal imports have grown at a 20% CAGR since 2009 and imports are forecasted to grow over the next several years, which will add to tons carried and tons miles over 15% of imports come from the Atlantic Basin.

Please turn to slide 18. Low fright rates, expensive fuel and high scrap prices led to record scrapping of almost 34 million deadweight tons in 2012. Scrapping rates for older, less fuel efficient vessels have continued at very high rates this year. Through May 17, about 10.4 million deadweight has been scrapped. If this trend continues, scrapping could once again exceed 30 million deadweight in 2013.

The current rate environment should keep scrapping levels high as about 12% of the fleet is over 20 years old, providing about 80 million deadweight of scrapping potential. Of note is that the current 2013 scrapping totals already include 13 ships that were less than 20 years old, four that were less than 15 years of age and one that was 10 years old. As demolishing price appear to – depend on overall steel prices and not on the supplier vessels, they're expected to remain high, and on line, we will continue to see the scrapping of older vessels and less fuel-efficient vessels.

Moving to slide 19. 2012 non-deliveries amounted to 30% resulting in a net fleet growth of 10.3%, the lowest level in the last four years. Net fleet additions in 2013 are expected to be lower than last year. Non-deliveries through April amounted to 45%. This combined with high scrapping means that net fleet growth could approximately equal to the expected increase in demand during 2013. Over 60% of the order book is expected in first half of 2013, then decline dramatically through 2014 and beyond and is expected to remain in that way as banks continue severe restrictions on newbuilding loans.

Please turn to slide 20. Slide 20 provides a retrospective of the rate environment and considers the impact of supply and demand equilibrium on rate recovery in 2013. As you all know, for any rate recovery to be meaningful and lasting, fleet growth rates need to fall below trade growth rates. As said earlier, our global GDP is projected to increase in 2013 and 2014 at 3.3% and 4% respectively from the more subdued rates of 2011, 2012. To-date, the improvement has been moderate. However, the rate of change suggests that demand for drybulk will increase in 2013 as newbuilding deliveries continue to accelerate and scrapping remains at record levels.

In summary note that for the first time in four years, there is an expectation that net demand will exceed supply. Consequently, rate levels could pick up during the second half of 2013. We note these are conditions that were not yet evident over the past few years.

I would now like to turn the call over to George Achniotis for a review of Navios' financial results. George?

Thank you, Ted, and good morning, all. Please turn to slide 21 for the review of the financial highlights of the first quarter of 2013. I would like to remind you that this is the first full quarter, where the effect of the restructuring of credit default insurers is reflected. The restructuring has resulted in lower time charter rates, hence the lower revenue and EBITDA. On the other hand, most of the differential was collected through a $175 million cash payment in November of 2012. EBITDA for the first quarter of 2013 was $38.5 million compared to $62.6 million for the same period of 2012. The decrease is mainly attributable to a 45% decrease in the time charter equivalent rate achieved compared to the TCE rate in Q1 of 2012 following the restructuring of the insurance.

The reduction was mitigated by a 5% increase in the available days of the fleet, a $3.1 million decrease in general and admin expenses mainly due to the restructuring of the credit default insurance and a $5.5 million increase in equity and earnings from our affiliated companies.

EBITDA of Navios Logistics increased by $5.4 million in Q1 of 2013 compared to Q1 2012. During the quarter, we recorded a net loss of $10.2 million compared to a $9.5 million gain in the same period of 2012. The decrease was mainly attributable to a decrease in EBITDA and it was mitigated by a decrease in depreciation and amortization, an increase in income tax benefit in the logistics business and a decrease in share-based compensation expense.

Please turn now to slide 22, where the balance sheet highlights are presented. The cash balance including restricted cash as of March 31, 2013 increased to $322 million. This reflects our strategy of maintaining a strong cash position in order to be able to withstand the current distress market and at the same time take advantage of additional distress transactions that may become available over the next few quarters. The current portion of long-term debt decreased to $7.9 million from $33.1 million at the end of the year, following the repayment in the quarter of the debt that was due in 2013. This reduced significantly our cash breakeven for the year. Long-term debt also reduced by approximately $8 million in the quarter. Senior notes increased by $93.5 million, following the add-on to the Navios Logistics bond in March of 2013. Net debt to book capitalization remained the same at a low 42%.

Turning to slide 23, the company continues to provide a return to its shareholders through its uninterrupted dividend. A dividend for the first quarter of 2013 of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of June 18 to be paid on June 26. Please note that the total cash dividend inflows from the two investments in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition exceed the cash paid out by Navios Holdings to its shareholders. Following Holdings' participation in reinsurance of the additional shares in Navios Acquisition, the expected annualized cash dividend inflows will be over $41 million compared to approximately $25 million paid by Navios Holdings.

This concludes the review of the financials. At this point, I'll turn the call back over to Ted for a review of Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition. Ted?

Thank you, George. Please turn to slide 24. We currently own 23.4% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners operates a fleet of 25 vessels equaling 2.7 million deadweight with an average age of 6.5 years. Since its inception in 2007, Navios Partners fleet capacity has grown by more than four times.

Please turn to slide 25. Slide 25, you could see the significant growth at all Navios Partners operating metrics since 2008. This strong growth has allowed Navios Partners to pay uninterrupted dividend distributions to us regardless of market conditions. In 2013, we expect to receive about $29.4 million in distributions. This is about 119% of our expected annual dividend.

Please turn to slide 26. Navios Partners provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since its start of operations, Navios Partners has grown distributions by almost 27% and we have received about $114 million of distributions from Partners. Including NNA's dividends, Navios Holdings receives about 167% of its expected annual dividend from its ownership in these two companies.

Please turn to slide 27. We have an approximate of 52% economic interest in Navios Maritime Acquisition. Navios Acquisition's current fleet consists of 36 tanker vessels totaling 3.7 million deadweight. Navios Acquisition currently has 23 vessels in the water with an average age of 4.7 years. We anticipate that Navios Acquisition's newbuilding program for product tankers positions Navios Acquisition to take advantage of a favorable long-term industry dynamics.

Please turn to slide 28. Navios Acquisition is summarized on slide 28. It has a large, modern fleet and diverse tanker fleet worth more than $1 billion. Navios Acquisition has a long contracted revenue that is well above the company's low operating breakeven. Cash flow can sustain Navios Acquisition for a long period in uncertain market conditions.

Navios Acquisition has profit-sharing arrangements in about 81% of its contracted fleet. These agreements limit the downside risk to the base rate and allow Navios Acquisition to enjoy the upside volatility. For example, in Q1 of this year, profit sharing amounted to $2.1 million; this was greater than the total profit sharing for all of 2012.

Please turn to slide 29. This slide demonstrates how Navios Acquisition's newbuilding deliveries have – are increasing EBITDA and building cash flow. Since 2011, available days have grown by 43% and the fleet has grown by 36%. EBITDA has grown by 33% in 2012, and over 2011, it will continue to grow as NNA takes delivery of new vessels. Based on Q1 2013, Navios Acquisition's annual EBTIDA will be about $112 million and this does not include the $16 million EBITDA from the seven contracted tankers delivering this year or the five ships that's yet uncharted that will deliver this year.

Please turn to slide 30. Navios Acquisition provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since the start of its operations, Navios Acquisition has provided about $14 million in distributions. This represents about 45% of Navios Holdings' expected annual dividends from its ownership in Navios Acquisition.

This concludes my presentation. I will now like to turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis, Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning, for a review of Navios Logistics financial results.

Thank you, Ted. Slide 31 provides an overview of Navios Logistics. Navios Holdings owns 63.8% stake in Navios South American Logistics. Navios Logistics has three segments, Port Terminals, Barge Business and Cabotage Business. Slide 32 presents the highlights of Navios Logistics. We are one of the major logistics providers in the Hidrovia region of South America, where we see significant opportunities to grow our business. While pursuing growth, we maintain our focus on long-term revenue from a diverse portfolio of high-quality clients.

As shown on slide 33, in the past three years, revenues have been growing at a 14.6% compounded annual growth rate. At the same time, EBITDA has been growing at a 21.7% CAGR. In the first quarter of 2013, the growth rates have accelerated. Revenue increased by 46% and EBITDA increased by 62% compared to the same period last year. In March, we completed a $90 million add-on to our existing 9.25% senior unsecured notes June 2019. The additional notes were issued almost 400 basis points above par at 103.75%. We reinvested proceeds to finance our capital expenditure plans primarily to add capacity to our Barge Fleet and expand our Port Terminal infrastructure.

Please turn to slide 34 to discuss in more detail the results for the first quarter of 2013. We had a strong third quarter with all segments performing nicely. Port Terminal's revenue increased by 87% in the first quarter and EBITDA from this segment increased by 36% to $7.3 million. The significant revenue increase is attributable to a 131% increase in sales of liquid product in our port in Paraguay, from $12.6 million in Q1 of 2012 to $29.1 million in Q1 of 2013. As this is a low margin activity, revenue increased consequently more than did EBITDA.

I add here that although this is a low margin business, it is relatively riskless and had to perform back-to-back contracts. Revenue in the Barge business increased by 17% and EBITDA increased by 67% in Q1 of 2013 over Q1 2012. We have seen a gradual recovery of liquid cargo transportation while all iron ore composites are under contract. Cabotage business reported a 26% increase in revenue while EBITDA increased by 168% to $4 million in Q1 2013 from $1.5 million in Q1 2012 due to improved fleet utilization.

Interest expense and finance cost net increased to $5.4 million in Q1 2013 compared to $4.9 million in Q1 2012 due to the add-on to the bond in March. Depreciation and amortization expense was $6.1 million in Q1 2013 as compared to $6.8 million in Q1 2012. Our net result was also positively affected by an income tax benefit of $3.8 million compared to a benefit of $0.9 million for the same period a year ago, stemming from a reversal of tax provisions due to the re-organization of several of our local subsidiaries. Our net income for the period stood at $5.9 million compared to a net loss of $2.4 million in Q1 2012.

Please turn to slide 35. Slide 35 shows our strong balance sheet. At the end of the first quarter, cash was $139.5 million compared to $45.5 million at the end of 2012. Most of this increase represents the net proceeds of a $90 million bond offering completed in March. Net debt to book capitalization was 28% compared to 33% at the end of 2010. Now I would like to go, to turn the call back over to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This completes our formal presentation, and we'll open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citi.

Hey, thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Maybe just a question, you guys have been tremendously active over the last couple of quarters. And I guess maybe as you take a step back and look at where the potential opportunities seem to be presenting themselves or wherever – maybe they're the most attractive. How do you think about that? I know you guys have done a lot with NNA and now there's some work you've done on container ships. I guess what areas, Angeliki, are you looking at as providing the most potential opportunity, call it, a next three or six months?

Chris, in essence, we have been working in these markets for over eight years, but we haven't done anything if you have seen on the – really the last two, three months from February. We had worked on – we have seen two opportunities with banks and this is the strategic partnership we have done with HSH and the German banks will have a combination of container vessels and with the product and this is an area where we see multiple deals coming. And that already is now in the drybulk and expansion in the Japanese market where we – there is a best quality drybulk vessels with – and we can really be able to access because we will not have been able to do from the West. So, the reality is two areas we see opportunities, the German banking area and in the Japanese market where we see a lot of attractive deals we can do large transactions without moving the market. We bought – in essence we control 10 vessels in the drybulk without really moving the S&P market.

Okay. And just sticking on Japan for a minute, so with the move in currencies, it definitely feels like this is now opened up what could be a potential, I guess, further and bigger opportunity as there is now more flexibility for the yards and owners over there to preserve the yards in particular to make some moves?

Yes. I think the big move there was the movement of the yen. I mean in essence, book values and a very strong yen created a totally different book value losses. Today with a weaker yen, Japanese owners and yard family transact. And we can see – we have seen it all across Japan. So every vessels in the drybulk is able to – we are able to transact because of the currency movement. And I think that even if it remains where it is, there's great ability to do more deals.

Okay, okay. That makes sense. And then, maybe switching gears quickly to a technical question around the drybulk industry itself, and Ted you had laid out kind of scrapping and while we're on a still fairly robust pace, it looks like may be scrapping could come in at a hair under where we've seen it the last two years so maybe the weakest out of the last two or three years that we've seen from a scrapping perspective, absolutely tonnage. I know it's still is a big number, but I guess, how are we thinking about how this is playing out. You noted that there is a bunch of ships that have been 20 years or younger being scrapped. Do you – would we feel like we're maybe towards the, I don't know middle innings, later innings on the potential for scrapping here and so where that might be an indication we're closer to the bottom in rates, I guess I'm just trying to think about how I should be viewing those numbers?

No, I think the last week you've had a kind of a weak number in terms of scrapping, but before that you were averaging numbers that were annualizing closer to $30 million. And remember one thing, the newbuildings coming in, it looks like it's going to be $60 million deliveries now instead of what we were estimating at $70 million. So, at the end of the day it's all net fleet growth. And that's where we're looking at. If you take the $60 million and take away $25 million or $35 million, you are at 5% growth, net fleet growth which is equal to about the growth in cargos. So the first time in four years or five years that this has happened. So whether you take it from the new end or the old end, the growth is ending of the fleet.

Sure, sure. And that certainly makes sense and I guess, if you were, this is probably a pretty difficult question to answer, but if you are sitting here thinking about maybe what the magnitude of potential improvements could be in rates and maybe not in 2013, because that's very difficult to gauge, but if I were to look out into 2014 and 2015, based on where the order book is now, where scrapping kind of goes, how do you feel about the magnitude of rates relative to maybe some of the 30-year averages that you've presented to us. How close or how much progress can you make towards some of those numbers?

Chris, when Mike, I mean Ted will give you his answer, but I can tell you when markets move very abruptly and you have the 20-year average includes two severe markets. Don't forget we have five years in the down – on the down of the cycle and then you had the late 1990s, beginning of 2000 which was again low of the market. So if you – you have about – you can have increase of 100% on the Panamaxes, just if you move to the 20-year averages. So you realize this can be quite a significant movement to your bottom line.

Angeliki is right. You consider the S&P value of trade is a commodity and as any commodity trough will show you, you have tipping points and things can move rather dramatically, reversion to the mean can happen rather quickly after any tipping point, which second half of the year into next year it looks quite – I would say the second half of the year looks healthier. We would anticipate that time charter rates may move well ahead of the spot rates as people start coming in and seeing the end of the slump. And they will start moving in second taking period and taking S&P. So, let's see what happens on the second half of the year before [indiscernible] (45:28).

How are shippers thinking about that? When you're talking to them, obviously you're not the only person who is kind of suggesting it, maybe rates are closer to bottoming and then maybe you have some upside here. Have you gotten any indication on the shipper side that there is some anticipation of that? Is anybody kind of offering anything better than what they have over the last six months?

Well, I'd tell you that the reason you're seeing no longer-term deals is because the owners are not going to do them. There are plenty of charter clients that do rates at these levels, so that tells...

Sure. Okay. That makes sense. I guess my last question would just be on the logistics side if I could. Just wanted to get a quick update as far as the – on the port side, kind of development process, anything that's kind of on the next – I guess on the next page for the next six or nine months as far as developing expansion there. Just want to get a sense of how that kind of looks?

I think one important thing is that as per schedule, we're completing the expansion of the base conveyor belt. So, this will be operational in Q4 and that is an extremely important process because in essence you double your loading rate. This removes ceiling for our port and it gives us the ability to really more than double our capacity. The second thing that I like to mention is that, we have also – I mean at this point we are at 100% storage capacity, fully booked for the next five years. So, it is obvious that there will be further expansion in that because we like to add more clients and we see the growth of that. Also, one of the things that we see very interesting is prices are – Navios is a global player in the ship building. We consider values of barges and equipment for the river can be really sourced from further away at very competitive prices on deliveries to Argentina. These barges can cost approximately the same as U.S. and actually is having a brand new [indiscernible] (47:50) river barge. So we see a lot of growth and it is inevitable because of – that's 100% full capacity now.

Okay. Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you very much for the time. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Urs Dur of Clarkson Capital.

Good morning, good afternoon.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I had one question. Ted, you mentioned that two of the charter-in newbuilds that you have coming have now been delayed. Can you – you said a $7 million per year savings?

$7.3 annualized. Yes, $7.3 million, yes.

And that's going to show up in the, yeah, the time charter revenue line. Okay. Good. All right. I'll dig into that a little bit further. Another thing...

You know Urs, I just wanted to point out as part of that deal...

Yeah.

... when we delayed the vessels. We then now are – we'll be receiving echo type vessels for very little price, for very little extra on the charter line, so we think it's attractive deal for us.

Okay.

For $200 additional cost per day they will be getting a 61,000 Japanese Supramax and for $350, a new eco design Capesize. So this would be – not only you have the savings of the $7.3 million that Ted had annualized, but we are also getting new eco design vessels later in the – much later [indiscernible] (49:32) the Capesize will be coming in the first half of 2016.

Okay. Good. Yeah. That's helpful. Thank you very much. The other question I had is you mentioned that possibly second half of the year, the drybulk markets get somewhat better and I generally concur that you have an order book that comes pretty swiftly to halt particularly in 2014 and then through 2016. It looks like demand growth it beats supply growth, particularly if you look at historic demand. But speaking of the second half of this year, I was wondering if you had any ship classes that you felt might do better than others; for instance the Cape order book seems to slow down a bit faster than the Panamax and Supramax. Is there a ship class that you might think do better in the second half of this year?

Well. Two things – I think, one is the rising tide lifts all boats and then they'd just be lifted not evenly. But if you go back to our slide 17, the Chinese iron ore stockpiles are at 20 days, which is as low as they've been in many years.

Right.

So, I think that's a very good indication that the Capes may enjoy a better half – second half of the year and more iron ore will be coming from Brazil also for the second half of the year. So, I think the Capes could lead the way – they usually do.

Yeah, fair enough. South American Logistics that you covered with Chris' question, a lot of the questions that I had there about the growth, and the performance which exceeded my expectations, you've long since mentioned that you might like to bring it to do an IPO for South American Logistics. I know you probably can't say anything, and it's market condition related. But, is there any sort of color, are you ahead of where you had expected to be. I mean it's a big EBITDA growth year-on-year, nice seasonal performance relative to last year. You're ahead of where you want to be, and what you – and your timing of the possible IPO South American Logistics?

Urs I think the IPO is market related, and I think markets are much better. But one thing that I'd like to mention here is that we're extremely satisfied with businesses because have more than proved to be resilient in any condition. Last year, where you had a lot of problems with the river, the company performed very nicely because we had a minimum guarantees in all segment of our business. And in this quarter where you have the correct river and you have much better conditions on – so you can have much more cargo down the rivers, we see that we have over 65% increase, a 62% increase quarter-on-quarter just purely on because we [ph] didn't have the treatments (52:40) we realize it's purely a growth that shows that with the contracts we have that guarantee visibility, and as in every part of our business, we now enjoyed the uptrend of a better flow down the river.

Right. I appreciate that. I was wondering if you could remind investors about your relative market share on that river system, granted it's many different businesses with different cargos and you have a port facility and so on. Let's say maybe in the Dry Barges and in the Wet Barges where do you stack up against your competition?

On iron ore we are number one in the river; overall in barges we are number two with if you include grain. And on the port – in independent port we are number one as a line independent port operator. I think a critical and an important issue on that is that we are running at full capacity on storage, so we – for the next five years. So, it shows that our expansion that we just completed it in the last year in October, we're now full contracted and we need more capacity, so the land we already bought can be in very good use. And it's something that is totally incremental and as we have now completed our conveyor belt, we don't have a ceiling; we can double really the whole capacity. One thing, I'd like to remind is that the first quarter is a seasonally low quarter. Second quarter and third quarter, if you follow our results is the strong quarters. Q1 and Q4 are seasonally low.

Right, which is – it was a positive result on the EBITDA front for at least against where I had my estimate. Your land you just mentioned again which is developable that you own and you can develop. About how fast do you think you can develop it adding silos and/or conveyor belts and/or port facilities. Can you describe what you might be able to do there and the possible timeframe?

We now have very consistent results on the silo capacity to add is between three to four quarter marks from inception to completion and we can go as fast as three quarters or the longest it can ever take is four quarters. And on – if we do an expansion on pier and traditional cargos, you are looking at about 18 months period.

Excellent. That's extremely helpful. Thank you for your time today, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your final question comes from the line of Omar Nokta of Global Hunter Securities.

Yeah. Hi, good morning. Yeah. Congratulations on the – all the interesting things you guys have been doing here the past few months. I did want to ask just on Urs's last question regarding the Felix and the Venus. Those ships are pretty close to being delivered I would presume that they'd have been launched by now. Are these going to be the same hulls or are they're just completely two separate ships all together?

It is completely new. Their owner wanted to do a new eco design and we gladly liked the change. So, we agreed on the $360 per day increase on the rate and $200 on the Supramax. So, in essence, we got advantage of getting a better design, newer design and on the short-term having about $7.3 million of less charter-out rate. So, this is a net benefit. And let's not forget annualized about $7.3 million benefit class, you get delivery of the Capesize in the first half of 2016 and much better, possibly environment that's big.

Right, okay. I see. And so basically those – the owner of those has basically negotiated with the yard directly and those – the Felix and the Venus that were due this year basically won't exist...

Yeah.

Okay, all right.

This is not – this is a – we don't control the shipyards. This is the Japanese owners negotiating with Japanese yards.

Okay, understood. Thank you. And then, just on the Navios Asia JV, you guys have obviously hit the ground running with six ships already purchased. Were those actual market purchases or were those put in the structure by your Japanese partner?

I mean, these vessels were – we purchased, I mean with – from our Japanese owner, we created the joint venture. So in essence, we did what is very interesting. We did in essence for Navios Holdings as we participated in 20 vessel growth. Transactions are the drybulk for direct ownership ships on a joint venture with charters that pre-existed and they have won five of the six and they have also higher rate in optional years. And therefore direct ownership and then we added the same joint venture with NNA, five containers and five product tankers via the JVs with NNA. So in almost two months, we grew our fleet quite substantially overall.

Yeah, yeah absolutely. And have you guys discussed within that venture what the end game could be. I know you're consolidating it into your financials, is this do you think is just a long-term venture where you'll just receive dividends as the market improves or do you plan or do you...

Definitely we will receive dividends and I think this is during the growth period, if we want to really [ph buy internally a company this size] (59:32) Navios is quite creative on being able to capture not only steel value, but any cash flow. So, I think this is – now we see this as an opportunity to grow without interfering and then doing a 10 vessel transaction, which has moved significantly the market. So, you're able really to grow and also to see via our relationship in Asia. We see deal flow that could not be available to grocers.

Yeah, no absolutely. And just one final one on the other – on the HSH venture, just wanted to get an update to see how that was coming along, are you – is that venture – are you actively looking to sell some ships currently or is it more of a wait and see, you're waiting for a few more quarters down the line or is it something that you're planning to do now?

There is additional build. I mean we are...

No, just the 10 ships that are in the structure currently with HSH, are you actively looking to sell those ships in the current market or are you going to take a wait and see approach?

We are looking on absolutely growing this fleet and we continue – first of all, the joint ventures between these 10 vessels have positive cash flow. So, we see this as a very good opportunity to grow the cash flows and grow the values for some time. And we [ph] like treatment to come (01:01:20) to this fleet of vessels.

Okay. I guess I had just misunderstood. I thought the plan was with HSH to actively seek sales of some of these ships. But now, you're actually saying you're thinking of actually growing the – I know, I understand you want to do more JV acquisitions of other ships that are in distress from the German lenders and whatever, but the 10 ships are currently in the structure. Are those – you plan to keep them in long-term or do you see yourself selling?

Of course, I mean, just to go through the actual earnings, I mean to us to operate this vessel is quite trustable. We get a preferred return of 12.7% if you're seeing on slide five of the presentation, so you could get very attractive preferred returns. Also if we – business working capital will also get preferred returns on that. So, we see a great potential on growing our cash flows. I mean, the market on the container segment is at the low level, product targets are already recovering, but we see a great potential of growth on our cash flows that will also contribute to our position.

And secondly, you don't have – only the preferred cash flow you also have 20% on the Navios joint venture [indiscernible] (01:03:01) of any customer after their preferred return to Navios. So they – cash flow wise, it makes a lot of sense on the preferred returns plus a 20% additional and that if – when you do the sale, you will get on top of all the cash flow generation, you get also 20% of the sale of the asset plus it makes tremendous sense to really operate them and I see a recovery of the market to a more normalized level.

Okay. Yes, understood. Thanks for that, Angeliki. Thanks a lot. That's all for me.

Thank you.

That does conclude the Q&A portion of today's conference call. I'll now return the call to Ms. Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes our first quarter results for Navios Holdings.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.