corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Rachel and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Navios Maritime Holdings Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year


2008 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After


the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank


you.


Thomas J. Rozycki, Jr., Vice President, Cubitt Jacobs & Prosek Communications


Thank you for joining us for this morning’s call. With us today from Navios Maritime Holdings are


Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO, Mr. George Achniotis, Chief Financial Officer, and Mr.


Ted Petrone, President.


As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast please refer to


the press release for the web address, which will direct you to the registration page.


Before I review the structure of this morning’s call, I would like to read the Safe Harbor statement.


This conference call and the accompanying presentation could contain forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios. Forward-


looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are


based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios management and are subject to risks


and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements. Such


risks are more fully discussed in Navios’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The


information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios does not assume


any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call or the accompanying


presentation. Thank you.


At this time, I would like to outline the agenda for today’s call. First, Ms. Frangou will offer opening


remarks. Next, Mr. Petrone will provide an operational update and an overview of market


fundamentals. Following Mr. Petrone’s remarks, Mr. Achniotis will review Navios’ fourth quarter and


full year 2008 financial results. Finally, Ms. Frangou will offer concluding remarks. After the


completion of Ms. Frangou’s remarks, the company will open the call to take your questions.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO of Navios.


Angeliki?


Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tom. And good morning to all of you. 2008 was a challenging year, literally without


precedent in terms of magnitude and ferocity of deterioration in economic activity. The world is just


beginning to come to grips with the fallout. And governments are focusing on various means of


providing catalysts to restart the global economic engine, which is required for a healthy dry bulk


industry.


These difficulties are reflected in our financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA was 33 million and


150 million for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008, respectively. Net income for the year was


118.5 million. George Achniotis, our CFO, will discuss our financial results in greater detail shortly.


The rate of change has required quick reaction. Our planning has been conservative, and we have


right-sized Navios as we prepare for the worst case while hoping for the best. As noted on slide


five, our recent focus has been on our balance sheet. As a result, during the fourth quarter, we
corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


obtained 353 million in debt financing and received favorable terms in difficult credit conditions. We


attribute our success in financing to the attractiveness of our conservative business model.


Highlight of this recent debt financing includes three things. Number one, a 10-year term facility for


120 million, secured at 60% of the original vessel values with interest at LIBOR plus 190 basis


points, a two-year revolver for 200 million with interest at LIBOR plus 275 basis points, and a three-


year term convertible debt for 33.5 million with a 2% per annum interest, convertible at $11. We


issued this bond in connection with the seller financing for the Navios Vega.


In light of the global financial crisis during the second half of 2008, we also initiated and concluded


a complete review of our business, capital needs and industry opportunities. As a result of this


review, we trimmed capital and charter-in expenditures. We reduced our cash commitments by


canceling three Capesize newbuildings, none of which were chartered out. As a result of this


cancellation, we reduced capital expenditures by approximately 265 million. We also terminated


without penalty nine long-term charters. This cancellation resulted in an annual savings of 61


million. We paid an aggregate termination fee of $1.5 million.


We have also paid significant attention to our liquidity. Slide six shows that our current liquidity is


favorable with a total liquidity available of $284 million of which 150 million was cash on hand as of


December 31, 2008. Also, our net debt to total capitalization was 43.2%. This liquidity should be


measured in the context of our fully funded business plan.


Slide seven sets forth a funding requirement for our newbuildings expected to be delivered during


2009. As you can see, the total capital required for these vessels is almost $854 million. When we


discussed this in the third quarter of 2008, we needed 282 million in financing. We indicated their


optimism about concluding new launch because the vessels were on target to long-term coverage


averaging almost 7.5 years.


Since then, management has obtained 153.5 million of debt financing. We are also in negotiation


on the remaining facilities for 65 million. Thus we have obtained debt financing up to date of 440.5


million and paid equity of 344.7 million. Assuming that the last debt facility is closed, we would only


need 3.7 million to complete the funding of our newbuilding program.


Slide eight addresses our corporate strategy. We have always listed among our strengths our


management depth and skill. I’m proud of our management team as we have worked very long


hours during this past quarter attending to the many details that are required to ensure operational


performance. Our focus on long-term performance should provide stability during this volatile


period.


We have fixed more than 85% of the revenue days for 2009 and 65% for 2010. Our fixed revenue


increases through 2010 and fixed revenues for 2012 are almost the same as 2008. At the same


time, our operational excellence and young fleet allow us to control our costs. We believe that we


will be able to reduce operational cost in the current environment.


As I have stated in the past, having a piece of paper promising performance is of no value if the


funds do not flow. Our industry is coming in terms with this new reality.


Slide nine is addressing the issue of credit. Navios has been a thought leader on this issue. As we


consider means of maximizing the likelihood of payment from any commercial arrangement that we


enter into.


Last, we have established internal committees addressing credit and market issues. The Credit


Committee meets monthly to review credit policy in light of the market conditions. The Market


Committee meets daily and reviews the market conditions, fleet coverage and FFA exposure. We


have also obtained insurance coverage from AA+ rated EU governmental backed entity.