Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Tom Beney — Senior Vice President-Commercial Affairs, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
George Achniotis — CFO, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Christian Wetherbee — Analyst, Citigroup
Noah R. Parquette — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Amit Mehrotra — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Navios Maritime Holdings Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from company are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

This conference call is being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcasting link in the middle of the page and a copy of the presentation referenced in today's earnings conference call will also be there.

I'd now like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to numerous material risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's most recent 20-F. The information discussed in this conference call should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this call. Thank you.

We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the team. And after, we'll open the call to take questions. I'd now like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Dolores. Good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. For the third quarter of 2015, we recorded revenue of $131 million and adjusted EBITDA of $39.5 million. As you know, we have experienced an extended period of weakness that is usually unprecedented in our history with the BDI having a year-to-date average lower than at any time since 1986. We responded to this prolonged period of weakness by adjusting our return of capital to our shareholders. We have initiated a share repurchase program while we have suspended dividend payment.

The annual savings from the suspended dividend program will provide additional balance sheet strength and the opportunity to reinvest funds accretively. The share repurchase program entails a $25 million commitment over a two-year period. We intend to use this program opportunistically. However, to illustrate the purchasing power of this program, we will be able to buy about 13% of shares outstanding at current prices.

The decision to suspend dividends was a difficult one. We are proud of having given dividends for 39 consecutive quarters. Shareholders [ph] who weren't assessed (02:48) for this period received a total of $2.59 per share. When coupled with the share price of around $1.50, the total value would have been around $4.09 per share. Senior management owns about 30% of the company, so we're intimately aware of the consequences of this dividend suspension, but feel that reducing our capital commitment and flexibility, redeploying tasks towards our share repurchase program will be in the best long-term interest of our stakeholders, particularly our shareholders.

Please now turn to slide three. Navios Holdings controls a diverse fleet of 65 modern vessels, with an average 8 or 7.7 years, which is about 13% less than the industry average age. We have developed real cost savings from our size and scale in terms of purchasing power and world class employees. We have operating levers from our technical capabilities, which will be unattainable through a third party provider because of this disciplined and operating expenses, about 35% below industry average.

Slide four highlights our current corporate structure, Navios Holdings' value, primarily the rise from five areas, the dry bulk fleet of Navios Holdings and for principal operating subsidiaries, the marketing [ph] barring (04:23) the total as [indiscernible] (04:24) from the sum of the parts, Navios Holdings ownership interest in NMM and NNA are worth over $3 per share with, in itself, is [ph] north than NM's (04:34) current share price.

Slide five provides a historical overview of the BDI. The difficult market is highlighted by the fact that in 2015, we marked a 30-year low 509 in the first quarter, which was then surpassed in the fourth quarter. The year-to-date average of the BDI is 735, also the lowest recorded since 1986. We thought that the sum of the part analysis that I mentioned earlier was worthy of emphasis.

Slide six [ph] list (05:09) down to the diversified part of Navios Group. The group has an enterprise value of about $5.5 billion, of which, Navios Holdings represent about $1.5 billion. One defining feature of the Navios Holdings is that it represents a diversified investment vehicle with multiple platforms, [indiscernible] (05:30) growth. While Navios Holdings invest in [indiscernible] (05:34) dry bulk [ph] is at affiliate hub (05:35), investment in tankers, containers, ports, aggregating another $4 billion of enterprise value. NM's current share price represents a significant discount with ownership in its public subsidiaries alone. And in determining the discount, [ph] we'll have ignored the value (05:56) of NM's core fleet plus its 64% interest in Navios Logistics. In other words, an investment in Navios Holdings effectively gives an investor a free option on NM's core fleet, plus NM's ownership in Navios Logistics.

Slide seven, we show how we have positioned NM to weather the current difficult market. As mentioned earlier, NM investment in subsidiaries provide some protection to the agreements in the dry bulk market. NM owns 46.5% economic index in Navios Acquisition, a public tanker company, demonstrating significant financial and operating strength. Navios Partners' distributions have been rebalanced and configured to reflect the current stressed dry bulk charter market. And Navios Logistics provides stable growth and exposure to port and logistics divisions in South America.

Our balance sheet is strong with $174.5 million cash as of September 30, 2015. And flexible, we have about 80% of our total debt in bonds that have no loan-to-value maintenance covenant. We also issued non-dilutive perpetual preferred stock, which we are not obliged to redeem. We expect to receive $29.1 million in annual distributions from subsidiaries, and we'll have $25.8 million annual savings from our dividend suspension. We have 49.2% of our available fixed days in a seasonally low first half of 2016, while we are only 35.8% fixed for the second half, a [ph] large (07:42) benefit from a recovery in the market. Finally, our scale provide operating efficiencies with our operating expense about 35% below industry average.

Please now turn to slide eight where we detail an alternative way to return capital to our shareholders. We have put in place a $25 million share repurchase program, which will be active for two years. The program will be funded through $25.8 million in annual savings from our common share dividend suspension and $14.4 million available through dividend from subsidiaries net of the dividend paid to our preferred stockholders.

Slide nine highlight our strong liquidity position. Our conservative balance seem to have net debt to book capitalization of 53.5%, and cash of $174.5 million. As to our cash requirement, this company has no unfunded CapEx and no material debt maturity until 2019. Our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and our operating need.

Slide 10 provides an overview of our operating leverage. I'm deeply involved in this effort because it is an essential skill for a transportation company. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels in-house. By doing so, we have internalized the cost savings achieved with economies of scale and increase the purchasing power, focusing on Navios Holdings. As you can see, NM has developed significant efficiencies from the economies of scale and net OpEx have 35% below industry average. This equals to $25.1 million and a cost reduction in the last 12 months.

Navios Holdings has shared these cost savings within the group. You can see the benefit achieved and transferred to our affiliate entities. NMM OpEx is 20% below industry average. NNA OpEx is about 18% below industry average, and NAP OpEx is about 7% below the industry average. As a significant portion of the value of NM is derived through these entities, it is important that we're able to manage OpEx costs well.

Slide 11 [ph] sets forth (10:13) Navios low cost structure. For 2016, we have fixed 42.4% of our available days, including our index-linked day at the Navios contracted daily charter out-rate of $11,917 per day. [ph] Actually to open (10:32) days plus days contracted with index-linked charters, we'll provide incremental revenue with an improving charter market. I would like to remind you as I do in every quarter that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, dry dock expenses, charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses as well as interest and capital repayment.

At this point, I'd like to [ph] hand (10:58) the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings' Senior Vice President of Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Slide 12 presents our core fleet, consisting of 65 vessels totaling 6.7 million deadweight. We continue to be one of the largest dry bulk operators in the world, established over 60 years ago. We have 59 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.7 years. This is 13% younger than the industry average.

Turning to slide 13, GDP forecast of 2015 and 2016 suggest continued dry bulk demand. Emerging market growth predominantly in the Asian region drives demand. In the largest oil-consuming economies such as China, India, Japan, Europe and the USA, low energy prices tend to stimulate GDP growth over time, further aiding increased dry bulk demand as was experienced in the late 1980s.

The current slowdown in China contributes to the current unseasonable down cycle in dry bulk rates. Market sentiment has deteriorated as the fourth quarter has failed to produce the expected peak rates of the year so far. Today, the BDI is at a one-year low and a 30-year cyclical low. Analysts predict steel production at its lowest level since 2012, and coal seaborne trade continues to disappoint with warmer weather in Western Europe and the USA during the peak demand season.

Slide 14 shows continued urbanization in China and worldwide iron ore trade. Steel production in China remains flat for 2015 versus 2014. With iron ore prices falling by approximately 40% over the last 12 months, the volume of imports are expected to rise 2% in 2015 with the majority of that growth in the second half of 2015.

Through September, seaborne iron ore imports have increased by only 0.6% with most of that increase coming from Australia with limited ton mile effect. Chinese domestic production of iron ore cannot compete with high quality oil coming from Australia and Brazil, causing a reduction in production of the domestic iron ore of about 10% year-to-date.

Overall, current total world iron ore trade is expected to increase by 17 million tons this year or only 1.3%. This will be led by increases from Australia and Brazil, but will include reductions in Canadian, Swedish and African iron ore shipments. Australia sales for 2015 are forecast to rise by approximately 58 million metric tons, whereas Brazil sales are forecast to rise by approximately 22 million metric tons, impacting ton miles. These projections do not include the effect of the [ph] Sumakai (13:35) tragedy which may have further impacts on trade flows in 2016. China export is a record 81.9 million metric tons of steel through September 2015 versus 64 million metric tons in the same period last year, a 28% rise year-to-date supporting Chinese steel production.

Turning to slide 15. As you can see in the upper right, world seaborne trade in coal is expected to contract this year by 50 million metric tons or 4.1%. This is due primarily to China reducing imports significantly year-on-year. Through September, Chinese imports have declined by 30% to 145 million tons, and European imports have declined by 10 million tons, down 7.5%. In contrast, Indian imports through July have increased by 21 million tons or 19% over 2014, although the pace of imports have slowed since the beginning of the year.

Over the long-term, coal will continue to be a major energy source used to produce electricity. The potential for coal use in India is substantial. Close to 800 million people, that's over 2.5 times the U.S. population, use wood-based fires to cook and have little or no refrigeration. Southeast Asia has over 200 gigawatts of coal-fired generation under construction or plan to be operational between now and 2019. Much of the coal for these plants will be imported by sea. For example, Vietnam has become a net coal importer this year primarily due to the startup of Vietnamese coal-fired electricity generation.

Turning to the supply of tonnage in slide 16, high levels of non-deliveries continue as expected, averaging 36% so far for 2015. It has been reported that 43.7 million metric tons of deadweight have actually delivered year-to-date, and it is expected that by year end, a total of 51 million deadweight will deliver. In 2016, the forecast order book is about 74 million metric tons deadweight. And with expected non-deliveries continuing at about 40% or more, the actual tonnage delivered will be about 44 million metric tons of deadweight, considerably less than 2015 and prior years.

Turning to slide 17, the scrapping pace for the first half of 2015 was the highest pace ever as freight levels stayed below OpEx for a large part of the period. Q1, we saw 9.5 million metric tons scrap and Q2 accelerated to 10.7 million metric tons scrap. The Indian monsoon season, more recently Diwali, have reduced their scrapping activity in the region during the third quarter to 3.7 million metric tons.

We expect scrapping to accelerate for the balance of the year and into next year. 63 million metric tons deadweight of vessels, 20 years and older, and the BDI below 500 encourages scrapping. 2015 is forecasted to end with an expected 30 million metric tons deadweight of dry bulk demolitions, representing about 4% of the dry bulk fleet. Net of the 51 million metric tons deadweight deliveries, we see growth of about 2.8% this year in the fleet, the lowest level for many years. With the declining order book for 2017 and 2018 and potential for increased scrapping as rates stay low, net fleet growth seems set to remain very low.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis, for the Q3 financial results. George?

Thank you, Tom. Please turn to slide 18 for a review of the Navios Holdings financial highlights for Q3 and the nine months 2015. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $39.5 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $42.4 million in 2014. EBITDA for the third quarter and the nine months of 2015 was adjusted to exclude $1.8 million non-cash loss on available-for-sale securities.

The nine months of 2014 was affected by two non-recurring items, the $17.4 million write-off of deferred finance cost due to the refinancing of the Navios Logistics unsecured bond and $11.5 million write-down of unrealized loss on shares obtained as part of a settlement of an old claim. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA is mainly attributable to a 26% decrease in the time charter [ph] equivalent reduction (17:59), reflecting the prolonged downturn of the market. The decrease was partly mitigated by a $12 million increase in pickup of equity in earnings of affiliated companies, mainly due to the very good results of Navios Acquisition.

It was also mitigated by the strong performance of Navios South American Logistics, which posted a 44% increase in EBITDA. During the quarter, we reported an adjusted net loss of $20.3 million or $0.23 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of $16.6 million in 2014. The reduction is mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA.

Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months of 2015 was $98.5 million compared to $153.6 million in 2014. The decrease was mainly due to the 36% reduction in the [ph] TCA reduction (18:50) in 2015 compared to 2014. The reduction was mitigated by the improved results of NNA and Logistics and by $6.6 million reduction in G&A expenses. Adjusted net loss for the first nine months of 2015 was $71.8 million compared to an adjusted net loss of $22.3 million in 2014. Similar to the quarterly results, the reduction was mainly due to a decrease in EBITDA, and it was mitigated by a decrease in interest expense and depreciation and amortization.

Please turn now to slide 19. We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with a healthy cash balance. As of September 30, 2015, we had $174 million in cash compared to $250 million at December 31, 2014. The reduction is mainly due to a $16 million participation in the equity raising of Navios Partners in February 2015, about $13 million participation in Navios Europe II, and a $31 million repayment of debt in January. The debt repayment is reflected in the reduction of the debt balance from our balance sheet or by $31 million since the end of the year. Net debt to book capitalization was 53.5% compared to 49.3% at the end of last year.

Over the next slides, we will briefly review our subsidiaries. Please turn to slide 20. Navios Holdings owns 20% of Navios Partners, including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners owns a fleet of 31 vessels. Over the past few quarters, the company has diversified into the container segment with the acquisition of eight vessels with average charter duration of more than eight years.

During the quarter, Navios Partners reset its dividend to $0.85, providing significant distribution coverage for the next five years. Navios Partners provides significant cash flows from Navios Holdings. By the end of 2015, we expect to receive a total of about $194 million in distributions since the exemption of the company.

Turning to slide 21, Navios Holdings has over 46% interest in Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become one of the largest publicly listed tanker owners among its U.S. and European peers with one of the youngest fleet in the water. The fleet consists of 39 tankers with an average age of under five years.

In Q4 2014, Navios Acquisitions formed Navios Midstream Partners an MLP with six VLCCs, providing a platform in the [ph] world (21:25) sector for dividend-seeking investors and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA. Navios Acquisition also provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Including the expected 2015 dividends, Navios Acquisition will provide over $53 million in distributions since the start of operations in 2010.

Now we'll turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South America Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Slide 22 provides an overview of the Navios Logistics business, and slide 23 presents the company's highlights. We're continuing the development of a new iron ore terminal. We have concluded all critical procurement, including the mechanical equipment supplier and the general contractor. We expect to invest approximately $150 million in total in this facility and expect a minimum iron EBITDA of $35 million under our take-or-pay contract with Vale.

Slide 24 reviews our results. EBITDA and net income for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014 were affected by a $27.3 million write-off of deferred finance costs and fees related to the refinancing of the 2019 senior notes. To make the comparison to the previous periods meaningfully, we have adjusted nine months 2014 EBITDA net income. There is no adjustment in the 2015 figures.

In the past four years, EBITDA has been growing at a 20.6% CAGR. This growth rate has continued in the first nine months of 2015. EBITDA in Q3 2015 increased by 44% to $26.2 million. Port segment EBITDA increased by 11% to $9.7 million as more cargo move in our dry terminal during the quarter. Port segment revenue was 37% lower due to a reduction in sales of liquid products to the low margin opportunistic trading part of our liquid port activity.

Barge segment EBITDA increased by 110% to $11.9 million. The increase in EBITDA is mainly attributed to the fact that would appoint less iron ore trades under our COAs, incurring lower budget expenses, while we have the full minimum guaranteed revenue under our contracts. Our operating expenses also decreased mainly due to reduction in repair and maintenance costs.

Cabotage business EBITDA increased 23% to $4.5 million, mainly due to more operating days during the quarter. Adjusted net income in Q3 2015 increased by 246% to $10.6 million, mainly due to the increase in EBITDA. Turning to the financial results for the nine-month period ending September 30, 2015, revenue increased by 2% to $198.6 million. EBITDA increased by 21% to $64.5 million on the back of strong performance in the core terminals and bus business segments, and adjusted net income increased by 139% to $20.9 million.

Please turn to slide 25. Navios Logistics had a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of Q3 2015 was $87.3 million compared to $71.9 million at the end of 2014. Net debt to book capitalization was 42% compared to 45% at the end of 2014.

Now I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This completes our presentation, and we open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Christian Wetherbee of Citigroup.

Hey, thanks. Good morning and good afternoon, guys. I wanted to touch first on the decision on the dividend relative to the buyback. I guess I'm just kind of curious how you guys think about sort of the value proportion of the shares currently relative to maintaining some level of dividend and then also how you contemplate sort of debt repayment over that period of time as well. I guess I just want to kind of understand how you guys balance all of those demands.

I mean we kept that dividend very consistently over 39 quarters. We showed that the current environment would not have been prudent to continue as market really had deteriorated. And we thought that this gave an opportunity to either purchase back our shares, which can be attractive and also, you strengthen your balance sheet, and you're having – you can do contemplate further acquisitions. We are receiving about $29 million from our subsidiaries. And with that in mind and regarding our dividend, and of course, continuing playing out perpetual preferred create about a $15 million per year. So you see why we decided on this program. So the share buyback, if you take a look, is the most tax efficient way of really returning capital to your investors.

Okay. And when you think about sort of the timing of that, is it fair to say that you'll be putting most of – to your program, you generate roughly half of the total program per year, so is that the way we should think about the pace of buybacks?

The program is – to hear program is opportunistic. And it is really on returning capital to the investors. I mean we're fully aligned with the investors. They present, the management owns 30% of the shares of NM. And it can be totally opportunistic and is always contemplating together with acquisition of vessels whether that is balanced between what is more attractive.

Okay. That's helpful. And when you think about the repayment schedule, I know you mentioned no major, I think, maturities until 2019. But this year and next, is there anything that we should be thinking? I think there's something baked into your breakeven. I just want to get a sense of what's coming due this year and next.

It's a normal repayment, capital repayment. I mean 80%, as you remember, of the balance sheet of NM is in bonds, which they don't have [indiscernible] (27:56). 20% is in bank debt, of which, we have a headroom of over 20% and is a normal amortizing debt.

Okay, okay. That's helpful. And then, I guess, just finally, on South American – on the Logistics business, just want to make sure, as the port business continues to ramp up and the investments there are completed, how should we think about the timing of sort of ramp up development of the iron ore port and then ultimately of the contract when that rolls in?

The take-or-pay contract on the port with Vale is a $35 million minimum, on the minimum guarantee. The construction is on the port is finishing the second half. So, from 2017, you can bake in the numbers at least a minimum of $35 million or if you go to the more normalized level of about $50 million. So you have the take-or-pay that will be for 20 years and some completion is done. On a fully – the full effect, you will see it in 2017.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you for the time.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Noah Parquette of JPMorgan.

Thanks. I just want to follow-up on the share repurchase program. Are you guys open to also – or either or retiring some of the public bonds or the preferred in the open market as you see cash flows going forward?

I think the company will review. I mean we have declared – we have a buyback which is for two years and the company will be opportunistic on every part of its capital structures. All acquisition of assets.

Okay. And on the Logistics side, can you just remind me where, maybe this is for George, but how much capital expenditure there left and kind of what the timing of that is and maybe the funding plans?

Yes. Hi. We have spent on the quarter about $40 million until the end of September. And the total CapEx that we have added is for the completion of the [ph] ports (30:18) $150 million as you know, so have a remaining of $110 million to be spent through the Q4 2015 and throughout 2016.

On the financing, as you know, we have about $87 million of cash in the balance sheet, and we also have, as we have mentioned in the past, secured a seller's credit for the part of the CapEx as it relates to the equipment. So it is – we are fully funded to complete the CapEx at this moment. [ph]

The share of credit, $42 million (28:41).

All right. That's very helpful. And then just one final question. As you guys looked to reduce your exposure to dry bulk, I mean, what are the chartered-in vessels that are coming off over the next 12 months that you could let go?

There is about three vessels that are coming. And, of course, there's also some – at end of last next year that will be coming in, which is – so they – and net effect, but some are coming at low rates, so this an ongoing renewal of this fleet.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Ben Nolan of Stifel.

Thanks. I have several questions, a couple on the South American business. But the first is related to the South American businesses. That is an area that you guys have for many years now I guess talked about finding a way to extract some of the value. As things get a little bit tighter from a cash flow perspective at the corporate level, how do you think about possibly, finding a way to monetize at least a portion of that investment, i.e. dividends or selling a portion of it or how do you think about that asset in your portfolio?

Don't forget that on – first of all Navios is a diversified portfolio. So you have like another three companies, Navios Partners, Navios Acquisition and Logistics. So you have other areas that are liquid and publicly listed. So I mean an issue of you're not relying on particularly on Navios Logistics. Navios Logistics has a really attractive ramp up at some of the port. So this is something that we have to be patient to complete that. And from the ramp up on the rates from the port coming to the numbers. I wouldn't see that as a first line of the event that we will be looking firstly.

Okay. Yeah, all right. So, along with that and looking at the quarter and I believe that George mentioned one of the things that really helped and it was a very nice quarter was that the barge, some of the barges weren't active but still received full payment under the take-or-pay contract and that reduced the expenses, while maintaining the revenue high. When do those contracts begin to roll off just because it's a benefit now, but obviously, at some point, if they're not being utilized, then it might not be indefinitely?

That's a very good question. We have, in end of 2016, you have the roll-off of some of the contracts. But I want to remind you that the area is very on grains. It's the number one – the soya beans imported to China this year was at a record level. So the Navios Logistics and the area is based on two commodities, grains and iron ore. So, in essence, grains and the expansion of the grain business will provide the additional contracts and additional cargo. So this is something that you have plenty of time, and the barges are dry barges. It can be used for both. We have [ph] travels (34:38) for all of them. So it is not a difficult way to really reallocate some of the convoy.

Okay. And then lastly, on a more corporate level, now that you guys have suspended the dividend and just obviously reduced the dividend to the partnership, I'm curious how you view the cash burn. Is it possible to maybe, given this current rate environment, say how much cash you work through on either a quarterly or an annual basis at least roughly going forward?

Actually, we feel very comfortable with the cash we have. And if you see and you do your own model, you will see that the company is starting with $174 million as of Q3 for 2016. We are in a – with dividends from subsidiaries and spending at dividend payment gives us a lot of flexibility. I want to remind you also that we have 50% of our available days fixed at about $12,000 a day for the first half. That gives us also a good cushion because it's at a good level as we enter 2016.

Okay. And just to clarify that cash balance, the $173 million, that does include the cash at South American, correct?

Yes, yes.

Correct. Okay, okay. All right. That's it for my questions. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your final question comes from the line of Amit Mehrotra of Deutsche Bank.

Thank you. Good morning, afternoon. Angeliki, I wanted to ask kind of a random question associated with OpEx. It's not necessarily applicable to Navios, but many of the large dry bulk companies have reported significant declines in OpEx on a per vessel basis. The utilization rates have actually not gone down much if at all. And if my understanding that most of the OpEx is fixed, over half is crew and salaries, lubricants, oils and insurance are pretty fixed. So just wanted to get your understanding on where you think all this discretionary declines in OpEx is coming from and is there maybe a bigger concern or question here about risk management vis-à-vis fleet operations in the current market?

Please, I cannot comment for other people. But Navios, that has go up for a long time and we have a platform. We operate all this 160 vessels. So, really, the way you build economies of – the savings is from purchasing of spare parts, paint, lubricant, from discounts on your insurances and this is where you really, means a platform is really working.

In our operating expense, also, we include the dry docking so we are unique on that. So doing your job is not something that is exceptional, but really, keeping all the savings of the economies of scale within the company is important. And that is something that you do it over a period of time. So it's nothing to do with really, I mean the crew is a group and this is – and actually, we have seniority bonuses for multiple years because we like to keep crew over – to be with them, with the company and to train them. But the rest of the areas can provide quite significant savings. And that's how we manage to be 35% below industry average. We have $3,654, which is quite useful in today's environment.

Yeah, okay. Let me just ask one follow-up specific to NM. We're seeing the price of the bonds come down a little bit in the current backdrop but I think NM has some nice annuity streams in the form of NNA and even NMM even after the dividend cut there. And now the dividend cut at the NM level.

And then also, the NSAL, the EBITDA streams on the NSAL, obviously, we've been – this question, we talked about sort of the take-or-pay. Can you just talk a little bit about NM in terms of the fixed revenue streams on NNA, NMM and then also on NSAL, how much of the EBITDA that you expect to receive is actually going to be fixed over say a duration of time whether it's two years, three years, four years? If you could just offer any more color on that, I'd appreciate it.

Yes. On the dividend stream from our subsidiaries, after the resetting NMM, we see it very solid for the next five years even in the current environment. So we're receiving about $29 million from the two subsidiaries and we have a 64% ownership in a company that is growing at a very strong 20% EBITDA growth.

So this is the outlook just from the two public – just the value from the two public subsidiaries is almost over $2, $2.50. So you can see that it really provides us over $2. So it provides us a good value and we're having about, if you take the two stakes, it's about $350 million of value just from the stakes from there.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. One last question for me is on how sort of other companies sort of navigate the current market, vis-à-vis, discussions with banks. I know Navios has long and deep relationships obviously, but most companies do not. And so, given that obviously banks are not natural holders of vessels, what do you think the banks need to see to sort of offer things like amortization holidays and/or covenant relief for these other companies? And basically, Angeliki, I mean I'm asking you if a CEO of a company were to come to you and ask you for advice on – what would you tell them in order – how to position themselves to maybe have a most productive outcome in these types of discussions?

I think that you need to be very straightforward, then work with the problems early on.

Okay. Fair enough. That's all I had. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. I'll now return the call to Ms. Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes our third quarter earnings. Thank you.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.