Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Theodore C. Petrone — Director & President-Navios Corporation, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Seth R. Lowry — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Omar M. Nokta — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Navios Maritime Holdings Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; President, Mr. Ted Petrone; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis. As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Holdings' website at www.navios.com.

Before I review the structure of this morning's call, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth in this conference call should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this call. Thank you. We'll begin with formal remarks from the team, and then after, we'll open the call to take your questions.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura. Good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We are pleased to report our results for the third quarter of 2013. We've had a solid quarter and reported $40.57 million of EBITDA. We continued our operating discipline. Through a number of initiatives we materially reduced our daily operating expenses to $3,631 and daily cash breakeven to $8,590 per day per vessel for 2014. As we focus on execution, we have returned capital to our shareholders through dividend payments and declared a $0.06 dividend for the third quarter of 2013 representing a yield of 3.1%.

Slide two shows our current corporate structure. The value of Navios Holdings primarily derives from four areas; the drybulk fleet within Navios Holdings and three principle operating subsidiaries. In our view, the whole is valued at less than the sum of the parts. As of the close of business this past Friday, Navios Holding's common share traded at $7.67 per share. In contrast, Navios Holdings ownership stake in the two publicly listed subsidiaries were valued at $5.12 per share.

This implies a value of less than $265 million for Navios' core business of 58 vessels plus a controlling interest in Navios Logistics. We believe the value of Navios Holdings' interest in Navios Logistics alone is larger. As we will discuss shortly, among other things, Navios Logistics recently signed a 20-year contract for providing storage and transshipment services to Vale. We expect this contract to generate not less than $35 million of annual EBITDA.

Slide three shows our Navios Group access to the capital market. This access has fueled our ability to take advantage of different asset values. So far, in 2013 we raised over $2.3 billion and acquired 44 vessels. Overall, we increased our group fleet by 45%. This access to capital did not developed overnight; rather this asset is a testament to a lot of hard work during difficult year. When the cycle turned against us, we focused on improving operations and bringing down cost. We acted to safeguard the stakeholders regardless of our difficult [seeking] market and investment capital return that we were good stewards of their capital. We have also worked to develop asset into various markets. We have to reduce our cost of capital. In addition, to a long term – long time access to the U.S. bond market in June, Navios Partners accessed the Term Loan B market. To our knowledge, this was the first time that an international shipping company access this market.

Slide four outlines the company's disciplined business model and the strategy to provide. Our industry is cyclical. It is not a matter of which, but a matter of when we turn. We monitor this link on a daily basis and we are always preparing for the next supply. As we navigate, we try to position the company and the group so that we have not simply the access to change; we want to be able to take advantages of these changes. To do so we need to be positioned properly.

In the past, when the rate in charter period markets were robust, we entered into long-term charter hours. This generated stable cash flows and allowed us the latitude to plan and position the company for the medium to long term. It also allowed us to develop our access to the debt capital market which became particularly important in the past few years when the European banks and the government lenders of the shipping sector begun deleveraging their borrowings and withdrawing from the sector.

More recently, this ability allowed us to take advantage over many of our peers who were being distracted by efforts at shoring up their balance sheets and resolving margins with amendment. Consequently, they were generally unable to take advantage of opportunities [ever being] in the shipping market.

In that respect, want to see how we accomplished our goal. We have expanded our group's fleet by almost 100 vessels since 2008. As we all remember all too well, this is the time that includes the U.S. financial crisis and the Eurozone financial and country crises. The table below provides details for the growth of each company. With recovery on the horizon, we have greatly increased our capacity to explore opportunities. Navios Holdings expanded its fleet – Navios Partners grew its fleet by more than 200%. Navios Acquisition, during the crisis, has since acquired 44 vessels. Finally, Navios Logistics has grown the operating capacity substantially.

All of these subsidiaries have exploited the same operating discipline and growth strategy, and this is from an increasingly larger portion of the value of Navios Holdings. Slide five, [indiscernible] Navios Group Activities and the competitive positioning that grow within our subsidiaries [indiscernible] . Navios Holdings refinanced our existing secured notes with a newly offer $650 million of 7.38% senior secured notes. We lowered our coupon by 850 basis points and extended the bond maturity by more than four years until 2022.

Navios Holdings also acquired 20 vessels while maintaining a low cash breakeven of $8,590 for 2014. This bond help us materially reduce our cash breakeven cost. We have 12,000 open days in 2014, but the charter rate market is improving. The time charter equivalent rate achieved in the third quarter was about 15% higher than the one that's in the second quarter of 2013. Consequently, we are positioned to generate significant additional cash flow as the market further improves.

Navios South American Logistics recently entered into two transformational deals. In the most recent one, Navios Logistics entered into a 20-year contract with Vale for the storage and transshipment of mineral commodities. This will generate a minimum of $35 million annual EBITDA and an estimated $1 billion of EBITDA on the life of the contract. Vale may contractually increase its minimum guaranteed volume by 50% which would increase annual EBITDA to $50 million.

We also entered into a chartered-out contract for six years at $15,500 per day for four jumbo barge convoys. These barge convoys [indiscernible] can carry approximately 50% more capacity including as a point of this, barge convoys can be transported with the same OpEx as with the convoys composed of smaller barges generally used on delivery. We anticipate that the charter conversion will bring an estimated $13.2 million annual EBITDA. We'll use deposits of the $90 million add-on of the senior unsecured notes to fund this CapEx for the new barges.

Turning to slide six, Navios Partners have five container vessels with 10-year chartered-out contracts for $275 million and further acquired an additional four drybulk vessels for $108 million. These actions solidify Navios Partners' cash flow in opening the business up to the container market. Navios Partners raised $593 million in the public markets year-to-date. Navios Acquisition acquired 11 product tankers this year for $307 million and also four VLCCs for $198 million as entry prices at the low of the double-hull tankers, giving the company additional [indiscernible] exposure to the free cash flow from the existing VLCCs. The company has raised $930 million in the public market year-to-date.

Slide seven highlights our liquidity position. We have a conservative balance sheet with a net debt to capitalization of approximately 48% and liquidity of $220 million. Our liquidity should be viewed in the context of our cash requirement. The company has no material CapEx or debt maturities for the next six years. As a result our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and operating needs of the company.

Slide eight sets forth the Navios low cost structure. For 2014, we have reached 29.2% of our vessels at the Navios contracted daily charter-out rate of $15,376. This is well above our fully-loaded cost of $13,155 per day per vessel. Our costs will further decrease as we aggressively expand our fleet with attractive acquisition at historically low valuations. I remind you as I do every quarter that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, dry-docking expenses, charter-in expense for charter-in fleet, G&A expenses including credit default insurance expense, as well as interest expense and capital repayments.

Slide nine outlines the company's chartering strategy. Our estimated 2014 breakeven cost for the vessels including all costs is $8,590 per day per vessel. Based on the open days of our sales mix, our current market rate is $14,439 with market recovery [indiscernible] to business back to historical average which are approximately $20,000 per day for the 20-year average rate and $30,000 per day for the 10-year average rates. Consequently, given our $8,590 daily cash breakeven rate, this company will enjoy certain mix in cash flow should the market returns to historical norms.

I also want to make a point that as subsidiaries mature and the target allows it, we anticipate the opportunity to receive increased dividend distribution from them. We know this with the planned [indiscernible] with the current distribution level on the table. I would like now to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Petrone, Navios President, who will take you through Navios operations and the industry perspective. Ted?

Thank you, Angeliki. Please turn to slide 10. We are one of the largest drybulk operators in the world. Our long-term core fleet consists of 58 vessels, totaling $5.8 million deadweight. We have 51 vessels in the water with an average age of 6.6 years; this is younger than the industry average of 9.4 years.

Please turn to slide 11. Slide 11 offers an update of our strategic relationship with HSH Nordbank. We, along with our affiliates, formed Navios Europe to hold 10 vessels. Navios Holdings will own 47.5% of Navios Europe. Navios Europe recently arranged for the technical and commercial management of seven out of the 10 vessels in the transaction. Navios Europe is expected to take ownership of all 10 vessels within November, at which point, management of the remaining vessels will also be transferred. This deal is an example of the excellent working relationship that HSH and Navios have developed and our mutual goal is to complete the fieldwork together towards similar transactions.

Navios Asia, our joint venture with a private Japanese owner, took delivery of the first of six vessels in October. The second vessel will be delivered by January next year. Navios Asia intends to partially finance these six vessels with about 55% bank debt in terms that are consistent with our existing credit facilities. As noted at the bottom of the slide, we have acquired four charter-free Panamax outright at cyclical lows.

Please turn to slide 12; our vessel operating expenses are 35% below the industry average in all asset classes. The $1,990 daily savings per vessel as compared to the industry average in operating expenses aggregates to over $26 million in annual savings dropping directly to our bottom line.

Please turn to slide 13. Commencing in Q3 a large increase in Brazilian iron ore exports pushed Cape daily earnings up sharply to over $42,000 a day, the highest level since November 2010, but have collected to around $18,000 recently. Panamax rates more than doubled from $7,200 at the end of August to $15,600, and have also corrected to around $10,800. Supramax rates increased from $9,800 to $14,400 a day and remain at these levels, benefiting from the northern hemisphere grain export season and increasing coal shipments.

I want to point out that despite the recent rally; levels remain at well below historic averages. For the balance of 2013, a slowing trend in fleet growth along with significant additional iron ore export capacity from both Brazil and Australia should support rates especially in the Capsize sector. Both the Panamax and Supramax sectors should benefit over the medium to long-term by Chinese coal and grain imports. A further slowdown in deliveries combined with the gradual recovery in the world economy should bode well for improving fundamentals in 2014 and beyond.

Please turn to slide 14. While GDP continues to be driven by developing economies which now contributed a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies, representing over half of the global consumption of most commodities. The IMF projected world growth for 2014 at 3.6%. Developing economies are projected to grow at 5.1%. Chinese economic growth is projected at 7.3% in 2014. Another significant GDP movement is the shift of Europe from a negative 0.8% at the beginning of the year to a positive 1.1% projected for 2014. This is an almost 2% movement within a year in an economy the size of the U.S.

Turning to slide 15. The primary engines of trade will continue to be China and India. Drybulk trade has expanded at an average of 5.5% per year in the last 12 years since China joined WTO. Consensus forecast of full year 2013 are for global drybulk trade to grow approximately 5% and ton mile growth of about 7%. Net fleet growth is expected to be about 5% leading to a favorable supply-demand dynamics for the first time in four years.

Moving to slide 16. Iron ore from the major mining companies outside of China continues to be the lowest cost, highest quality source of this commodity, with iron ore prices forecast to decline $100 range, Chinese domestic production which is represented by the red boxes in the lower right graph will become uneconomic. The currently planned expansion of global iron ore mines will add significantly to seaborne bulk commodity movements in 2014 with further significant growth in the following years. While the majority of these expansions are in Australia, over 35% will come from the Atlantic Basin adding to ton miles.

Moving to slide 17. The continued development and urbanization of China will contribute significantly to steel consumption for the remainder of the year and beyond. Infrastructure, housing construction and consumer spending growth underpin future developments. Note that Chinese fixed asset investments have continued to grow at over 20% year-on-year through the end of October. Crude steel production in China through October was up about 10% more than the same period last year. Chinese iron imports were also up about 10% in the first nine months of 2012.

Imported stockpiles have been drawn down steadily from 98 million tons and currently sit at about 80 million tons at the end of last week. Domestic iron ore production increased 7% year-on-year with quality remain to be – seems to be deteriorating as expected iron ore content hovers in the 15% to 20% range compared to 60% range content of imported iron ore. Going forward, the substitution of low quality domestic iron ore with imported ore is expected to grow and will increase the tons carried and ton miles.

Please turn to slide 18. Over the past few years there has been a significant change in coal trade. China turned from being an exporter of coal in 2009 only four years ago to be the world's largest importer today. As the chart indicates, both India and China's seaborne coal imports have grown at least 20% CAGR since 2009, but the increase in steel production and with a number of planned new coal-fired power generators, coal imports in both countries are forecast to grow over the next several years. Just those two countries account for over 35% of all seaborne coal movements worldwide.

Please turn to slide 19. Scrapping rates for older vessels, less fuel efficient vessels have continued in higher rates this year. Through November 22, about 20.3 million deadweight has been scrapped. If this trend continues, scrapping should reach about 23 million metric tons deadweight in 2013, becoming one of the highest yearly totals in deadweight terms. The current rate environment should encourage scrapping of older vessels. About 10% of the fleet is over 20 years old, providing about 70 million deadweight of scrapping potential. Please note that the current 2013 scrapping totals already include 23 ships that were 20 years old or younger including 5 that were less than 15 years of age and one that was 10 years old.

As demolition prices appear to depend on world's steel prices and not with supply of vessels, they're expected to remain high and we believe we will continue to see the scrapping of older, less efficient vessels. Of note is that the average age of the fleet starts declining in August at 9.3 years and stood at 9.4 years as of the end of October. This is an indication that newbuilding deliveries have slowed as we have predicted early in the year.

Moving to slide 20. Net fleet additions in 2013 are expected to be significantly lower than last year. Non-deliveries through October amounted to 40%. This combined with a high scrapping needs that net fleet growth should be about 5% which should be lower than the expected increase in demand during 2013. The order book declines dramatically through 2014 and beyond and is expected to remain that way as banks continue restrictions on newbuilding loans.

Please turn to slide 21. Slide 21 provides a retrospective of rate environment and continued impact of supply and demand equilibrium on a rate recovery for 2013. As we all know, any rate covered to be meaningful and lasting, fleet growth rates need to fall below trade growth rates. As mentioned earlier, demand for drybulk cargo is expected to increase for the full year 2013 by about 5% a rate similar, if not higher than the expected net fleet growth for the year. However, the rate of change suggest that demand for drybulk vessels will increase in 2014 and beyond as newbuilding deliveries continue to decelerate and scrapping remains at record levels.

In sum, we note for the first time in four years there was an expectation that cargo demand growth could exceed net supply growth. We note this as these conditions were not evident over the past few years.

This concludes my presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to George Achniotis, our CFO, to go over our financial highlights and review our subsidiaries. George?

Thank you, Ted, and good morning all. Please turn to slide 22 for a review of the third quarter and the nine-month financial highlights. Before I begin the review of the financials, I would like to remind you that the comparison between 2012 and 2013 reflects the effect of the restructuring of our credit default insurance. Of the $175 million cash we received in Q4 of 2012 from the restructuring, approximately $52 million was allocated to 2013.

This represents about $3,350 per vessel per day. Because of this, a more meaningful comparison of our Q3 results would be a sequential one with Q2 2013. Revenue in the quarter decreased to approximately $122 million from $164 million in 2012. Revenue from drybulk operations reduced to approximately $73 million from $99 million in the same period in 2012. The decrease is caused mostly by a reduction in daily TCE we achieved in the quarter from $18,785 in Q3 2012 to $12,085 in Q3 2013.

This does not take into account the reduction of the $3,350 per day due to the additional payment from the restructuring of the insurance. One way to view the Q3 2013 TCE rate would be to add this back resulting in a rate of approximately $15,500 per day. The decrease in TCE was mitigated somewhat by a 10% increase in the available days of the fleet. Revenue from the Logistics business also decreased by about $15 million in the quarter mainly as a result of a decrease in the sale of products at the port in Paraguay. I note that this is a low margin-low risk opportunistic trading business.

EBITDA for the quarter reduced to approximately $41 million compared to $61 million in the same period last year. The reduction was mainly due to the reduction in revenue and was mitigated by a $15 million decrease in Navios Logistics' expenses mainly due to the reduction of reduced volumes of product sold, $2 million reduction in direct vessel expenses, a $1.4 million decrease in G&A expenses, a $3.2 million increase in equity from affiliated companies, and a $1 million decrease in other expenses.

EBITDA between Q2 and Q3 2013 increased by about 5%. This reflects our open days capturing a rising market. Net income for the period reduced from $5 million in 2012 to a negative $13 million in 2013. The reduction is mainly attributable to the same factors affecting the reduction in EBITDA and was partly offset by a $2.2 million decrease in G&A, and $1.1 million increase in income tax benefit from Navios Logistics.

Turning to the highlights of the nine-month period ended on September 30, EBITDA decreased to $118 million from $184 million in 2012. Similar to the quarterly results, the main reason for the decrease was the reduction in the TCE rate achieved in the period. The decrease was mainly mitigated by a cost control effort as we also reduced G&A expenses by $6.6 million, direct vessel expenses by $7.4 million and other expenses by $12 million. This shows our continued commitment in reducing fleet operating expenses well below the industry average.

The reduction in EBITDA was also mitigated by a $9 million decrease in the cost of product sold in logistics and $12.8 million increase in equity net earnings from our affiliated companies. EBITDA of Navios Logistics increased by over 14% to $42.5 million from $37 million in 2012. Net income for the nine month period reduced from $19 million in 2012 to a negative $39 million in 2013. The decrease is mainly attributable to a decrease in EBITDA and an increase in interest expense. The decrease was partly mitigated by a $5.3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization, the $5.3 million increase in income tax benefit, and a $1.6 million decrease in share-based compensation expense.

Please turn now to slide 23. We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with no leverage and a healthy cash balance. At September 30, 2013, we had $220 million in cash compared to $283 million on December 31, 2012. The current portion of long-term debt reduced from $33 million at year-end to $26 million at the end of September 2013. The long-term portion of our bank debt increased slightly to $305 million compared to $291 million at the end of December following the delivery of the four Panamax vessels in the quarter.

Senior notes increased by $93.6 million following the add-on to the Navios Logistics' bond in March of 2013. Following the recent refinancing of our 2017 bond, we don't have any significant debt maturities until 2019. The net debt-to-book capitalization ratio remains low at below 48%. This is a low ratio for a shipping company operating in a capital intensive industry. It's particularly strong as we are at the low point in the cycle. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the full market value of our investments in our affiliated companies is not reflected on our balance sheet. If these investments were valued at their current market values, our leverage ratios would be even lower.

Turning to slide 24, the company continues to provide the returns to the shareholders through its dividend which has been paid continuously from the first full quarter it went public. A dividend of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of December 12, to be paid on December 20. I would also like to point out that the total annualized cash dividend inflows from our ownership in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition is approximately $44 million. This exceeds the annual dividend paid out by Navios Holdings by $19 million.

And we now briefly review our subsidiaries. Please turn to slide 25; we currently own 21.6% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners operates a fleet of 30 vessels equaling 3.1 million deadweight tons with an average age of 6.6 years. Since with inception in 2007, Navios Partners fleet has grown by almost four times from 8 vessels to 30 vessels.

Please turn to slide 26, Navios Partners provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since the start of operations, Navios Partners has grown distributions by over 26% but through 2013, we received about $136 million in distributions. In 2013, we expect to receive about $29.5 million in distributions from partners. This exceeds the dividends that Navios Holdings is expected to pay to shareholders by almost $5 million. In addition to the distributions, there has been a 125% appreciation by investment in Navios Partners, which as mentioned earlier is not reflected on our balance sheet.

Please turn now to slide 27. We have an approximate 51% economic interest in Navios Maritime acquisition. Navios Acquisition's current fleet consists of 44 tanker vessels totaling 5.1 million deadweight tons. 34 vessels are currently in the water with an average age of 4.6 years. We anticipate that NNA's newbuilding program for seven product tankers, a recent acquisition of three modern VLCCs positions NNA to take advantage of favorable long-term investment dynamics.

Please turn to the next slide, NNA summarized on slide 28. It has a large, modern and diverse tanker fleet worth more than $1.5 billion. NNA has long-term contracted revenue in the diverse group of strong counterparties. These contracts operate well above the company's low operating breakeven. This cash flow can sustain NNA in uncertain market conditions. NNA has profit sharing arrangements on about 86% of its contracted fleet. These arrangements limit the downside risk of the base rate, and allows NNA to enjoy the upside volatility. Year-to-date, profit sharing provided $4.4 million.

Turning to slide 29, this slide shows how NNA's fleet has grown since 2011, and how this will continue to grow as newbuilding vessels deliver into the fleet next year. Available days have grown from just over 4,000 in 2011 to over 9,500 in 2013, and then will grow to over 14,000 in 2014 with further growth in 2015 when all vessels deliver into the fleet. EBITDA has grown by 33% in 2012 over 2011, and will continue to grow as NNA takes delivery of new vessels. EBITDA for the first nine months of 2013 has grown by 23% compared to the same period last year.

Please turn to slide 29. Navios Acquisition provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Including the expected dividends in 2013, Navios Acquisition has provided about $20.5 million in distributions since its starts of operations. The value of Holdings' interest in Navios Acquisition has also grown over the past three years by more than 14%.

This concludes my presentation. At this point, I will turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for a key review on the Navios South American Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Slide 31 provides an overview of Navios Logistics, include Navios Holdings' owns 63.8% stake. Navios Logistics has three segments, the port terminals, the barge business and the cabotage business. As Angeliki already mentioned, we recently signed an important new contract with Vale that mark the expansion of our port business into iron ore transshipment. Slide 32 presents the highlights of Navios Logistics. We are one of the major logistics provider in the Hidrovia region of South America. We see significant opportunities to grow our business but maintain our focus on contracted revenues from a portfolio of high-quality clients, providing visible cash flows.

Please turn to slide 33. We have a 20-year agreement with Vale International, a significant subsidiary of Vale S.A. for the storage and transshipment of iron ore. Vale, guarantees a minimum quantity of 4 million tons per year. This contract will more than double our drybulk terminals business considering we now move about 4 million tons of grain per year. To offer these services we will invest approximately $150 million to expand our core terminal infrastructure. Upon completion of the expansion, the facility will have 6 million tons annual throughput capacity with potential to increase to 10 million tons. We expect to generate a minimum of about $35 million in EBITDA annually or about $1 billion over the 20-year contract period including annual tariff escalations.

In October, we exercised our options for 36 additional newbuilding dry barges in China, increasing our total order to 72 barges that will form 6 to 8 barge convoys. We are achieving a competitive all-in cost of $736,500 per barge. We have already secured six-year employment for four of the convoys under time charter contracts at $14,500 per day per convoy. We expect to generate $13.2 million annual EBITDA from four convoys or $3.3 million per convoy.

As shown in slide 34, each of the new barge is almost double the size of the Mississippi barge. Together they will form more efficient joint barge convoy that will carry approximately 44% more cargo per day compared to a 16-Mississippi barge convoy. With fewer barges per convoy, we expect to save time used to form, load and unload the convoy and further increase cargo transported. Therefore, for these convoys, we are able to command high rates from our charter rates. At the same time, operating cost which mainly stem for the [indiscernible] will be seen here. When the newbuilding barges are delivered, about 40% of our drybulk fleets will be of the new design.

Please turn to slide 35. In the past three years, the revenue has been growing at 14.6% CAGR. At the same time, the EBITDA has been growing at 21.7% CAGR. In the nine months of 2013, EBITDA increased by 14.2% compared to the same period last year. Please turn to slide 36 to discuss the results of our third quarter and the nine months of 2013. Our EBITDA for the third quarter was $10.8 million, 18% lower compared to Q3 of 2012. Net loss for the period was $1 million compared to a net income of $0.9 million in Q3 2012.

Port segment EBITDA increased by 20% to $8.3 million due to more storage revenue in both the dry and liquid ports. The decrease in revenue is attributed to lower sales of [fuel] product in our liquid port that is a $1.3 million in Q3 2013 compared to $16.2 million in Q3 2012. Since this is a complementary low-margin activity, it did not have a significant impact on EBITDA. Barge business EBITDA was $1.3 million in Q3 2013 compared to $4 million in the same period last year. The decrease is attributed to less revenue from liquid cargo transportation and high repair and maintenance cost in the quarter. Cabotage business EBITDA was $1.3 million in Q3 2013 compared to $2.3 million in Q3 2012 mainly due to more acquired days in the quarter.

Interest expense and finance cost net increased to $6.5 million in Q3 2013 compared to $5.1 million in Q3 2012 due to the add-ons to the bond in March. Depreciation and amortization expense was $5.8 million in Q3 2013 compared to $7.2 million in Q3 2012. Our net result was also positively affected by $1.1 million higher-tax benefit compared to the same period last year. The nine months period ended September 30, 2013 best reflects our operational improvement as EBITDA grew 14% compared with the same period last year. Net income was $9.4 million, up from $0.9 million in the nine months period of 2012.

Please turn to slide 37. Slide 37 shows a strong balance sheet. As of September 30, 2013, cash was $111.7 million compared to $45.5 million at the end of 2012. Net debt-to-book capitalization was 32% compared to 33% at the end of 2012. As of the end of Q3, the remaining CapEx for the acquisition of the 72 barges and the 3 pushboats is approximately $53 million.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis and we'll open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Christian Wetherbee of Citi.

Good morning. This is Seth Lowry in for Chris. If I could start off with your core drybulk operations, could you just remind us on your long term chartered-in fleet on the Kleimar vessels that you hold purchase options on, how many of those are you able to purchase in the next 18 months or so, and are those option prices fixed? And can you maybe give an indication or level of your willingness to purchase those vessels?

We have today – we have about two vessels that we can – three vessels that we can exercise, but we have multiple years and it's re-escalating. So it is in the money, but we don't find any reason why we should exercise this now and we can wait for another two – in case it's two years or three years. We have total purchase option of 11, exercisable are three.

Okay. Thanks. And I mean, given the level of current rates across, I guess, multiple drybulk asset classes and considering how close you are to an increase in distribution at Partners, does it make sense to start chartering out some of these open vessels a bit longer term for consideration for dropdown, or are the rates just not at a level where you're comfortable doing that?

I think that if we see nice margins, we will do it anyway. This is a strategy of Navios. When we see a nice profit, nice margins, we always like to lock in. Today we don't see it as the point where you'll go on the three year to five year horizon; you keep it a little bit shorter which we see that as a good opportunity of creating nice cash flows for the NM.

Okay. And then lastly, do you see that – I guess call it recent blip or small dip in rates over the past month or six weeks is just normal seasonality or is there something more structural that you see at the market it's maybe compressing things here over the near term?

The very big difference in the market is that, last year let's say, the high of the – you had about 1,000 BDI. This year, you had the BDI between 1,500 now and 2,000. So it's a totally materially different, between 50% and 100% higher, so seasonally you're stronger. And also what you have today is you have period charters. So, you have one year and two years and three year deals that you can do very quickly, so optimism is here. Of course, as we always stated, you will have softness and then recovery, the overall trend is upwards. Also, I think that you have a little bit – a couple of weeks earlier, the softness usually say little bit further down about two weeks later. But I wouldn't read too much into that. The fundamentals are good.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much. I'll turn it over.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Omar Nokta of Global Hunter Securities.

Hi. Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. I just have a few questions on the Logistics business. You guys have been obviously extremely busy building out that segment. And just, first, I just wanted to get some clarity on the Vale contract. Obviously, I believe, the existing terminal you have in Uruguay is about 4 million tons annually. Would this expansion be a completely incremental 6 million tons, taking up total potential capacity to, say, 10 million tons?

Yes. Actually in the grains, you have 4 million. We completed the conveyor belt that this will give us the ability to almost double the throughput. So on the grains, you already have completed this CapEx, about 22 million which added this capacity. On additional land, we have in the port who will do a separate facility, which is just for iron ore and that will provide the 6 million tons – 4 million tons minimum throughput for Vale, 6 million tons contract and ability to go to 10 million tons.

Okay. Thank you. And what's the timing on that?

The timing is that we are now in – we have regulatory approvals which will be – we don't believe will be complicated because it's just an extension on an existing facility that exists from the 1950s, and you should have around 12 months to 18 months completion.

Okay. And then obviously the investment capital of $150 million is pretty cheap considering the $35 million of EBITDA. That's just about 4 times, 4.5 times EBITDA, which is extremely cheap. Is there – are there any certain tax implications, or should we just look at 4.2 times as a realistic cash flow figure?

There's no tax implication. As you know, we are in a tax-free zone, so you are very accustomed that this is not part of any taxation, and the $35 million applies on the minimum throughput. I just want to remind that.

Sorry. So...

You have it – 50 million is on – in the $6 million, which is a contract.

Got you. Okay. And then, I just wanted to get some clarity also on the convoys. I remember last quarter you discussed investing in a total of three convoys via 3 pushboats and 36 barges. And then, I think, at the time you had said something about entering into sort of an LOI for seven-year charters on those. I just want to compare that with what you're saying today. It looks like you bumped it up with three to six. And now, there's four charters for six years? Are these replacing the three from before?

No, this is – the four contracts is what – originally, we said three. Actually, we completed four and we did it for seven years instead of six years. So we materially improved the small convoys. Instead of seven years, it's completed firm at six. And the rate is – this is a new jumbo type and you can see that the time charter rate is significantly higher than previously – on the previous convoys. And that is going to be done with this newly order from China, barges and fully rebuilt pushboats.

Okay. And then just one final one. Obviously, now, with the EBITDA just starting to really crank up here. I think, your run rate on the year is somewhere around $55 million to $60 million. And then taking into account these convoys and port extension, you're going to be up at that $100 million over the next couple of years. It's not sooner. What do you think about timing of potentially separating the Logistics segment into its own listing?

We have articulated our willingness on that. I think, the issue today with the boat is that you want to have the patience to see materializing your numbers.

Okay. That's fair. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your final question comes from the line of Ben Nolan of Stifel.

Yes. Thank you, guys, for taking my question. I actually have a couple. First of all, on the South American side, I just wanted to catch up maybe on the Panamaxes that you guys have a contract with Petrobras. Has there been any changes in that, I mean is that – have you found any yards, or getting close to seeing that materialize at all?

I think, in that we have an option. It's an obvious option. We haven't seen yet completing of any shipyard. There was a major disruption there in the market. So at this point, it's an option. And if we find the correct shipyard, we will materialize it.

Okay. So if – it seems as though that Petrobras well in the yard is kind of moving a little slowly. But ultimately, they're probably going to need the tonnage. Do you think that there's a chance that you might be able to compete to use international assets to fill that contract at some point if the domestically built capacity isn't ready to go yet?

The reality is that obviously it's a global business, global company. And we are able to tap. If that happen, we'll be very easily able to fulfill this obligation in the international market. I mean, you have to realize in the same way. We used our contacts in China to build the barges very competitively. So this is something that we will actually lever it across regions. And we have the ability on any scenario to fulfill the contract.

Okay, perfect. And then switching gears for a second, with respect to Navios Europe and the HSH agreement, looks as though that it's moving forward. But has there been any further discussions about maybe expanding the scope of that relationship or, I don't know, maybe could you just frame where you see that developing, and is it sort of moving in the direction that you thought it was going to?

It moves to the direction we like, but it moves slowly. To our surprise, I mean, we thought it will take long. But I mean, we can't say that this goes very slowly. And we are here to – I mean, it will go, but most probably any other deal will be next year.

Okay. All right. Well, no, that's helpful and that does it for my questions. I appreciate it.

At this time, there are no further questions. I will now return the call to Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes our Q3 results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.