corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Navios Maritime Holdings’ First Quarter 2008


Earnings Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. There will be an


opportunity for you to ask questions at the end of today’s presentation. Instructions will be given at


that time. [Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the conference over to Tom Rozycki. Sir, you


may now begin.


Thomas J. Rozycki, Jr., Vice President, Cubitt Jacobs & Prosek Communications


Thank you for joining us for this morning’s call. With us today from Navios Maritime Holdings are


Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO; Mr. George Achniotis, Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Ted


Petrone, President, and Mr. Michael McClure, Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs. As a


reminder, this conference call’s also being webcast. To access the webcast please refer to the


press release for the web address which will direct you to the registration page.


Before I review the structures of this morning’s call, I would like to read the Safe Harbor Statement.


This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios. Forward-looking statements are statements


that are not historical fact. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current belief and


expectations of Navios’ management and is subjects to risks and uncertainties which could cause


actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.


Such risks are more fully discussed the Navios’ filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios


does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call. Thank


you.


At this time I’d like to outline the agenda for this morning’s call. First, Ms. Frangou will offer opening


remarks; next, Mr. Petrone will provide a brief overview of market fundamentals. Following Mr.


Petrone’s remarks, Mr. Achniotis will briefly review Navios’ first quarter financial results; and finally,


Ms. Frangou will offer concluding remarks. At the completion of Ms. Frangou’s remarks, the


Company will open the call to take your questions.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO of Navios


Maritime Holdings. Angeliki?


Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tom, and good morning. I’m very pleased with performance for the first quarter of 2008.


In addition to launching our logistics’ business in South America, we complete also had strength in


acquisition of assets, which doubled the size of our fleet. We also increased the size of Navios


Partners by selling the Navios Aurora to Navios Partners for approximately 80 million. From a


financial perspective, we increased our EBITDA by approximately 10%, compared with the first


quarter of 2007, and adjusted EBITDA by approximately by 18% to 42.9 million from 36.3 million.


George Achniotis, our CFO, will address our financial results today, and it will be in depth later on.


I’m also delighted to announce a dividend of $0.09 per share. The dividend will be paid on June


30th to shareholders of record on June 18th.


Let’s now turn to Slide 3 and start the formal presentation. Navios has a very flexible business


model. Currently, Navios represented a group of companies controlling 71 vessels and almost 7


million deadweight tons. Navios Holdings’ sales control 62 vessels with 6 million deadweight tons,
corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and this vessel activity it create the stable cash flow that represents the majority of our EBITDA. We


also maintain a risk management group that has developed real-time market intelligence for making


strategic fleet management decisions.


This information allows to take advantage of market opportunities to our groups that focuses on


COAs, short-term charges and FFAs. In total, these groups allow us to hedge or exploit freight


market exposure and opportunities. In addition, Navios Holdings got involved into business that


monetized opportunities. For example, we launch the Navios Partners in November of 2007 on the


New York Stock Exchange by contributing 8 vessels from Navios Holdings.


These vessels generate approximately 15 million in EBITDA annually. Through this transaction,


Navios Holdings issued approximately half a billion in two consideration, 353 million in cash and


also 41.2% in subordinate LP interest and a 2% of GP interest. Subsequent to the IPO of Navios


Maritime Partners, we agree to sell the Navios Aurora to Navios Partners for additional


consideration.


We are also in the process of building Navios South American Logistics. The business is composed


of barge operations, port terminal facilities, grain and liquid in the Hidrovia region, and takes


advantage of emerging trends in the commodity markets.


We own approximately a 64% stake and we see significant growth potential. There is an asset


acquisition that will allow us to increase our competitive position in the Hidrovia region and create


the steam necessary for us to be a significant player. We believe that the flexibility of our business


model distinguish us from the rest of our peers. This business segment blocks Navios Holdings


from volatility and also provides substantial growth opportunity.


We can now turn to Slide 4. We are very pleased to share with you the results of our recent charter


out activity. The magnitude of our chartering activity is visible only when you consider the following


three facts: Number one, it looks forward for 2009; two, if it’s a higher rates; and thirdly, for what


longer durations. As a result of these activities, our annualizing incremental EBITDA has expanded


by around $20 million. Annualized incremental EBITDA has increased by over 33 million when we


include one Capesize vessel, new Capesize vessel, that we are taking delivery in the fourth quarter


of 2009.


Let’s now turn to Slide 6. In January of 2008, we created Navios South American Logistics by


acquiring 51% stake in the Horamar Group for approximately 112 million. Our partners in the


venture, the Lopez family, have over 30 years of experience managing and growing the barge and


upriver port terminal business. We believe that combining the liquid and dry barge and upriver liquid


port business with our ground shipment and storage facility created the critical mass necessary to


be a competitor in the Hidrovia region.


Today we announced a milestone in the growth of this business, as we have acquired six barge


convoys for a gross purchase price of 72 million. This income transaction, doubles the size our fleet


to 240 barges and vessels.


At least as important, [inaudible] entered into a three- and five-year agreement with two major


commodity producers, covering transportation of more than a million tons per year. We have made


great commercial inroads in the region and believe that this fleet acquisition will result an


incremental EBITDA of $15 million on an annualized basis. We anticipate taking delivery of the


barges in the fourth quarter of 2008. We are financing this transaction through a term loan facility


bearing interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% and with a term of three years.


Let’s now turn to Slide 7. We are also announcing the sale of Navios Aurora to Navios Partners.


This vessel is a 2005 Japanese-built Panamax vessel, 75,397 deadweight tons. The Aurora is a


subject to a five-year charter-out rate effective as of August 2008 for $33,863 net of commission