Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Theodore C. Petrone — President & Director, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios South American Logistics, Inc.
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Natasha Louise Boyden — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Seth R. Lowry — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Urs Dur — Analyst, Clarkson Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and thank you for joining us for this morning's Navios Maritime Holdings Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; President, Mr. Ted Petrone; SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis; and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis. As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors Section of Navios Holdings website, www.navios.com. The copy of the presentation referenced in today's earnings call can also be found there.

Before I read the structure of this morning's call, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Such forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements. Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The information set forth in this conference call should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in the call. Thank you. The agenda for today's call is as follows. First, Ms. Frangou will offer opening remarks; next, Mr. Petrone will provide an operational update and an industry overview; next, Mr. Karyotis will go through an overview including recent financials for Navios South American Logistics; then Mr. Achniotis will review Navios Holdings' financial results. Lastly, we'll open the call to take your questions.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We are pleased to report our results for the third quarter of 2012. We had a solid quarter in a market environment that continues to be challenging. We have, therefore, focused on what we can control; the efficiency of our global fleet and the stability of our balance sheet. As a result, we can continue returning capital to our shareholders through dividend payments and declared a $0.06 dividend for the third quarter 2012 to shareholders of record on December 18.

Slide two shows our current corporate structure. The value of Navios Holdings is primarily derived from four areas; the drybulk within Navios Holdings and three principal operating subsidiaries. [ph] The whole is (0:02:19) continued to be valued at less than the sum of its parts. As you can see, the value of Navios Holdings interest in the two publicly listed subsidiaries is $2.76 per share. The market value of the remaining two businesses at only $0.80 in total. Navios Holdings core fleet drybulk consists of 49 vessels in the water.

This fleet has charters with creditworthy counterparties. [indiscernible] (0:02:53) should continue to provide great comfort to all our stakeholders. The value of Navios Logistics is also growing. We have an experienced management team addressing the market opportunity. Together, we have transformed Navios Logistics into a key provider in the Hidrovia region of South America. Ioannis Karyotis will address Navios Logistics results in further detail later. The opportunity in South America is as large as it has ever been for us.

As you have noticed from our press release, Navios Holdings entered into a restructuring agreement with its credit default insurer. We view this as a [ph] governance (0:03:35) development. As of now, [indiscernible] (0:03:38) the credit default insurance company [indiscernible] (0:03:43) to gradually exit insurance business in the maritime space. We believe that the net result is that Navios Holdings is strongest post the restructuring, as Navios will receive upfront payment – cash payment and enjoy market upside from the vessels relating to defaulted charters.

We would not have had either of these advantages under the old insurance regime. I also wanted to note that in the current low charter rate environment, it is not likely that we [indiscernible] (0:04:18) credit default insurance for a new charter. Instead, we will internally manage the chartering risk of defaulted charters directly through the charter market.

Slide three summarizes the term of restructured insurance. Navios Holdings will receive $175.4 million cash payment. Of this amount, $164.4 million is attributable to defaulted charterers, for which Navios would have received payments [ph] over a year (0:04:46). By receiving this payment today in a lump sum as opposed to a longer period under the restructured insurance agreement, we estimate that we'll receive a net cash benefit of almost $26 million.

I also wanted to note that part of the cash compensation included $11 million. This amount was not attributable to any defaulted charterers, but it's simply [ph] a negotiated (0:05:10) economic benefit to Navios Holdings. Turning to the second [ph] line (0:05:15) of the restructuring, we will continue to have $41.2 million of credit default insurance covering Navios Holdings charter revenue. The terms of this insurance pretty much [ph] near the terms of the old (0:05:29) insurance and the related charterers.

The table on the bottom of the slide summarizes a change in our credit default exposure. Under the old insurance policy, we would have had $207 million of credit default insurance covered. [indiscernible] (0:05:47) the elements of the restructuring insurance agreement, you can see that in effect, it has more than 100% of this coverage ongoing.

Turning to slide four, we wanted to elaborate on the benefits to Navios Holdings of restructuring the credit default insurance. First, we'll now have the upside – the market upside potential from the defaulted charters. Previously, Navios Holdings re-chartered vessels where there is [ph] no charter (0:06:15) defaulted.

To the extent that the vessel is now chartered out for an amount greater than the certain daily mitigation rates, all of such excess will now be retained by the Navios Holdings. The rates assumed are $15,000 per day for Capesizes, $10,000 for Panamaxs and $8,000 per day for Ultra Handymax vessels. There is a significant potential upside from rechartering vessels for which Navios Holdings receive an undiscounted cash payment to restructure the credit default insurance.

Navios Holdings estimates that it will earn annually $3.3 million for every $1,000 per day earned above the mitigation rates. I also wanted to address the potential insurance payment by Navios Holdings to Navios Partners. As part of the restructuring process, Navios Holdings considered the impact of the restructured insurance on Navios Partners.

Given our significant commitment to Navios Partners and the [indiscernible] (0:07:19) Navios Partners, we thought that it was important to provide assurances to the existing cash flow of the entity. As a result, we agreed to provide the insurance in a number of charters aggregating $76.7 million in charter revenues, provided that the maximum cash payout on this benefit will not exceed $20 million. The terms and conditions on this policy are about identical to the terms and conditions of the old policy.

Now, turning to slide five, we provided some credit analysis on those charters underlying the continued coverage from our AA-rated credit default insurance provider. As you can see, 100% of the charter revenue is covered by the insurance is investment-grade by the respective rating agency. Slide six shows our strong liquidity position. Our net debt to book capitalization was 49.7% [ph] compared to the third quarter (0:08:21), reflecting a 110 basis points reduction in the nine months since the end of 2011.

We have liquidity of $243.4 million, of which $173.4 million was cash. Moreover, [ph] when you pro forma (0:08:40) our balance sheet for the recent net cash infusion from our credit default insurance restructuring, the net debt to capitalization ratio falls by 680 basis points or [ph] 6.7% (0:08:55) to 42.9%, which reflects a 62% increase in pro forma liquidity to $395.5 million and an 88% increase in pro forma cash to $325.5 million.

As demonstrated on slide seven, we believe that we are in strong competitive position. Our balance sheet was strong at the end of the third quarter, and it's further enhanced by the cash payments from the credit default restructuring and repayment of debt. We have also substantially reduced our cash breakeven, as in this difficult drybulk market we focused on the expense side of our business. The restructured credit default insurance will reduce the Navios Holdings G&A by 12% or $6 million annually.

We also continue to raise the bar on our operational performance as we expect to reduce operating costs. Our cash breakeven costs are 10% lower than 2011 and 17% lower in 2010. Looking at our revenue target, you will see that we only have 288 open days for the balance of 2012. We will [ph] earn (0:10:16) $288,000 of revenue [ph] per $1,000 revenue (0:10:20) per day. Assuming we only have $12,000 per day, we will generate another $3.5 million of free cash flow.

The sum of our competitive positioning is as follows. We believe that we are a preferred commercial partner for industry participants. Our balance sheet is strong and we have demonstrated a historical ability and willingness to honor our commitment. Consequently, potential commercial partners understand that they can engage with us with a comfort that we will provide reliable [indiscernible] (0:10:56) long-term contract with a security that we will have neither technical nor commercial issues. Suppliers can provide [indiscernible] (0:11:08) and services.

Slide eight sets forth Navios' cash breakeven after the restructured credit default insurance. Turning first to the cost side of the equation, we have a cash breakeven of $15,933 per day for 2012. This reduces to $15,751 in 2013. Our revenue per day adjusted for the $175 million of insurance payment is $18,907 in 2012 and $18,688 for 2013. Navios Holdings have 98% of available days for 2012 fixed. [indiscernible] (0:11:58) create substantial cash flow.

Navios Holdings have fixed 34% for 2013. If you [ph] read into the data (0:12:07) at the bottom right of the slide, you can see that given the number of days fixed at the baseline, Navios Holdings is $170 million short of breakeven. However, we have accelerated charter revenue for 2013 and beyond in a lump sum payment of $175.4 million. This was part of our contracted revenues that we have presented to you over time.

With the significant cash resources, our financial position for 2013 is secured with $30 million excess. And we have 9,880 days open for 2013; that, assuming a rate in market of about $12,000 per day, will create an additional $818.6 million. I wanted to remind people that in this analysis we included all the operating expenses, drydock expense, charter-in expenses for our charter-in fleet, G&A including credit default insurance fees as well as interest expense, and capital repayments. I also wanted to say that we provide this conservative analysis to demonstrate that we are confident of our future.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Petrone, Navios President, who will take you through Navios operations and our industry perspective. Ted?

Thank you, Angeliki, and good morning all. Please turn to slide nine. Our long-term core fleet consists of 49 vessels totaling 5.1 million deadweight. We have 45 vessels in the water with an average age of 5.8 years.

Please turn to slide 10. Post the restructuring agreement with our credit default insurer, Navios' average charter-out rate for its core fleet is $18,907 a day for 2012; $18,688 a day for 2013; and $30,343 a day for 2014. 98% of Navios' fleet is chartered out for 2012; 33.7% for 2013; and 10.6% for 2014.

As depicted on the left side of slide 10, the dark blue portion of the bars represents pre-insurance restructuring levels. Differentials in the charter-out rate and contracted days reflect changes as a result of the acceleration of charter payments through the $175.4 million lump sum payment from the credit default insurer. This payment enhances our balance sheet and cash on hand.

Please turn to slide 11. We enjoy vessel operating expenses about 23% below the industry average in all asset classes. Navios' current daily OpEx is $4,387. The $1,285 daily savings per vessel in operating expenses aggregates to over $14 million in annual savings, which goes directly to our bottom line.

Please turn to slide 12. In Q3, the supply of tonnage and continued economic weakness contributed to the BDI reaching the lowest quarterly average since 1998. The IMF's lower world GDP forecast for 2013 and weaknesses in commodity demand should keep freight under pressure for the near future. Conversely, after having hit a three-year low, Chinese steel prices are showing signs of recovery and the USDA has decreased its forecast of cuts in grain exports; both bringing positive news for drybulk.

Subsequent to Q3 and the reversal of [ph] Eastern (0:15:41), trends Capesize rates markedly improved in October, as spot rates surged to a nine-month high of [ph] $18,288 (0:15:48) a day on October 23. Lower iron ore prices have cut China's domestic iron ore production, increasing Chinese import substitution. In contrast, the Panamax and Handymax rates remain under pressure, as a result of reduced U.S. and FSU grain exports and in iron ore shipments. Lower charter rates should induce more scrapping this year and into next year when an additional 11.6 million deadweight becomes 20 years old.

Please turn to slide 13. World GDP continues to be driven by developing economies. Developing economies now contribute a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies, representing over half of the global consumption of most commodities. The IMF recently lowered its forecast for world growth to 3.3% for 2012 and 3.6% for 2013. Emerging economies are projected to grow at 5.3% in 2012 and 5.6% in 2013. IMF now expects the Chinese economy to grow at 7.8% in 2012 and 8.2% in 2013. India's economic growth is expected to be 4.9% in 2012 and 6% in 2013.

Turning to slide 14; currently, just over 50% of the world's population resides in urban areas. That figure is expected to grow to 67% by 2050, adding approximately 2.8 billion urban residents, with a large portion of urbanization occurring in the Asia-Pacific region. As you can see on the right-hand side graph, growth in income supports increased metal demand. The rise in global income and the shift in the global economy towards Asia should support world bulk trade by increasing movements of raw materials, as shipping patterns adjust to the new global model.

Turning to slide 15; crude steel production in China through October totaled 594 million metric tons or about 2% more than the same period last year. China imported 609 million metric tons of iron ore through October, about 9% more than same period last year. Chart on the upper right depicts estimated iron ore mining capacity from Australia and Brazil graphed against the decline in domestic Chinese iron ore mining. Substitution of imported iron ore for low-quality domestic production is already occurring, as domestic production increased only 1%, while imports have increased 9% year-on-year.

Turning to slide 16; scrapping rates for older, less efficient vessels have continued to accelerate through November 16, 30.5 million deadweight tons have been scrapped. This represents an annual scrapping rate of about 35 million deadweight or close to 6% of the fleet. The current rate environment should keep scrapping levels high, as over 7.2% of the fleet is 25 years of age or older and about 12.5% of the fleet is over 20 years old providing about 84 million deadweight of scrapping potential.

Moving to slide 17, non-deliveries continue to be a substantial part of the drybulk order book. Through October, non-deliveries amounted to 27%, as newbuilding deliveries were 88.4 million deadweight against an expected 120.6 million deadweight. Fleet addition this year is expected to be about the same as 2011, but net deadweight growth should be lower after scrapping is taken into effect. Total order book declines dramatically in 2013 and beyond to about [ph] 50% (0:19:16) of the fleet.

Please turn to slide 18. We currently own 25.2% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners operates a fleet of 21 vessels equaling 2.3 million deadweight with an average age of 5.6 years. Since its inception in 2007, Navios Partners fleet has grown by 261%.

Please turn to slide 19. Navios Partners provides a significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since its start of operations, Navios Partners has grown distributions by almost 27%, and we received about $100 million in distributions from Partners. In 2012, we expect to receive about $28.5 million in distributions. This is more than 100% of Holdings' expected annual dividend. Including Navios Acquisition's dividend, Navios Holdings receives over 137% of its expected annual dividend from its ownership in these two companies.

Please turn to slide 20. We have an approximate 55% economic interest in Navios Maritime Acquisition. Navios Acquisition's current fleet consists of 29 tankers, totaling 3.3 million deadweight. Navios Acquisition currently has 19 vessels in the water with an average age of 5.2 years. We anticipate Navios Acquisition's newbuilding program for product tankers positions them to take advantage of the favorable long-term industry dynamics.

Please turn to slide 21. The company is summarized on slide 21. Navios Acquisition has a large, modern and diversified tanker fleet worth more than $1 billion. Navios Acquisition has long-term contracted revenue and is well above the company's low operating breakeven. This cash flow can sustain Navios Acquisition for a long period in distressed market conditions. Navios Acquisition has profit-sharing arrangements in many contracts. These agreements limit the downside risk to the base rate and allows Navios Acquisition to enjoy the upside volatility. For example, year-to-date, profit-sharing has been triggered in all asset classes.

This concludes my presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis, Senior VP of Strategic Planning. Ioannis?

Thank you, Ted. As you can see on slides 22 and 23, Navios Holdings own 63.8% stake in Navios South American Logistics. Navios Logistics has three segments, all enjoying significant growth prospects.

Our drybulk in Uruguay now has total static storage capacity of 460,000 metric tons, 94% of which has been contracted this year for a period of five years. The construction of a second conveyor belt to double our vessel loading capacity is progressing and is expected to be completed during the first half of 2013.

We have also expanded our liquid port terminal in Paraguay that now has total static storage capacity of 45,700 cubic meters, up from 35,600 cubic meters a year ago. In the barge business, we have acquired one pushboat and six tank barges that were previously chartered-in for an annual cost of $1.7 million. As a result, our voyage expenses will be reduced significantly.

Please turn to slide 24 to discuss the results of the third quarter and the nine months of 2012. We had a strong third quarter in which we accelerated our EBITDA growth. Overall, the revenue decreased by 6% compared to the same period last year to $65 million, while EBITDA for Q3 2012 increased to $13.2 million, 48% higher compared to Q3 of 2011.

Looking into the segments, EBITDA of port terminals in the third quarter increased by 66% to $6.9 million, a result of increased volumes and higher tariffs mainly attributed to the new contracts in our dry port in Uruguay. The 18% decrease in revenue of port terminals is attributed to lower sales product in our liquid port in Paraguay; a low-margin activity that has relatively low impact on EBITDA, but can affect revenue.

Revenue in the barge business increased 4% and EBITDA expanded more than six times to $4 million from $0.6 million in the third quarter 2011, mainly due to the expansion of the barge fleet with three additional [ph] iron ore conveyors (0:23:23). Cabotage business reported a 6% increase in revenue, while EBITDA decreased by 44% to $2.3 million from $4.1 million in the third quarter of 2011, mainly due to [ph] work hires (0:23:36) of certain vessels. Interest expense and finance cost net were $5.1 million in both the third quarter of 2012 and 2011.

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased to $7.2 million as compared to $5.5 million in Q3 of 2011. Our net result for the quarter was a net income of $0.9 million compared to a net loss of $1.5 million in the respective period last year. Turning to the nine-month period ended September 30, 2012, revenue increased by 12% compared to the nine months of 2011 to $188.4 million. EBITDA grew 29% to $37.2 million, driven by the port terminals and the barge business segments.

Interest expense and finance cost net were $15.2 million compared to $11.3 million in the nine months of 2011 due to the interest expense generated by the senior notes issued in April 2011. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased to $20.1 million from $16.6 million in the nine months of 2011. As a result, net income was $0.9 million compared to $1 million in the same period last year.

Please turn to slide 25. Slide 25 provides selected balance sheet data as of September 30, 2012. Navios Logistics has a strong balance sheet. At the end of Q3, cash and cash equivalents were $59.6 million compared to $40.9 million at the end of 2011. Net debt to book capitalization was 30%, down from 35% at the end of 2011 and still conservative overall.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to George Achniotis, Navios Holdings' Chief Financial Officer. George?

Thank you, Ioannis, and good morning, all. Please turn to slide 26 for a review of the third quarter and nine months financial highlights.

I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for comparative purposes, we are presenting the consolidated results of 2011 on a pro forma basis to exclude the results of Navios Acquisition, which was deconsolidated at the end of Q1 2011. Despite the 45% year-on-year reduction in [ph] EBITDA (0:25:45), the TCE rate achieved in the quarter reduced by 18% at $18,785 per day, well above the market. It is a reflection of our prudent charter-in strategy over the past few years.

Despite the 18% reduction in the TCE rate, EBITDA for Q3 reduced by less than 10% to approximately $61 million compared to $67 million in the same period last year. The reduction was partly mitigated by a 13% increase in the available days of the fleet due to the delivery of both owned and charter-in vessels and a 48% increase in the EBITDA contribution from Navios Logistics that Ioannis discussed earlier.

Net income for the period reduced from $16 million in 2011 to about $5 million in 2012. The reduction is mainly attributable to the reduction in EBITDA, higher depreciation due to the increase of the owned fleet in both Navios Holdings and Navios Logistics, and higher interest expense following the issuance of the $88 million add-on to the 2017 [ph] secured bond insurer (0:26:52).

Turning to the highlights of the results for the nine-month period ended on September 30, EBITDA was adjusted for 2011 and 2012 to exclude the effect of several one-off items, primarily the profit from the drop-down of vessels to Navios Partners, expenses relating to the bond extinguishment in January of 2011, and a non-cash accounting loss on the deconsolidation of Navios Acquisition in Q1 2011.

Adjusted EBITDA decreased by approximately 8% to $184 million from $200 million in 2011. Similar to the quarterly results, the main reason for the decrease was the reduction in the TCE rate achieved in the period, and that was mitigated by higher available days in the fleet and significantly higher EBITDA contribution from Navios Logistics. Net income for the nine months of 2012 and 2011 was also affected by the one-off items discussed earlier.

Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted net income for the nine months through September 2012 decreased to approximately $19 million compared to $48 million in 2011. The decrease is mainly attributable to a decrease in EBITDA, an increase in interest expense due to the new bonds issued by Navios Holdings and Navios Logistics, and the higher depreciation due to an increase in the number of owned vessels and barges.

Please turn now to slide 27, where the balance sheet highlights are presented. The cash balance as of September 30, 2012 was over $173 million compared to about $177 million at the end of December 2011. The balance will increase substantially following the $175 million lump sum cash payment to be received as part of the agreement for the restructuring of the credit default insurance.

Long-term debt including the current portion reduced significantly from $580 million at the end of December 2011 to $353 million at the end of September 2012. The reduction is in line with our previous strategy to de-lever and strengthen the balance sheet in order to be able to weather the current distressed market and take advantage of distressed transactions that may become available.

Senior notes increased by $88 million since the year-end, following the issuance of the add-on to the 2017 secured senior notes in June 2012. Despite the prolonged period of depressed rates and vessel values in the drybulk market, our net debt to book capitalization ratio reduced to 49.7% from 50.8% at the end of December 2011 and will further reduce due to the restructuring of the credit default insurance. Finally, I would like to note that we were in compliance with all our debt covenants at the end of the quarter.

Turning to slide 28, the company continues to pay its uninterrupted dividend to shareholders. The dividend for the third quarter of 2012 was $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of December 18 to be paid on January 4. This represents a dividend yield of 6.7% based on yesterday's share price. I would also like to point out that the total annualized cash dividend inflows from our ownership in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition is approximately $34 million. This exceeds the annual dividend paid out by Navios Holdings by over $9 million.

This concludes my review of the financials. At this point, I will turn the call back over to Angeliki for the closing remarks. Angeliki?

Thank you, George, and we'll open the questions to – the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Natasha Boyden of Global Hunter.

Good morning, Natasha.

So, on the [ph] NMM call (0:31:00), you – Angeliki, I think you said that the restructured insurance would last another three years. Is that correct? Does that hold for Navios Holdings as well?

Yes. And I want to correct that because I made a mistake. It's actually 31st of December, 2016. It's actually four years.

I'm sorry. You said December 31, 2016?

Yes. I made a mistake there on the previous call.

Okay. And I think you also said on the call that this whole restructuring came about because the insurance company wanted to get out of the maritime insurance business. Is that also correct?

Yes.

Okay. Did they give any sort of indication as to why they wanted to? Was it just [ph] too much with too much charterer (0:31:43) default or what was the – did they give any reason?

I think it was not a major line of their business, and I think they were just exiting that business. That was not a very major part of their insurance business.

Okay. Okay, fair enough. Now, it obviously still appears that you still have coverage on the remaining case that have not defaulted. But I'm just wondering is, does this new – the newly restructured insurance, I'm assuming that it does not extend to any new assets that you might purchase?

Yes, but I want to repeat one thing. In today's market, if you fix you're going to be below mitigation levels anyway, you have the very low level of the cycle, there is very minimal value to the actual insurance.

Sure, that makes sense. And I kind of – it brings me to my next question. Obviously, with these defaulted charters, I'm assuming that you are going intend to trade the vessels either on a spot market or short-term charters. Obviously no sense in putting it out on long-term charters at these levels?

It doesn't make sense. And in essence, we have a great benefit as Navios Holdings from these arrangements. [ph] You have (0:33:06) to realize that the lump sum payment we'll receive which is $175 million, of which $164 million for defaulted charters is nine vessels; this has an NPV, net present value, of $25 million. It has – we have $11 million excess cash. And if you really see, we also keep the significant market upside. In essence, for every $1,000 we fix above mitigating rates, we're looking at $3.3 million.

So if you take this – this $175 million [ph] in excess (0:33:41) contracted revenue that you were very accustomed to see in our pages, I'd say page eight of our presentation, this should give you our coverage forward. So, today, if you apply this $175 million, you can see that we have a $30 million surplus and still 10,000 days available that provide you, with a $12,000 average rate, will provide you about $120 million of additional cash. So, we are sitting in the trough of this cycle with a very strong liquidity and with the ability to grow further as market recovers.

And the cash you now – the liquidity that you now have on the balance sheet, is that primarily going to go towards debt reduction?

We have allocated about $25 million for debt repayment. On the other side, we are looking that we have about $395 million liquidity. And in this part of the cycle, I think cash is king. Don't forget we have major defaults on the biggest companies because of liquidity or debt maturity. So, we're sitting in a very nice position.

Right. And just lastly, with the remaining ships that you have under charter, have you had any indication from the counterparties that they would want to restructure those or that they might default?

No, we don't have. Actually, the counterparties that we are insuring is about – they're all investment-grade, and we have no indication whatsoever.

Okay, great. Thank you very much for your time.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Christian Wetherbee of Citi.

Good morning. This is Seth Lowry in for Chris. If I can start off just asking a few points of clarification on the restructuring; the $41.2 million that's related to the pool insurance coverage, is that still with that same insurer or is that a different credit default insurer?

It is exactly the same insurer. It's a similar policy with what we had in the past. It's just the amount is reduced. It covers only all the long-term charters.

So would you expect them to eventually exit from that insurance? Will that happen in four years or is there any chance that will happen over the near-term?

No, it won't happen. See, this is a strategy, it's until December 31, 2016.

Okay. And then the migration rates that you give, is it fair to assume within this four-year period – I mean that's essentially how long you have to realize any upside potential in the market above those rates when you re-charter the vessels, right?

This is going to be – listen, you have an NPV benefit of $25 million from the contracted revenues you've brought in. Anything you will receive today above mitigation, it is purely on your – coming to your bottom line. Let's take an example. The 10-year rate for Panamax is about $25,000; for Capes is about $45,000. You do realize this is an amazing potential upside to our bottom line. [ph] We received (0:37:19) all the cash upfront today, with the ability to really sit on $400 million in the trough of the cycle.

Yeah, yeah. Okay. And then I guess lastly if I could just touch on OpEx, I know there's a slight uptick next year, in 2013. Is that a function of chartered-in cost or is that in the owned fleet OpEx?

Sorry. The – actually, the cost goes down by about $200 from $15,953 to $15,751.

I just meant in the daily operating expenses, went from like $6,500 to $7,100?

Yes. It's some charter-in; that's why you have seen an uptick.

Okay. Thank you. I'll turn it over.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Urs Dur of Clarkson Capital Markets.

Good morning and good afternoon.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Okay. So, we've all gone through this restructuring pretty at length, and they're leaving the business. So, we now have to model going forward [ph] anyway (0:38:44) on the new charter rates. So, let's talk about the market going down the road as you see it. Can you discuss with us any current developments in the order book? Is it still declining? Can you discuss a little bit further on the scrapping situation and what's your global macroeconomic view here?

I think I'd let Ted discuss the scrapping and the rates. But the one thing that we will say is that in the current market environment, [ph] it seems (0:39:18) having the $400 million [ph] drybulk to work (0:39:23) and having really – to get the benefit of the [ph] charter adjusted (0:39:29) evaluation. In essence, Navios got [ph] charter adjusted (0:39:33) evaluation and we have the benefit to have the steel price and the contracted revenue and we see that we materialize the full value of these. So with that, I'd like to give it to Ted to give you the market perspective.

Hi, Urs. Let's start with the order book. We're [ph] practically (0:39:51) at the end of what has been a big growth spurt. But it looks like that really is over. Starting in Q4 of this year and going into next year, the order book really starts dropping off dramatically. As a matter of fact, from next year onwards, you have total order book that's on paper is as much as delivered – not even as much as delivering this year what was on order. And when you take out the 27%, 30%, 35% non-deliveries you've gotten down to about 100 million deadweight, which is close to what's over 20 years of age, you're about 84 million.

So, we really see fleet growth slowing down starting really about now in Q4. Having said that, all the research out there is showing us some very good growth rates for next year in tons, but also in ton miles. And again, we also have this whole idea of a lot of iron ore coming on-line again in one of our [indiscernible] (0:40:49) who's selling for Brazil and Australia. So that could reduce the price – continue to reduce the price of the iron ore, which bring a substitution effect. Also, coal is really moving again. So we really have confidence going forward that the rates are going to be higher than they are today.

Right, okay. And I just want to have that point of view, as you probably covered it in the release, but what's the potential uses of all this cash now here?

We will be repaying about $25 million in bank debt and the remaining is really in our balance sheet for working capital purposes. And in essence, we will review the market and assess what is the potential upside for this – for the use of this cash.

[Question Inaudible] (0:41:42)

Don't forget we're always conservative anyway.

Yeah. Just to remind us all, in regards to bank covenants and debt covenants, you are all fine there and this cash payment on the near-term even creates more room, correct?

Exactly.

Okay. I appreciate it. Thank you for your time.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions. I will now return the call to Ms. Frangou for any closing remarks.

Thank you very much for attending our Q3 results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.