Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Kowalcyk — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Midstream Partners LP
Thomas Beney — Senior Vice President, Commercial Affairs, Navios Corporation
George Achniotis — Executive Vice President-Business Development and Director, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Amit Mehrotra — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us this morning's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call for Navios Maritime Holdings. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

This conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website, at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcast link in the middle of the page. In addition, you'll also see the presentation that we referenced in this conference call on that page.

I'd now like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical fact. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause the actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call. Thank you.

We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the team. And after, we'll open the call to take questions.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura. Good morning to all of you who joined us on today's call. We reported revenue of $118.3 million and EBITDA of $26.2 million for the first quarter of 2015. We also announced $0.06 dividend, representing a yield of about 7%.

Slide three highlight our current corporate structure. As you can see, we recently added a new member to the Navios family, Navios Midstream Partners. Navios Midstream Partners officially concluded its IPO in November. The value of Navios Holding primarily derives from five areas, the dry bulk fleet within Navios Holdings and four principle subsidiaries. In Navios Group, the whole appears to be worth less than the sum of the parts. Our interest in NMM and NNA are worth over $4 per share, which is more than NM's current share price. In addition, we own a fleet of 40 vessels and a controlling interest in Navios Logistics of 67%.

Slide four provides our company highlights. As you may probably know, Navios Holdings controls a diverse fleet of 66 modern high-quality vessels with an average age of 7.7 years. Our fleet age is about 12% less than the industry average. There is no getting past the fact that this is a difficult market.

On the top of slide five, we demonstrate that we are experiencing the lowest dry bulk rate environment in the past 30 years. The chart at the bottom represents inflation-adjusted price of the five-year old Panamax over the past 40 years. We adjust the rate for inflation so that we could make a meaningful comparison between periods.

On slide six, we consider the trend in the BDI over the past three months. In February of this year, the BDI recorded 509, their lowest rate in 30 years of recordkeeping. For [ph] context (03:28), this was around 8% than the previous low recorded about 30 years ago, yet in the past three months, the BDI improved by around 20% and is showing signs of further stabilization due to accelerated scrapping and reduced vessel deliveries.

In fact, year-to-date, scrapping has reached a record 16.8 million deadweight tons, about 2.2% of the global fleet. Scrapping this year already exceeded scrapping for the full fiscal year of 2014. And scrapping for 2015 is projected to reach almost 6% of the global fleet. Supply of [ph] this will (04:09) further be constrained if the charter rates continue to be below operating expenses. As then we may also see layoffs of vessels. The market is rationalizing.

Slide seven displays how NM derives its value from different segments. One defining feature of Navios Holdings is that it represented diversified investment vehicle with multiple platforms for stability and growth.

Navios Holdings currently has an enterprise value of about $1.7 billion in dry bulk. It's subsidiaries have their investments in tankers, containers and ports aggregating another $4.4 billion of enterprise value. In addition to the eventual recovery of the dry bulk market and then anticipate it will ultimately unlock value within Navios Logistics.

Slide eight highlights how we have attempted to position Navios Holdings to leverage its stable platform to changing market conditions. First, we made a strong balance sheet. At the end of the first quarter, we had $200.5 million of cash. A decision to issue preferred equity significantly improved our balance sheet and diversified our source of capital. The $170 million of redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock issued in 2014 was attractive to our common stock investors as Navios raised permanent capital without diluting their holdings.

Second, we've created operating efficiencies through our skilled and internal technical managers that provides a significant cash savings. Third, our flexible chartering strategy maximizes our ability to find unique opportunities. Navios Holdings' operating expense is about 33% below the industry average, which translates into an estimated $26.2 million benefit or savings for the last 12 month period.

Our low cash flow breakeven estimated at $9,888 per day provides us a margin of safety for chartering going forward. We are also positioned to capture market recovery with 59.4% of our days fixed for 2015, of which 17.2% are index-linked charters, generally with floors.

Moving on to slide nine, we illustrate our ability to source unique opportunities in a second transaction with HSH Nordbank, we have a letter of intent to acquire 14 vessels, 7 dry bulks, 7 containers with an average age of four years.

The [ph] existing age (06:58) of the transaction are highlighted on this slide for your reference. Perhaps most importantly, you will note that we're investing only $14 million in equity to acquire this young fleet. We will also provide a working capital loan, both the investment and the loan will receive a priority return more favorable than the prior deal with HSH. The entity will not be consolidated or receive any guarantee from any Navios public entity.

Slide 10 highlight our strong liquidity position. We have a conservative balance sheet with a net-debt to capitalization of 51.2% and cash of $200.5 million. As to our cash requirement, the company has no unfunded CapEx and no material debt maturity until 2019. Our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and our operating needs.

Slide 11 provides an overview of the attractiveness of our operating leverage. I'm deeply involved in this effort because it is an essential skill for a transportation company. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels. By doing so, we internalize the cost savings [indiscernible] (08:14) while we have been focusing on this full year, it is more noticed in bad times than good, but it is important always.

Focusing on Navios Holdings, you can see that NM has developed significant efficiencies from economies of scale as our OpEx is 33% below the industry average. Navios Holdings has shared these cost savings with the other members of the group. You can see the benefits [ph] we received (08:41) and transfers to affiliate entities supported by NMM OpEx, which is about 20% below the industry average, and NNA's OpEx which is about 18% below the industry average and NAP OpEx, which is about 7% below the industry average.

As the significant portion of the value of NM is through these entities, it is important that we are able to manage OpEx costs well.

Slide 12 sets forth Navios' low cost structure. As mentioned earlier, for 2015, we have 59.4% of our available days including our index-linked charters at an average contracted daily charter-out rate of $9,424 per day. Our fleet also includes open days plus days contracted with index-linked charters that will provide incremental revenue with an improving charter environment.

I would like to remind you, as I do every quarter, that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, dry docking expense, charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A expense as well as interest expense and capital repayments.

Slide 13 provides details [ph] surrounding (10:01) the company's cash flow potential. For 2015, breakeven cost is estimated at $9,888 per day per vessel. This breakeven rate will allow NM to enjoy significant cash flow as market improves based on the current market rate of $7,756 per day and using our 7,700 open days for our fleet, we expect to be $16.5 million cash flow negative, net of the dividends from our subsidiaries and dividends paid to our preferred shareholders.

However, should rates reverse to historical averages, which are approximately $20,238 per day for the 20-year average and $26,253 per day for the 10-year average, we could earn about $110 million or $176 million in free cash flow, respectively. As this slide illustrates by acquiring asset at attractive values and using innovative methods to keep our costs low, we are well-positioned for the market recovery.

I would like now to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings Senior Vice President Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Our whole fleet consists of 66 vessels totaling 6.6 million deadweight. We're one of the largest dry bulk operators in the world established for over 60 years. We have 59 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.7 years. This is 13% younger than the industry average of 8.8 years.

Please turn to slide 15. We fixed about 59% of our capacity for 2015 including index-linked charters. Our index charters provide us quality counterparties in a difficult market with maximum utilization of our ships. We have also obtained floors of most of our index charters. The average daily charter-out rate for our fleet excluding the index charters, is $9,424 a day for 2015.

As Angeliki previously mentioned and as noted in the bottom of this slide, our vessels operating expenses are 33% below the industry average in all asset classes. This reflects amongst other things our significant economies of scale. The $1,932 daily savings per vessel, when compared to the industry average, results in about $26 million in annual savings, all of which drops directly to our bottom-line. Navios devotes substantial time and effort in creating and maintaining its technical capabilities, particularly important in the low market part of the cycle that we have experienced for the last few months.

Please turn to slide 16. The primary engine of trade growth continues to be China. Dry bulk trade has expanded by 5.4% CAGR in the 13 years since China joined the WTO. Forecast for 2015 are for global dry bulk trade to grow approximately 3%. Ton mile growth is expected to be about 4%. To achieve this growth, analysts believe that the majority of it will be loaded into the second half of 2015.

Net fleet growth is expected to be about 2% leading to favorable supply/demand dynamics, particularly towards the end of 2015. The net fleet growth in 2016 and 2017 looks likely to be even less than 2015 as investors refuse to contract new dry bulk vessels in such a low prospective earnings environment.

Please turn to slide 17. World GDP continues to be driven by developing economies which now contribute a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies, representing over half of the global consumption of most commodities. The IMF projected global GDP growth for 2015 and 2016 at 3.5% and 3.8% respectively, led by emerging and developing markets growth of 4.3% in 2015 and 4.7% in 2016.

Turning to slide 18. Crude oil prices have declined around 50% since June last year. Iron ore, coal and [ph] Brent (14:29) prices have also fallen dramatically. The sharp price drop provides an opportunity for major economies to restock natural resources at relatively little cost while also serving as a catalyst to stimulate GDP growth. Increases in world GDP growth have generally led to rises in marine transportation rates. As I mentioned earlier, world GDP growth is expected to be higher in 2015 and 2016 than it was in 2014. If past patterns continue, higher world GDP leads to improved rates as we experienced after the oil price collapsed during the mid-1980s.

Turning to slide 19, the continued development and urbanization of China, India and the surrounding region will contribute significantly to steel consumption for 2015 and beyond. Infrastructure, housing construction and consumer spending growth underpin future development. Note that Chinese fixed asset investments continue to grow at 12% year-on-year through April. In addition, China exported a record 25.6 million metric tons of steel in Q1 2015 versus 18 million metric tons in Q1 of 2014, a 42% rise year-on-year, leading to unseasonably low steel stocks at Chinese steel mills.

Reports state that Chinese domestic iron ore quality is deteriorating with an effective Fe content that hovers in the 15% range. This compares to 62% Fe content of imported ore. In 2014, Chinese iron ore imports were up 14% year-on-year compared to domestic iron ore production increasing by only 5%. In 2015, we see a similar pattern repeating, Q1 domestic ore production down 8% year-on-year and import up almost 2%. Coupled with this trend, we see iron ore stocks at ports in China at 12 month lows. Accordingly, in this relatively low price environment, it seems that the substitution of low-quality domestic iron ore with imported ore is occurring. This trend is expected to continue.

Please turn to slide 20. Over the past few years, there's been a significant change in the coal trades. China turned from being a net exporter of coal in 2009, only six years ago, to being the world's largest importer in the period 2009 to 2014. 2015 started poorly for Chinese importers and Chinese government came to the aid of its domestic coal mining industry and tackled pollution in its major cities primarily impacting imported coal. As the chart indicates, combined Chinese and Indian imports have increased 26% CAGR between 2006 and 2014.As the urbanization of the Pacific region continues, coal will remain a vital element in bringing electricity to the people who need it most. Combined coal imports of China and India are expected to be flat this year and continue to rise over the next few years driven by Indian imports.

Coal power generation continues to be the lowest cost base to produce electricity, especially important for emerging economies.

Moving to slide 21. For 2014, 48.2 million deadweight tons delivered. The non-delivery rate was 36% led by non-deliveries of 45% and 40% for Panamaxes and Supramaxes, respectively. So far through April 2015, non-deliveries have remained high at 38% with a preliminary 18.9 million deadweight tons delivered against 30.6 million deadweight tons expected.

Net fleet growth this year is expected to be lower than last year with an average of 36% non-deliveries. Estimated actual deliveries will be about 54 million metric tons. With the pace of scrapping running at all-time highs, net fleet growth will be very low this year and is expected to be lower than demand growth, resulting in an improved supply-demand environment going forward, particularly in the second half of this year.

The order book declines for each of the next three years and should remain at current levels. A record 19-year low of only 1.4 million deadweight of dry bulk ships were ordered in the first quarter of 2015. We also note the recent trend to convert newbuilding dry bulk orders to tankers and containerships further reducing the dry bulk order book going forward.

Turning to slide 22. As Angeliki mentioned, we continue to observe the cyclical first year low. Scrapping rates for older lesser fuel-efficient vessels have surged this year. Year-to-date total scrapping is estimated at 16.8 million deadweight surpassing the total for the whole of 2014. With rates continuing below OpEx for most of the dry bulk industry for a fixed rate month, owners of tonnage over 15 years are further encouraged to scrap as intermediate or special survey cost as well as new cost to improve ballast water regulations come on the immediate horizon.

Capesize vessels have been the dramatic scrapping story so far this year with 62 confirmed vessels scrapped and several additional already in contract negotiations. Of the 62 Capesize vessels confirmed, 37 are 20 years of age or younger. In the whole of 2014, the total number of Capes scrapped only reached 26 vessels. About 10% of the remaining total dry bulk fleet is over 20 years old providing about 73 million deadweight further scrapping potential.

Annual 2015 scrapping based on year-to-date figures is projected at 44 million deadweight or approximately 6% of the fleet, which would break all-time scrapping records. Net fleet growth in 2014 was 4.4% with expectations from net fleet growth of about 2% this year. Demolition prices appear to depend on overall steel prices, not on the supply of vessels and are expected to remain steady.

Please turn to slide 23. Since the start of 2015, the dry bulk market has traded down to all-time lows in February of 509 BDI. And since mid-March, it stayed at the range of 580 to 637 BDI. This represents one of the worst quarters in dry bulk history. Looking ahead, it seems fundamentals in both demand and supply start to improve and we have experienced a 20% increase from the low in February. Demand increase is focused on the second half 2015 and scrapping will continue in the current charter rate environment acting as a self-correcting mechanism promoting the idea of a market recovery. Timing of that recovery remains to be seen but forecasters are seeing much demand supply equilibrium by the end of 2015.

This concludes my presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to George Achniotis, our CFO, to go over our financial highlights and review our subsidiaries. George?

Thank you, Tom, and good morning. Please turn to slide 24 for a review of the financial highlights of the first quarter of 2015. EBITDA in the quarter was $26.2 million compared to almost $60 million in 2014. The decrease is mainly attributable to a 43% decrease in a time charter equivalent rate achieved as there was a significant deterioration in the market where we reached the all-time low in the EBITDA. The TCE rate was also adversely affected by the significant re-pricing of bunkers on-board vessels [indiscernible] (22:30) delivered from charters that began before the reduction in fuel prices in the second half of 2014. This only affects our results when there is a material variation in bunker prices between the start of a charter to the deliver of the vessel.

In a declining volume market like the one we have experienced in the second half of 2014, this cost us. In an increasing volume market, we benefit. In the long-term, [indiscernible] (22:54). EBITDA was also affected negatively by $9 million due to the way we account for a pickup of equity and earnings of our affiliated companies. The decrease was partially mitigated by $4 million reduction in G&A expenses between the two quarters.

EBITDA of Navios Logistics improved by 12% from about $14 million in 2014 to about $16 million in 2015. Net loss for the quarter was $26.7 million compared to a net income of $2 million in 2014. The decrease is mainly attributable to the decrease in EBITDA. It was mitigated by $4.5 million decrease in depreciation and amortization.

Please turn now to slide 25 where the balance sheet highlights are presented. We continue to maintain a healthy cash balance. As of March 31, 2015, the cash balance was just over $200 million compared to $250 million at the end of December 2014. The reduction is mainly due to a [ph] $16 million (23:52) participation in the equity raising of Navios Partners in February 2015 and a $31 million repayment of debt in January. The debt repayment is reflected in the reduction of the debt balance on our balance sheet by $31 million since the end of the year. Net debt to book capitalization was 51% compared to 49% at the end of last year.

Turning to slide 26, the company continues to provide the return to the shareholders through its dividend. A dividend for the first quarter of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of June 18 to be paid on June 26. This provides a yield of approximately 7%. On July 15, the company will also pay a dividend of $3.7 million to its preferred equity holders. I would like to point out that the expected annualized dividend to be received from our interest in Navios Partners and Navios acquisition is approximately $47 million. This exceeds the annual dividend to be paid by Navios Holdings by $7 million. Over the next few slides, we will briefly review our affiliates.

Please turn to slide 27. Following the latest equity raising of Navios Partners, Navios Holdings owns just over 20% of the company including a 2% GP interest. Since its inception in 2007, Navios Partners' fleet has grown about four times from eight vessels to 31 with an average charter duration of 3.5 years. I want to remind you that we have repositioned Navios Partners as a container-focused MLP. The company acquired eight container vessels since December 2013, contracted to generate about $1 billion in revenue, representing about 45% of the expected 2015 EBITDA with an average charter duration of about eight years. The result was to solidify the cash flow generation which has enabled the company to provide confirm on our previously existing level of dividends for 2015 and 2016.

Please turn now to slide 28. Navios Partners provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since it started operations, annual distributions from Navios Partners have grown by over 170% from just under $12 million to $32.5 million annually. By the end of 2015, we expect to receive a total of about $200 million in distributions. In addition to distribution, there has been a 46% appreciation of our investment in Partners which is not fully reflected on our balance sheet.

Turning to slide 29. Navios Holdings owns about 46% of Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become one of the top publicly listed tanker owners among its U.S. and European peers with one of the youngest in the water fleets. In Q4 2014, Navios Acquisition formed Navios Midstream Partners, an MLP, with four VLCCs providing a platform in the [ph] world (26:54) sector for dividend seeking investors and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA.

Navios Acquisitions currently consist of 39 tanker vessels, all of which are in the water, generating cash flows. The fleet is 88% employed for 2015 and almost 72% for 2016. Almost 50% of the remaining 2015 days have profit sharing. The Q1 run rate in [indiscernible] (27:22) NNA EBITDA in excess of $210 million for 2015. To protect its stakeholders, the company has consistently matched its income statement to its balance sheet and adopted a chartering strategy that balances credit risk and market opportunities.

Please turn to slide 30. Navios Acquisition also provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Including the expected 2015 dividends, Navios Acquisition will provide about $50 million in distributions since the start of operations in 2010. The value of Navios Holdings in previous Navios Acquisitions has appreciated by 21%. The results are not fully reflected in our balance sheet.

And this concludes my presentation. At this point, I will turn the call over Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South American Logistics.

Thank you, George. Slide 31 provides an overview of the business of Navios Logistics and slide 32 presents the company's highlights.

We're continuing the development of a new iron ore terminal that we serviced at [ph] 20-year (28:25) Storage and Transshipment Contract with Vale. We have completed the civil and mechanical engineering designs and we are completing the remaining regulatory processes which will allow us commence the next phase of construction. We expect to invest approximately $150 million in the facility, and we expect a minimum annual EBITDA of $35 million.

Please turn to slide 33. In the past four years, EBITDA has been growing at 20.6% CAGR. In Q1 2015, EBITDA grew 12%, reaching $15.6 million.

On slide 34, we'll discuss the results for the first quarter of 2015. Port segment EBITDA increased by 31% to $5.5 million as more cargo moved in both our dry and liquid terminals during the quarter. The increase in the port segment revenue to $26.5 million from $9.5 million in the same period last year is largely attributed to $15.4 million higher sales of fuel in our liquid port. This is an opportunistic low-margin trading activity with relatively small but positive EBITDA contribution.

Barge business EBITDA increased by 59% or $6.4 million from $4 million in the same period last year benefiting mainly from the operation of the three convoys under long-term time charter out contracts that started operations in Q2 last year. This year, we will see the full year contribution of these convoys and we expect to take delivery of another three push boats in Q3 2015 allowing us to form another three convoys with barges that we have already taken delivery.

Cabotage business EBITDA decreased 35% to $3.7 million compared to $5.8 million last year, mainly due to more dry bulking days compared to Q1 2014. The increase in EBITDA was partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization. As a result, net income in Q1 2015 was $0.8 million compared to $0.2 million loss last year.

Please turn to slide 35. Navios Logistics had a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of Q1 2015 was $77.6 million compared to $71.9 million at the end of 2014. Net debt to book capitalization was 44% compared to 45% at the end of 2014.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. And we open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Ben Nolan of Stifel.

Thanks and nice quarter despite a tricky environment. My first question relates to something that actually – related to the partners. Noticed that in the fourth quarter or in the first quarter they chartered out a number of their vessels and it looks like a number of them were to holdings and the rates were approximately $12,000 a day, which is a little bit better than the market, but just curious how you guys were thinking about that? How you think about maybe supporting the partnership on a go-forward basis in that way? How do you weigh the appropriate price to pay relative to the market and also giving support to the partnership?

You know that's a nice question. Good morning. First of all, the reason the market – the rate also reflects that you are going into Q4, in the better part of the next year. So that automatically – rates today that you see is more shorter excluding the Q4.

And, secondly, of course, we have an important interest in NMM and that makes sense. I mean, we see that eventually there will be some kind of recovery. And at the end of the story, it makes sense for acquisition.

Okay. And is it fair to think that you guys are sort of in the market to continue doing that going forward as contracts at the partnership roll off?

Yes. To be honest, we prefer to take that away from Navios Partners and to be able to have the – [ph] and do the fixtures (33:02) for ourselves. For 2015, as you know, there is zero exposure on NMM.

Right. Right. And certainly that's the case now. Okay. So my next question relates to sort of the cash breakeven, and that's obviously been one of the things that has been beneficial to you guys over the years and remain so. I was curious though, I know that you guys have several – I believe it's two remaining newbuilds that are scheduled for delivery later this year and next year. And is the CapEx...

We have for next year [indiscernible] (33:45)...

Right.

...we have nothing for this year. [indiscernible]

(33:48) Okay. So when looking at the CapEx associated with those, there's nothing in the breakeven, or I shouldn't include anything on a breakeven associated with the CapEx on those, is that correct?

There is nothing but don't forget the equity has already been paid but reality is that [indiscernible] (34:09) for 2016.

Okay. And on those vessels specifically, have you been able to procure any financing on them at this point?

So we don't have a problem. I mean, we can say that it easily can be done with at least two, three banks we know that we're very close.

Right. Okay. And then quickly shifting gears a little bit to the South American business, looks like things are continuing to progress. I was just really curious on an update with the timing. I know that – for the Vale contract specifically, I know that it kind of have been slipping a bit. Do you guys have sort now an updated start date as to when that should begin to generate revenue? Has it changed at all?

It's the same, mid-2016.

I'm sorry, 2015?

2016. 2016. Next year.

2016. Yeah. Okay. And then associated with that – and this is sort of my last question here – is I believe that Vale had an option to upsize the facility if they wanted to. Could you remind me when they need to declare that and if you've had any discussions with them that would lead you to believe they may or may not?

They don't need to declare an option. The port is actually built for 10 million tons. The actual minimum support of Vale is 4 million tons, and they can go up to 6 million tons. So our construction allow us to go up to 10 million tons.

Okay. That's great. And there was the potential to sell other capacity away from them. Have you – just out of curiosity, have you guys been marketing that excess capacity at this point?

I think commodity volatility you see is not – I think, we'll wait for the construction to be completed. And then we will find the appropriate. We know that at least one more mine will be opened there. So there will be additional volumes. But we don't do anything right now. We think that time is to our advantage.

Okay. Great. All right. Well, that does it for me. I'll turn it over for anyone else. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Amit Mehrotra of Deutsche Bank.

Yeah. Thanks so much. Good morning, afternoon, everybody. You know, in the presentation, you referred to sort of some of the parts analysis to imply that NM is trading in a pretty substantial discount to the intrinsic value. And that's really been the case for some time now. But given where, sort of, we are in the dry bulk cycle, hopefully the trough, are there things, Angeliki, that you're exploring to maybe proactively capture or exploit that discount? Or is this just really going to be a waiting game until maybe the market gives you a little bit more credit for the value of the subsidiaries?

We always care about shareholder return and this is something we are reviewing as a company.

Right. I mean, is there...

I mean...

Go ahead.

I know what you are saying about the buyback versus – is that what you're mentioning?

Well, yeah. I mean, so, obviously, a buyback could be one way of capturing that value. But any other proactive moves that maybe you guys are exploring because there clearly is a disconnect between the value of your stakes in the publicly traded subsidiaries and the value of NM?

I think the one we're exploring is a buyback which is in existence, and as we see our share price moving the way it is, it may make sense to be reactivated.

Okay. And then just one question on the market in general, you talked about scrapping and I think you mentioned that there's 2% net fleet growth expected this year. I just want to understand what that assumes from scrappage in terms of extrapolating the really strong results that we've had here to-date from a scrap standpoint into the remainder of the year? And is that the correct way to look at it? I mean, would you still expect the sort of same level of scrappage to sort of extrapolate into say the back half of this year?

Actually, if you – it actually takes into consideration that the scrapping will be a little bit reduced because if you are actually moving at the rate we have the net growth will be less than 1%.

Okay. So you're assuming that...

We are assuming that during the summer, which is a monsoon time, there's a little bit of less scrapping rate because the rate of scrapping is reduced a little bit.

Right. Okay. That's great. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions. I will now return the call to Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes the first quarter results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.