Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Thomas Beney — Senior Vice President-Commercial Affairs, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Noah R. Parquette — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Prashant Rao — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for Navios Maritime Holdings Second Quarter and First Half 2017 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Angeliki Frangou; Chief Financial Officer, George Achniotis; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Tom Beney; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Ioannis Karyotis.

As a reminder, this conference call is being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors Section of Navios Maritime Holdings website at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcast link in the middle of the page and a copy of the presentation referenced in today's earnings conference call can also be found there.

Now, I'll review the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause the actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements. Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Security and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call.

The agenda for today's conference call is as follows. We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the management team and after we'll open the call to take questions.

Now, I turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. Please turn to slide 3, where we provide our company highlights. Navios Holdings controls directly 64 modern dry bulk vessels and manages almost 200 vessels in its broader fleet. Fleet size creates efficiencies and purchasing power. It also allow us to develop operating leverage through proprietary processes and technical competency. As a result, our operating costs are estimated to almost 40% below the average of our listed peers.

Slides 4 and 5 illustrate a diversified universe of companies. Navios is a global brand with significant scale and deeply rooted industry relationships. Navios Holdings value derives from the dry bulk fleet it holds directly and its equity interest in other entities that's on tankers, dry bulk and container vessels. Each of these entities has a strong balance sheet and a healthy cash flow.

Today, the share price of Navios Holdings is [ph] about (02;37) the market price of its stakes in its public subsidiaries, but over time we believe that the intrinsic value of this company will be realized. We have two things of note to report this quarter. First, we wanted to provide an update on the status of the iron ore transshipment facility built by our South American operations.

During the second quarter, Vale commenced using the terminal. Vale unloaded approximately 33,000 metric tons of iron ore to create a bed for the stockpile area and subsequently transshipped about 41,000 metric tons of iron ore. This generated approximately $0.8 million of revenue.

Vale has since been building a stockpile of about 160,000 metric tons of oil. We're expecting transshipments to continue ad hoc in Q3. Beginning October 2017, Vale's minimum transshipment obligation under the take-or-pay agreement commences. As a result, we can reasonably expect revenue of about $10.3 million for the fourth quarter of this year.

Second, the dry bulk market has improved and continues to improve on a daily basis. As you can see, on slide 6 that BDI has recovered 330% from the 2016 historical low. More importantly, the BDI still must appreciate about 83% fully to reach the 20-year average. We are observing period charters increasing materially. A Capesize vessel was just fixed for 29,000 for one year. Navios Holdings has three Capesize vessels opening in September.

Slide 7 details a favorable positioning. Our balance sheet is strong, we had $134.7 million in cash at the end of the second quarter, we also have no committed growth CapEx and no significant debt maturities until 2019.

We diligently focus on cost management, while maintaining scale, so that we can enjoy industry-leading operating efficiencies. We control what we can through our essential management services, whereby commercial management is done at cost and includes all sale and purchase transactions, charter transactions, financial transactions with no additional fee.

We will use a similar approach for technical management and administrative services. With that effort we decreased our G&A expenses by 52% over the past two years, based on our run rate G&A expense, for the first half of 2017.

Also, in 2016, we created almost $40 million in estimated operating cost savings, when compared with our listed peers. We recently sold two Handymax vessels for $11.8 million net profit. These vessels were a part of the collateral package of our secured notes, and they were replaced with a 2006-built Panamax vessel, which was added to the collateral package of the note.

As I stated previously we created Navios Maritime Containers Inc. to focus on opportunities within the container sector. Navios containers raised $50.3 million of gross profit to a private placement offering on the Oslo-OTC market and use these proceeds along with debt financing to acquire a 14-container vessel fleet. These vessels have a scrap value of approximately $90 million which equates to approximately 76% of the acquisition price. Additionally, the vessels have $45 million of contracted EBITDA and $60 million of contracted revenue attached to them.

As you can see, the risk reward characteristics were very compelling for Navios Containers and these vessels should provide significant upside in a recovering market, and then owns about 10% of the equity and has a warrant for an additional 1.7% of the equity.

Slide 8 shows our free cash flow upside we can capture in a recovery market. For the remaining six months of 2017, we expect our fleet open days including days with index-linked charters and profit sharing would provide incremental revenue of almost $6.5 million for every $1,000 increase in market rate.

Using the 20-year average rate, we would generate about $70 million in additional revenue for the remaining six months of 2017. This represents about $140 million in additional revenue on an annualized basis.

Slide 9 sets forth Navios cost structure for the second half of 2017. Our expected daily revenue is $11,795 per day. We fixed 43.3% of our available days at an average daily rate of $8,606 and revenue increases by $2,549 per day to reflect the expected impact of current market rate on our open and index days. To this of total of $11,155 we need to add the $640 daily positive effect of the NNA dividend, which brings us back to our daily revenue of $11,795 per day.

After the breakeven, our cost for 2017 is expected to be $10,998 per day. Our cost include all operating expenses, scheduled drydocking expense, charter-in expenses for our charter-in fleet, G&A cash expenses, as well as interest expense and capital repayment.

Slide 10 highlights our strong liquidity position. Net debt to book capitalization was 67.5% and we had cash of $134.7 million and $141.2 million in total liquidity. We have no committed shipping growth CapEx or any material debt maturities until 2019.

I would like now to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings, Senior Vice President of Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Slide 11 presents our diversified dry bulk fleet, consisting of 64 dry bulk vessels, totaling 6.6 million deadweight, split between Capesize, Panamax and Supramax, Handy. We continue to be one of the largest U.S. listed dry bulk operators in the world, established over 60 years ago. We have 64 vessels on the water with an average age of 8.1 years. This is 8% younger than the industry average. Navios Group's total fleet of 181 vessels includes 47 tankers, 33 container vessels, and 101 dry bulkers, and is one of the most diversified public shipping groups.

Slide 12 shows about $40 million of estimated operating cost savings of Navios Holdings in 2016. To measure our efficiencies, we compared our operating cost to the published results of our peers. We computed our peers' operating cost by reviewing their 20-Fs and related disclosures.

As you can see on slide 12, our analysis show that Navios Holdings operating costs were estimated at approximately 40% lower than the average of the listed peers. These efficiencies translate into savings of about $40 million in 2016. We believe that these savings demonstrate a substantial competitive benefit we can generate and the value it delivers to all our stakeholders. And we believe by computing our efficiencies, based on actual operating results is the most persuasive way to demonstrate actual savings.

Turning to slide 14, global economic prospects worldwide are improving according to the IMF. World GDP forecast for 2017 and 2018 are 3.5% and 3.6% respectively, suggesting accelerated dry bulk demand. Emerging market growth predominantly in the Asian region is the major driver of the GDP growth of 4.6% in 2017 and 4.8% in 2018. Growth in advanced economies, such as Europe, Japan and the USA, also seems to be accelerating, as industrial production turns positive.

Between 2014 and 2015, dry bulk trade remained flat, with 2016 showing increase of about 1.3%. Dry bulk trade growth is set to accelerate in 2017 and is forecasted to grow by 3.4%.

The Chinese government has been conscientious in stimulating their economy and GDP growth. Chinese economic policy has been instrumental in supporting dry bulk trades. Increased loan initiations for housing and infrastructure supported the Chinese construction industry and steel demand.

In January 2017, loan initiations from Chinese banks reached a new high, further supporting fixed asset investments which have increased by 16% June year-to-date.

At current BDI levels, the dry bulk market is about 330% above the all-time low of 290% in February 2016, with substantial upside as it still remains 45% below the 20-year average. The recovery in dry bulk rates continues. The BDI average in the first half of 2017 was doubled the average in the first half of 2016.

Slide 15 shows demand for iron ore. Global iron ore seaborne trade is expected to rise by 77 million metric tons or 5.5% in 2017. Since 2007, global iron ore trade has grown by 12% CAGR. China accounts for about 70% of the world's seaborne iron ore imports. Steel production in China continues to remain very firm, up 5% year-to-date. Higher Chinese domestic demand for steel has been stimulated by large government backed infrastructure projects and recovery in the Chinese housing market.

Chinese steel exports have decreased to manage the growth in domestic demand. So, steel production in the rest of the world has to increase to cater for the shortfall, further aiding the seaborne iron ore shipments.

In 2016, imports of iron ore into China exceeded 1 billion tons for the first time. 2017 imports were forecast to increase by another 7.3% or 73 million metric tons. Year-to-date, we see Chinese iron ore imports up an impressive 9%.

Of note, on Brazilian exports, which are forecasted to grow by over 20 million tons in 2017, which will further boost ton miles. The main increases in Brazilian shipments are expected to occur in the second half of 2017, which should provide a basis for improving charter rates.

Please turn to slide 16, 2016 saw the Chinese coal markets start to restructure. Domestic coal production reduced by about 9% or approximately 300 million tons and imports of coal surged by 20% or about 40 million tons.

The Chinese government continues to rationalize domestic coal production, closing down small inefficient mines and incurring consolidation of larger mining groups. It is expected that the restructuring of the Chinese coal industry will continue to encourage imports as inefficient unsafe polluting mines are closed.

Electricity consumption in China continues to rise in 2017 by about 7.5% up to end July. Chinese thermal power generation rose by 8.2% to the end of July. With hydro production having issues with low rainfall, the demand for coal continues to rise, encouraging both an increase in domestic production and an increase in imports.

Through June 2017, coal imports are up by about 16%, that trend looks likely to continue. China imports less than 10% of its annual coal consumption, but with the domestic coal price delivered to Guangzhou about $12 a ton above import prices, the market continues to incentivize imports.

Turning to slide 17, agricultural production worldwide continues to increase, 2016 saw an increase in world trade of 21 million tons to 481 million tons. In 2017, forecast offer further increase of 5.1% or 24 million tons. Worldwide grain trade has grown by 5.3% CAGR since 2008 mainly driven by Asia. Demand increases are focused on Asian economies and especially China, where incomes are raising, these areas tend to be further afield from major agricultural product exporters helping ton miles, which have grown by over 6% CAGR since 2009.

Grain is an inefficient cargo, loading delays due to complicated logistics and weather issues make total voyage days increase, absorbing ship capacity. The main export countries for grain tend to be Atlantic-based and the main import regions are Pacific-based. This also contributes to longer haul routes and increased ton miles. High grain demand particularly helps Panamaxes and Supramaxes during Q3 and into Q4, the grain harvest in the Northern Hemisphere will continue to fuel increases in seaborne shipments.

Moving to slide 18, up to the end of July 2017, 30.3 million deadweight of new build vessels delivered versus an expected delivery of 45.8 million tons, maintaining a high pace of non-deliveries at 34%. As of January 1, the 2017 order book stood at 58.1 million deadweight, using a 35% non-delivery rate for the year, it is estimated that about 38 million tons will actually deliver, with about 10.1 million ton scrap so far in 2017, net fleet growth will continue to be low. With little incentive toward the newbuildings and a 15-year low in the order book at 7.5% of the fleet, dry bulk fundamentals going forward should continue to improve.

Turning to slide 19, 2016 ended the net fleet growth of 2.2%, the lowest percent in many years. Through July 2017, the pace of scrapping has fallen as charter rates have improved, however, 10.1 million tons of scrap year-to-date, maintaining the current scrapping pace in non-deliveries will produce another net fleet growth this year.

There is an increasing pool of potential scrap candidates with bulkers 20 years or over representing about 7.3% of the total fleet.

With new regulations regarding Ballast Water Treatment Systems and sulfur emissions restrictions coming into force, all the ships will continue to scrap. We note that the current average Capesize, Panamax scrap price in Bangladesh of $415 per lightweight ton is 46% higher than at the same time last year, which should encourage demolitions.

Scrap income further increased with the deactivation of some of the converted VLOC vessels. There are currently 50 of these vessels over 20 years of age, however, only 47 are actually trading, with three currently in lay up in Malaysia.

These vessels are facing increased hurdles to continue trading and we believe will be phased out over the next few years. With dry bulk demand continuing to accelerate and outpace net fleet growth, the market fundamentals look – set to improve.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis for the Q2 financial results.

Thank you, Tom. Please turn to slide 20 for the review of the Navios Holdings financial highlights for the second quarter and first half of 2017. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $31.3 million compared to $31 million in 2016.

EBITDA and net income for the quarter were adjusted to exclude $5.1 million book loss from the sale of the Navios Horizon and $4.7 million allocated loss due to the impairment of NNA's investment in NAP.

EBITDA was positively affected by a 12% increase in revenues, mainly due to an increase in both the available days of the fleet and the time charter equivalent rate achieved in the period.

EBITDA was negatively affected by a reduction in equity net earnings of our affiliated companies, mainly due to the weaker result of NNA.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first half 2017 was $48.9 million compared to $61.6 million in the first half of 2016. In addition to the items that affected the Q2 EBITDA, the first half results were adjusted to exclude a $9.1 million book loss relating to the sale of the Navios Ionian. EBITDA net income for the first half of 2016 were also adjusted to exclude $14.9 million compensation received for the earlier delivery of a claimer vessel from its charter. A more revealing comparison is between Q1 and Q2 2017 revenue and EBITDA.

Overall, revenue increased by $23.3 million, of which $7.7 million is due to an increase in shipping revenue and $15.6 million from logistics. EBITDA over the two quarters increased by $13.8 million, $7.3 million due to the shipping and $6.5 million due to logistics. If we strip out from the shipping EBITDA, the effect of the earnings of our affiliates, there is almost a dollar for dollar increase between revenue and EBITDA in our shipping business. As the dry bulk market continues to improve, we expect a significant increase in the profitability of our business.

During the quarter, we recorded an adjusted net loss of $27.4 million compared to a net loss of $26.4 million in 2016. This small reduction is mainly due to an increase in interest expense. Adjusted net loss for the first half of 2017 was $67 million compared to a net loss of $56 million in 2016. The reduction was mainly due to the reduction in EBITDA.

Moving to slide 21 in our balancing highlights, on June 30, 2017, we had about $135 million in cash compared to $141 million at December 31, 2016. The balance does not include $6.5 million net proceeds from the sale of Navios Horizon, which was delivered in Q3. The reduction is mainly due to the completion of the construction of the port in Uruguay. This is also reflected in the increase in fixed assets and did increase for deposits for vessels, terminals and other fixed assets.

Net debt to book capitalization at the end of Q2 was 67.5% compared to 64.8% at the end of last year. The ratio is expected to decline following the completion of the port in Uruguay and the EBITDA generation from the 20-year contract with Vale. Over the next few slides, we will briefly review our subsidiaries.

Please turn to slide 22, Navios Holdings owns about 21% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners owns a fleet of 37 vessels, 30 dry bulk and 7 containers. NMM also owns about 60% of Navios containers, a growth vehicle dedicated to containers.

NMM is a unique platform expected to generate significant cash flow with no significant near term maturities. The company is currently in the process of renewing its dry bulk fleet with younger and larger vessels. So far this year, it has added seven vessels with an average age of 7.4 years and has sold one 17-year-old vessel. Through this process, its dry bulk fleet size has increased by 33% or 1 million deadweight tons.

Turning to slide 23, Navios Holdings owns about 46% of Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become a leading tanker company with 36 modern high-quality vessels with an average age of 6.5 years, diversified between crude, product and chemical tankers. All vessels are on the water generating cash flow and provide cash flow visibility as the fleet is 94% fixed for 2017.

The strategy of the company continues to provide charters that outperform the market. In fact, for the first half of 2017, the charter rates achieved were 51% higher than the spot market average, translating into $39 million of additional revenue, when compared to the market average.

NNA is also the sponsor of Navios Midstream Partners, an MLP with six VLCCs, providing a platform in the [ph] wet (24:00) sector for dividend seeking investors, and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA. NNA expects to receive about $21.3 million in distributions from Navios Midstream in 2017, and has received almost $50 million distributions from Navios Midstream since 2015.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South American Logistics results.

Thank you, George. Slide 24, provides an overview of the Navios Logistics business. Navios Logistics operates three port terminals. One for grain, one for iron ore, and one for liquid cargos. Navios Logistics complements its ports business with its barge fleet for river transportation and product tanker fleet for coastal cabotage trade.

Please turn to slide 25, the new iron ore terminal is transformational for Navios Logistics. We are excited to see operations now underway, and iron ore moving through the conveyer belt and loaded on to ships for export.

During the second quarter, Vale commenced using the iron ore terminal generating revenue of about $0.8 million in the quarter. Vale has since been building their stockpile and we expect our shipments to continue ad hoc in the third quarter.

Beginning in October, Vale's minimum transshipment obligation under the take-or-pay agreement commences. As a result, we expect revenue of about $10.3 million for the fourth quarter of this year from the Vale Port contract.

Based on 4 million tons annual throughput, we expect to generate $35 million EBITDA per year Vale also has an option to transit 2 million tons per year in addition to the minimum guaranteed quantity, which would provide an incremental expected EBITDA of another $15 million. If the terminal operate it at its 10 million tons design capacity annually, then the total expected EBITDA of the terminal would reach 85 million tons. The graph on the left shows the significant effect of the new terminal on Navios Logistics consolidated annual EBITDA.

In addition, the contract includes annual tariff adjustment clauses with escalators such that it is reasonable to expect approximately $1.2 billion of cumulative EBITDA over the 20-year contract period, which is presented on the graph on the right.

Please turn to slide 26, the Corumbá region's mines produce iron ore of exceptional quality. According to Wood Mackenzie, the lump ore produced in the region commence a price premium of approximately $25 per ton to the 62% Sinter Fines benchmark. The Corumbá mines output is expected to rebound to approximately 5 million tons per annum in the short-term with a potential to increase up to 13 million tons per annum to 14 million tons per annum by 2025. We believe that our newly build terminal will be the most efficient port to service export volumes from the region.

Slide 27 reviews our results. Q2 2017, revenue increased 1% to $59.4 million, and EBITDA decreased 7% to $19.3 million. Q2 2017, port segment revenue was 41% higher compared to the same period last year and EBITDA increased 29% to $10 million. The EBITDA increase is mainly attributable to the better performance of the grain terminal.

In the barge segment, Q2 revenue decreased 16% and EBITDA decreased 34% to $6 million. The decrease is mainly attributable to the expiration of certain long-term iron ore transportation contracts during the second half of 2016.

Cabotage business Q2 EBITDA was $3.3 million compared to $3.9 million in the same period last year, mainly due to lower fleet utilization. Net income in Q2 2017 was $4.4 million compared to $7.4 million net income in the same period last year, mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA, higher depreciation and amortization, interest expense net and lower income tax benefit.

Turning to the financial results for the six-month period ending June 30, 2017, revenue decreased 9% to $103.2 million, EBITDA decreased 30% to $29.3 million and net income amounted $1.4 million from $13 million in the same period last year, mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA.

Please turn to slide 28. Navios Logistics had a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of Q2 2017 was $62.9 million compared to $68.1 million at the end of 2016. The increase in debt reflects the $14 million bank loan that finance the $11.2 million acquisition in May of two product tankers previously under capital lease and the extinguishment of the $16.5 million capital lease obligation. Net debt to book capitalization remained at 48% unchanged compared to the year-end 2016.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This completes our formal presentation. We open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Noah Parquette of JPMorgan.

Thanks. Hey, I just wanted to start on the iron ore port first. So, you talked a little bit about the capacity that you still have remaining, can you give some more color on where you are in that process, in the discussions and perhaps what kind of timing we could expect on that?

As you know the port is – first good morning, and as you know the port is built for 10 million tons, the minimum guarantees for Vale, they can go up to 6 million tons. So, on the additional 4 million capacity, what we are looking is, there is a port – a mine upriver that we are discussing. We are in the process. But, our first priority has been to establish the operation of the port, make sure that we have a smooth loading of the vessel as well as unloaded barges doing [indiscernible] (30:54) in the different operations. So, we are in the process, it takes time, [indiscernible] (31:02) a good contract, we know that that mine had a capacity of growing another 2 million tons.

So – and we have also done a very thorough survey by an independent company on the different mines in the Corumbá, their levels of stability, meaning at what level of iron ore price they will be profitable to transshipped, because the quality of the Corumbá iron ore is at a higher level and [indiscernible] (31:38). So we have done a lot of analysis on that and we have spent the time in order to approach all our clients and again see how we can maximize the full value of the $10 million.

Okay. Great. That's really helpful. And then just broader, within the Corumbá region, you had noted a fall off in iron ore production for the past few years. Any expectation that rebounds? Can you talk a bit why you expect that production to rebound, is it essentially a function of the global iron ore price or is there something else going on?

One of the most important things you have to realize is that for delivery before the transshipment port which was the only iron ore day-to-day port in the area, the cost of bringing the iron ore down was more expensive. So today with a port facility we have, it significantly reduce the cost of the – the cost for transporting this iron ore. Secondly, you can create a stockpile down by the mark of the river, and thirdly, the quality of this iron ore is of a much better quality, which means it commands a much higher price. So, for even on today, it's about $20 to $30 additional, I mean, for any price that you have on the standard iron ore is another $30 because of the higher quality.

Also, when consideration of the iron quality, and pollution is taken into the equation, you realize that this iron ore makes far more sense.

Okay, that's great. And then just moving on to the barge business, we saw a nice little pickup there this quarter. What's going on there, have you been able to kind of put more charter contracts on your barge fleet, and will the improvement in port transshipments help the barge business in the future?

Yes, that is a key element that you have to realize. The barge business, yes is weak, but as the iron ore port start and we will have the 4 million tons down the river that will create the need for another 35 [ph] convoys, that consumes (34:18), quite a significant amount of the – of the barge capacity existing. I mean just to realize Navios only has four today dedicated on iron ore.

So overall, the [indiscernible] (34:35) will create a tightening of the conditions of the river. Just to take it historically, I mean the river used to be 8 million tons ore and it last year dropped to about 1.5 million tons – less than 2 million tons, so you realize that going backup creates quite – it absorbs capacity.

Okay. That's really helpful. And then just one final question on cabotage, again nice rebound here. Can you talk a little bit what was causing the low utilization in the past few quarters and what happened this quarter that was different?

Q1 is seasonally lower quarter and as we explained in the first quarter, we also had a dry dock and we had [indiscernible] (35:34) because we had a significant repairs in one of the vessels. So we have – we didn't have this event this quarter. This improved the utilization quarter-on-quarter.

Okay. That's all I had. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.

Hi. Good morning. This is Prashant on for Chris. I wanted to pick up just asking about the barge business there. So, just thinking of the sense of how much upside there could be, there is more volume capacity retaking as the port terminals ramp up. How should we think about the EBITDA upside? And then just as a reminder, the contract that expires in 2016, how much of the losses – how much capacity did that contract take up in 2015 that freed up this year, just so we can get a rough sense of what the math would look like?

I will let Ioannis to go through the details. But I want to go first on the barge business. The barge business in 2017 with a minimum guarantee of our port with inevitably grow high, because you will have a tighter condition.

Now, at the macro level that I would like to give you a view is that, port become a more prominent part of our business and then more substantial. If you pro forma the minimum guarantee of $35 million EBITDA of Vale, you will have of – let's say over $95 million, you will have about $65 million just on port. So, the barge and the cabotage business will be much smaller percentage of our overall business. Just to realign it [ph] now this also make (37:23) logistics will be almost two thirds port.

Okay. That's helpful.

Regarding the convoys that we're under a long-term iron ore contracts we've had nine convoys that were under long-term iron ore contracts that expired in 2016, and we have another four that continue until 2020.

Okay, four till 2020. Okay. Thanks. That's very helpful. And then, understanding that the EBITDA generation from cabotage, it's going to be a smaller percentage as you ramp-up with the port percentage [indiscernible] (38:04), I just wanted to ask one small question, I understood, you're getting a refining a river tanker in the first half. Just wanted to talk about a little bit about the energy business, where you've talked about iron ore and grain movements in South America, but are there any – is there any sort of headwind that's – just sort of wanted to get some color actually just on the refined product environment, and whether or not you're seeing some sort of a pick-up in movement of those products that should help the cabotage business a bit in the back half or into 2018?

Yes. As you know, in our port we have developed about a little bit more than half land. We can easily – we see it potentially, you've seen Argentina how it's developing and overall river system is important. And where we see that gas and oil can become an area of where we can expand our port facility and we have sufficient land. We have a little bit less than half of the land to develop that and we can also use [indiscernible] (39:18) which was you have sufficient areas where you can use. So that is an area we are looking and we think there will be potential for further growth on that boat segment.

Okay. Thanks very much. That's it from me. I appreciate the time.

Thank you.

Thank you. I'll now turn the call to Ms. Angeliki Frangou for any final remarks.

Thank you. This concludes our Q2 results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.