Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Kowalcyk — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Thomas Beney — Senior Vice President, Commercial Affairs, Navios Corporation
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Omar Nokta — Analyst, CIS Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Fourth Quarter and 2014 Earnings Conference Call for Navios Maritime Holdings. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

This conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the "Investors" section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website, at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcast link on the page. Also, in the "Investors" section of the website is a presentation which our presenters will reference in this conference call.

I'd now like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference could contain forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical fact. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause the actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call. Thank you.

We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the team. And after, we'll open the call to take your questions.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Ms. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We are pleased with our results for the fourth quarter of 2014. We reported revenue of $148.8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $37.8 million. We also announced a $0.06 dividend, representing a yield of about 6.0%.

Slide three highlights our current corporate structure. As you can see, we recently added a new member to the Navios family, Navios Midstream Partners. NM holds an indirect economic interest of about 27%. We were pleased that Navios Midstream Partners successfully concluded its IPO in November, despite unexpected headwinds that developed in the energy space. [indiscernible]

(02:12) success is attributed to the strength of the Navios brand. [indiscernible] (02:17) normal for the price of oil, we expect that the Navios Midstream Partners to add considerable strength to our Group in the near term. The value of the Navios Holdings primarily derives from five areas: in dry bulk through the Navios Holdings and four principal subsidiaries.

In our view, the whole is still valued at less than the sum of the parts, and we feel that the stock price does not adequately reflects the value of Navios Holdings' core business and Navios Logistics' operations in South America. Today, the Navios Group controls 148 vessels, and it is a significant force in the shipping industry. Navios Logistics is a major player in the Hidrovia region of South America and is in the process of expanding exports to support the Vale contract, which we expect to generate a minimum of $35 million in annual EBITDA over a 20-year period.

There is no getting past to that fact this is a very difficult market. We have created slide four to share context with you. As you can see on the chart on the top of the page, we are experiencing the lowest drydock rate environment in the 30 years the Baltic Dry Index has been recorded. In fact, the current Index rate of 509 is 8% lower than the previous low of 554 in 1986, almost 30 years ago; and 21% lower than the most recent low of 647 in 2012.

To develop this further, we looked back 40 years using the Panamax asset class. This chart at the bottom represents inflation adjusted Panamax time charter rates over the past 40 years. We adjusted the rate for inflation so that we could make a meaningful comparison between periods. The current one year rate for Panamax ships is $7,525 per day. This is within 4% of the 40 year low of $7,234 per day experienced in 1999. I will also note that the current charter rates are below the actual operating cost of vessels. We are developing the data around the frequency with which this has happened in the past. Our recollect – recollection is that this is rare and does not remain for prolonged periods. Typically, a rate environment like this will bring accelerated scrapping and reduced deliveries. We are seeing both. Year to date, scrapping has accelerated to 4.2 million deadweight tons, more than half of 1% of the global dry market fleet.

We were also [indiscernible] (05:20) be delayed. Most recently, we noted that more of these drydock vessels have reduced by about 90% from 226 in January of 2014 to 20 in January of 2015. Should the current rate continue, we may be also see layups of vessels. These developments have [ph] helped (05:44) the market [ph] in rationalizing (05:45), and the continued strong demand for that, they are like commodities, we can expect a healthier market in the medium term.

Slide five provides a company highlight. As you probably know, Navios Company controls a diverse fleet of 64 model high quality vessels, with an average age of 7.6 years. Our fleet age is about 15% less than the industry average. We have devoted substantial energy to developing scale. This has been creating operating leverage within our business.

For example, our technical capabilities are world-class and we can demonstrate savings that we believe would be unattainable for the third-party providers. In addition, as we get larger with all this purchasing power; suppliers of all sorts would like to work with us and we can translate this into savings.

Because of this, basically, our OpEx is 31% below the industry average. As I have observed previously, operating efficiencies are appreciated only in a weak rate environment. We are positioned to where there's market. As I have frequently said, while shipping may be an asset intensive business, our best asset is our people. They make the critical decisions and it is their judgment that we rely on. These same people have focused their efforts to position the company to withstand variability in markets. We developed a targeting strategy to maximize market return and minimize market exposure.

When the conditions may change, we end up into low [indiscernible] (07:30) charges. Today, when the market is far less robust, we have focused on reducing our operating breakeven and increasing exposure to quality credit so that we can [indiscernible] (076:41) end market.

Our fleet is 40.2% fixed for 2015, including index linked charters. We believe these index linked charters provide us significant protection, [indiscernible] (07:55) and add quality [indiscernible] (07:59). In addition, we secured a minimum charter rate for the majority of our index linked charters and more specifically for all [indiscernible] (08:10) vessels.

Excluding our index linked charters, we are about 23% fixed. Our cash flow breakeven is low at $8,781 per open day, providing us a margin of safety. A defining feature of Navios is that it represents a diversified investment vehicle with multiple platforms for stability and growth.

Navios Holdings currently has an enterprise value of about $1.7 billion in dry bulk. This is balanced by the investment in tankers, containers and ports of the Navios Group which has an aggregate enterprise value of another $4.5 billion. In addition to the eventual recovery in the dry bulk market and then we ultimately have low value with Navios Logistics in iron ore costs.

Slide six highlights Navios Holdings have been [ph] able (09:13) to weather the [indiscernible] (09:15) market. We possess the following key qualities to drive in that market: our balance sheet is strong, we have built-in operating efficiencies that provide us significant cash savings and cost control, our diversified capital strategy maximizes our returns, and we provide our investors a diversified investment with a group enterprise value of $6.2 billion. At the end of the quarter, we had $250 million of cash and net-debt-to-book capitalization of 49.8%. Our decision to offset their preferred equity market significantly moved our balance sheet and diversified our source of capital.

When market conditions allowed it, we raised $117 million over the net growth Perpetual Preferred Stock in 2014. This preferred equity is reasonably priced and attractive to our common stock investors at Navios and its permanent capital without [indiscernible] (10:18) its common stockholders. As a testament to our operating efficiencies, Navios Holdings has an OpEx that is about 31% below the industry average. Our low cash flow breakeven of $8,781 per day provides us a margin of safety for the chartering going forward.

In summary, a strong balance sheet, low cost structure and operating efficiencies provide flexibility to our chartering strategy [indiscernible] (10:48).

Slide seven highlights our strong liquidity position. We have a conservative balance sheet with net-debt-to-book capitalization of 49.8% and cash of $250 million. Our liquidity should be viewed in the context of our cash requirements. The company has no unfunded CapEx and no material debt maturities until 2019. As a result, our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and our operating needs.

Slide eight provides an overview of the significant competitive advantage and operating leverage I mentioned earlier. I have been deeply immersed in this effort, because I believe that is an essential skill for a transportation company. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels. We believe that by doing so, our company is better managed and our stakeholders enjoy significant efficiencies, often more noticed in bad times than good, but important always.

Focusing on Navios Holdings, you can see that NM has developed significant efficiencies from economies of scale proven by daily operating expenses being 31% below the industry average. We believe that we have demonstrated that Navios Holdings can achieve economies of scale and share these cost savings and benefits of economies of scale with members of the group, ultimately to the great benefit of our stakeholders.

You can see the benefit achieved can transfer to our affiliate entities supplemented by NMM's OpEx, which is about 20% below the industry, and NMs OpEx was about 18% below the industry average; NAP OpEx, which is about 7% below the industry average. As a significant portion of the value of NM is through these entities, it is important that we are able to manage OpEx costs well.

Slide nine sets forth Navios' low cost structure. As mentioned earlier, for 2015, we have fixed 40.3% of our available days including our index linked charters at an average contracted daily charter-out rate of $12,009 per day, above our fully loaded cost of $11,705 per day. Our fleet also includes open days plus days contracted with index-linked charters that could provide us incremental revenue with an improving charter market.

I remind you, as I do in every quarter, that our breakeven analysis includes all our operating expenses, drydock expense, charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses as well as interest expense and capital repayment.

Slide 10 provides details surrounding the company's chartering strategy. Our 2015 breakeven cost is $8,781 per day per vessel. This breakeven rate will allow NM to enjoy significant cash flow as markets grow. Based on the current market rate of $8,162 per day and using 10,942 open days for our fleet, we expect to be slightly free cash flow negative net of the dividends from our subsidiaries and dividend paid to our preferred shareholder.

However, should rates revert to the historical averages, which are approximately $20,683 per day for the 20-year average and $27,442 per day for the 10-year average, we would earn $150 million or $254 million in free cash flow, respectively. As this slide illustrates, by acquiring assets at attractive values and using innovative methods to keep our costs low, we are well positioned for market recovery.

I would like now to the turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney. Tom has recently joined Navios after having worked with Cargill and Tom will take you through the Navios operation and Navios' investment perspective. Tom.

Thank you Angeliki. Please turn to slide 11. Our Core Fleet consists of 64 vessels totaling 6.4 million deadweight. We're one of the largest dry bulk operators in the world, established for over 60 years. We have 56 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.6 years; this is 15% younger than the industry average of 8.9 years.

Please turn to next slide. We have fixed about 40% of our capacity for 2015, including index linked charters. Our index linked charters provide us quality counterparties in a difficult market with maximum utilization of our ships. We have also obtained [indiscernible] (15:55) of our most of our index charters. Excluding index linked charters, we have covered about 23% of our available days. The average daily charter-out rate for our fleet, excluding the index linked, charter is $12,009, 2015.

As Angeliki previously mentioned and as noted in the bottom of this slide, our vessels' operating expenses are 31% below the industry average in all asset classes. This reflects, among other things, our significant economies of scale. The $1,742 daily savings per vessel, when compared to industry average, results in about $24 million in annual savings, all of which drops directly to our bottom line. As you know from watching us over the years, Navios devotes substantial time and effort in creating and maintaining its technical capabilities.

Please turn to slide 13. The primary engine of trade growth continues to be China; dry bulk trade has expanded by 5.4% CAGR in the 13 years since China joined the WTO. Forecasts for 2015 are for global dry bulk trade to grow approximately 4% and ton mile growth of 5%. Net fleet growth is expected to be below 4%, leading to favorable supply/demand dynamics.

Please turn to slide 14. World GDP continues to be driven by developing economies which now contribute a higher percentage of total world growth than the developed economies, representing over half of the global consumption of most commodities. The IMF projected global GDP growth for 2015 and 2016 at 3.5% and 3.7%, respectively, led by emerging and developing markets growth of 4.3% in 2015 and 4.7% in 2016.

Turning to the next slide, crude oil prices declined around 50% since June last year. This sharp price drop provides an opportunity for major economies to restock natural resources at relatively little cost while also serving as a catalyst to stimulate GDP growth. Increases in world GDP growth have generally led to rises in marine transportation rates. As I mentioned earlier, world GDP growth is expected to be higher in 2015 than it was in 2014 which, if past patterns continue, would lead to improved rates as we experienced after the oil price collapse during the mid-1980s.

Turning to slide 16, the continued development and urbanization of China will contribute significantly to steel consumption for 2015 and beyond. Infrastructure, housing construction and consumer spending growth underpin future development. Note that Chinese fixed asset investments continued to grow 15.7% year-on-year during 2014. In addition, China exported a record 102 million tons of finished steel to customers worldwide as the cheapest marginal producer, leading to unseasonably low steel stock at Chinese steel mills.

We have heard that Chinese domestic iron ore quality is deteriorating with an effective Fe content that hovers in the 15% range. This compares to 62% Fe content of imported ore. In 2014, Chinese iron ore imports were up 14% year-on year compared to domestic iron ore production increasing by only 5%. Accordingly, in this relatively low price environment, it seems that the substitution of low quality domestic iron ore with imported ore is occurring. This trend is expected to continue as we will see on the next slide.

Iron ore from the major mines outside of China continue to be the lowest-cost, highest-quality source of this commodity. With iron ore prices currently in the $60 per ton range, Chinese domestic production, represented by the red boxes in the lower right graph, will become uneconomic and will be substituted by imports.

The currently planned expansions of global iron ore mines that will come online over the next few years will add significantly to seaborne bulk commodity movements. While the majority of these expansions are in Australia, this year, about 26% are expected to come from the Atlantic Basin, adding ton miles. I would like to remind you that our industry is driven by volumes moved and not by commodity prices. Following the precipitous fall in iron ore prices over the last 18 months, buyers seemed to be encouraged to build stocks of imported ore where possible.

Please turn to slide 18. Over the past few years, there has been a significant change in the coal trades. China turned from being a net exporter of coal in 2009, only five years ago, to being the world's largest importer today, in spite of a year-on-year decline in total imports last year.

As the chart indicates, China seaborne coal imports have grown over 18% CAGR between 2009 and the provisional 2014 total. India's coal imports have increased at 22% CAGR between 2006 and the provisional 2014 total. With projected increases in the steel production and coal-fired power generation, coals imports in both countries are forecast to grow over the next several years. Coal power generation continues to be the lowest cost base to produce electricity, especially important for emerging economies.

Please turn to slide 19. 2014 started on a strong note, but trended down during the year. The BDI averaged 1371 in Q1, a 26% quarterly decline. This decline continued for the balance of the year and we finally ended the year on the lowest level overall at 782 BDI. Even though researchers believe dry bulk volume was up 4% in 2014, some major variables helped drive the downward trend. Supply chains ran very efficiently with little to no congestion, robust fleet expansion and a slowdown in scrapping kept supply of tonnage plentiful. The Indonesian export ban kicked in, impacting particularly the smaller sizes, as stockpiling had been evident prior to the ban. The major commodities of oil, iron ore, coal and grain all experienced substantial price deterioration or financing issues over the year, causing commodity buyers to change their buying behavior, disrupting some short term shipment schedules.

The downward trend reversed during the first two months of the fourth quarter as Brazilian ore exports to China reached their peak for the year. But it was not enough for a sustained recovery as coal demand disappointed, particularly into China. On average, the Q4 BDI was down 6%, making 2014 second to 2012, the worst year since 1999.

2015 started off poorly as China's combined monthly imports of iron ore, coal and grain fell sharply in January, down 20.6% year-on-year. The most severe decline was in coal where volumes were 53% lower at 16.8 million metric tons. A new level for the BDI added to negative sentiment in the dry bulk freight market. Average earnings in all sizes have fallen over the last month to the $4,000 to $6,000 a day range. And the BDI slumped by 60% in the past three months to stand at a new all-time low of 509 yesterday, putting further pressure on period rates.

The prospect of a record South American grain export season in Q2 could benefit Panamaxe and Supermaxe rates. Seasonality in Brazil iron ore exports [indiscernible] (23:20) improved shipment pace from now for the balance of 2015, aiding the low Cape rates. And a record pace of steel exports from China could benefit the Supermaxe market.

Moving to slide 20, for 2014, 48.1 million deadweight tons delivered. The non-delivery rate was 36% led by non-deliveries of 45% and 40% for Panamaxes and Supermaxes, respectively. So far through January, non-deliveries have remained high at 38% with a preliminary 7.6 billion deadweight tons delivered against 12.2 million deadweight tons expected.

Net fleet growth this year is expected to be lower than last year and is expected to be lower than demand growth resulting in an improved rate environment going forward, particularly in the second half of this year. The order book declines for each of the next three years. We also note the recent trend to convert new building dry bulk orders to tankers further reducing the order book going forward.

Turning to slide 21, due to the continued low market scrapping rates for older, less fuel efficient vessels have surged this year. Through February, 4.2 million deadweight tonnes were scrapped. The current rate environment should encourage scrapping of all the vessels. About 11% of the fleet is over 20 years old, providing about 81 million deadweight tonnes of scrapping potential.

In addition, new ballast water management requirements could lead owners of all the tonnage to scrap earlier rather than face an expensive retrofit of an older ship. Demolition prices appear to depend on overall steel prices, not from the supply of vessels, and are expected to remain high. Net fleet growth in 2014 was 4.4% with expectations for net fleet growth of 4% or less this year.

This concludes my presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to George Achniotis, our CFO, to go over our financial highlights and review our subsidiaries. George?

Thank you, Tom, and good morning all. Please turn to slide 22 for a review of the fourth quarter and full year financial highlights. Revenue in the quarter increased by 14% to approximately $149 million from $131 million in 2013. Revenue from dry bulk operations decreased from $80 million in 2013 to $75 million in 2014. The decrease is mostly due to a 17% decrease in [indiscernible] (25:46) were achieved in the quarter from $13,291 in Q4 2013 to $11,085 in 2014.

Revenue from the Logistics business increased by 46% to $74 million in the quarter, mainly as a result of an increase in [indiscernible] (26:05) products sold in Paraguay, and the operational free additional convoys and the long-term Time Charter contracts from Q2, 2014.

EBITDA for the quarter in both 2014 and 2013 was affected by several non-recurring items. Q4 2014 was affected by a $14.3 million gain from Navios Acquisition from the IPO of Navios Midstream Partners. Q4 2013 was affected by $37 million write-off of deferred financing cost due to the refinancing of this accurate bond and approximately $15 million loss from Navios Acquisition caused by certain non-recurring items that affected in this quarter year results.

Excluding these adjustments, EBITDA for the quarter was $38 million compared to $42 million in the same period last year. The reduction was made due to a $5.3 million reduction in revenue from the dry bulk fleet and a $3.2 million increase in direct vessel expenses due to the addition of three vessels into the owned fleet. The decrease was mainly mitigated by a $4.6 million increase in equity net earnings from affiliated companies.

Net loss for the period was $5 million compared to $17 million last year. This was also affected by the same nonrecurring items that affected EBITDA. Adjusted net loss for the period increased by about $1 million in Q4 2014 to $19 million. This variance is mainly attributable to the reduction in EBITDA, an increase in depreciation and amortization due to the addition to the fleet, and the additions to the South American assets and an increase in share based compensation. The increase was mainly mitigated by a decrease in interest expense and an increase in income tax benefit.

Turning to the full year financial highlights, net income and EBITDA were adjusted by the same items affecting the Q4 results. In addition, the 2014 results were also adjusted to exclude $17.4 million, being our portion of the loss on the logistics fund extinguishment following the refinancing of the one in Q2 and an $11.5 million write-down on available for sale securities.

Adjusted EBITDA increased by 20% to $191 million in 2014, from $160 million in 2013. The main reason for the increase was an 11% increase in the available dates of the fleet, a $9.5 million increase in equity net earnings from affiliated companies, a decrease in G&A expenses, and a 21% increase in the EBITDA of Navios South America Logistics.

Adjusted net loss for the year reduced from $57 million in 2013 to $41 million in 2014. The decrease is mainly attributable to an increase in EBITDA. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization, an increase in share based compensation, and an increase in income tax expense.

Please turn now to slide 23; we continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with low leverage and a healthy cash balance. At December 31, 2014 we had $250 million in cash, compared to $190 million at December 31, 2013. Vessels, port terminal and other fixed assets increased by 7%, $1.9 billion, as we took delivery of three new vessels during the year. And at Navios South America Logistics, we took delivery of three push boats and 72 barges, and we began the construction of the iron ore facility at the port in Uruguay.

Bank debt increased by $51 million as we added three new facilities to finance the three vessels we bought during the year. Senior notes increased by $82 million after the refinancing of the Navios South American Logistics bond in April of 2014. As Angeliki already mentioned, we do not have any significant debt maturities until 2019. The net debt to book capitalization ratio reduced liability to 50% from just over 51% at the end of 2013.

Turning to slide 24, the company continues to provide the return to the shareholders through its dividend, which has been paid continuously from first full quarter it went public in 2005. A dividend of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of March 20 to be paid on March 27. This provides a yield of approximately 6%.

On April 15, the company will also pay a dividend of $3.7 million to its preferred equity holders. I would like to point out that the expected annualized cash dividend inflows from our ownership in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition is approximately $47 million. This exceeds the annual dividend paid out by Navios Holdings by $7 million.

We will now briefly review our subsidiaries. Please turn to slide 25. Navios Holdings owns 20% of Navios Partners, including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners operates a fleet of 31 vessels, since its inception in 2007, Navios Partners fleet has grown by almost four times from eight vessels to 31.

Please turn to the next slide. 2014 was a transformative year for Navios Partners as the company was repositioned as a container-focused [indiscernible] (31:29). The company acquired eight container vessels since December 2013, contracted to generate about $1 billion in revenue, representing 68% of contracted revenue and about 45% of the expected 2015 EBITDA.

The average charter duration of the container fleets is about eight years, while the average charter duration of the entire fleet is about 3.4 years. The result was to solidify the cash flow generation which has enabled the company to provide comfort on at least the existing level of dividends for 2015 and 2016.

Turning to slide 27, Navios Partners provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Since it started the operations, Navios Partners has grown distributions by over 26%. And as a result, we now received over $32 million annually. By the end of 2015, we expect to receive about $200 million in distributions since the inception of the company. In addition to the distributions, there has been a 64% appreciation in our investment in Navios Partners, which is not fully reflected in our balance sheet.

Please turn now to slide 28; Navios Holdings has over 46% economic interest in Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become one of the top five publicly listed tanker owners among its U.S. and European peers with one of the youngest in the water fleets. In Q4, Navios Acquisition formed an MLP with four VLCCs providing a platform in the world sector for dividend-seeking investors and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA.

Turning to slide 29, Navios Acquisition's fleet consists of 39 tanker vessels, all of which are in the water generating cash flows. The fleet is 80% employed for 2015 and with more than 48% of available days with profit sharing.

The Q4 [indiscernible] (33:26) EBITDA in excess of $180 million in 2015. The goal is to manage through each cycle protecting the downside and allowing the offset to take care of itself. To protect stakeholders, the company has consistently matched its income statement with balance sheet and adopted a chartering strategy that balances credit risk and market opportunities.

Please turn to slide 30. Navios Acquisition provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings. Including the 2015 dividends, Navios Acquisition has provided about $50 million in distributions since it started operations. The value of Navios Holdings in terms of Navios Acquisition has also grown by almost 17%. And this concludes my presentation.

At this point, I will turn the call over Ioannis Karyotis, for his review of the Navios South American Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Navios Logistics has three segments: Port Terminals, Barges and Cabotage. It is one of the major logistics providers in the Hidrovia Region of South America.

Please turn to slide 32. The development of the new iron ore terminal is progressing. We have now selected and engaged an equipment supplier so that we can complete the engineering design. In parallel, we are completing the remaining regulatory processes which will allow us commence the next phase of construction. We expect to invest approximately $150 million in this facility, servicing Vale International's storage and transshipment needs and expect a minimum annual EBITDA of $35 million.

In December 2014, we invested $17 million to acquire the rights to 22 hectares of undeveloped riverfront land adjacent to our terminal within Nueva Palmira Free Zone in Uruguay. We paid 60% of the acquisition price in December and the remaining balance will be paid in Q3 2015. The acquisition is financed from cash in our balance sheet. We plan to use the land partially for the iron ore terminal and for future expansion.

Please turn to the next slide. In the past four years, EBITDA has been growing at a 20.6% CAGR. In 2014, we generated a record EBITDA of $68.8 million, the highest ever reported since the incorporation of Navios Logistics. From the three new convoys that started servicing six year time charter contracts during Q2 2014, we expect to generate about $10 million annualized EBITDA. We expect similar contribution from another three convoys that remain to be deployed upon the delivery of three new building [indiscernible] (36:05) in Q3 2015 as well as incremental growth from the investment in our Port Terminal infrastructure.

On slide 34, we discuss the results for the fourth quarter and the 12-month period of 2014. EBITDA net income 2014 were effected by a $27.3 million write-off of the deferred finance costs and fees related to the refinancing in April of the $290 million senior notes that were due in 2019. That amount was recorded in the second quarter. In order to make the comparison to the previous period meaningful, we have adjusted full year EBITDA and net income accordingly. There is no adjustment in the fourth quarter figures.

We had a solid fourth quarter with EBITDA increasing by 7% compared to the same period last year to $15.3 million, a net income raise in $1.8 million compared to $0.3 million in Q4 of 2013.

Port segment EBITDA decreased by 12% to $6.1 million, mainly due to lower cargo moved in our dry terminal during the quarter. Please note that the increase in port segment revenue to $33.4 million from $13.8 million in the same period last year is attributed to $20.5 million higher sales of fuel in our liquids port in Paraguay. This opportunistic, low-margin trading activity was a relatively small but positive EBITDA contribution.

Barge segment EBITDA increased by 16% to $6.8 million compared to $5.9 million in the same period last year, benefiting from the operation of the three new convoys under long-term time charter out contracts.

Cabotage business had a strong quarter with EBITDA growing 61% to $2.3 million compared $1.4 million last year due to higher charter rates and contained operating costs.

The financial results for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2014 reflect an overall strong performance. EBITDA increased 21% to $68.8 million on the back of growth in the Barge and Cabotage segments and stable performance of the port terminals. The increase in EBITDA was partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization, an increase in the interest and finance expenses and a decrease in income tax benefit to $0.3 million compared to $4.5 million in 2013. As a result, adjusted net income in 2014 was $10.6 million compared to $9.7 million last year.

Please turn to slide 35. Navios Logistics had a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of 2014 was $71.9 million, compared to $86.6 million at the end of 2013. Net debt to book capitalization was 46%, compared to 36% at the end of 2013 due to the 7.25%, $375 million of senior notes due in 2022 that were issued in April.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This completes our formal presentation and we'll open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Ben Nolan of Stifel.

Thank you, guys. I have a few questions. But my first has to do with the charter-in fleet, looking at the time charters then that you guys have. You didn't really break out with respect to when things are scheduled to come off contract so I was wondering if you could maybe give me a little bit of color as to how the trajectory, I suppose, of the cash outflows related to the time charter and should look on a go forward basis.

First of all, good morning. The charter-out range at around $12,000, the charter-in rate is $13,817. And a way to see our all in breakeven, which you'll see in page 10 on that open days is $8,781. This increase is all-in numbers includes operating expenses, charter-in fleet, G&A, indirect expense and capital repayment. So you have full all in numbers for our open days.

And if you can see here, even in today's environment we are talking 30 years lows on the BDI on an absolute terms, not with any adjustment. You can see that the company can weather it well; we have a minor deficit. And you are actually seeing it was $250 million of cash.

Yes, I totally agree with...

And also I want to – other thing I want to say is that we have option, purchase option on these vessels; that can be valuable depending on different markets. Today, everything looks very bleak but let's not forget that as – we are at the level where OpEx is really – that rate really on the spot market below OpEx; this cannot last for very long.

Sure. I totally agree and you guys do have a very low breakeven level, which is fantastic in this type of environment. I guess the impetus for my question was really we've seen one of your competitors announce today that they made an upfront cash payment to reduce the amounts of their time charter and exposure in order to even further reduce their cash breakeven level.

Is that something that you guys have looked at or there just the natural – might there be the natural attrition from your charter-in fleet such that you don't really feel the need to do that?

I think the level our charter-in is in, we do not need to do an across the board kind of decision like that. I cannot comment on other companies; depends really their charter-in fleet and overall exposure they have.

On our fleet, under the conditions we have, we feel comfortable that we do not need this kind of a movement. That's why we also give you very clear what is the all-in cost and our breakeven with the efficiencies we have. So you really have it and on the current market we feel very comfortable.

Okay. That's helpful. Now, switching gears a little bit to the South American business. Just wondering – I know that you guys have the expansion that's going on. First of all, is that still set for, call it, a yearend or early 2016 startup?

And then secondly, when should you know from Vale whether or not they will be planning on exercising their option to upsize that take or pay volume amount?

The take or pay, the standard base – I mean, this would happen after you start operation during the year, so you cannot really bake in any of the numbers. Reality is that as in any commodity, cost is very important and the increased quantity makes far more sense from a point of cost for Vale. So this is something that they usually do during the operation during the year; as we see also on the grains, this is a similar kind of condition.

Now, as you know, we are in the second phase of the construction. We have completed over $30 million of CapEx and we see this port completed and operational somewhere in end of the first half, second half of 2016.

Okay. So mid-2016 is how I should be thinking about the startup date?

Yes.

Okay. All right. And then, I guess, my last question relates to kind of the strategy – you guys have a lot of cash on the balance sheet, pretty low cash breakeven levels. What is the thinking now? I know in the past you'd talked about wanting to de-lever the balance sheet. But, obviously, asset values have fallen a lot, may present a little bit more of an opportunistic entry point in certain assets. And there's also lot to be said, I think, for just maintaining a lot of liquidity on the balance sheet.

What sort of the favored use of cash, I guess, be it pay down debts by assets, just keep it; I don't know, where are you guys thinking about using or not using your cash?

I think one of the things we like and obviously is that by having the $250 million, this gives you a lot of liquidity, a very strong balance sheet that with a market where – when you have the BDI where it is, this gives you the flexibility for chartering, for employment of your vessels and movement. You will be – we're monitoring the market, the AFB market, at the appropriate level, but you actually should not do anything right now; you should watch, see where [indiscernible] (45:53), how it moves. And at Navios, we are not shy of taking positions when we think it's an appropriate time.

One other thing I'd like to mention is that liquidity should be viewed also with a fully funded fleet that is in the water, operational, no maturities; no maturities coming up until 2019. So you have a difficult market, on the same side you have low breakeven, strong liquidity that you can watch the market and weather this kind of a condition.

Okay. That's how. And sort of there is an add-on to that, how are you thinking about your positions in your subsidiaries with respect to the – either monetizing some of those positions or not? I mean, are you not even considering sending out those at this moment or where does that stand?

Navios Holdings' real value comes, as you can see, two-thirds of it is from tankers, containers and port logistics. We like this position. I think this provides us part – this diversified investment provides us a lot of flexibility because you're not only dry bulk, you have two-thirds of your value coming from other assets that can provide a lot of stability. With a – the group is operating about 150 vessels, so in essence by having these additional silos of value can provide a lot of flexibility and we can also make sure that all our stakeholders are well protected.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks a lot. And that does it for my questions.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Omar Nokta of Clarksons.

Hi. Thank you. Hi, Angeliki and teams. I just had a couple of follow-ups just on the Logistics segment. Just wanted this for clarity on the mid-2016 start-up, would that be – would you envision say mid-2016 all 5 million tons are ready to go or would you – whether they'd maybe a gradual build up starting maybe earlier in the year?

The [indiscernible] (48:24) 4 million. So dramatically you will start with the 4 million. Now, as the year will be going, you will know your clients wants to exercise their option which is to go to a higher level which is up to 6 million. On a per ton basis, that will make their cost of the port – the port cost much less, so usually there's an incentive for the client to move to the highest level.

I see. Okay. Thank you. And then, you know, just one more you guys have obviously talked about this for a while, the logistics business is growing quite a bit here over the next year or two, what are your latest thoughts – I know you're just talking about your different stakes and monetizing them or not and obviously you feel comfortable how things are today, but you had talked in the past about spinning off the logistics entity. I know you've gotten this question a lot of times seemingly every quarter, but where do you guys stand currently on maybe listing the logistics business separately?

This is something we are not in a hurry. I mean we're growing at the 20% gradual growth on our EBITDA. We have projects that come on line that will jump our EBITDA even higher from our trend lines. So we are not in a hurry for that and also this is market conditions dependent. We believe is a jewel inside of – is one of our jewels inside the balance sheet, but this is something that you need to do it in the correct moment.

Okay. So, seemingly no real immediate or intermediate plans for a spin-off?

I mean, we're always ready.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions. I'll now return the call to Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes [indiscernible] (50:32)

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.