Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Tom Beney — Senior Vice President-Commercial Affairs, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Noah R. Parquette — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for Navios Maritime Holdings' Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

As a reminder, this conference call is being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcasting link in the middle of the page and a copy of the presentation referenced in today's earnings conference call will also be found there.

Now I'll review the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call.

The agenda for today's conference call is as follows. We'll begin this morning's call with formal remarks from the management team, and after we'll open the call to take questions.

Now I turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Lois, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. Please turn to slide three where we provide our company highlights. Navios Holdings' controls 66 modern vessels. Our size and purchasing power creates efficiencies and cost savings by creating operating leverage through our scale, technical competencies and world class employees. Our OpEx is 43% below the industry average. The savings are especially significant at the bottom of the cycle.

Slide four and five illustrates our corporate structure and diversification. Navios Holdings' value derives from five areas: the dry bulk fleet of Navios Holdings and four principal operating entities. Each company has a strong balance sheet and good cash flows. While the value of these entities may not be currently appreciated by the market, we believe that the increasing value of these companies will be recognized over time.

Slide six details Navios Holdings' recent development. Navios Holdings performed solidly in Q3. We had $38.5 million in adjusted EBITDA and have $163.3 million of cash. About 85% of our total debt has no loan to value maintenance covenants at the time of perhaps historic asset value volatility, which has added meaningful stability to our structure. Cost management has been our mantra. Our G&A on a per-available days basis makes us one of the lowest cost operators as compared to our publicly listed shipping peers.

We expect to reduce our G&A by approximately 40% by the end of 2016. During the quarter, we received a $70 million loan from Navios acquisition. The loan was advanced on market terms as determined by an independent process followed by both companies. Navios Holdings also received $16.1 million loan to refinance a Capesize vessel.

Since the loan has interest rate of LIBOR plus 3%, 25-year amortization profile adjusted for age and a six-year term. The loan does not amortize until January 2019 with a balloon payable by 2022. The next few slides review the steps we have taken in 2016 to reduce our daily cash breakeven by $1,274 per day or 10.4% for 2017, as we transition through this dry bulk shipping cycle.

As you can see on slide seven, Navios Holdings executed an exchange program for its outstanding Series G and Series H ADS, and acquired $61.1 million of these ADS, 28% of the par price. We eliminated 36% of the outstanding preferred and reduced our annual dividend obligation by $5.3 million. We also eliminated $4 million of accrued dividends. Navios Holdings paid $8.7 million in cash and issued 7.59 million new common shares as consideration for the tender ADS.

Slide eight summarizes our liability management. We have repurchased almost $60 million in face value or 17% of unsecured bonds for $30.5 million in cash, thereby saving the company $4.8 million in annual interest or $11.2 million in the interest through the bonds maturity. The opportunistic bonds [indiscernible] (05:31) a positive $0.26 impact on NAV and reduces our daily cash breakeven cost by $231.

Slide nine highlights how we will reduce our cash requirements for commercial bank debt for the next 15 months, so at the end of 2017, we expect to reduce our cash requirements by $11.4 million by deferring loan amortization payments of formally paying debt at the benefit of each nominal value. Additionally, Navios Holdings expects to earn $2 million in positive cash flow through Q1 of 2017 from the refinancing of two Capesize vessels, one of which is under approval process. NM daily cash breakeven is expected to be reduced by $513 as a result of this effort.

Slide 10 shows how we are reducing the average cost of our charter-in fleet. During the quarter, we agreed to charter in seven additional vessels for two years. This has a direct benefit of reducing our average charter-in cost of our core fleet by $2,220 per day or 15% in 2017, and $2,107 per day in 2018. Navios Holdings' daily cash breakeven is expected to be reduced by $513 per day as a result of this charter-ins.

Slide 11 summarizes the results of our initiatives to reduce 2017 daily cash flow breakeven. As a result of our focused efforts, we have successfully reducing our daily cash breakeven by $1,274 for the next year. Reducing cash breakeven helps a NM transition through this distressed dry bulk shipping cycle. On the revenue side, we have outperformed the spot market year-to-date through a number of creative approaches.

Slide 12 shows our fleet achieved an average time charter equivalent rate of $2,524 greater than the daily spot market. These efforts resulted in us having $41.3 million more of charter revenue for the first nine months of 2016 than we would have had under average spot market rates. Slide 13 highlights our strong liquidity position. Our balance sheet has net debt to book capitalization of 57.6%. Cash of $163.3 million and $191.6 million in total liquidity. We have not committed shipping growth CapEx or any material debt maturities until 2019.

Slide 14 sheds forth Navios' new low cost structure for 2017. We have fixed 35.2% of our available days of which 26.7% are at index-linked charters at an expected average contracted daily charter-out base rate of $9,341 per day. Our fleet open days plus days contracted with index-linked charters and profit sharing could provide incremental revenue at current market rate and could improve our daily charter-out base rate to $8,876 per day for 2016, and $11,529 per day for 2017.

I would like to remind you as I do every quarter that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, dry-docking expense, charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A cash expenses, as well as interest expense and capital repayment.

And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings' Senior Vice President of Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Slide 15 presents our diversified dry bulk fleet consisting of 66 dry bulk vessels, totaling 6.7 million deadweight split between Capesize, Panamax and Supramax, Handy. We continue to be one of the largest U.S.-listed dry bulk operators in the world, established over 60 years ago. We have 59 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.8 years. This is 9% younger than the industry average. Navios Group's total fleet of 165 vessels includes 47 tankers, 20 container vessels and 97 dry-bulkers.

Slide 16 provides an overview of our operating leverage. This is an essential skill for any transportation company. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels in-house. By doing so, we have internalized the cost savings achieved with scale and increased our purchasing power. Focusing on Navios Holdings, you can see the NM – we see that NM has developed significant efficiencies from economies of scale as our OpEx is 43% below the industry average. This equates to $36.1 million in annual operating cost savings. As you can see, Navios Holdings shares these savings and creates considerable extra value for the other companies of the group.

Turning to slide 18, GDP forecast for 2016 and 2017 suggest continued dry-bulk demand with emerging market growth, predominantly in the Asian region as the major driver. In the largest oil consuming economies such as China, India, Japan, Europe and the U.S., continued low energy prices tends to stimulate GDP growth over time, further aiding the dry bulk market as was experienced in the late 1980's.

After a slow start to 2016, demand for the major dry bulk commodities, iron ore, coal and grain have exceeded forecasts. The BDI bottomed in February at 290 and has risen to 1,240 as of Monday, November 21. Chinese economic policy has been instrumental in supporting dry bulk trades. Increased loan initiations for housing and infrastructure supported the Chinese construction industry, increasing steel demand. Also, forced reduction in domestic coal output increased Chinese coal imports as electricity consumption increased. Improved share of protein in Chinese diets supports the ever increasing imports of grain seen over the last few months.

Coupled with the effects of heavy scrapping earlier this year, dry bulk rates have been well supported into the seasonally strong fourth quarter. The seasonal Q1 dip is on the horizon, but with the current improvement in the Chinese economy, it look less likely dry bulk will experience the precipitous Q1 rate declines we had seen over the last couple of years.

Please turn to slide 19 on demand for iron ore. As shown in the upper right table, overall worldwide seaborne iron ore is now forecast to grow by 4.9% in 2016, a positive change from the negative growth forecasted during Q1. Seaborne iron ore is forecasted to further expand by close to 4% next year, led by a 5% increase in Chinese imports. China accounts for about 70% of the world's seaborne iron ore imports.

Chinese steel production rebounded at March and has remained above last year's level since then. Steel production in China is expected to remain flat in 2016 versus 2015. Chinese steel exports increased at the beginning of the year but have decreased since August year-on-year as more steel stays at home to supply the improved domestic market. Chinese iron ore mines cannot compete with high-quality ore coming from Australia and Brazil at current prices, encouraging increased imports. So far in 2016, Chinese iron ore imports have increased by about 9% and domestic production of iron ore has reduced by approximately 7%.

With demand for iron ore up, the deliver price to China has improved. This has seen exporters outside of Brazil and Australia increase their ore shipments over the quarter, a reversal in the decline seen over the last few years.

Please turn to slide 20. The Chinese domestic coal industry seems to be going through a phase of restructuring similar to the one that the iron ore industry went through in the past several years, whereby low quality uneconomic capacity is being shut down. Domestic coal production is expected to be down by about 12% in 2016, a decrease of over 400 million tons. This has been partially replaced by additional imports that were expected to be up 14% by year end, a complete turnaround from the decline in imports we have experienced in 2014 and 2015.

Indian coal imports started the year declining by 5.3% in Q1. Since May, imports have increased year-on-year as domestic coal stock piles have reduced and electricity production has grown. By year end, Indian imports are projected to be up by about 4%. Combined Indian and Chinese imports are now expected to increase by about 8% annualized, a major improvement from forecast at the start of 2016.

Slide 21 shows another aspect of the dry bulk market that is coming into focus as China's economy continues to improve. As per capita incomes increase, the country will consume more protein. Chinese per capital meat consumption still lags the OECD by a considerable margin. Chinese imports of soybeans and soybean meal, an important feedstock for animals, are forecasted by the USDA to increase dramatically in the next 10 years.

Grain is an inefficient cargo. Loading delays due to complicated logistics and weather issues make the total days of voyage increase, absorbing ship capacity. The main export countries for grain tend to be Atlantic-based, and the main import regions are Pacific-based also contributing to longer whole routes.

Turning to slide 22, scrapping year-to-date is 28 million deadweight. Scrapping annualized should be over 32 million deadweight for 2016. There has been a slowdown in scrapping recently due partially to the recovering market. With additional investments needed in vessels for third special surveys or beyond and the recently ratified Ballast Water Management convention, a decent level of scrapping can continue.

Based on the latest available data, net fleet growth for both Capes and Panamaxes has been minimal since the beginning of 2015. There are only 12 more Capes in service now than there were in January 2015, out of the total cape fleet of about 1,651 ships. Similarly, there are only 23 more Panamaxes in service out of a total Panamax fleet of around 2,445 ships. The average age of scrapping is reduced to about 23 years old from about 32, six years ago. During the last 12 months, we have regularly seen vessels scrapped at 20 years around that. And recently, a number of 15-year-old dry bulk vessels are scrapped.

In slide 23, we see as of January 1, the 2016 order book stood at 92.7 million deadweight. By end October, the latest four-month statistics, 42.8 million deadweight has actually delivered versus 81.9 million deadweight which was expected. A 48% non-delivery rate by deadweight, the highest non-delivery rate since 2009. If we assume a more conservative 45% non-deliveries, then we estimate 2016 we'll see about 51 million deadweight actually deliver.

With the current 2016 scrapping rate annualized, net fleet growth will be about 2%. The order book as of January 1 reduces by about half in 2017, according to the current statistics from Clarksons Research. With freight rates and secondhand asset prices also low, there is currently little to no incentive to place additional new building orders.

Slide 24 is a recap of the trends and deliveries scrapping the net fleet growth since 2009. As we have discussed, scrapping is running at a healthy annual pace although it has slowed recently. Looking forward, Q1 is typically the quarter where we see more vessels scrapped. Vessels at 20 years or over totaled 56 million deadweight or about 7% of the total dry bulk fleet, growing to over 116 million deadweight or 15% of the total fleet for vessels 15 years or more.

Non-deliveries are running at a record high. Net fleet growth should be just above 2%, similar to the levels seen in 2015. The second year with low fleet growth, a stark contrast to the double-digit net fleet growth of 2009 to 2012. With the order book staying low for 2017, and non-deliveries expected to continue, very low fleet growth in 2017 is a real possibility. With dry bulk demand continuing to surprise the experienced forecasters, the market fundamentals look set to improve.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis, for the Q3 financial results. George?

Thank you, Tom. Please turn to slide 25 for a review of the Navios Holdings financial highlights for the third quarter and nine months of 2016. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $38.5 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $39.5 million in 2015. EBITDA for the third quarter and the nine months of 2016 was adjusted to exclude a $16 million gain from the repurchase of [ph] ones (20:18) at a discount and $8 million loss representing our share of Navios partners impairment losses.

In 2015, this value was adjusted to exclude $1.8 million non-cash loss on available for sale securities. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA is mainly attributable to a reduction in earnings from affiliates and a reduction in the EBITDA of Navios South American Logistics.

The decrease was partly mitigated by a 34% reduction in time charter, voyage and logistics expenses, due to the redelivery of a number of charter-in vessels, and by a 5% increase in time charter equivalent rate achieved compared to Q3 of 2015. Net loss for the quarter was adjusted to exclude the items of affected EBITDA, as well as $13 million write-off of intangible assets due to the earlier redelivery of a charter-in vessel. Adjusted net loss for Q3 of 2016 was $22.4 million or $0.25 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of $20.3 million or $0.23 in 2015. The reduction is mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA.

Turning to the nine-month results, adjusted EBITDA increased by 17% to $114.9 million compared to $98.5 million in 2015. Similar to the quarterly results, the increase was mainly due to the reduction in cost, due to the redelivery of some charter-in vessels, a $3 million reduction in G&A expenses, a $2.9 million reduction in direct vessel expenses. Adjusted net loss for the first nine months of 2016 was $56.6 million, compared to an adjusted net loss of $71.2 million in 2015. The improvement was mainly due to the increase in EBITDA.

Please turn now to slide 26. We continue to maintain a healthy cash balance. At September 30, 2016, we had $163 million in cash compared to $177 million on December 31, 2015. As Angeliki already mentioned during the quarter, Navios acquisition provided a $70 million secured loan to Navios Holdings at market terms. $50 million was drawn at the end of the quarter. Deposits for vessel acquisitions have increased to $116 million, compared to $74 million at December 31, 2015 as a construction of the port in Uruguay progresses.

We repurchased a total of $58.9 million or 17% of the paramount outstanding of their 2019 Senior Notes. In so doing, we saved $4.8 million annually in interest payments or $11.2 million until maturity. We used a $30.5 million of cash for these transactions. The aggregate balance of our Senior Notes is now $1,322 million from $1,351 million at the year-end. This does not reflect the additional amounts repurchased in Q4. Over the next slide, we will briefly review our subsidiaries.

Please turn to slide 27. Navios Holdings owns 21% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners owns a fleet of 32 dry bulk and container vessels. NMM today is a unique platform in the dry sector with contracted revenue covering all of its costs for 2017, and commercial and technical management costs that are fixed through December 2017 at rates 17% below industry averages. NMM can generate significant free cash flow.

As detailed in NMM's earnings presentation last week, even in the low charter rate environment of today, we should be able to generate about $21 million for Q4 of 2016, and about $84 million for 2017, assuming steady operating costs and current market rates for the open days. The cash flows generated so far in 2016 have been used to expand the fleet by acquiring a Capesize vessel and also paying down debt.

Turning to slide 28, Navios Holdings has over 46% interest in Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has 36 modern high-quality vessels with an average age of 5.8 years, diversified between crude product and chemical tankers. Other vessels are on the water generating cash flows. The fleet is effectively fixed for the balance of 2016, and 60% fixed for 2017. NNA's charter-in policy of seeking long-term charters provided above market earnings during the third quarter, a period during which spot charter rates were correcting. NNA's average charter-in for its combined fleet was about 54% higher than the market average.

Navios Acquisition is a sponsor of Navios Midstream Partners, an MLP with six VLCCs providing a platform in [indiscernible[ (25:07) sector for dividend-seeking investors and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA. In 2016, NNA will receive about $21 million in dividends from NAP. Navios Acquisition will also provide about $15 million in dividends to Navios Holdings during 2016.

Now I will turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South American Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Slide 29 provides an overview of the Navios Logistics business. We initiated arbitration proceedings in London in June this year after Vale advised in writing that they would not perform the 20-year take-or-pay service contract for the iron ore facility currently under construction in Nueva Palmira in Uruguay. This confidential proceeding is progressing. We continue the construction of the new terminal and as of Q3 2016, we have incurred approximately $118 million of expenses and we have remaining contractual obligations of about $26 million. In total, we have paid or incurred approximately $144 million out of the total budgetary CapEx of approximately $150 million.

Slide 30 reviews our results. In the nine-month period to September 30, 2016, EBITDA was $60.9 million compared to $64.5 million in the same period last year. For the third quarter, port segment revenue was stable compared to the same period last year, as an increase in sales products mitigated a decrease in port terminal revenues. However, as the sales of product has lower margins, EBITDA was $7.7 million compared to $9.7 million in Q3 2015. The decrease is attributable to lower throughput in the dry terminal, which was affected by weak Uruguayan soybean production due to heavy rains earlier this year and reduced shipments of Paraguayan corn.

In the Barge segment, Q3 EBITDA reached $7.3 million compared to $11.9 million last year. The decrease is attributable mainly to higher budget expenses due to more trips performed under our COA's with minimum guaranteed quantities, an increased operating cost, mainly repair and maintenance expenses. Cabotage business Q3 EBITDA decreased by 10% to $4.1 million compared to the same period last year, mainly due to less available days. Overall, Q3 EBITDA decreased by 27% to $19.1 million. Net income in Q3, 2016 was $2.8 million, compared to $10.6 million in the same period last year, mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA.

Turning to the financial results for the nine-month period ending September 30, 2016. Revenue decreased by 11% to $177.4 million, EBITDA decreased by 6% to $60.9 million, and net income decreased by 24% to $15.8 million, mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA, higher depreciation and income tax expenses.

Please turn to slide 31. Navios Logistics has a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of Q3, 2016 was $70.2 million compared to $81.5 million at the end of 2015. Net debt to book capitalization was 45%. As of September 30, 2016, we have drawn approximately $28.9 million net under the unsecured export financing facility related to the new iron ore terminal. The undrawn amount under this facility was $8.3 million including interest and non-related costs. This facility has an eight-year term.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannies. This completes our formal presentation. We open the call to questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Noah Parquette with JPMorgan.

Thank you. I just wanted to firstly ask about the charter-ins. Interesting that you guys put some more charters in place at current market levels, it's great. Can you give some guidance about your charter-in obligations beyond 2017? How many vessels are coming off next year, and how do you think about that part of your business going forward?

Okay. Very good question. You should see that the charter-in strategy compared with our overall strategy of our breakeven. I mean, we approach the breakeven in three ways and we managed to reduce it by $1,200 which is almost 10%, an equivalent of almost $27 million of overall savings.

The one was – okay, straightforward to buy your bonds, $30 million, $60 million nominal price, and you save about $5 million annual interest savings. The bank was also straightforward. We created $13.5 million cash – reduced our cash requirement by about $13.5 million, which again we did it either by buying our debt and having a discount of $3.5 million or by diverting sales and capital repayments.

And then the charter-in, we show our charter-in fleet. And we say, okay, how do we approach this? The best way is to add vessels. We added seven vessels at an appropriate time and we brought them in for 2017 at the cost of $6,830, and this included Capesizes, Panamaxes and Supramaxes, and for 2018, at $2,100. If you take a look at 2017 and 2018, we can go – we can give you the exact vessels on the back of the page, which is in the appendix.

You will see that actually even for 2017 and for 2018, it further reduces almost the same amount with some less vessels for 2018. So in essence, your cost was reduced by 15% and the overall package brought you to $1,275. Also addressing breakeven and balance sheet, we also – we did an exchange offer for our preferred shares where we bought a nominal 60 million of preferred shares for about $8 million cost and 7.5 million shares.

Okay. I though you did some debt deferrals or some amortization payments, do you think there's still more room there to push back amortization payments or are you kind of comfortable where you're at now?

Actually, we look at the end result and the end result in essence is in page 14 of our presentation, which is our cost. Our cost now is below $11,000 in today's environment – in today's rate, if you have free cash flow generation. And if you take into consideration another issue that we at Navios concentrate very much on the chartering strategy to take advantage of the seasonality. If you see that in the nine months of 2015, maybe one of the most dreadful environment in history of shipping, we managed to produce a 50% above spot market result, and about $40 million of a benefit, if you see. So with this kind of where we are now on course. Our cash position and our breakeven, we see that we are very comfortable for 2017.

Okay. That's all I have. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Chris Wetherbee with Citi.

Hi. This is [ph] Prashant (34:10) filling in for Chris. I wanted to just clarify for the charter-in fleet the developments there. As I am looking at it right, there's like four Panamaxes that are rolling off early next year around $11,000, $12,000 of the chartered-in. Just wanted your confirmation that – so, we – should we think about the vessels too as being rechartered in at these attractive rates that you've got and the seven that are coming on and all the sort of the reduction that you've had? And is that sort of how we should expect the rest of the charters to roll off, to be re-chartered going forward?

The chartered-in fleet is an opportunistic fleet and we try to reduce the cost and take opportunity of the current market environment. It's also a relationship you have with your charter-in owners. You create – you provide the ability for them to roll their vessels and you are also creating a portfolio where it makes sense.

Okay. That make sense. And sort to turning to rates on the chartering out. On the sustainability of the rate increases that we've seen, obviously there's a demand side to this equation from the Indian and Chinese coal and the steel production in China. It sounds like we will see some seasonality as per usual for 1Q, which is clearly expected. I sort of want to just put it up into two parts. One, how do you think about – do you have an early read on how much of a seasonal step-down we might see this year given that underlying trends are improving? And do you think there could be maybe a little bit of a correction before we see long-term stability in rates, maybe in the first half of next year given how quickly we've recovered on the demand side, or is this sort of – is there more room to run on that based upon the demand side and just based upon where prices for iron ore and steel have gone and coal pricing?

I will let Tom give you a little bit more color on the market. But before we go in, I want to go on a very big picture. [indiscernible] (36:15), you had significant scrapping in the last two, three years, and you had – so that you refused the fleet and then demand has gone up. The one thing I can guarantee you is there's going to be seasonality, which is always the case and has nothing to do with cyclical trends. So there is going to be seasonality. You manage that seasonality. This is part of our business, but definitely demand is creeping up in a better situation. It will take time, it's not in a straight line.

But as you say, you're looking forward to Q1 and people are expecting a downturn. But the reality is that what we've seen in the last couple of years is a very bad sentiment in the market, and what we're seeing now is that sentiment has changed around. And we see good demand both in the steel industry and, surprisingly enough, for everybody around the thermal coal markets and the coking coal markets and grain is adding on top of that. So we will almost certainly see an adjustment in the Q1 as we normally do, but I don't think it's going to be anything like what we've seen over the last couple of years where sentiment was really at a different point in the cycle.

Okay. That's very helpful color. And then just one final question. You haven't touched on it too much in this call. The Vale contract of logistics, I think you're talking about maybe a resolution by year end, is it realistic to sort of think that this could become more of a first half 2017 resolution? And just sort of thinking about worst case/best case scenarios, if you could comment. On the worst case, you get your CapEx back, on the best case scenario that there is some, at least, modification maybe to the – you get the full contract, but could there be also maybe a modification, something we've seen similar to maybe an equity being an upfront than a haircut to the contract going forward? Is that a – I just wanted to get a sense of what the options could be in terms of timing, any detail you could provide.

Hello. The arbitration proceeding is ongoing and as you – as we have discussed, this is a confidential proceeding so we cannot really discuss the arbitration case. And of course we have an expedited approach, but we cannot also know exactly when the arbitration process will be completed.

Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you for the time. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

We have time for one final question. Our final question at this time comes from Herman Hildan with Clarksons Platou.

Good morning. Angeliki, I'm [indiscernible] (39:19). So my first question, looking at Navios Logistics, obviously regardless of what happens with the Vale contract, it will have no commitment or significant maturities from when the terminal is completed. As a major shareholder, could you give some color on kind of how you prefer logistics to use the cash generation in the coming years without – would it be further port expansions, would it be debt repayments or other types of investments?

I mean, logistics is – you have to look at the exact growth patterns. We have – the good thing is that it's not tied up to one commodity. You have agricultural products which is growing stronger for many, many years, and iron also you are not tied to one. And there is multiple ways where you can leverage either the port budgets or Cabotage. With Cabotage, it has been also very profitable as Argentina is coming out of a period where it integrates with the rest of the world. So we need to see. I mean, we have a major arbitration and we have to see how this will develop, but I'm very optimistic overall on the area and the ability of the company to grow.

Also, another very important thing that we see in that area is that we had a competitor that was not very disciplined, and that also put pressure in our overall earnings. I think as this company is now changing, there is new stakeholders and there is a new agreement. They will have to have a financial return, and that automatically will create better opportunities for the overall business.

And just finally looking at the holdings again, standard on cash if you exclude logistics is $93 million. You have another $20 million from the facility that you secured during the quarter. How much of that capacity are you comfortable of using to kind of lower your breakeven further and straight that, actually creating equity value as you kind of pointed out today?

Listen, this is opportunistic. You have seen that we worked on our balance sheet quite significantly. We bought about $120 million of different securities and created equity value so this is not something that we are seeing it lightly. But we care first for our protection of our downside, so breakeven is lower. We see that we brought down our breakeven with the environment becoming a little bit better, the sentiment is better and that also affects. And we will be very opportunistic on the balance sheet. It is one of our priorities.

Okay. And just finally, just to be clear, the numbers provided on the buyback, that's as of today not as of quarter end, right?

Correct.

Okay. Thank you very much for your time today.

Thank you.

This does conclude the Q&A session for today's program. I will now turn the call back over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou for any closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes our Q3 results.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference call. You may now disconnect your lines.