corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for joining us for this morning’s call. With us today from Navios Maritime


Holdings are Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO, Mr. Ted Petrone, President and standing


in for Mr. George Achniotis, the company’s CFO, will be Mr. Michael McClure, Senior Vice


President of Corporate Affairs.


As a reminder this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast please refer to the


press release for the website directing you to the registration page. Before I review the structure of


this morning’s call. I’d like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference could contain


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995 about Navios.


Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical fact. Such forward-looking


statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios’ management and are


subject to the risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from forward-


looking statements. Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios’ filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks.


Navios does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call.


Thank you.


At this time I’d like to outline the agenda for today’s call. First Ms. Frangou, will offer opening


remarks. Next, Mr. Petrone, will provide an operational update and an overview of market


fundamental. Following Mr. Petrone’s remarks, Mr. McClure will review Navios’ second quarter and


first half 2009 financial results. Finally, Ms. Frangou, will offer concluding remarks.


After completion of the remarks, the company will open the call to take your questions. At this time


I’d like to turn the call over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO of Navios. Angeliki?


Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Laura and good morning to all of you. During the second quarter, Navios Holdings


benefited from our strategy of fixing our fleet for periods with high quality counterparties. We once


again posted solid results and earned 53.4 million of EBITDA, which is about 16% greater than the


46.2 million of EBITDA we earned on the same period of 2008. We also announced a dividend in


respect to the second quarter of 2009 of $0.06 per share payable on October 2, 2009 to


shareholders of record on September 18, 2009.


Let’s now start our presentation. Turn to slide seven, which outlines how we have achieved growth


during the recent credit crisis. As a general observation, during a crisis, access to credit is itself


evidence of credit quality. In fact, during the recent credit crisis most companies were unable to


obtain any new source of financings and instead devoted significant effort of obtaining waivers from


existing lenders.


In contrast, Navios originated almost 700 million of net debt covering Navios’ entire newbuilding


new vessel acquisitions. We believe this new loan, more than the favorable terms of the financing


demonstrate the value lenders and investors place on Navios business and management.


In the past three months we have also increased our fleet by almost 21%, by purchasing six


newbuilding Capesize vessels. These vessels are subject to favorable long-term time charters with


creditworthy parties that will generate annual EBITDA of about $60 million. These acquisitions were


supported by more than 350 million of debt financing with a 10-year term and longer amortization


profile.
corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 20, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are also using mandatorily convertible preferred stock in funding our growth. To date, we have


agreed to issue about 213 million of such stock, all with identical terms. The preferred stock


mandatorily converts into common at the price of not less than $10 on the fifth and tenth


anniversary of the issuance.


This technique has been very favorable to and protective of our existing shareholders. I think it is


fair to say that most shipping companies were caught unprepared for this severe and sudden


downturn in our industry. Many shipping companies discovered that a spot business model of short-


term revenue and long-term liability was not sustainable.


Shareholders paid the consequence of this spot rating business model as management had to


resort to extreme dilution in order to raise whatever cash was available in the equity market to keep


the company afloat. In some cases, this dilution exceeded 600%, with dilution of about 100% the


norm.


Navios, in contrast, is issuing shares but converting to common stock at the conversion price


representing up to 170% premium to the market price of our common stock. In total, dilution from


this program amounts to 14% and is scheduled to appear in 10 years.


Dilution from share sales of course may not be offensive if the related portion are used to benefit


the shareholders in a measurable way, such as by increasing the earnings per share. However, in


virtually every case we are aware, the sales were shown to fund general working capital or to repay


debt owed to financial institutions. Virtually none of these equity issuance were associated with


identifiable vessel acquisitions having ascertainable earnings.


However, Navios is issuing shares to fuel growth to acquire six new Capesize vessels generating


60 million EBITDA annually and to fund the acquisition of the other vessels that are under


construction. Thus, all the issuance has the dual benefit of creating cash flow and protecting our


existing shareholders from dilution through the mechanism of the preferred stock that mandatorily


converts into common at a multiple of our current market price.


Let’s now turn to slide nine. Yesterday, we also announced the acquisition of two new Capesize


vessels with a combined nominal price of $141.5 million. This transaction resulted from our


continued efforts to capitalize on the opportunity caused by the credit crisis. The effective


acquisition price of approximately 58 million per vessel, considering the usual mandatorily


convertible with their stock, is significantly below the current charter fee value of about 70 million


per vessel. And as the vessels are secured by a 10-year charter with creditworthy counterparties,


we anticipate recovering more than 100% of the nominal acquisition price and 150% of the effective


acquisition price further estimating $170 million of aggregate EBITDA earned during the term of this


charter. Please note that this charters have also profit sharing. Our EBITDA estimates do not


include any estimate of such profit sharing. So we may enjoy a further upside.


We also believe that we will be able to secure insurance on these charters through our insurance


program. In sum, we believe that we have acquired these vessels well below their intrinsic value. In


terms of funding, we paid for $141.5 million aggregated nominal acquisition price as follows: 47.9


million in the form of mandatorily convertible preferred stock, the terms of these shares are identical


to the terms of the shares issued in the deal announced at the end of June.


Specifically, the preferred stock will mandatorily convert into common at a conversion price of $10


per share. 30% of the shares convert on the fifth anniversary of the issuance and 70% at the tenth


anniversary.


Using the mandatorily convertible preferred stock continues to be a competitive advantage as we


are able to issue equity significantly above the current market price of our common stock, while


engaging in transactions that are accretive to our existing shareholders. Since $75 million are also