Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Partners LP
Tom Beney — Senior Vice President-Commercial Affairs, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
George Achniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Noah R. Parquette — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Herman Hildan — Analyst, Clarksons Platou Securities AS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for Navios Maritime Holdings First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcast link in the middle of the page and a copy of the presentation referenced in today's earnings conference call will also be found there.

Now I'll review the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call.

The agenda for today's conference call is as follows. We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the management team. And after, we'll open the call to take questions.

Now, I turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Lauren. Good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. For the first quarter of 2016, we recorded revenue of $101.5 million and an EBITDA of $45.4 million. Slide three provides the company highlight. Navios Holding controls a diverse fleet of 61 modern vessels with an average age of 7.5 years. The fleet age is about 12% younger than the industry average, while perhaps not noticeable now, the use of our fleet will be important when the market turns.

We have developed efficiencies and cost savings because of our size. We have operating leverage from our world-class group of employees and technical capabilities. Because of this discipline, our operating expense is 42% below the industry average.

Slide four highlights our current corporate structure. Navios Holdings value derives from five areas, the dry bulk fleet of Navios Holdings and four principle operating entities. The market is valuing the total as less than the some of the public part. Navios Holdings ownership in NMM and NNA are worth of a $1.30 per share, which in itself is more than NM's current share price.

Slide five shows our strength of diversifying the various sectors of shipping and logistics. Navios Holdings invests directly in the dry bulk. NM's daughter companies have invested in tankers, ports, containers and dry bulk. Each of the companies have strong balance sheet, good cash flows and generally favorable industry dynamics. While the value of these entities may not be currently appreciated by the market, we believe that the intrinsic value of this company will be recognized over time. For example, NNA trades well below NAV and for a price of less than three times 2015 earnings. We believe that at some point, investors will recognize the favorable prospects of the tanker sector. Similar recognitions will be viewed to Navios Partners, Navios South America Logistics, and Navios Midstream.

Slide six provides a 30-year view of the BDI. We have experience in most difficult market that has ever existed in shipping highlighted by the Q1 low of 290. Q1 2016 BDI low was 43% lower than the all-time low established only one year ago. While the extended period of weakness in the dry bulk industry is unprecedented, the BDI has recovered by 113% and is currently at 618 suggesting that the nuclear winter [indiscernible] (04:25). The global fleet is coming into balance.

Scrapping is forecasted to reach 52.6 million deadweight tons or 6.8% of the global dry bulk fleet, easily surpassing the prior record of 6.4% set in 1986. Moreover, they got new orders for only 18 million deadweight tons in 2015 and 12.3 million deadweight tons in 2016.

Cancellations or slippage of new building deliveries averaged about 40% over the past four years. In 2016, it's about 55%. Because of this particular combination of scrapping, slippage and new building orders [ph] in this resources (05:17) anticipate flat to negative fleet – net fleet growth in the dry bulk industry in 2016 and 2017.

Slide seven will show how we have positioned NM to weather the current difficult market. NM had a solid Q1 performance and $45.4 million in EBITDA, an increase of 73% compared to the same period last year. Our balance sheet is strong with $156.6 million of cash as of March 31, 2016. Our balance sheet is flexible with about 83% of our total debt in bonds that have no loan-to-value maintenance covenants. We also work hard to improve our liquidity in the first quarter. We received $14.9 million for early settlement of charter claims and will further benefit from a $23 million decrease in certain charter-in cost over the next 12 months.

Moreover, we reduced NM's G&A expense by an estimated $7 million for the year. And of course, we expect to receive $14.6 million in annual dividend from Navios Acquisition. More fundamentally, overall public affiliates are strong. On an ongoing forward basis, NM will no longer be required to fund working capital needs of this company, a significant change from only a short while ago.

We are also very proud of our overall cost management as we [ph] addressed (06:52) by reviewing our G&A and operating expenses. Today our G&A on a per available day basis, makes us one of the lowest compared to our publicly listed shipping peers and we are constantly reducing the cost.

On a run rate basis, we expect to reduce 2016 G&A by approximately 35% or $7 million to $13 million. In addition, Navios Holdings operating expenses is 42% less than the industry average as measured and defined by Drewry. These savings do not include embedded risk that certain peers charge and are outside the scope of the Drewry report. We have created a flexible chartering strategy with 81.4% of our fleet available days fixed for the nine months till year end 2016 and 34.1% of our fleet available days fixed for 2017.

Finally, we have significant embedded value in our unencumbered assets over [ph] our ownership (08:05) in NNA, NMM, Navios Logistics, Navios Europe I and Navios Europe II. On a mark-to-market basis generally [ph] growth in knowing (08:13) the intrinsic value of these assets or any control premium, this group of assets is likely about $700 million.

Slide eight highlights our strong liquidity position. Our conservative balance sheet has net debt to book capitalization of 56.3% and cash of $156.6 million. As to our cash requirements, the company has [ph] not (08:39) committed shipping growth CapEx and no material debt maturity until 2019.

Slide nine provides an overview of our operating leverage. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels in-house, thus enjoyed cost savings achieved with scale and an increased purchasing power. As a result, NM OpEx is among the lowest in the industry resulting in approximately $34.2 million in annual operating expense savings. Navios Holdings shared its economies of scale with its public affiliate. We provide technical and commercial management services to our public affiliates for their fixed fleet and administrative services up cost.

Importantly, we do not charge any transaction fees whether for originating loans or even sales and purchase or otherwise creating value. The premise of the overall relationship is that there is a fair allocation of cost with the pricing of services on terms and conditions that third party generally would agree.

Slide 10 sets forth Navios low cost structure. From Q2 through Q4 of 2016, we have fixed 81.4% of our available days including our index-linked days at an average contracted daily charter-out base rate of $9,599 per day.

For 2017, we have fixed 34.1% of our available days at an average contracted daily charter-out base rate of $15,416 per day. Our fleet open base plus days contracted with index-linked charters could provide incremental revenue with an improving charter market. We also expect to receive about $11 million in dividends from our Navios Acquisition for the nine months till the year-end 2016, and $14.6 million in dividend from Navios Acquisition in 2017.

I would like to remind you as I do in every quarter that our breakeven analysis includes operating expense, dry dock and charter-in expense for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses as well as interest expenses, and capital repayments.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings' Senior Vice President of Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Slide 11 presents our diversified dry bulk fleet consisting of 61 dry bulk vessels totaling 6.3 million deadweight split between Capesize, Panamax and Supermax Handy.

We continue to be one of the largest U.S. listed dry bulk operators in the world, established over 60 years ago. We have 57 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.5 years. This is 12% younger than the industry average. Navios Group's total fleet of 160 vessels includes 49 tankers, 20 container vessels, and 91 dry-bulkers.

Turning to slide 13, GDP forecast for 2016 and 2017 suggest continued demand. Emerging market growth predominantly in the Asian region drives dry bulk demand. In the largest oil consuming economies such as China, India, Japan, Europe, and the USA, low energy prices tend to stimulate GDP growth over time further aiding the dry bulk market, as was experienced in the late 1980s. Between 2001 and 2015, world dry bulk trade has increased 5.6% CAGR.

Turning to slide 14, iron ore, coal and grain are the three main dry bulk commodities, and represent about 63% of total dry bulk trade for us. Trade in these commodities grew at an annual rate of about 177 million tons, 2010 through 2014. The contraction in these commodities in 2015 was driven by an approximate 56 million ton decline in seaborne coal. So far in 2016, we've seen the rate of decline in world coal trade decrease, indicating the worst of the coal market maybe behind us.

Minor bulks which make up the remainder of dry bulk trade, grew by about 1% in 2014 and 2015, resulting in dry bulk demand remaining flat 2014 to 2015. In 2016, total dry bulk trades are forecasted to grow by approximately 1%. The first quarter of 2016 lived up to its reputation as a seasonal low. We started the year at 473 BDI after a disappointing Q4 2015. By February 10, the BDI had fallen to 290, at historically low level.

Iron ore and coal shipments typically reduced at the start of the first quarter, but with the Chinese New Year celebrations, [ph] fear (13:39) from negative Chinese economic reports, and a warmer winter in the northern hemisphere, the downturn was exaggerated. The lower steel production in China in January and February, and increased supply chain efficiency contributed to dramatic low dry freight levels.

As we mentioned in our Q4 earnings, steel production in China typically picks up in the second quarter. In 2016, increased Chinese steel production started March and continued through April. Steel mills increased production for the peak construction season in the second quarter.

The Chinese Government continues to stimulate domestic markets by increased loan initiations helping the housing market to recover. House prices in the majority of Chinese cities increased year-on-year during the last few months. Fear of a Chinese economic hard landing have receded with March Chinese Purchasing Managers Index rising for the first time since July last year.

Demand for agricultural products in Asia has remained very strong. The BDI rose to 715 on April 27 and has since set back to 618 well above the lows.

Please turn to slide 15. As shown in the right hand side table, overall worldwide seaborne iron ore is forecasted to grow by 1.3% in 2016. China accounts for over 60% of world seaborne iron ore imports. Steel production in China decreased by approximately 2.3% for 2015 versus 2014 and looks likely to reduce by a similar amount in 2016. However, there is continued demand for imported iron ore in China.

Chinese iron ore mines cannot compete with the high quality ore coming from Australia and Brazil at current low prices. In January, international iron ore prices dipped to about $40 delivered to China, a level well below the cost of Chinese domestic iron ore production. Chinese seaborne iron ore imports increased in 2015 by 3% at the expense of domestically produced iron ore which contracted by about 8%. That trend has continued.

For Q1 2016, Chinese iron ore imports have increased by about 7% and domestic production of iron ore has reduced by approximately 6%.

Australia and Brazil will maintain or grow market share in China; and exports from Canada, Sweden, South Africa, Chile and others look likely to decline. China exported a record 111 million metric tons of steel during 2015 versus 92 million metric tons in 2014. So far in 2016, Chinese steel exports are up 8%.

In slide 16, we see as of January 1, the 2016 order book stood at 92.7 million deadweight. By end April, the latest full month statistics 21.1 million deadweight had actually delivered versus 45.1 million deadweight, which was expected, a 53% non-delivery rate by deadweight; the highest non-delivery rate in the last few years. If we assume a more conservative 40% non-deliveries then we estimate 2016 will see about 55.6 million deadweight actual delivery.

With the current 2016 scrapping rate annualized, net fleet growth could be de minimis this year. The order book as of January 1 reduces dramatically in 2017 as shown on the slide. With freight rates and second-hand asset values also low, there is currently little to no incentive to place additional new building orders.

Turning to slide 17, the scrapping pace year-to-date is 20.3 million deadweight. Scrapping annualized would be about 52.6 million deadweight for 2016, an all-time record. There is a normal slowdown in scrapping due to the monsoon season, which starts shortly and continues into the third quarter, but with current low freight levels, the high level of scrapping can continue.

The Capesize fleet in 2016 has contracted by 11 vessels, as 61 vessels have scrapped versus 50 delivered. The cumulative total for 2015 and year-to-date 2016 is minus 18 vessels. The Panamax fleet in 2016 has contracted by 21 vessels, as 77 vessels scrapped versus 56 delivered. The cumulative total for 2015 and year-to-date 2016 is plus seven vessels. That trend towards negative fleet growth becomes more compelling as the order book in 2017 reduces and expectations are that non-deliveries and scrapping will continue.

Slide 18 gives an illustration of the growing scrapping pool. The average age of scrapping has reduced to about 23 years from about 32 years, five years ago. During the last 12 months, we have regularly seen vessel scrapped at 20 years or under and recently a number of 15-year old dry bulk vessels were scrapped.

An extended low rate environment encourages owners to scrap younger vessels. As the age reduces, so the scrapping pool increases, and the right hand chart shows the current scrapping pool. Vessels at 20 years or over total 61 million deadweight or about 8% of the total dry bulk fleet, growing to approximately 124 million deadweight or 16% of the total fleet for vessels 15 years or more.

Slide 19 is a recap of the trends in delivery scrapping and net fleet growth since 2009. As we've discussed, scrapping is running at a record high annual pace. Non-deliveries are also running at a record high.

Net fleet growth has reduced from a peak in 2010 of over 14% to last year's low of 2.3%. If scrapping and non-deliveries continue then 2016 could end with flat to negative net fleet growth and with the order book staying low for 2017, the fleet should contract further. With dry bulk demand rising in 2016, the market fundamental should improve going forward.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis, for the Q1 financial results. George?

Thank you, Tom, and good morning. Please turn to slide 20 for a review of the financial highlights of the first quarter of 2016. EBITDA in the quarter was $45.4 million compared to $26.2 million in 2015. The increase is mainly attributable to about $15 million compensation from the early settlement of charter claims and about $4 million increase in our share of the EBITDA of Navios South American Logistics. The increase in EBITDA was achieved despite the fact that the BDI reached an all-time low during the quarter.

Net loss for the quarter was $7.5 million compared to a loss of $26.7 million in 2015. The improvement is mainly attributable to the increase in EBITDA and a $1.4 million decrease in depreciation and amortization.

As a result of our prudent charter-in strategy, we achieved the TCE rate of $7,008 per day, only 3% below the rate achieved in Q1 of 2015 despite the fact that the average BDI dropped by over 40% over the same period.

Please turn now to slide 21, where the balance sheet highlights are presented. We continue to maintain a healthy cash balance. As of March 31, 2016, the cash balance was about $157 million compared to $177 million at the end of December 2015. The reduction is mainly due to a $20 million payment for the delivery of two new building vessels in January.

Bank debt increased by $41 million since the end of the year, reflecting the additional debt obtained for the two new buildings in January. Net debt-to-book capitalization was 56.3% compared to 54.6% at the end of last year. Over the next few slides, we will briefly review our affiliates.

Please turn to slide 22. Navios Holdings owns just over 20% of Navios Partners including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners owns a fleet of 31 dry bulk and container vessels. NMM is positioned as a unique platform for growth in the dry bulk sector. Its balance sheet and credit ratios are healthy with net debt-to-book capitalization of 41.3% and interest coverage of 4.1 times.

NMM has the ability to generate significant free cash flow. Even in the low charter rate environment of today, it should be able to generate about $74 million in the next nine months assuming steady operating course and current market rates for the open days.

Turning to slide 23. Navios Holdings owns just 46% of Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become a leading tanker company with 38 modern high-quality vessels with an average age of 5.1 years. NNA is also the sponsor of Navios Midstream Partners. All the vessels are on the water and are generating cash flow. The fleet is 95% fixed for 2016 and 53% fixed for 2017.

Navios Acquisition has had a great quarter with net income of $23.8 million approximately 19% higher than the same period in 2015. Adjusted EBITDA increased by 3.5% to $55.8 million representing a run rate EBITDA of $223 million for 2016. This concludes my presentation.

At this point, I will turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South America Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Slide 24 provides an overview of the Navios Logistics business, and slide 25 presents the company's highlights.

Please turn to slide 26. As we have already announced, Vale has advised in writing that they will not perform the 20-year take-or-pay service contract for the iron ore facility currently under construction in Nueva Palmira in Uruguay. We believe Vale's position to be without merit and consider that the contract remains in force.

We continue the construction of the new terminal, and as of Q1 2016, we have paid approximately $65 million. In addition, we have remaining contractual obligations of about $77 million. In total, we have paid or incurred approximately $142 million out of the total budgetary CapEx of approximately $150 million.

The expected minimum annual EBITDA under the take-or-pay contract with Vale is $35 million. The contract is under English law and if Vale fails to perform, we will take legal measures to enforce our rights under our contract.

In addition to the 20-year contract for the new port terminal, we have several COAs and time charters for the transportation of minerals without barge [indiscernible] (24:39) with Vale. Owner contracts are under English or New York law. We currently have a dispute with Vale regarding the termination date of one COA contract, which is under arbitration in New York. The final award for this case is expected in autumn. We have received full security for our claim up to date.

In the recent past, our barge business focused on iron ore transportation due to increased demand from our clients. Yet, we have also been transporting grains continuously since the inception of our company. Our main competitor in the grain barge transportation sector has been in a restructuring process since the end of 2015. This creates an opportunity to strengthen our footprint in the transportation of grains in the Hidrovia.

Slide 27 reviews our results. In the past five years, Navios Logistics' EBITDA has been growing at 20% CAGR. In the first quarter of 2016, EBITDA increased 35% to $21.1 million.

Looking at the port segment, revenue decreased 40% in Q1 2016 compared to the same period last year. The decrease is attributable entirely to $10.5 million lower sales of liquid product, the low-margin opportunistic trading part of our liquid port activity. This decrease in revenue did not affect EBITDA that increased 3% to $5.6 million.

Barge segment EBITDA increased by 80% to $11.6 million. The increase is attributable to higher revenue due to more liquid and dry cargo transported, lower voyage expenses and reduced operating expenses mainly due to a reduction in repair and maintenance and personnel costs.

Cabotage business EBITDA increased by 6% to $4 million from $3.7 million in the same period last year. Net income in Q1 2016 was $5.7 million compared to $0.8 million in the same period last year, due to the increase in EBITDA that was only partially mitigated by $1.2 million higher income tax expense.

Please turn to slide 28, Navios Logistics has a strong balance sheet. Cash at the end of Q1 2016 was $89.4 million compared to $81.5 million at the end of 2015. Net debt-to-book capitalization was 42%, unchanged compared to the end of 2015.

As of March 31, 2016, we have drawn approximately $11 million net under the unsecured export financing facility related to the new iron ore terminal. The undrawn amount under this facility was $29.3 million, including interest and non-related costs. This facility has an eight-year term.

Now, I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This completes the formal presentation. We open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Noah Parquette of JP Morgan.

Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to start with your charter-ins you've done – you made some good progress on these. I think the rate was [ph] some $14,000 (28:05) a few months ago and now it's $11,600 for the rest of the year. That's a pretty big cash flow saving, can you just talk about little bit how you accomplished that, there is more room and maybe some guidance on 2017?

I think it's very clear we achieved this $23 million reduction as you realize is [indiscernible] (28:25) the blended number of everything that is on the charter-in and it represents 12 months from Q2 forward.

Okay. Can you give some color on 2017?

I mean, the rate is – it's applying Q1 – until Q1, so it is 12 months starting from March 2016.

Okay. And then the $14.6 million early settlement of charter claims, can you give a little bit more information on that? Is that at all related to the ships that were charted to NMM or how do we think about that? [indiscernible]

(29:12) is an unaffiliated third party and is a combination with COAs and other claims that we settled and it was an attractive build [indiscernible] (29:24) low rate environment. So, it produced the best result.

Okay. And just moving on to the Vale contracts in the port business, thanks for given the color on the CapEx. So if I am reading that right, you spent how much in CapEx in Q1, was it about $20 million on the port business?

Yes. A bit less, it was $47 million at the end of the year, and it was up to $65 million at the end of March.

And then, the $77 million that you've incurred, what's the kind of timeframe for the one that will be paid?

The construction, completion of the port is in the end of the year. So, what you have is that you have $142 million that has been incurred or paid, and that has to – on the total CapEx of $150 million as we estimated.

Okay. So, but just to be clearer. So, Vale has said that they're not going to perform, but you going ahead was to build-out of the port, right, in full?

We have – the contract is under English law. It has a take-or-pay 20 years. We know we will collect a minimum of $35 million per year for the next 20 years, completion of the port in end of the year.

Okay. And then, have you given any thought to selling a stake in logistics at all of help fund that or are you comfortable with your ability to fund the rest of the remaining CapEx?

We have sufficient cash in our balance sheet, and we do not see a problem in that, and...

Okay. And then one last question?

...and if you see the Navios Holdings, I mean, overall as Navios Holdings in the [indiscernible] (31:11), I mean, let's not forget we had the most difficult quarter in shipping, I mean it was equivalent of a of a [indiscernible] (31:19). We are have 40% below any dry bulk load, we produced solid result, ended up with a healthy $66 million, and with the cost savings we have done, we can really and today's [ph] and in capacity (31:37) of our vessels of around 37.5, we're going see through 2017 without a problem. So, and Navios Logistics is fully able to cover the CapEx.

Okay. And then just one really quick modeling question, the depreciation kind of fell pretty significantly. Is that a good run rate going forward, and what drove that fall?

Yeah. So you can use that as a run rate for the rest of the year.

All right. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citi.

Good morning. This is Prashant in for Chris.

Good morning.

My first question just... Hi. Just starting with Vale, I wanted to – I know you're still in a dispute with them, but just wanted to get a sense of how contract settlement might work there, if there is any precedent we should look to in terms of cash upfront or partial performance or any additional color on sort of just thinking about cash flows there, that you could give would be helpful.

The contract is a 20-year contract, $4 million take-or-pay. So, as we have stated, we believe that this contract remains in-force and the whole claim position of Vale is without May. So you know that no matter what, it is 20 years that will give you $35 million of EBITDA over that period.

Okay. So the full amount is sort of what we should be thinking about [indiscernible] (33:13) – a haircut to that would be in – like an exception, just to be clear?

We have a valid contract and we will collect under the contract.

Okay. Excellent. And on the savings on the OpEx, those are on the vessels, that was impressive through the rest of the year and just to follow up on those questions. Are – I know that you said that the charter-in savings are through the end of 1Q 2017, is that – I'm assuming that holds true for the OpEx savings on the rest of the fleet as well?

The savings on the OpEx is pretty substantial and you have seen this is a consistent strategy that we have done. So this is actual as you can see and within our forecast with the remaining of the year. The cost reduction on charter-in is correctly until Q1 2017.

Okay. And then the rest of the vessels would be – would extend up further the cost savings or should we expect them sort of escalation in 2017?

No.

No. The cost savings on the OpEx are fixed from now on for the future, unless there is some inflationary pressure. So in any type of expenses under the OpEx, we don't expect to see any increase either this year or next year.

Okay. Great. Thank you guys for that detail. And just last question in terms of vessels secured toward [ph] notes (34:50) given that where vessel values are. Not saying that this is – that it would be necessary, but if additional collateral is needed, first off, would it be needed on any of the secured notes, given where vessel values are? And then secondly, would moving assets from logistics to holdings be an auction if needed?

There is no need because there is no loan to value. I mean, this is a pure launch with no loan-to-value covenant. Therefore there is no need for any additional security and in advanced facilities, we are in compliance.

All right. Excellent. Thank you so much for the time. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Herman Hildan of Clarksons Platou Securities.

Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. A lot has been covered but just curiosity, how much did Vale contribute to EBITDA and logistics in 2015?

We are not reporting EBITDA by client. What we have reported is the share of revenue for Vale and our total revenue was about 28% in 2015.

And you have the Port...

And then ...

You have the Port segment on the different side. I mean if you see I think that will give you a lot of clarity. The port – how much the EBITDA from the ports versus barge business versus cabotage.

Okay. Thank you. And also, I mean I still don't understand that you have contract [ph] to be very comfortable (36:40) about Vale and is it possible to give some color on what kind of communication there has been between you and Vale after they sent the notification in March? Has there been any other – any further dialogue or has that been basically it...

I think...

...in relation to them trying to get out of the contract?

There is nothing more to report. I mean there is a very simple process and we have – this is a contract that we have announced in 2013, we have prepared – as you realized all the licenses, all the plans and everything has been done well in advance. So what we are seeing now is that, a project that is going to be completed in 2016 now, so there is a contract that is created long time, is in force, and we have – we can collect over 20 years, $35 million EBITDA per year.

Thank you. And just to kind of be clear [ph] finally on the (37:54) counterparty on the contract is Vale International, correct?

Yes.

Yeah. Thank you very much. That's all from me.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the allotted time for questions and answers. I will now return the call to Ms. Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes the Q1 results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.