Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Laura Kowalcyk — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Navios Corp. (Connecticut)
Angeliki N. Frangou — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Navios Maritime Midstream Partners LP
Thomas Beney — Senior Vice President, Commercial Affairs, Navios Corporation
George Achniotis — Executive Vice President-Business Development and Director, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ioannis Karyotis — Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning, Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Amit Mehrotra — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for joining us for this morning's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call for Navios Maritime Holdings. With us today from the company are Chairman and CEO, Mrs. Angeliki Frangou; SVP of Commercial Affairs, Mr. Tom Beney; Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Achniotis; and SVP of Strategic Planning, Mr. Ioannis Karyotis.

This conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast, please go to the Investors section of Navios Maritime Holdings' website at www.navios.com. You'll see the webcast link. Also on the Investor page is a presentation related to this earnings call, which our speakers will be referencing throughout their formal remarks.

I'd now like to read the Safe Harbor statement. This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios Holdings. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Navios Holdings' management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause the actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.

Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios Holdings' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios Holdings does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call. Thank you.

We'll begin this morning's conference call with formal remarks from the team. And after, we'll open the call to take questions.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Navios Holdings' Chairman and CEO, Angeliki Frangou. Angeliki?

Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you joining us on today's call. We reported revenue of $119.8 million and EBITDA of $32.7 million for the second quarter of 2015. We also announced a $0.06 dividend representing a yield of 7.5%.

We have been paying a divided for over 10 years and remain one of the few companies that have consequently paid a dividend even in a volatile dry bulk market. In fact, we have been meticulous about returning capital to our investors and we have returned about $365 million through dividends and stock repurchases since we commenced this program.

Slide three provides our company highlights. Navios Holdings controls a diverse fleet of 63 modern vessels with an average age of 7.8 years, which is about 11% less than the industry average age. We have developed real cost savings through our size and scale in terms of purchasing power and world class employees. As a result, we have operating leverage from our technical capabilities, which we believe will be unattainable through third-party providers. Because of this discipline, our operating expense is 35% below the industry average.

Slide four highlights our current corporate structure, the value of Navios Holdings mainly derived from five areas, a dry bulk fleet within Navios Holdings and four principal operating subsidiaries. The market is valued at total as less on the some of the parts. Navios Holdings ownership index in the public subsidiaries NMM and NNA are all over $4 per share, which in itself is more than NM's current share price. We thought the sum of the part analysis was worthy of emphasis.

And slide five drills down into the diversified class of the Navios Group. The group has an enterprise value of about $6.2 billion, of which, Navios Holdings represents about $1.7 billion. One defined feature of the Navios Holdings is that it represents a diversified investor relation with multiple platforms for stability and growth. While Navios Holdings investment is primarily in dry bulk, its affiliates have investment in tankers, containers and ports aggregating another $4.5 billion of enterprise value.

As I mentioned a moment ago, NM's current share price represents a significant discount to its ownership share in its public subsidiaries alone. And in determining this discount, we have ignored the value of NM's core fleet plus its 64% invest in Navios Logistics. In other words, an investment in Navios Holdings effectively gives an investor a free option on NM's core fleet plus NM's ownership in Navios Logistics.

On slide six, we show how we have built a chartering strategy that is benefiting from a dry bulk recovery. We believe that we experienced a structural low in the first quarter of 2015, during which spot market rate was below operating cost and the period charter market was non-existent. We thought this is a rare event and likely to be sustainable. During the second and third quarters, the market has experienced improving charter rates across all dry bulk asset classes; although more recently, rates have pulled back mainly in the Capesize segment.

However, one has to take note that when the BDI reached 509 in Q1 of this year, it was the lowest rate in 30 years of record keeping. Since the first quarter, the Capesize spot rates have increased about 3.5 times; Panamax about 2.5 times; and Handymax spot rates have increased about 2 times.

The industry has rationalized by getting out accelerated scrapping of vessels, minimal new building ordering and refused vessel deliveries. All these factors assisted the upward movement of charter rate as represented by the chart on slide six. Our chartering strategy allow us to capture this rate improvement through our 51.6% market exposure consisting of index-linked and open vessel base. In fact, for every $1,000 improvement in market rate for 2015 will result in about $4.9 million in additional cash flow generation.

Slide seven highlights our strong liquidity position. Our conservative balance sheet has net debt to book capitalization of 52.6% and cash of $181.3 million. As to our cash requirements, the company has no unfunded CapEx and no material debt maturities until 2019. Our liquidity is dedicated to expansion opportunities and our operating needs.

Slide eight provides an overview of our attractive operating leverage. I'm deeply involved in this effort, because it is an essential skill for a transportation company. Unlike many of our competitors, we manage our vessels in-house. By doing so, we [ph] generalize (07:04) the cost savings achieved with scale and increase our purchasing power.

Focusing on Navios Holdings, you can see that NM has developed significant efficiencies from economies of scale as our operating expense is 35% below the industry average, translating into $28 million in cost reduction for the last 12 months. Navios Holdings has shared this cost savings with the other members of the group. You can see the benefits at field and transferred to our affiliate entities. NMM OpEx is about 20% below the industry average; NNA's OpEx is 19% below the industry average; NAP's OpEx is 7% below the industry average, as a significant portion of the value of NM is derived through these entities. It is important that we are able to manage OpEx cost well.

Slide nine sets forth Navios low cost structure. For 2015, we have fixed 86.3% of our available base, including our index-linked charter at the Navios charter contracted daily charter-out rate of $8,388. Our fleets open base plus days contacted with index-linked charters could provide incremental revenue with an improving charter market. I would like to remind you that as I – and as I do in every quarter, that our breakeven analysis includes all operating expenses, dry docking expenses, charter-in expenses for our charter-in fleet, G&A expenses, as well as interest expense and capital repayment.

Slide 10 provides details surrounding the companies low cash breakeven rate and cash flow potential. Our 2015 breakeven cost is estimated at $9,598 per day per vessel. This breakeven rate will allow NM to enjoy significant cash flow as market improves. Based on the current market rate of $10,096 per day in using our $4,932 open plus index-linked base of our fleet, we expect to be $2.5 million cash flow positive, net of the dividend from our subsidiaries and dividends paid to our preferred shareholders. As this slide illustrates by acquiring assets at attractive values and using innovative methods to keep our costs low, we are well-positioned for a market recovery.

I would like now to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Beney, Navios Holdings Senior Vice President of Commercial Affairs. Tom?

Thank you, Angeliki. Slide 11 presents our core fleet consisting of 63 vessels totaling 6.3 million deadweight. We continue to be one of the largest dry bulk operators in the world, established over 60 years ago. We have 57 vessels on the water with an average age of 7.8 years. This is 11% younger than the industry average.

Slide 12 shows how dry bulk trade continues to grow. Dry bulk trade has expanded by 5.6% CAGR in the 13 years since China joined the WTO. China and India are the main engines, but other South East Asian countries add demand to World Trade. Forecast for 2015 of the global dry bulk trade to grow by an additional 2%. Ton mile growth is expected to be about 3%. Most of this growth is expected to be in the second half of 2015. Net fleet growth is expected to be between 1% and 2% leading to favorable supply/demand dynamics, particularly in the second half of the year.

Turning to slide 13, GDP forecast for 2015 and 2016 suggest the need for additional dry bulk vessels, emerging market growth predominantly in the Asia region, new housing infrastructure and electricity will drive demand for dry bulk. With energy prices falling, GDP receives a stimulus, particularly in the largest oil consuming economies such as China, India, Japan, Europe, and the U.S.A., further aiding increased dry bulk demand as was experienced in the late 1980s.

Slide 14 shows continued urbanization in China. Steel production in China remains flat for 2015 versus 2014. With iron ore prices falling by approximately 46% over the last 12 months, the volume of imports are expected to rise 3% in 2015 with the majority of that growth in the second half. Chinese domestic production of iron ore cannot compete with high quality ore coming from Australia and Brazil, causing a reduction in production of domestic ore of 10% year-to-date. Furthermore, Chinese iron ore stocks have reduced by about 30%, a large part of the increase in iron ore imports in second half of 2015 is expected to come from Brazil, increasing ton mile significantly. China exported a record 51.7 million metric tons of steel in the first half of 2015 versus 40.2 million metric tons in the first half of 2014, a 28% rise year-to-date leading to a seasonally low steel stocks at Chinese mills.

Turning to slide 15, although we've seen China reduce imports of coal, India has filled most of the gap. The Indian government has made electricity production growth a major goal and this will accelerate the growth of the Indian economy in the coming years. Coal will be the major energy source used to produce that electricity. The potential for growth of coal in India is substantial, close to 800 million people. That's over two and a half times the U.S. population use wood-based fires to cook with little or no refrigeration. India will use both domestic coal and imported coal. But with low quality domestic coal, infrastructure bottlenecks and other restrictions on domestic coal, it is estimated over the next few years; imports will be vital and will grow accordingly. India not only provides a new market for coal, but also an increase in ton miles as the country will need to get further uphill to source quality coal in the future.

As we've discussed in slide 15, slide 16 illustrates Indian coal-fired generation capacity is predicted to grow considerably. We also see other Southeast Asian countries increasing coal-fired generation capacity, creating additional demand for dry bulk vessels. The region is expected to add 200.4 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity through 2019 led by India, Vietnam, South Korea and Indonesia. By 2019, this will create an additional coal demand of approximately 512 million metric tons. This will undoubtedly reshape the seaborne coal market over the coming years.

Turning to the supply of tonnage in slide 17. High levels of non-deliveries continue as expected, averaging 38% so far for 2015. It is being reported that 31.2 million metric tons deadweight have actually delivered year-to-date and it is expected that by year-end approximately 51 million deadweight will deliver. In 2016, the predicted order book is only about 66 million metric tons and with expected non-deliveries to continue at about 40% or more, the actual tonnage delivered will be considerably less. Fundamentals improved further as discipline has returned to the new building order book. At 800,000 deadweight ordered in second quarter of 2015, we're currently running at an all-time low for new orders, representing a 98% decline from the all-time high in 2007. Today's market does not encourage further new orders, so we expect the order book to remain low.

Turning to slide 18, the scrapping pace for the first half of 2015 was the highest pace ever in the market exceeding scrapping for 2014. The Indian monsoon season has reduced scrapping activity in the region, but we expect the normal scrapping level to resume shortly for the balance of the year, particularly because there is still a pool of 66 million deadweight of vessels 20 years and older as potential scrap candidates. 2015 is forecasted to end with an expected 35 million metric tons of dry bulk emulsions representing about 4.6% of the dry bulk fleet. Net of the 51 million deadweight deliveries, we see growth through 1% and 2%, the lowest level for many years.

Please turn to slide 19, the market experienced a number of short-term influences in the first half of 2015 joining to create a 30-year low in the market with rates below OpEx for much of the period. Factors such as loss ton miles as high producers of coal and iron ore were taken off the market. At the same time, the Chinese reduced coal imports and destocking occurred in general in light of price uncertainty in commodities. Furthermore, seasonal high additions to the fleet at the start of 2015 added to the problem.

The second half of 2015 looks very different as new iron ore production in Australia, Brazil comes online. Our China-Australia trade agreement is facilitating increased shipments and lower net fleet growth combines with other short-term variables to provide all the demand growth potential for the second half of the year. This drove the BDI from a low of 509 in February 18, to a high in August of 1,222. The market looks well supported as we progress through second half of 2015 and moving forward.

I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO, George Achniotis for the Q2 financial results. George?

Thank you, Tom, and good morning all. Please turn to slide 20 for a review of the Navios's Holdings financial highlights for the second quarter and first half of 2015. EBITDA for the quarter was $32.7 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $51.4 million in 2014. EBITDA for the second quarter in first half of 2014 was affected by two non-recurring items, a $17.4 million rise off of deferred finance costs, due to the refinancing of the Navios Logistics unsecured bond and $11.5 million write-down of unrealized loss on shares obtained as part of a settlement of an old claim.

The decrease is mainly attributable to a 37% decrease in the time charter equivalent rate achieved as there were some significant deterioration in the market where we reached 30-year lows in the BDI in the first half of 2015. The decrease was partly mitigated by an $11 million pickup of equity in earnings from affiliated companies, mainly due to the very good results of Navios Acquisition.

EBITDA for the first half of 2015 was $59 million, compared to the adjusted EBITDA of $111 million in the first half of 2014. The decrease was mainly due to a 41% reduction in the TCE rate achieved in 2015 compared to 2014. The reduction was mitigated by $5 million reduction in G&A expenses. During the quarter, we recorded net loss of just under $25 million, compared to an adjusted net loss of about $8 million in 2014. The reduction is mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA.

Net loss for the first half of 2015 was about $51 million, compared to an adjusted net loss of $6 million in 2014. Similar to the quarterly results, the reduction was mainly due to the decrease in EBITDA and it was mitigated by a decrease in interest expense and in depreciation and amortization.

Please turn now to slide 21. We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet with a healthy cash balance. At June 30, 2015, we had $181 million in cash, compared to $250 million at December 31, 2014. The reduction is mainly due to a $16 million participation in the equity raising of Navios Partners in February 2015, about $7.5 million participation in Navios Europe II and a $31 million repayment of debt in January. The debt repayment is reflected in the reduction of the debt balance on our balance sheet by $31 million since the end of the year.

Net debt to book capitalization was 52.6%, compared to 49.3% at the end of last year. I would like to remind you that the full market value of our investments in our affiliated companies is not reflected on our balance sheet. If these investments were valued at the current market values, our leverage ratios would be than lower.

Turning to slide 22, the company continues to provide the return to the shareholders through its uninterrupted dividend. A dividend of $0.06 per share was declared to common shareholders as of September 18 to be paid on September 25. On October 15, the company will also pay a dividend of $3.7 million to its preferred equity holders. The total expected cash dividend inflows from the two investments in Navios Partners and Navios Acquisition exceed by almost $10 million annual cash paid out by Navios Holdings to its shareholders.

Over the next few slides, we will briefly review our subsidiaries. Please turn to slide 23. Navios Holdings owns 20% of Navios Partners, including a 2% GP interest. Navios Partners owns a fleet of 31 vessels. Over the past few quarters, the company has diversified into the container segment with the acquisition of eight vessels with average charter duration of about eight years. Navios Partners provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings.

Since its start of operations, annual distributions from Navios Partners have grown by over 170% from under $12 million to $32.5 million annually. By the end of 2015, we expect to receive a total of just under $200 million in distributions since the inception of the company. In addition to the distributions, there has been a 36% appreciation of our investment in partners, which is not fully reflected on our balance sheet.

Turning to slide 24. Navios Holdings has over 46% interest in Navios Acquisition. Navios Acquisition has grown to become one of the top publically listed tanker owners among its U.S. and European peers with one of the youngest fleets in the water. The fleet consists of 37 tankers with an average age of 4.4 years.

In Q4 2014, Navios Acquisition formed Navios Midstream Partners, an MLP with six VLCCs, providing a platform in the work sector for dividend seeking investors and bringing flexibility and liquidity to NNA. NNA also provides significant cash flow to Navios Holdings, including the expected 2015 dividends. Navios Acquisition will provide over $53 million in distributions since its start of operations in 2010. The value of Navios Holdings interest in Navios Acquisition has also grown by 20%.

Now we'll turn the call over to Ioannis Karyotis for his review of the Navios South America Logistics results. Ioannis?

Thank you, George. Slide 25 provides an overview of the business of Navios Logistics and slide 26 presents the company's highlights. We are continuing the development of the new iron ore terminal that we service our take or pay contract with Vale. We have completed the dredging and the civil and mechanical engineering designs. We expect to invest approximately $150 million total in this facility and expect the minimum annual EBITDA of $35 million.

On slide 27, we discuss our results. EBITDA and net income in 2014 were affected by a $27.3 million write-off of deferred finance cost and fees related to the refinancing of the 2019 senior notes. To make the comparison to the previous periods meaningful, we have adjusted 2014 EBITDA and net income accordingly. There is no adjustment in the 2015 figures. In the past four years, EBITDA has been growing at 20.6% CAGR. EBITDA in Q2 2015 increased by 6% to $22.7 million, the increase is attributed to better performance in the port terminals and the barge business.

Port segment's EBITDA increased by 6% to $10.2 million as more cargo moved in both our dry and liquid terminals during the quarter. Port segment revenue was 14% lower due to a reduction in sales of liquid products with the low margin opportunistic trading part of our liquid port activity.

Barge segment's EBITDA increased by 96% to $9.3 million, while revenue decreased by 6% during the same period. The increase in EBITDA and the margin improvement are mainly attributed to the following factors. First, we have performed less iron ore trips under our CoAs in carrying the [ph] over volume (24:29) of expenses, while we received a fully minimum guaranteed revenue under the contracts.

Second, the three convoys under long-term time charter-out contracts that commenced in Q2 last year operated for the full quarter this year. Third, a reduction in operating expenses, mainly repair and maintenance.

Cabotage business EBITDA decreased to $3.2 million compared to $7 million last year, mainly due to more scheduled dry dock days, more hires, and increase operating costs. Adjusted net income in Q2 2015, increased by 61% to $9.4 million due to the increase in EBITDA, a reduction in interest expense and an income tax benefit compared to an expense last year that were actually offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses.

Turning to the financial result for the six month period ended June 30, 2015, revenue increased by 14% to $131.3 million. EBITDA increased by 8% to $38.3 million on the back of stronger performance in the port terminals and the barge business segments, and adjusted net income increased by 81% to $10.2 million.

Please turn to slide 28. Navios Logistics has a strong balance sheet, cash at the end of Q2 2015 was $72 million, effectively unchanged compared to the end of 2014. I would like to mention that in June 2015, we extended the capital leases of two vessels, the Ferni H and San San H for four years.

By extending the chartering contract, we deferred our obligation to purchase the two vessels from 2016 to 2020, and we will continue to pay a favorable bearable charter-in rate of $3,000 per day per vessel for four additional years. Net debt to book capitalization was 44%, compared to 45% at the end of 2014.

Now I would like to turn the call back to Angeliki.

Thank you, Ioannis. This concludes our formal presentation. We open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Ben Nolan of Stifel.

Thank you, yes. I've two, maybe three questions. My first question relates to just the overarching macro in the dry bulk shipping business. Obviously, we did see, I guess, starting in July really a real surge and Capesize rates in particular, but in the last few weeks, we've given some of that back, just curious maybe, Angeliki or Tom, if you have some color as to what has been driving sort of the retracement of rates in the Capesize market in the last few weeks.

One of the things we have seen in this market really moved up, I mean today Cape is at around $12,000 versus we had seen that rate went to $16,000, but apart from – and we're fixing vessel at $17,000, and which also period market opening up. Reality is that also Panamax and Handymax have moved quite significantly, is almost two times, I mean Handymaxes are now at $9,700 spot market and Panamaxes around $8,500. So you have seen a healthy recovery from the 500 of the BDI. Of course, there is some regression, because the market runs quite significantly for three weeks. But the physical market, we can say is in a much better position that what will indicate of the financial market and what we see as headlines. So physical market we see a very strong Atlantic market that exist. Black Sea is very strong and physical – the physical market indicated better situation than what financial market.

Okay. And any specific dynamic behind the retracement or it's just sort of normal market movements?

I think the usual market movement and in essence that is happening in every market, but let's not forget that we have the levels we're seeing now is double what we had back in February.

Yes. No, that's certainly, certainly helpful. My next question is a little bit more strategic with respect to how you guys are thinking about your own capital structure in some of your investments. Specifically, one of the areas that has done reasonably well, although it's given a little bit back here lately, but is your rather large investment and Navios Acquisition, at what point do you think about trimming some of your position in that in order to maybe to upstream additional cash away from the dividend back up to the current level?

Listen, the Navios Holdings stake on Navios Acquisition is $300 million, so we have a large stake there. And we receive also dividends of about $20 million – sorry, $18 million from NNA. So we have $18 million of dividends and we have a stake of about $300 million. Easily if we need it, we can always use them, but we're very positive about the market conditions, I mean, real market is very strong, earning potential of NNA is very strong. It is having a very strong free cash generation, so to be honest; I mean we see a very valuable stake there.

Yes. No, no, no question about it and obviously it's an appreciating value and I don't disagree with the market fundamentals, but ultimately, I guess my question is would you classify that as more of a structural position or at some point at some price would you potentially sell down part of that take?

You know we are open minded to all opportunities, I mean, to be honest, but let's realize what Navios – what we have done in Navios Holdings. In essence, we have a diversified portfolio. So you have a dry bulk company, but two thirds of your value comes from other areas, be it tankers, VAs, product tankers, containers, and port. So two thirds of our value comes from there, sources of dividends are from there. So that gives us the ability to weather a 30-year low in the dry bulk market, not only weather 30-year low, but also do investment. Let's not forget that in the second quarter, we completed an acquisition of – we completed Navios Europe II, which was 14 vessels, 7 containers, 7 dry bulk, four years old at what it may seem the historical low of the cycle. So we – the flexibility we have are distraction gives us the ability to really grow in this kind of a market.

Okay. And then my last question relates to the South American business. You mentioned that there was some, I guess, under utilization in the barge fleet, which obviously is a take-or-pay contract, so it's not that big of a deal, but are you guys seeing – it has Vale meaningfully we cut back on their production out of that region?

The reality is that Navios treated the investment in Navios Logistics the same way we treat our ocean vessel. So our contract is take-or-pay. So our investment there is fully protected. So even if we carry less cargo, we will be paid on the same way with higher profitability. So that's a very straight forward investment there. Longer term, I believe that Corumba – don't forget that in Corumba they also have manganese ore. So there is additional ore that they can bring down. And we know that this existed even from 1950s, which was the original investment of U.S. Steel.

Okay. But I guess the answer is that they are shipping materially less ore at the moment, is that correct?

There must be some less iron ore, but the reality is that it is really unaffected. I mean, if you remember two building convoys tied on a six-year contract with Vale; and we have no open convoys until end of 2016.

Yeah, okay. Perfect. All right. That does it for my question. Thanks.

Yes. Thank you.

Your final question comes from the line of Amit Mehrotra of Deutsche Bank.

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I have one industry question and two company-specific ones. On the industry, you guys seem more optimistic on the dry bulk rates and that's certainly in line with what we've been seeing directionally. But I just wanted to ask you about some of the most recent Chinese import data, particularly on the coal side. I mean we basically saw very nice sort of month-on-month uptick in imports on coal in July. And the implication is that type of improvement should be sustained just based on sort of what the expectation is for the full year of down 20% and the year-to-date declines are basically almost double that.

So I guess the question is what gets you more comfortable on coal imports, and I'm just talking about China here and not necessarily India offset. And what has driven maybe the recent improvement we saw in July, because the counterpoint is there are some secular challenges given China's own coal reserves and basically that country's investments in hydro and nuclear power generation. So if you can just sort of talk about your maybe optimism there or lack of optimism on the coal trade into China?

I would like to go first on why we're optimistic. You're not going to be optimistic because you are betting on coal in China. Because in essence if you take historical data, this is a volatile and small percentage of their overall needs. I mean, you have to realize around 4 billion metric tons of market they are domestic. So the actual import of 260,000 or 300,000 is a very small percentage. We are optimistic, because iron ore will have seen a pure, a clear substitution on the imported iron ore versus domestic. Domestic is declining and imported iron ore is climbing. And on the coal what you have seen is that the overall – India is having a clear – the 250 tons that India is going to be importing is a substantial percentage of what they need and that is something that is here to stay and continue.

What makes us optimistic on Chinese coal is that we see that the decline they had it has really been less than people had feared; and that will be the – [ph] the nuclear (37:16) is a much longer term. So it's not a quick substitution today. What is really affecting the coal market in China is the trade agreement with Australia, which is net positive and a lower hydro in July for the market. So what it seems is that, if you really want to see macro drivers – is India coal – and iron ore into China because of the substitution effect.

And as we know, I mean, we have seen that Indonesia exports of coal is less, which means it will be further away. So that is a net positive effect. Now for coal, it seems that the paranoia about coal is going to disappear from China. It has really stabilized and it will be better than all expectation in the beginning of the year. I don't know if Tom wants to add something there?

No, I think we had a very big hit in the first half of the year on coal and what we're seeing pre – sorry, post the Australia trade agreement is that shipment levels are starting to move up on total coal into China. And what we also saw with the Chinese protecting their own coal industry and economically make sense to bring coal into China and particularly into Southern China. So we think it will be returning back to a more normal pattern. I think structurally, as Angeliki says, the Indian market is much more interesting and we can see quite some large increases in the Indian imports over the next few years.

Right. But have you seen anything in terms of Chinese rain levels. I mean, I've seen – I've sort of observed declines in the reservoir levels at the dams and that maybe have some implications for near-term demand pull. I'm just trying to understand the people are so negative, but at the same time we are potentially – there is a potential roadmap to seeing some nice year-on-year sequential improvements in coal imports given what the rain levels are doing in China?

You're right. The rain levels are down year-on-year versus last – versus the situation last year where we had an abnormally high hydro usage in China. So this year, we've certainly seen that come off a little bit and we expect to see and we've seen some short-term activity and the imports of coal into China.

Okay. Very good. One last question from me on the capital allocation side somewhat company specific. Angeliki, you appear very proud of management's ability to sort of deliver on the dividend commitment and that's absolutely the case you should – the management team should definitely be proud of that, but I sort of understand why there is a steadfast commitment to the dividend or distribution on the MLP side of the business, but what I'm trying to understand is that if there is any willingness at the NM entity to reallocate some of the dividends to share repurchase because the point here is that every $1 of dividend is worth $1 to shareholders on a present value basis. But $1 of share repurchase could be worth much more over time given sort of NM trades relative to sort of the value of the subsidiaries and also the value of the company's own fleet. So I'm just trying to understand your philosophy on that specifically at the NM level and if you maybe open to sort of substituting one for the other.

We're very open and you know if you've seen our strategy, Amit you're very right. We have – of the $365 million that we have over that last 10 years, we have given back to our shareholders about $265 million within dividends, which I said at the – from the beginning at what we – at that time was a modest dividend, Amit. And we gave it consistently and over $100 million is in the buyback. So we view both ways as effective and we – you have seen us, do that in multiple ways.

Okay. Can I just ask one last question, I'm sorry about this, but it's more for George specifically related to any proactive dry dockings, I'm just trying to understand if Navios Holdings is planning on conducting some proactive dry docking in the second half sort of like what we learned NMM is doing and a lot of other companies are doing. And generally, I'm just trying to understand does these proactive dry dockings that are seem to be happening across the dry bulk sector in the back half of the year, does that have potential impact on the supply side of the equation, albeit temporarily in 4Q, and do you guys have a view on that, and maybe that can sort of drive some artificial bump up in rates in already sort of seasonally strong time of year. Do you have any view on that?

We have done just – Amit, I'll let George talk, but one thing I will tell that we already have done in the first half 12 dry dockings. The reason we did it, it makes sense to do it, because of the opportunity cost – the opportunity cost was really very low and it makes sense, and also you avoided, I mean you've managed to not have to spend money on regulatory improvement and we didn't have to do it right now. So it was a double benefit and we have done 12 dry dockings. On the second half, we have in Q3 in somewhere about another four, five dry dockings in Q3. Usually, we try to minimize the number of dry dockings in Q4, because of using the strongest Q4.

Okay. Okay. Great. That's helpful. That's all I have. Thank you for answering my questions.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions. I'll now return the call to Ms. Angeliki Frangou for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. This completes our second quarter results.

Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.