corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Vanessa and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Navios Maritime Holdings Incorporated First Quarter


2009 Financial Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions].


Thank you. I will now turn the conference over to Ms. Laura Kowalcyk. Please go ahead ma’am.


Laura Kowalcyk, Cubitt Jacobs & Prosek Communications


Thank you for joining us for this morning’s call. With us today from Navios Maritime Holdings are


Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO; Mr. Ted Petrone, President and Mr. George Achniotis,


Chief Financial Officer.


As a reminder, this conference call is also being webcast. To access the webcast please refer to


the press release for the web address which will direct you to the registration page. Before I review


the structure of this morning’s call, I’d like to read the Safe Harbor statement.


This conference could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios. Forward-looking statements are statements


that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs


and expectations of Navios’ management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could


cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements.


Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios’ filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risks. Navios


does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call. Thank


you.


At this time I’d like to outline the agenda for today’s call. First, Ms. Frangou will offer opening


remarks. Next Mr. Petrone will provide an operational update and an overview of market


fundamentals. Following Mr. Petrone’s remarks, Mr. Achniotis will review Navios’ first quarter 2009


financial results. Finally, Ms. Frangou will offer concluding remarks. After the completion of Ms.


Frangou remarks, the company will open the call to take your questions.


At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO of Navios.


Angeliki?


Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Laura, and good morning to all of you on today’s call. During the first quarter we


benefited from our strategy of fitting our fleet for long-term periods with high quality counterparties.


As a result we were able to once again post solid results despite a very volatile market.


We earned 42.4 million of EBITDA on the first quarter of 2009, which was about 12% larger that the


38 million of EBITDA we earned in the first quarter of 2008. Our corporate strategy as set forth on


slide six has positioned us to capitalize on opportunities provided by the dislocation of this market.


We have a modern fleet of 36 active vessels with an average age of less than five years. We have


been successful in controlling our operating costs and we have a very seasoned monitoring team
corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 21, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


with an average industry experience of more than 20 years. Also, this team has managed in similar


turbulent markets before.


We proceed in the current market with both optimism and caution. Optimism, because two drivers,


the continual organization and the system stimulus focus on infrastructure projects should have a


positive impact on our industry, the dry bulk. Caution, because such caution has guided us well


before when the markets were more robust. We then decided to charter out our vessels for lengthy


periods to take advantage of the robust environment.


As an example we contracted 97% of our revenue base for 2009, which will generate almost 245


million. We also contracted 75.5% of our revenue base for 2010, generating 277 million. While


2011 and ‘12 are still developing, we have secured almost 50% of the revenue base for each year,


generating 233 million and 270 million, respectively.


We have achieved the secure revenue while being selective about our counterparties. I believe we


are one of the few companies that will have a credit committee proactively monitoring the credit risk


of our counterparties. Our committee is staffed with a group of experienced professionals. In


reaching our decisions we rely on the collective judgment of the group as opposed to any


mechanical approach or mathematical formula. In addition, the cash flow generated from these


charters is effectively insured by a double A+ rated EU governmental-backed insurance.


Given the meltdown in the financial market, our decisions to have a credit committee and to secure


this insurance has provided to be very wise.


We have paid also significant attention to our liquidity. Slide seven shows our current liquidity is


favorable, with total liquidity available of about 258 million. Of these amounts 241 million was cash


on hand as of March 31, 2009. Also, our net debt to total capitalization was 43.1%.


Liquidity should be measured in the context of our fully funded business plan and is the result of the


management team having devoted a great deal of time to rightsizing obligations. We terminated


new building obligations, had serious conversations with our lenders about our requirements in the


current environment, and worked to ensure that we can be comfortable with our financing


commitments.


Slide eight sets forth for our operating breakeven. As you can see, our estimated breakeven rate of


$15,875 per day for 2009 compares well with our contracted rate of 25,500 for 2009 and 31,000 for


2010.


Slide nine addresses our continued return of capital to our shareholders. Although the industry has


been forced into a defensive mode, Navios’ quick reactions allowed us to return capital to our


shareholders through dividend and share repurchase programs.


We had [audio skip] the first quarter of 2009 dividend of $0.06 per share. The record day will be


June 18, 2009 and the payment day will be July 2, 2009. Navios has continued its November 2008


share repurchase program of 25 million. As of 31 of March, 2008 approximately 908,000 shares


have been repurchased under this program. There is approximately 23 million of liquidity left.


And with that I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Petrone, Navios’ President who will take


you through the company operations and the industry sections. Ted.


Ted C. Petrone, President


Thank you Angeliki and good morning all. Please turn to slide 11.