corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 21, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Navios Maritime Holdings Fourth Quarter and Year


End 2007 Earnings Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. There will


be an opportunity for you to ask questions at the end of today’s presentation. Instructions will be


given at that time. [Operator Instructions]. This conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the


conference over to Tom Rozycki. Sir, you may now begin.


Thomas J. Rozycki, Jr., Vice President, Investor Relations, Cubitt Jacobs & Prosek


Communications


Thank you for joining us for this morning’s call. With us today from Navios Maritime Holdings are


Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO, Mr. George Achniotis, Chief Financial Officer, and Mr.


Michael McClure, Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs. As a reminder, this conference call is


also being webcast. To access the webcast, please refer to the press release for the web address,


which will direct you to the registration page.


Before I review the structure of this morning’s call, I would like to read the Safe Harbor statement.


This conference call could contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 about Navios. Forward-looking statements are statements


that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs


and expectations of Navios’ management team and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which


could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements.


Such risks are more fully discussed in Navios’ filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. The information set forth herein should be understood in light of such risk. Navios


does not assume any obligation to update the information contained in this conference call or the


associated presentation. Thank you.


At this time I would like to outline the agenda for today’s call. First, Ms. Frangou will offer opening


remarks. Next, Mr. McClure will provide a brief overview of market fundamentals. Following Mr.


McClure’s remarks, Mr. Achniotis will briefly review Navios’ fourth quarter and year-end 2007


financial results. And finally, Ms. Frangou will offer concluding remarks. At the completion of Ms.


Frangou’s remarks, the company will open the call to take your questions.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and CEO of Navios


Holdings. Angeliki?


Angeliki Frangou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tom and good morning to all of you. I am very pleased with our 2007 operational and


financial performance and our continued growth of Navios. Today Navios represents a group of


companies controlling 71 vessels with almost 7 million deadweight tons. We have built this capacity


over a relative short period of time and in cooperation with our shareholders and investors.


With our recent strategic initiatives and in current market conditions and opportunities we have


continued building of the group during this upcoming year. I will briefly review the results of our


fourth quarter and the full year of 2007. George Achniotis will take you through in much more detail


through the financial results in a moment.


As you can see in slide 3, in the fourth quarter of 2007, Navios Holdings grew EBITDA by 101% to


49 million. In addition, as you can see in slide 4, overall 2007 Navios Holdings grew EBITDA by


76% to $191.4 million.
corrected transcript


Navios Maritime Holdings, Inc.
 
NM
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 21, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Please note that this EBITDA and net income figures are somewhat lower than the reported


numbers for the following reasons. First, we have excluded 167.5 million of gains from the sale of


vessels. Second, we have included 9 million in EBITDA from vessels characterized by financial


leases under U.S. GAAP. We have made these adjustments as we feel these figures provide a


much better measure for our overall performance.


Let’s now turn to slide 5. We have continued to be optimistic about opportunities within our industry


and we expect to participate in future consolidation. We also believe in providing a [inaudible] return


to our shareholders. Today, we have positions to do both, as we enjoy a very stable cash flow from


both dividend from Navios Partners and earnings from our core fleet. As a result, we have


increased our dividend by 35% with respect to the fourth quarter of 2007 to $0.09 a share. The


dividend will be paid on March 18th to shareholders of record on March 10th.In addition, we have


also announced a share repurchase program, under which we will repurchase up to 50 million of


common stock depending on market conditions, share price and other factors.


The increased dividend and the establishment of a share repurchase program should be viewed as


a vote of confident in our future. We can continue to be opportunistic in relation to the market, while


returning cash to our investors. Moreover, the purchase of shares in relation to experience market


prices represent an outstanding investment highlighting that our belief in the fundamentals of our


industry.


Now, let’s turn to slide 7. We accomplished a great deal in 2007 as we continue the evolution of


Navios. In fact, tomorrow will be one year anniversary since we listed ourselves in warrant on the


New York Stock Exchange. We have been very pleased we affiliate with this very fine exchange.


Growing our fleet to a bigger financial scale has always been our main goal. Today Navios


Holdings is one of the largest U.S. publicly listed dry bulk shipping companies, owning 25 vessels,


controlling 62 and representing 6 million deadweight tons. Our fleet also is one of the youngest in


our industry with an average age of 4.3 years.


In 2007, we committed to purchase 9 Capesize vessels. This is 1.6 million deadweight


approximately for $950 million. To fund this, we paid approximately $200 million in deposits in


2007. In 2008, we will have to pay an additional 105 million, of which, 17 million will be financed


from existing lines of credit. In addition to this expansion, we have also added to our long-term – to


our charter-in fleet, adding 15 vessels, all Japanese or Korean build, all these vessels have


purchase options.


So, we have continued to grow our fleet without significant current outlay of fund. Also, we have


solidified that balance sheet during 2007. In May, we raised 132.2 million in a secondary equity


offering. We also raised 119.3 million from the exercise of outstanding warrants. About 71 million


was received in a tender offer. Since then, we have also had about 48 million coming in through


unsolicited warrant exercises. As of December 31st, 2007, Navios had 7.8 million warrant


outstanding, and we expect over the course of time to receive an additional 79 million as this


warrants expire in December of 2008.


Let’s now turn to slide 8. In 2007, we acquired Kleimar, a Belgium-based company that has had an


extensive COA business transporting iron ore and coal to China. We think this investment has paid


off handsomely. It represents a very conservative entry in the Capesize sector, which was always


part of our strategic vision.


In addition, we have more than recouped our initial investment through the sale of Fantastiks to


Navios Partners along with the increases in value that we have enjoyed in connection to the


vessels – Beaufiks, Capesize, and Asteriks Panamax.