corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Half Year Financial


Results for Six Months Ending December 2011 Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a


listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question and answer session [Operator


Instructions] I must advise you this conference is being recorded today Friday 11, February 2011.


I would now like to hand the conference over to Don Mercer, Chairman. Thank you. Please go


ahead.


Donald Penn Mercer, Non-Executive Chairman


Okay, yes, well, welcome ladies and gentlemen all. This is of course our results meeting, but there


is one other matter that I think it might be important for me to talk about to open our conversation,


and that is about the change in leadership at the company.


First, I should probably congratulate Greg on his appointment. The board has had him as a planned


successor to Ian for quite some time now and I am sure many of you will have worked that out.


We’ve got some music in the background which I hope you’re enjoying. They’re trying very hard to


turn it off. Anyway I guess the question on your mind will be well, why now? And we believe that


Greg, Ian and the board as a whole, that we’ve actually reached a natural transition point in the


leadership of the company. Ian has achieved his five-year vision for Newcrest and the company


has been transformed. I mean the important things would include the can-do culture which is now a


part of life here, the balance sheet, elimination of the hedge, the elimination of debt, the market


caps gone from give or take 70 to give or take 40. We have a pipeline of opportunities that you


can’t jump over.


We have a company that is a credit to all who’ve been involved in its development. And Ian feels


that at this point it’s kind of natural for him to move on and as you’ll have seen we very much aim to


keep the association with Ian. Nevertheless, Greg feels completely ready. He has been in


partnership with Ian, but has led us to the very good position we have. And Ian, while leaving is


going to stay on for a while to be associated with the transition to make sure it’s smooth and easy.


But basically Greg is happy to see through what’s on foot and he is going to lead the next phase of


the company’s growth.


We are feeling that succession is an issue, which exercises all board as I am sure you know and


our conviction is that what we have here is something which is – its time has come, it’s natural, it’s


logical and it’s going to work and it keeps the right people in place. Anyway we’re very happy with


it, I hope you are too. I would like to pass the floor to Ian, who is going to lead the conversation


about the results for the half year.


Ian Kingsley Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director and Managing Director


Well, thank you very much for those words, Chairman. And I would like to introduce the official


results for Newcrest for this half year. The first half year where we’ve had the integration of Lihir.


So, we’re dealing with 10 mines in four countries. And it really does mark that half in which those


extra assets were at times merged into the way that we operate and we start to see the synergistic


value of the changed profile which sets us up for the future. So, without further ado I’ll refer you to


the pack.


First off the disclaimer on page 2 and then the summary of financials on page 3. So for the six


months ending December 2010, our underlying profit increased 96% to A$523 million, whilst our
corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


statutory profit increased 148% to A$438 million. And I’d just like to note that we only have one


more six-month period where there will be a material difference between the statutory and


underlying as the accounting effect of the hedge positions rolls off substantially and nearly


completely by the end of this financial year.


Now cash flow from operations was up 92% to A$922 million and the profit margins associated with


our operations increased, so EBITDA now stands at a margin of 52% and EBIT at 40%, very


healthy margins indeed.


Our gearing is at 1% and that was after the cash component of the merger and the proposal being


completed. So, in spite of those large transactions going forward in the six months, we’ve managed


to carry forward our major projects, undertake the merger and still have a gearing of 1% that attests


to a very strong balance sheet and on the back of that, the board has made a decision to lift the


interim unfranked dividend to A$0.10, which is a doubling of the interim dividend.


Moving on to page 4, our production, we have over 70% increase in gold output to just under 1.4


million ounces. Now, that is through this six-month period treating ore sites as if they are part of the


new Newcrest.


The pre-merger sites increased production by 8%. So the original core of Newcrest managed to lift


its production in line with the projections that we have been giving in the five-year plan. I think that’s


a very good indication.


So point three really gives you the numbers where the ex-LGL sites for the full six months period,


511,000. And then the four months which we included in the financial results, so for those four


months those ex-LGL sites produced 336,000 ounces. Most importantly the mine production costs


increased in line with inflation of 2.5%. So even though we undertook a lift in payroll payments per


person at an average of 5%, with the initiatives we have going and the approach that we have to


materials, there has been a fair bit of pressure throughout the market, but we’ve been able to


contain that to an overall effective increase in costs in line with inflation.


And Bonikro mine and milling operations have recommenced, so we’re on a basis now where we


will be running Bonikro 24 hours a day, 7 days a week using some of the stockpiles, monitoring the


situation within the country. And if the situation continues to display the profile at present then we’ll


be going back to full mining operations with the contractor which will sustain that 24-hour a day, 7-


day production profile. But basically we’ve reached out of the mill and we’ve been firing in the pit


and moving dirt out of the open cut. So the Bonikro operations have restarted.


Our full-year gold guidance is reconfirmed at 2.85 to 2.95 million ounces for the year. But I want to


give you some individual guidance on quarter three and quarter four. Because of the ongoing


impact that we have out of Bonikro not starting until now and the ongoing impact that we’re having


out of the rain effects at Cadia, quarter three will be slightly down. So the overall production there


will come in slightly under 700,000 ounces. But in quarter four we’re expecting a very strong uplift


where production will be well in excess of 750,000 ounces. So the expectation is that guidance will


be achieved for the year, but quarter three will be down with a very strong quarter four.


Moving on to page five, just some snippets post-merger and basically that merger is in place now,


we are now at a point where the admin overhead structure, the insurance etcetera as overall


drivers from an administrative bureaucratic viewpoint are fully being delivered. We are now in a


position where the synergistic uplift will be continuing on the basis of what we do with the way that


we run maintenance, the way that we run our inventories, our stores management etcetera. And


the smearing across of some of the initiatives that we have in the way we approach mining. So we


expect those ongoing production synergistic inputs to continue to deliver to our bottom line in costs.


So the synergies are expected overall to exceed A$85 million and we’ve already delivered to-date