Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director & MD, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Research Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Mitch Ryan — Research Analyst, Macquarie Capital Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Sam Berridge — Research Analyst, RBS Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Ian Preston — Research Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Partners (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Research Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Research Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Jo Battershill — Research Analyst, UBS Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Fraser R. Jamieson — Reseearch Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Research Analyst, Commonwealth Securities Ltd.
Geoff Breen — Research Analyst, RBC Securities (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Levi Spry — Research Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Newcrest Mining 2010-2011 Full Year Results conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Monday, 15 of August 2011.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Greg Robinson, CEO and Managing Director. Please go ahead, Mr. Robinson.

Thank you and good morning to everyone. It will be first and only speaker today. I'll be doing the entire presentation. Thank you for attending my first annual results presentation as CEO. Before I start, I do want to just take a quick moment to offer my deep regret and sympathy to the family and friends of the 10 people that lost their lives in the helicopter accident last week. It's in Indonesia on the 3 of August and certainly has had a profound impact on the company, and that investigation is ongoing.

Turning the page on the presentation to the disclaimer page, this is just a normal disclaimer on forward-looking statements, reserves and resources, competent persons statement and a word on our exploration target. Turning to the content page. Today, we are going to cover quite a lot of territory. We are going to look at the strategy update. We've been through a process there earlier this year, so I'll talk briefly about that. The financial results, the reserves and resources upgrade, guidance for 2012 and then a summary five-year outlook for Newcrest going forward.

So turning the page just starting with the strategy, we had refreshed our strategy. I don't think there are any dramatic changes to that direction. The key points that I'd like to make are that we are obviously focused on gold and you'll see that in the five-year plan, gold dominates the revenue line at greater than 80%. We are predominantly Asian focused and we'll continue to be Asian focused, looking further north as we contemplate growth. We are developing our assets in West Africa. That's probably the only one outside of this time zone, but we do believe West Africa will take a couple of years to really assess and see the full potential.

With the gold focus, we will remain unhedged. It's the objective and the balance sheet will continue to retain its strength and low gearing. In the asset quality, we are looking obviously to maintain long-term low-cost assets. If assets move into a different sort of look, we will look to optimize our asset portfolio over time and you've seen a little bit of that this year where we've taken to very good smaller Queensland assets and put them into the Catalpa Conquest merger, which is still subject to shareholder approval. We are, in the five years and ongoing, going to really focus our efforts on our larger resource-based assets and you'll see that in the discussion today. And in the medium term, certainly again, looking to capture a couple of new provinces, it's always important that we find that growth for the future.

Just a comment on dividends. We'll continue with a good solid base dividend and we'll look to increase that conservatively over time where we see high prices matched against our capital and profits and growth expectations. If we have excess cash, we will look to return it to shareholders and this year we're doing that via a special dividend and that strategy will continue into the future. That's pretty much all I want to say about strategy at this point. Happy to take questions a bit later.

Turning the page onto the financial results. Firstly, just looking at the underlying profit, it was up 36% to over A$1 billion this year, so good strong results. During the year, the major impact was the A$10 billion acquisition of Lihir. The integration of that is now complete, the optimization of it continues and it will be going through its first really significant province planning exercise within Newcrest later this year.

During the year, we did see prices increasing for both gold and copper. Gold production increased, copper was marginally lower and cost pressure we did see particularly in the Australian context. So again, underlying profit was up 36%, statutory profit up 63%. Cash flow from operations, again, very strong at A$1.73 billion. We took that cash flow and invested it back in our growth projects and development on existing operations.

And again to confirm, we have declared a final dividend of A$0.20 per share, which is really our base dividend, and we've also declared a final special dividend of A$0.20 per share. The payment dates of those are in the release. Both these dividends are unfranked; going forward, we would expect to see franking in the 2013 financial year as we finally run off the tax shelter that we've had from the old hedge book.

Turning the page to financial results summary on page six, looking at sales revenue growth. Sales revenue grew 46%, primarily with the acquisition of Lihir. Gold revenue grew and I'll talk about it next page, and our copper revenue is relatively flat. Profit has increased to over A$1 billion. Cash flow increased by 33% and we maintain very strong margins in the business, the EBITDA margin being 50% and the EBIT margin around 38%.

Turning the page and looking at revenue; gold production and sales increased and gold prices also increased, leading to a 60% increase in gold revenue. Gold revenue does make up 83% of total revenue for the company. Copper sales actually decreased by 15% year-on-year, however, prices were higher leading to total copper revenue only declining about 2%.The average A dollar, U.S. dollar FX rate increased from 0.88 in 2010 to 0.99 in 2011, and that obviously had some impact in reducing some of the revenue improvement.

Turning the page to total cost of sales, there's no big surprises in cost. The primary areas of our cost pressure were in energy and labor costs. Costs in certain regions remain under particular pressure and that's particularly in Western Australia. Against this cost profile, the strong A dollar did help us with the higher U.S. dollar inflated commodity input prices, and remember around 35% of their cost base comes in U.S.-dollar based inputs. The realization in royalties increased 24%, but this was in line with our expectation. We paid higher royalties due to higher commodity prices and profit. And TC/RCs were lower and they really benefited from the much higher A dollar exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar.

The depreciation increased to A$204 an ounce. This is through two impacts, one is newer assets so higher capital base is being amortized; and secondly, the acquisition of Lihir and the amortization of the acquisition costs there. Lastly, Lihir costs have continued to be allocated to the stockpile inventory, this is in line with the mine producing more than we're milling and so we are actually capitalizing some of that cost.

Turning the page to EBITDA by operation. EBITDA was maintained at around 50%. The good thing on this page is now to see our four key assets there really make up A$2 billion of that A$2.2 billion. And as we noted earlier, Queensland assets are now being put into a smaller vehicle, which I'll talk about later, where we'll own 33% of that company. And Hidden Valley and Bonikro both for different reasons had disrupted years and we would expect a better performance from both next year.

Turning the page to look at investment in future CapEx; capital expenditure during the year was focused on two big projects, primarily Cadia East and Lihir, the MOPU expansion. Both projects continue to be on track from a production and a capital basis. Gosowong was also the extension project which was really the completion of the Kencana project. A comment on sustaining capital here, sustaining was higher this year because we did a truck replacement at Lihir and development generally comes with underground development around Telfer and Gosowong.

Turning the page to exploration expenditure by region. The total spend on exploration for the Group was A$126 million, A$55 million or 44% was expensed through the profit and loss statement. The reason a majority was actually capitalized again was because we're doing most of our exploration around our existing operations or projects that are sitting in pre-feasibility. Resource additions for the year were 11.7 million ounces of gold and 2.7 million tons of copper and that were added at an average cost of A$4.5 per gold equivalent ounce.

Most of our exploration focus is currently – or this year was – last year was focused on Telfer, Gosowong, Wafi-Golpu and Namosi. Cote d'Ivoire was obviously disrupted with the political issues last year. We expect that to increase next year. I'll now turn to the resources and reserves area statements. The first thing I want to say is the gold resources did increase by 9% to 147.5 million ounces. Copper increased by 15% to 19.9 million tons. The ore reserves for gold and copper both also increased. The big increases on the resource base were for Golpu where we saw 5.3 million ounce increase in gold and Lihir where there was an addition of 7.5 million ounces.

Lihir had a substantial increase in reserves and resources due to the extensions towards the sea wall. We expect further upside as we drill towards the north of the [ph] Cabot (12:12) pit next year – or this – sorry, this current financial year. Golpu has had a substantial increase in gold resources to 26 million ounces and copper to 9 million tons. And this is obviously in line with the spectacular exploration results we've had over the last 12 months. That ore body still remains open to the north, to the west and at depth and there will be substantial drilling over the next six months to get us into a position to complete a pre-feasibility study. We did not report a reserve on Wafi-Golpu an increase this year. We have really focused on the resource. We would be looking to have a better look at the reserve upgrade towards the end of this calendar year.

Telfer's got a reduction in reserves and resources. It's a combination of factors. One is just the deflation we've had in the mine. The second is now we've got three years of very good history both on grade from the reserve and resource and reconciliation within the mill, and the cost base where we've seen a quite a dramatic increase in Telfer or West Australian costs. And so the result of that is a minor reduction in the resource and reserve grade at Telfer. I would point out that we are still very optimistic about exploration at the Vertical Stockwork Corridor and also at West Dome Deeps on dates an we'll be investing quite a lot of exploration dollars over A$20 million there this year to explore both of those. Gosowong replaced its production and the reserve increase was primarily around Toguraci. And again, exploration upside exists at Toguraci to the north and regionally.

Cote d'Ivoire, we're focused on the mine upside at Bonikro and then secondly on the regional exploration programs around the Cote d'Ivoire greenstone belt that we own where we have 17,000 square kilometers. Cadia had some small increases, but those increases – really the Cadia focus is on the production and mine delivery. Turning the page to page 14, really just illustrates in the pie chart the growth of the reserves and resources for gold, and I'll let you have a look at the numbers as they've come through the reserve and resource statement, but again really dominated by – for resources, Lihir, Wafi-Golpu and Namosi; and in reserves, it's really Lihir and contributions from Cadia and Telfer.

Turning to the copper inventory, the copper inventory was mainly the upgrade to Golpu on resources where we saw it increase by 2.1 million tons and then small increases at Namosi and Cadia. On a reserve basis, not the same increase, and again it's because we haven't really taken the resource position at Golpu to reserves at this stage. The other thing I would mention about reserves and resources, we are going to switch our reporting time on that. So we're going to convert ourselves from a June year end and August report on reserves and resources to December and report it in the half year. The primary reason is, it really matches our planning cycle. We do all of our majority province planning both from a resource and reserve basis during the second half of the calendar year. And it just frees us up a little bit to do that reserve report statement in February rather than doing it at the end of the financial year.

On guidance, I'm now turning to guidance for financial year 2012. The gold production we're looking for is in the range of 2.775 to 2.925 million ounces. This represents a 3% to 8% increase on financial year 2011. Approximately 2.3 million to 2.4 million ounces of this comes from our four largest assets. We expect higher production at Cadia and Lihir as the major projects start to ramp up towards full production. On a quarterly basis, we would expect the first three quarters to be relatively similar. And again, in the fourth quarter as these projects start to ramp up, we would expect production to be higher. Copper production should be higher than 2011 and in the range of 75,000 tons to 85,000 tons. Cash costs should be broadly in line with 2011. We continue to see cost pressures across our business. Telfer will be probably higher in the first half of the year as production will be focused in the Cutback 7 area and then it should come down in the second half of the year and we would expect lower costs with full year production at both Bonikro and Hidden Valley.

Capital costs are expected to be in the range of A$2 billion to A$2.2 billion, and again very much focused on Cadia East and MOPU. Exploration spend will increase to A$170 million, and again – or A$160 million to A$170 million, and again that will be focused in the Gosowong, Telfer, Morobe, West Africa and Fiji areas. Turning the page to production guidance, I'm not going to go category by category through that. I'll let you read it, happy to take questions on it that – which adds up to that production guidance I've just talked about. And then on page 19, it runs through the capital guidance, and again, it's consistent with the discussion we've just had.

Turning to page 20, which is the exploration focus, you will see that the exploration amounts are broken roughly into A$20 million to A$30 million chunks, and the focus is really Wafi-Golpu, where we're going to spend a lot of time and money drilling at Golpu to get ourselves from pre-feasibility to feasibility. Lihir, A$20 million to A$25 million, where we're moving north of the [ph] Cabot pit (18:56) and still towards the sea wall, and looking for further extensions to resources and reserves. Namosi, where we're looking to spend A$10 million to A$15 million, and again, focused on the Waivaka corridor on gold, on richer gold and copper targets, which we believe are there. And again, we verified some of those high grades in our last quarterly reports.

Telfer, where we're looking to spend A$20 million to A$25 million, and again, that's focused in the Vertical Stockwork Corridor and in West Dome Deeps. Bonikro, where we will ramp up our regional exploration and the exploration around the mine site, looking to spend A$20 million to A$25 million. And lastly, Gosowong, where we're still drilling at the Toguraci discovery, the underground discovery, and moving further north, where we saw some very promising hits and including some work around some regional exploration there. Moving to page 21 is the sensitivities. Again, there, for your information, I'm not going to talk about those today. The sensitivities have remained relatively constant.

Now I'm going to the five-year outlook. The five-year outlook, the comment I'd make upfront, we are illustrating quite a lot today. These are more general numbers than our financial year 2012 disclosure. And they definitely remain subject to our tollgate processes for all the growth projects. We are still in pre-feasibility, which means that we're doing some – still some heavy exploration and settling what the ultimate production in capital profiles could look like, hence some of the range data that we are disclosing here today. So, turning to the first page, the portfolio overview, you'll see that we've increased our focus on the larger assets. And that's primarily where we've got very long resource reserve basis, large production basis and that's Lihir, Cadia and ultimately Wafi-Golpu.

The key for us in the short-term is really making sure we deliver Cadia East and Lihir's MOPU project and then optimizing the size, mainly – optimizing those sites mainly through plant debottlenecking. The study's priority is to progress Wafi-Golpu, Namosi and O'Callaghans from pre-feasibility to execution, and I'll talk about those later.

In the medium term, we also want to obviously reinvest within our exploration program, and we're searching with an aim of capturing a couple of new provinces over the medium term. In a capability since, still very focused – strong focus on people and technical capability within the company. We now have a very good mix of open pit underground skills, particularly our block caving skills. And our processing abilities have improved with Lihir, which is now bringing us the refractory pressure oxidation skill set. So a good balance of skill sets and a continued focus within that area or in the company.

Turning to gold production; we are – this is on page 24. We are looking to increase production to an estimated 4 million ounces by 2016. That represents roughly a 50% growth over the five years from where we finished 2011 production. The main improvements in growth are primarily going to come from Cadia and Lihir. Obviously the focus on the MOPU project at Lihir and the ramp up of the Cadia East block cave, new production within that five-year framework will come from Namosi, expanding Bonikro and a very small optimization at Hidden Valley. And Wafi-Golpu project will go into execution within this timeframe. It was expected to go into execution in this timeframe and we'll be looking to see production impacts in 2017.

Turning the page to copper; copper follows the gold. Gold is obviously the dominant outcome here. The contributions that you see late in 2015 and '16 are really the contributions from Namosi and O'Callaghans startups. During the period of the five years, gold revenue continues to dominate and represent over 80% of the revenue base. Turning the page to the indicative cash cost profile; we have based this against where the current cash costs are 2011 which was A$483 an ounce. Looking forward, we would still expect cash costs to decline over the five years by over 20%. We've put the ranges there because obviously there are a number of impacts both from commodity input prices, exchange rates and other activities that can impact this.

The main drivers for our decline in the cash cost is really looking at the Cadia East cave ramping up where the costs will be substantially below where they were this year, where Lihir is able to sustain itself at about A$400 an ounce and Gosowong sitting at around A$350 an ounce. That really leads us into that cash profile that you see. Also, we see Hidden Valley and Bonikro improving. We will continue to optimize Telfer and the higher costs, smaller operations – good operations, but higher cost operations at Cracow and Rawdon will be moving towards a smaller vehicle.

Turning the page for the portfolio overview; Cadia Valley remains on track to contribute production in 2013. There will be some capitalized production with the drill point development this financial year, but that will be capitalized. Production will lift from around 500,000 ounces to 750,000 to 800,000 ounces over the next five years. Copper will increase from roughly 55,000 tons today to 80,000 to 90,000 tons. We expect costs to be well and truly at the bottom of the first quartile, and we're doing that obviously with copper price estimates of around A$3 a pound.

Over that five-year period, we expect the plant to reach the 26 million ton capacity that we're putting in place at the moment. And again, we would look to debottleneck that and increase the plant capacity by the end of the five years. Turning to Lihir, the MOPU project is continuing to progress well. We expect production to lift from the 850,000 ounce mark to around 1.3 million ounces. There is scope here for further expansion. Lihir does have a huge resource and reserve. The resource is now over 56 million ounces, the reserve at 31 million ounces. We will be looking at more float capacity, future pressure oxidation expansion and stockpile usage along with other changes through the upcoming province planning. Again, we would production in the five years to grow into that 1.4 to 1.5 million ounce level and we would hope to hold cash costs around A$400 an ounce.

Turning the page, looking at Telfer; Telfer continues to be a higher cost operation with lower grades, remote location and general WA activity and cost pressures associated with it. We've certainly, and as I mentioned in the reserve and resource discussion, we've looked to our production data and our increasing costs there and adjusted some of the reserve and resource outcome. However, we are positive about West Dome Deeps and the Vertical Stockwork Corridor and we would expect extensions to those in the coming years. With the hot WA environment, we are focusing on Telfer in this five-year plan to sit around the 500,000 to 600,000 ounce mark per annum with a cash cost of A$650 to A$750 an ounce. During that period, we will look to develop the Vertical Stockwork Corridor and O'Callaghans. And I'll talk about O'Callaghans separately in a minute.

Turning to Gosowong; Gosowong, we'll focus on reserve replacement. It's an epithermal mine. It has a shorter reserve life and so we will maintain our exploration commitment there to continue extending that reserve life. We're looking to hold production around the 400,000 ounce mark. The reason it comes down a little bit from the 450,000 is the grade moves closer to the reserve grade. We've been running obviously in the Kencana 1 and Kencana 2 parts of the ore body at 30 grams a ton. We've been moving more towards the 20 grams a ton. We'll do regional exploration here. We've still got targets further north in the mine and we'll be looking to drill those in the near term.

Turning the page to Bonikro; on Bonikro, we will look to expand the plant from 2 million tons to roughly 5 million tons. We've had some reasonable success around the mine. We have a reasonable resource base here and reserve base. We believe that the open pit and process plant expansions are quite straightforward. And again, within the five-year plan, we would look to increase those and again commit to the exploration potential within the area. Political scene, obviously, is a caveat but to our expectation at the moment it is settling very well and the site has come back into production as we expected.

Hidden Valley, we are looking to stabilize production at Hidden Valley and this is in 100% terms around the 300,000 ounce mark with the final completion of the overland conveyor issues that we've had in the last six months. We want to see obviously the process plant perform better and the cost within the open pit come down and we're aiming at a cash cost in the A$500 to A$600 ounce range. Later in that five-year plan, we will look at small de-optimizations and de-bottlenecking at the plant and expect some small incremental growth. On the exploration side, Hidden Valley continues to show very good regional upside. We may find obvious resource and reserve upgrades or potential here. And at that point, we would look at further expansion.

Turning to the potential five-year capital spend. The capital spend is really dependent, I would point out, on the tollgate approvals and the eventual final feasibility plans. Many of these projects remain within pre-feasibility and I'll talk about those forward. We would expect to invest around A$9 billion in projects over the next five years. The big project spends are illustrated on the slide, and the biggest focus in the short term is completing Cadia East and MOPU. In the medium term, it is moving both Golpu – Wafi-Golpu, Namosi, and O'Callaghans from pre-feasibility towards execution.

And finally, you can see the development and sustaining CapEx. We would expect the sustaining CapEx to be in that A$200 million to A$300 million range; and again, development will depend on the amount of underground activity we have within our mines. Turning to – sorry, I should make one more point on CapEx. Also within our expectation here is that cash flow will cover CapEx and base dividends. Subject to price performance where gold goes, we may again choose to do special dividends or buybacks down the track.

Turning to page 31, looking at Wafi-Golpu, Wafi-Golpu continues to be in pre-feasibility. We've got a big team working on that. We are going to delay the move of pre-feasibility to feasibility till June next year. The primary reason we're delaying it is because the exploration continues to be successful and it continues to change the sequence and optimal mine location. So, we feel it's prudent to continue with another three to six months of heavy exploration work around Golpu, chasing it obviously to the north and further depth. We'll have about eight rigs active in the area and so we'll be very focused on that.

In rough terms, we expect the start-up capital for Wafi-Golpu to be in the $3 billion to $4 billion range, U.S. dollar range. And that's moving towards around 20 million ton block cave type outcome. From the early work that we're doing, we expect the production range would be in the 600,000 to 800,000 ounces of gold and copper to be in the 300,000 to 500,000 tons of copper. That's obviously 100% numbers that I'm quoting there. Like all blockades, they take time to ramp-up, as we've seen obviously with Ridgeway Deeps and what we're doing on a forecast basis for Cadia East. But we would expect that, again, this will take about five years to ramp-up and our current expectation is it will impact production or start to impact production in 2017. On a cash cost basis, again, given the grades and what we know about the block caving costs, we will expect this to be at the very lowest end of the cash cost curve.

Turning the page to Namosi, Namosi is progressing very well. And we are within pre-feasibility at the moment, but we expect to finish that pre-feasibility by the end of this calendar year. The basic mine design and process plant are in good shape and we expect the first 10 to 15 years from what we've got in pre-feasibility to come from an optimized area within the Waisoi reserve at about 0.6% copper and about 0.2 grams of ton gold. The process plant, we're thinking about or we're designing at the moment, is around 15 million tons. Our share of production will be about 50,000 tons of copper and it will be a good high-grade copper concentrate with no real serious impurities there, and about 50,000 ounces of gold. Production is expected from our current pre-feasibility plans around 2015. The total capital, it will be a smaller startup and something like a Wafi-Golpu, will be around, total, 100% A$1 billion.

We are very excited about this region still. You'll have seen in our last quarterly report significant surface intersections at higher gold and higher copper percentages, so we would expect that we can optimize this outcome. And we hold high expectation of better gold and better copper in the long term around this region. Turning to O'Callaghans. O'Callaghans is also progressing well and we're expecting deposits from its pre-feasibility tollgate to its feasibility later this year. Again, we expect production in the 2015 year and we'll be using a shared infrastructure basis with Telfer. We're contemplating around 3 million tons per annum from the mine and that will produce around 7,000 tons of tungsten – 5,000 to 7,000 tons of tungsten.

Half the revenue stream that will come from this mine comes from also the base metals that you produce, which is copper, lead and zinc. The CapEx estimate we're looking at is A$400 million to S500 million and we believe O'Callaghans will be able to reduce the cash cost to Telfer by A$100 to A$150 an ounce. Turning to other items at the end of the five-year forecast, again, just talking quickly about that five-year forecast, it is significant growth projects. We have choice around those projects when we obviously pursue them within the production forecast we're making. And we are also looking at our cash flow, from our expectation we will fund this through our cash flow.

The other items on page 34, we are – we like our smaller assets in Queensland, we think they're high quality, slightly higher costs, smaller assets at Cracow and Mt Rawdon. We're excited by the merger between Catalpa and Conquest and very happy to be earning 33% of that vehicle going forward. We think the management team are good, and we think the future growth opportunities and business deliveries there will be very good for our investment.

On Lihir, the merger implementation as I've mentioned earlier is complete. The full A$85 million synergies are in place to be finished by December of this year. The optimization beyond that is now in the province planning, a little bit of what I've talked within the Lihir five year plan. And so that merger has gone very well. We are contemplating a Canadian listing, we do have a Board approval to be at the move forward with the Canadian listing at the Toronto Stock Exchange. It is subject to final legal and regulatory checks. We have obviously to look very closely at the reporting requirements and in particular the reserve and resource, the new – the Canadian 43-101 requirements that just takes a bit of time and effort.

And then lastly on carbon tax, I've talked about this at the quarterly. It is an impact on the Australian gold industry. We would expect for Newcrest, where we've got substantial offshore assets, that the impact is lower. It will be a roughly 1% to 3% of our impact, which is obviously net profit after tax.

In the final slide, so the final slide on page 35, I'll just recap the strategic focus. Newcrest is a gold company and we remain focused on that. We have a predominantly Asian focus in looking at our -- both our production and our growth base. We are, however, very happy with our small position in West Africa and we think that still holds high potential. We are going to focus on low cost, long life assets within Newcrest. Assets that's don't fit that profile over time, we will look for other answers to that. We remain unhedged with a conservative balance sheet and we will look to increase returns to shareholders through both the base dividend and in the conservative basis and then using specials or buybacks to return capital.

The decisions that we have made here today, we are really prioritizing our future around in the medium term, obviously Cadia, Lihir and Wafi-Golpu. We're looking to balance the rest of our assets with growth and cost focus and we're looking also obviously to continue to capture new growth provinces. Lastly, I'll just make a point that we are very focused on our people and capability and particularly our technical capabilities. The ability to mine and process and market is obviously critical for a company of Newcrest's size to successfully deliver its business plan. With that, I'll finish my formal remarks. There are site guidance slides which give a lot more detail about the one-year profile on both production and costs. I won't go through those specifically. But now, I'd like to stop and just open it up to questions. Thank you.

We will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Stephen Gorenstein from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just a few questions. One on your copper production over the next five years particularly. It's a little bit lower than what we were looking for. Can you give a bit more details as to how the production works itself out?

Telfer sort of is running in the 25 to 30 range, Cadia in the 80 – I think we got around the 90 range, and then we've got Namosi coming in at 50, O'Callaghans coming in at roughly around 10. And so that sort of gives you the profile within that five-year range. And then what we're looking at beyond that is obviously a very large impact from Wafi-Golpu beyond that.

And Speaking of Wafi-Golpu, obviously 20 million tons is obviously a good starting point. When we were last at the site or when we were at site, some of the numbers and things spoken about were closer to 30 million or 35 million tons. Are they off the agenda now or is that just a later stage thing?

I think it's a later stage thing, Stephen. I think the answer there is, we're in pre-feasibility. Caves have multiple fronts and it really just is time to develop drill points and capacity. So we think the first step is the prudent one, but naturally as we drill out in the next six months and continue to look at the grade and potential of Golpu, it certainly has the mineral inventory to go further than that.

Excellent. Thanks very much, Greg.

The next question comes from the line of Mitch Ryan from Macquarie. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just can you confirm your FY '12 guidance that includes the Queensland operations, does it?

It does include the Queensland operations.

Okay. My other question on Wafi has been asked, so I'm good. Thanks.

Thanks, Mitch.

Our next question comes from the line of Sam Berridge from Royal Bank of Scotland. Please go ahead.

Good day, Greg. Thanks for a very comprehensive overview of where you're going – what you've done and where you're going. On the comment you made about the new provinces, I was wondering could you talk a little bit around what stage of assets would you be looking at? I mean traditionally I suppose you are looking at quite early stage?

The second question, just around your cost front. It seems that the key drivers there has been your power contracts, mine contracts and rolling off or having to be initiated. I was just wondering if you could give a little bit of an overview of how those contracts of – I suppose, specifically your major power contracts are looking for the next two or three years in terms of their maturity dates? I suppose, just lastly, it looks like the Golpu PFS findings have been pushed out just a little bit. I was wondering if that's got anything to do or if you've got an update on permitting or deciding on a location for tailings dams and the eventual location of the plant? Yeah, I'll just leave it at that. Thanks.

Okay. Thanks, Sam. Look, first one in the province side, clearly from Newcrest history, our best results usually come from early province entries. Wafi-Golpu was – are really good and Namosi for that matter really good entry points where we – you use M&A tool kits, but you're basically getting into the provinces at the pre-concept, early resource development-type strategy.

So, we'll look to continue that. We're not looking to buy mature production. I think the Lihir acquisition was a different one. Obviously predominantly gold and what we felt had a resource inventory that had more potential and growth in it. And I think you're seeing the start of that starting to come through our story. But predominantly in province growth, it's early entry using whatever tool kits you need to get there.

On the power side, Telfer's gas contracts run out to about 2019, and they're at historically low gas prices. So, Telfer's power base is pretty well underwritten. Cadia is on the eastern seaboard grid, so it really takes its power directly from that. And it's contracted out now till end of 2014. So – and it – this year – I think it's got one year of carbon coverage and then we pick up carbon exposure beyond that.

So, Cadia again will float with longer-term path for 2015 mark, we'll float with where electricity prices are on the eastern seaboard. Again, Cadia moves to a much more efficient outcome over time. So, I think with the block cave, obviously it's a bigger operation, smaller amount of moving pieces and a better ability to sort of optimize and focus on those outcomes. Lihir is really a mixture of geothermal. Our long-term expectations are that we'll be running geothermal megawatt usage of 70 to 80 megawatts per annum. And that's a reasonable expectation with what we're looking at the deep drilling there for geothermal. And the rest will be made up with fuel oil or in time possibly coal.

Wafi-Golpu, very early days on that. Again it will be a mixture of hydro, coal, fuel oil. And I forgot one of – Gosowong is really a fuel oil, it's a small plant. So it's really not a big energy user. And then we really just have the exposure in the pits around fuel, around diesels. So obviously that's come down a little bit now, but longer term expectation around that. And then generally, the energy prices have a fair correlation with the rest of the commodity base.

On pre-feasibility, look, the main reason we're slowing up on pre-feasibility with Wafi-Golpu is not so much the infrastructure choices, it really is about the mine location within Golpu. We just have subsequent results coming through that exploration program, but you need to really make a decision where the drive goes and where you start the footprint to the mine. We didn't necessarily have the best quarter last quarter in activity around Wafi-Golpu. And in a sense of just getting enough holes into it, going forward, we really got a lot of drills and a lot of focus on making sure we get that information.

All right. Thanks very much.

Same.

The next question comes from Ian Preston from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead

Good morning, Greg. Just a few housekeeping ones. Is there any implication with the sale of Mt Rawdon in terms of the carrying value or any goodwill associated with any of that asset if that transaction goes through with Catalpa and Conquest?

Yes. Look, not – it will go with the book value, they will restate goodwill within their own books but with ours it goes with our stated balance sheet that you'll see today. I would expect between Mt Rawdon and Cracow as it transfers into the new vehicle that will have a small profit.

Okay. And then, can you just from Gosowong, you referred there to the additional three-year regional development program and the community responsibility costs. How should we be looking at it? Is that – are those numbers similar for the next two years or does it carry on beyond that?

It's similar and continues on. It will continue on.

We should be allowing for that additional A$23-odd million a year?

Yes, you should.

Okay. And the third one, on the reserves you've stated them at A$850, I know there's a couple there that are at a higher price. Can you give us some idea of the sensitivity if you were to use the three-year rolling average gold price which the offshore clients, I mean offshore gold companies would use?

Well, it's a tough question, Ian. The – look, at Gosowong, the context are much more defined. So you're not heading into country rock as you drop your grades and you look at higher prices. And obviously it has a bigger impact around Lihir, where – and Cadia and Telfer.

Again where you move down the grade curve and these large, lower grade rims become more of an impact. I can't give you the numbers off the top of my head, but you would have Telfer, Cadia and Lihir upgrades.

Any idea about an order of magnitude at all, Greg, or not?

I'm sitting here staring at Colin Moorhead as you ask that question. Look, I think it's fair to say we would have to do completely re-do pit optimizations and have a look at a very different story. So I don't want to give you an order of magnitude outcome on that.

Okay. Now, if you get a listing on the Canadian market, are you required then to use that three-year moving average for reserve statement?

I don't think so.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Ian.

The next question comes from the line of Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. I'd like to focus on Lihir Island for a moment, if I could. A couple of questions; the first one, looking at the optimization possibilities and you mentioned a resource extension for [ph] Cabot (50:10) to the north. At some point do you anticipate the cessation of stockpile generation and the integrated question is with that A$400 an ounce cash cost is there a capitalized cost on top of that that we need to assume for a period of time? And then looking at the longer timeframe, that 1.4 to 1.5 million ounces over five years, would that then be coming through at the reserve head grade or would you still be looking at some high head grade over that shorter timeframe? Thank you.

Brendan, good questions. The stockpile side of things at the moment, we'll continue to add to the stock pile in the short term. Obviously, within our province planning we're looking to see whether we can start to process the stockpile more aggressively. So, with that, you would expect that the head grades going through the plant will be higher than the reserve grade for the medium term unless we change what we're doing in that province plan. We've certainly got room within the island. We're not as aggressively moving that stockpile as we were in the past, but we still have plenty of room to increase it in the short to medium term.

And you're right in saying that some of the A$400 per ounce is associated obviously in thinking about moving stockpiles, there's costs associated with that. And clearly in the province plan, we want to minimize that. The 1.4 to 1.5 million ounces, just repeat your last question, sir, I think I've lost the track of that one.

I was just asking that once you get to that 1.4 to 1.5 million ounce production rate, would you then be running at reserve grades or still at a higher than reserve grade?

Yeah, much closer to the reserve grade at that point. And again, our objective is, obviously, at the start of this province plan, is to bring that stockpile usage up and to move the ultimate head grade closer to the reserve grade and maximize production. So, we're looking at all sorts of things like increasing floatation, increasing again the pressure oxidation whether we can do an early sorting process on the stockpile, it's obviously linked with sulfur strategy. So there's a number of factors increased, but in general, that is the direction we're going.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks, Brendan.

The next question comes from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Thank you. I've got a couple of questions. First of all, the ramp up of Cadia East, can you talk about what your expectation is for that ramp up profile? How do you think of that in the context of the perhaps slower ramp up at Ridgeway than what was initially foreseen and the five-year ramp up that you're suggesting for Golpu? So if I recall, I think the ramp-up at Cadia East was over about three years and it looks quite aggressive compared to perhaps what you're now expecting for Golpu and what you achieved at Ridgeway.

Okay. First off, MOPU is very early days. And it is associated with no infrastructure there at the moment in a remote location with probably just a more conservative view of life there at this stage. Cadia East, obviously, we're doing it with the full knowledge of what we did at Ridgeway and we're doing a hell of a lot more pre-conditioning of the underground rock, both in up-hole drilling and blasting, down-hole fracing, hydro fracing the rock and then significant work around how we actually develop the draw bells.

So, we've done our first two draw bells at Cadia East and we're pretty confident from what we can see and what we can see in the rock fracturing and the mechanics that we're heading in the right – certainly heading in the right direction there. So, Mike, I think the answer is we've got good confidence at Cadia East. We do think we'll meet the production profile that we've put out and we've thought long and hard about that in the last six months. And I think with Wafi-Golpu, it's really watch this space, as again, it's a very remote location and we're taking a conservative view towards how we bring in a very major ore body.

Thank you. So in the context of that ramp up then, if it were to disappoint, it's clearly a fairly important project from a cash generation perspective. Is there a contingency plan for generating cash if it were to take a couple of years longer to ramp up?

Sorry, you're talking about the Cadia East ramp up?

Yes, I am. Yeah.

The Cadia East ramp up. I think we've always got contingency in the sense of what we spend on some of these – when we commit and spend on these growth projects. But I have to say that the balance sheet is in very good shape. We certainly have smaller investments and other assets that we could potentially sell also if we needed to provide more capacity on the balance sheet.

I'm pretty confident around the balance sheet, Mike. I think the company is in good shape to pursue these projects even if they didn't achieve as quick a ramp up. But, again, I think we've taken a good hard look at Cadia East. We've got very good learnings out of Ridgeway Deeps and I'm confident we'll get there.

Okay. Thank you. And then secondly on Telfer on the reserve adjustment at Main Dome, that's the second adjustment. The first one, if I recall, was the removal of the factoring on the reserve. What's happened this time? Is it principally a negative reconciliation issue that has lingered or how much is it to do with a new economic evaluation?

Both, Mike. Both. So, we've had a small reconciliation issue out at the Main Dome to the mill on the reserve, so we've removed that. And then secondly, obviously it's a much higher cost profile in WA and that's why we're at this time, it's not to say we wouldn't look to expand Telfer down the track but that's why at this point we're being quite conservative in looking at bedding Telfer down, focus the expansion on, or the development on the Vertical Stockwork Corridor, exploration on West Dome Deeps and bringing O'Callaghans in. We think that's more than enough for Telfer to really focus on over this five-year plan.

Yeah. So, the slightly more conservative production profile that's reflecting – I'm trying to understand where the shortfall is in that the reserve grade has been adjusted to be just slightly ahead of what the average head grade was for FY '11.

Great. So, you're looking at the adjustment there. Again, I think in the past, you can always look to expand an operation like Telfer just in material movement. But I think what we're going to do there is really just stick to a much more reliable consistent-type profile here over the next five-year profile.

Okay. So, should we expect depreciation to increase because of the reserve adjustment or is it covered over with the reserve increase so that you could --

Mike, the pit doesn't carry that much capital. So, really the profile should stay relatively consistent on a DD&A basis. And then when we bring O'Callaghans in, it'll obviously bring a new capital base with that.

Okay, thank you.

The next question comes from Jo Battershill from UBS. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hi, Greg. Just a couple of quick questions. The CapEx profile you've given for FY '12, is there any chance of getting that split out by project? And also just on Namosi, I mean it comes into the five-year plan, how are you feeling with regard to permitting for that, I mean, with regards to an operation of that size and environmental issues?

Yeah. Good question, I'll deal with Namosi first. I think it is really subject to that permitting process. We really got to do obviously between pre-feasibility and execution, a lot of work with the community and government there to bring the project into production. Again, we're confident we can do that, but it will be subject to those approvals.

On the CapEx side of things, we can give you a breakdown. I'm thinking it's roughly – the Cadia sort of roughly running mixture about 800, Lihir is running at about, again, at about 750. And then you've really got a mixture of projects behind that.

Has there been any – I mean, sorry, the A$2 billion to A$2.1 billion that's in the presentation for Cadia, obviously that includes A$1.4 billion pre-production or in development CapEx. How should we be staggering the remaining CapEx, just looking at the bar chart there? I mean is a lot of it in FY '13? How much would we be looking at in FY '13?

Cadia then goes into just draw point development. So what you're really looking forward in those bars is really watching Cadia do its underground draw point development to where it reaches its maximum amount of Lift 1, Lift 2 draw points. So, that's the annual CapEx that you're following. Inevitably, it reaches that A$50 million range in draw point but in between, it's sort of scaling from A$300 million down to that level.

Okay. Thanks, Greg.

Thanks.

The next question from Fraser Jamieson from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Disappeared.

Hello. Sorry about that. Thanks, Greg. Just a couple of quick questions on firstly around the cash cost profile on slide number 26. Can you just confirm whether that includes or excludes Mt. Rawdon and Cracow? I realize they'll be quite small contributors there, but just to clarify that would be good.

You also talk secondly around de-bottlenecking opportunities that you've identified down the line at Cadia East. Could you just perhaps give us a little bit more detail around that? And then thirdly on the Canadian listing, you said subject to final regulatory review, can you just give us an idea of the next steps from here to that kind of six-month goal for the listing, please?

Sure, okay. Cracow and Rawdon are in those cash cost estimates, but they have a tiny impact in the outcome really. Cadia East, really process plant capacity is part of that focus. So, again, we would think we'll get 26 million tons; some of the objectives we're looking at within the province plan for the five years is really to take that to 30 million tons.

And then on Canada, again it's really 43-101 which is the reserves and resource outcome which just has a series of reports and processes that you really need to go through and we're in the process of doing that. And then the second one is just working through the exemptions to quarterly reporting using our ASIC ASX reporting requirements here as the requirements that we do in Canada. So we're just working through the legal process of that, too.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks, Fraser.

The next question comes from Andrew Knuckey from Commonwealth Bank. Please go ahead.

Hey, good day, Greg. Just on Golpu CapEx on page 30, you've got A$1.2 billion to A$1.4 billion, just trying to correlate that with the A$3 billion to A$4 billion that you mentioned on page 31. Could you comment around that and does that imply that you assume the PNG Government exercise their option?

Secondly, on Telfer, with the O'Callaghan's cost reduction on page 32, how much of that is factored into the guidance around Telfer's cash costs on page 28?

Okay. So, Golpu, what we're looking at there is the five-year CapEx number. And remember, it's not really delivering into 2017. It is a 50% look at this stage, not the 35% with the assumption that the government farms in, so that capital cost could be substantially lower, but albeit the production profile would be low with it too. At this point, the PNG Government has stated that they will farm in for the 30% and they have a right to do that at the execution decision. The second question, and I've just run myself off track there, what was that? O'Callaghan, sorry. There is some of the cost profile built in to the later years on Telfer, not all of it.

Okay.

What we looked at was O'Callaghan impacting '15 really into full – more full production in '16, but we've held very conservative process and expectation of the impact on the cost per ounce outcome at this stage.

Right. Thanks.

The next question comes from Geoff Breen from RBC. Please go ahead.

Yes, just on Golpu again, sorry to labor the point on you, but we've certainly heard million ounce type numbers. Do we take the stuff you've put out there as being base case subject to, is that a fair comment?

I think that's a fair comment.

Okay. And Ian Smith is a consultant until the PFS finishes. Does that mean he's on the project for 12 months?

He's on the PFS until the end of this year. And so, it's really just having – and it's much more the province plan discussion, not the specifics on all the infrastructure. So, Ian will continue till the end of this calendar year.

Okay. And just Namosi, it seems like almost a starter pit which you are looking for. Do we see that as sort of a base case, because they are low numbers, small numbers for what Newcrest is looking for?

It is a startup pit. It's basically trying to optimize the large tonnage Waisoi reserve and resource. You've roughly got 1.6 billion tons of resource there at 0.4% copper. What we're trying to do is take the small – couple of 100 million tons higher grade stat on copper and gold for Namosi. And it doesn't include any smaller satellite richer deposits which you've started to see the indications of through some of the quarterly. So it's really a get-going, Geoff.

And just the last one, inventory movements, there used to be huge ones in Lihir, but I think you said most of them, the A$170 million was Telfer and Gosowong.

No. No, Geoff, it was Lihir.

It was Lihir?

Primarily Lihir. Lihir is still running on its mine plan from last year where your mining is above the mill rate and we are still stockpiling. I think I've got to make it clear to everyone, province and changing mining and milling strategies takes time. And again, we'll be very focused on that through our province planning at the moment. But at this stage, we are still adding to that stockpile in relatively low costs, by the way, on A$1 per ounce type basis but it is still mining above the milling rate.

Yeah, so if I remember, you used to have about 100 million tons to capitalize in their account, so that's the sort of numbers that are going on until you make changes.

That's it.

Thank you very much.

Thanks, Geoff.

The final question comes from the line of Levi Spry from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Yes, good day there, Greg. Just a couple of questions around matching the CapEx with that production growth; just to be clear on Lihir Island, so potentially ramping that up to 1.4 million ounces, what is still required after the 600,000, 700,000 goes out this year?

Yeah, the difference will come in float and pressure oxidation capacity and whether we make decisions to do any more on grinding. So, I don't think you're not going to see a major – shouldn't say you're not, definitely not going to see, but you're not going to see major billion dollar-type programs. What you're going to see is incremental capital to look at de-modeling that plant and getting towards a 14 million ton-type capacity through the pressure oxidation and the float. So, I think the answer is, over time, you will see us expanding incrementally some of the capacity within that plant.

Okay. And elsewhere, so on that, that doesn't fit into that five year capital spend, there's obviously an incremental expansion at Namosi further out and spend on Golpu?

Yeah. Further out, I think Namosi will just depend on where the exploration program goes. I mean the expenditure there for the A$1billion, 70% our share would be obviously that A$700 million type range. That brings it into production in 2016. Whether we decide to expand it and what we do with Namosi from that point will really depend on the exploration program over the next couple of years. But that's – the project we're talking about is a '15, '16 delivery.

Wafi-Golpu will clearly spend towards delivering in '17 and moving towards a ramp up of that 20 million ton-type capacity. Whether we go further and larger will just depend on how we look at the reserve, resource and potential ability to control that over time.

Yes, and so just some further out for the timelines around Golpu, so if that is the base case and 35 is the next step, when would that be ramped up by?

I think it's too early to talk about that. I think really our focus is really to say, get Golpu from pre-feas to execution with something that is digestible and we can deliver. And then there's always a bigger province plan we can think about, but I don't want to give any commitments on when that would happen.

Okay. Thanks, Greg.

Thanks.

There are no further questions. Mr. Robinson, please continue.

Great. Thanks, everyone. I know it's been a long presentation today and a lot of information. So I appreciate your attendance and your focus and look forward to talking to you down the track. Thanks, everyone.