Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Mark Busuttil — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Brenton Saunders — Analyst, BT Investment Management Ltd. (Investment Management)
Cathy Moises — Analyst, Evans & Partners Pty Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Analyst, Commonwealth Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Full Year's Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There'll be a presentation followed a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Monday, the 18th of August 2014.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Sandeep Biswas, MD and CEO of Newcrest Mining. Please go ahead, Mr. Biswas.

Thank you. Good morning and welcome, everyone, to Newcrest 2014 full year financial results conference call. Gerard Bond, Newcrest Finance Director and CFO, is here with me and we'll both be speaking today on the 2014 results and the outlook for the 2015 financial year.

If you go to slide two – before I begin, I would like to highlight the company's disclaimer on slide two and draw your attention to the statements on this slide relating to forward-looking statements and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in this presentation. Also, each reference I make to dollar value throughout this presentation refers to Australian dollars unless specified otherwise.

So if we move to slide four, the executive summary. The FY 2014 operating environment was shaped by the completion of the major expansion projects, Cadia East Panel Cave 1, and the Lihir plant expansion in the early calendar year 2013. It was also marked by the significant fall in the gold price in April 2013. In this context, Newcrest focused on ramping up production at Cadia East and Lihir during financial year 2014. Productivity improvements and cost and capital reductions were targeted across the group, with the objective to be free cash flow positive for the fiscal year. Improvements were made in terms of production and costs. Gold production of 2.4 million ounces was up 14% on the prior year, and we achieved a 24% reduction in our all-in sustaining costs.

Despite a lower gold price, these improvements enabled us to maintain underlying profit, maintain profit margins and deliver free cash flow of $133 million for the year. Asset value impairments of $2.4 billion after tax resulted in the statutory loss for the year of $2.2 billion, clearly, a very unsatisfactory result. Lihir was the major component of the impairments made, and we're very focused on addressing its performance. Although we have realized some initial improvements, I'm not satisfied with either the current operating performance or cash generation of the business.

As I've said at the release of the June quarter production report, the performance of Lihir is disappointing. We have initiated a major review and a program is already underway to improve its operating and financial performance. This effort is part of a broader improvement program that we've begun across the entire company. This program engages our people in identifying and implementing initiatives that generate cash, improve productivity, and reduce costs, all in a sustainable manner. There'll be more on the improvement program later in the presentation.

Let me start with safety on slide five. The health and safety of our workforce and communities is paramount. In December last year, we've tragically lost one of our contract workforce in an accident at Telfer. He was fatally injured while working on building a discharge line on the tailings dam. This accident has had a profound impact on our workforce at Telfer and around the group. It has overshadowed the improvements we've made in our safety performance in other areas. Our recordable injury frequency improved year-on-year. We've also seen an improvement in the number of significant potential incidents, and the incidence of malaria amongst our workforce.

In our efforts to prevent significant potential incidents, we've strengthened our focus on major hazard elimination. We have appointed a new general manager responsible for health safety and the environment to help accelerate our improvement journey. He will report directly to me.

Turning now to slide six, I'll run through a summary of the key financial results, and then Gerard will talk about them in more detail later. A statutory loss of $2.2 billion was recorded after asset impairments of $2.4 billion after tax. The underlying profit was $432 million, and cash flow from operations was over $1 billion. These were both marginally lower than the previous year primarily due to a lower average realized gold price.

Despite the lower gold price, Newcrest maintained an EBITDA margin of 37%, and EBIT margin for the year of 20%. The company invested over $900 million in capital projects, production stripping and exploration activities during the year, which included the ongoing development of the Cadia East Panel Cave.

In the 2014 financial year, Newcrest maintained its focus on maximizing free cash flow, with the emphasis on producing lower cost, higher margin ounces, reducing exploration and capital expenditure, and pursuing cost reduction initiatives across the business. This resulted in the company generating free cash flow of $133 million for the year.

The improved operating and cost performance flowed through to the financial results, however, the benefit was offset by the decline in the gold price over the period. As of 30 June 2014, gearing was at 33.8%, and the company had over $1.8 billion in cash in committed but undrawn debt facilities. The board remained comfortable with this level of gearing in the short to medium term, given the outlook for near-term cash flow of the group.

Turning to slide seven, our operation performance comprised gold production of 2.4 million ounces for the year and copper production of 86,000 tonnes. Gold production was 14% higher, and copper production was 7% higher than 2013 financial year. Our all-in sustaining cost was $976 per ounce, or US$897 per ounce in U.S. dollar terms. It gave us an all-in sustaining cost margin of $432 per ounce on an average realized gold price of $1,408 per ounce. This represents an improvement on the prior year where our all-in sustaining cost margin was $267 per ounce on a higher average realized gold price of $1,550 per ounce.

At Cadia East, the development of Panel Cave 2 progressed with the West crusher commissioned and fully operational. At Golpu, the focus continues on evaluating lower capital cost start-up options, with an updated prefeasibility study expected by the end of this calendar year. All operations achieved their production and cost guidance for the year, while production at Telfer, Cadia Valley, and Gosowong exceeded guidance. However, while we achieved or bettered production and cost guidance for the year, Lihir's performance is disappointing. As I've said, there's much to be done in order to realize the full potential of the group. That's why we've initiated the improvement program across the company with a particular focus on Lihir.

The next slide, slide eight, highlights the main drivers of the change in production at each of our operations in FY 2014 compared to the previous year. Group gold production increased by 286,000 ounces over FY 2013 with higher production achieved at each site. The most substantial increases were achieved at Cadia Valley, Lihir and Gosowong.

You can see on this slide the effects of the increased ore production from Cadia East and Ridgeway, the improved recoveries at Telfer from processing less high-sulfur West Dome ore, the processing of stockpiled ore as an expanded processing plant at Lihir, the access to high-grade ore at Gosowong, improved plant reliability and access to better ore at Hidden Valley, and lower stripping and higher grades at Bonikro.

Slide nine provides a summary of the company's progress against the key focus areas for the 2014 financial year. Free cash flow was $133 million, was generated for the year, with each operation free cash flow positive except Hidden Valley. Group gold and copper production both exceeded annual guidance and the company's all-in sustaining cost spend was below the lower end of the guidance range.

Our focus on lower cost, higher-margin ounces was evident during the year with reduced open pit mining activity at Telfer and the decision to stop processing low-grade stockpiles at Cadia Valley. We significantly reduced capital expenditure compared to the prior year, particularly major project capital, but also our sustaining CapEx, production stripping and exploration expenditure.

Notwithstanding the improved cost performance for the year, cost reduction across all parts of the business continues to be a key focus area. As I said earlier, we've initiated a company-wide improvement program, including a major review at Lihir. Lifting Lihir's operating and financial performance is crucial to realizing the full potential of Newcrest. Progress was made in relation to updating the Golpu pre-feasibility study, which is expected to be completed by the end of this calendar year.

Slide 10 illustrates the company's relative all-in sustaining cost performance against the most recently published cost performance of our global peers. Please note that our all-in sustaining cost will vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including production, timing of sales, the level of sustaining capital and production stripping.

I'll now hand over to Gerard to discuss the financial results in more detail before coming back and talking about 2015 and beyond.

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. Moving to slide 12, the company's statutory result for the 2014 financial year was a $2.2 billion loss. This is after significant items, which included asset impairments, write-downs and restructure costs. Underlying profit for the year was $432 million. This was $14 million or 3% lower than the previous year, as increased gold production and sales as well as progress on cost reduction initiatives substantially offset the effect of the 9% reduction in the Australian dollar average realized gold price.

Sales revenue increased $265 million, or 7%, on higher sales of gold, copper and silver compared with the prior year. Gold production was 14% higher and gold sales were 17% higher in 2014. EBITDA of $1.5 billion reflects a 37% EBITDA margin, and EBIT for the year was $821 million.

Operating cash flow was 10% lower year-on-year due to working capital movements, higher interest payments and the R&D tax amendment we discussed at the half-year results in February 2014.

Free cash flow was $133 million for the year. This outcome, relative to the cash outflow of the prior year, was due primarily to the reduction in growth capital expenditure but also a reduction in exploration, production stripping and sustaining capital expenditures.

Turning to slide 13 and a breakdown of the significant items that contributed to the statutory loss after tax of $2.2 billion. The review of asset carrying values as at 30 June 2014 takes into account long-term gold prices, currency exchange rates, production, capital and operating cost assumptions. The resulting $2.4 billion in after tax impairments as at 30 June 2014 reflects the changing costs and capital assumptions for Lihir, changing operational assumptions at Bonikro and Hidden Valley, and the change in the long-term Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate which had the effect of reducing the value of Telfer.

In addition to the asset impairments, total significant items for the finance year of $2.65 billion after tax also includes asset write-downs of $146 million, restructuring costs of $34 million, and other items included in the half-year results.

Turning to slide 14, which provides more detail on the composition of asset impairments and significant items by site. This slide shows that the largest element of impairment related to Lihir. There's a lot of information on this slide, and I draw your attention to Note 20 in the financial statements released today for more detail. I'm happy to answer questions at the end on any specific areas of interest.

I should note that Newcrest has other assets that the board believes have a market value greater than their carrying value. These include Cadia Valley, Gosowong and Wafi-Golpu.

Turning to slide 15. Total sales revenue for the 2014 financial year was 7% higher than the prior year. Higher sales volumes of gold, copper and silver had a favorable impact on revenue of $600 million, which was enabled by increased gold production at all of the company's assets. However, the average realized Australian dollar gold price was 9% lower, reducing sales revenue by $339 million compared with the previous year.

EBITDA and EBIT margins were maintained at broadly similar levels in 2014, notwithstanding a lower gold price than the previous year. The focus on higher margin ounces, cost reduction and lower capital expenditure, including production stripping, resulted in a significant increase in the company's all-in sustaining cost margin from $267 per ounce last year to $432 per ounce in FY 2014.

Turning to slide 16. This shows that the cost of sales for FY 2014 was 11% higher than the prior year, as would be expected with the 17% increase in gold sales volumes for the year. Site production costs were broadly in line with the prior year notwithstanding a 14% increase in gold production, reflecting changes in operating activities, such as planned reductions in open pit mining activity at Telfer and Lihir, discontinued processing of lower grade stockpiled ore at Cadia Valley, and the focus on cost reductions at all operations.

Though site production costs remained unchanged on higher production volumes, there were other costs associated with higher throughput activity. There was a net ore inventory charge of $118 million, reflecting a net drawdown of stockpiles in the current period, particularly at Lihir, Telfer and Gosowong. And this compares with the buildup in inventory in the prior year and associated net credit to costs in the prior year of $128 million.

Treatment and realization costs in 2014 of $173 million were $32 million, or 23%, higher than the prior year, reflecting increased sales volumes and higher treatment and refining charges in the copper concentrate markets in the current year.

The movement in finished goods inventory charge shown there reflects the effects of shipping schedules year-on-year. The decrease in depreciation expense on this slide primarily reflects the impact of the impairment in FY 2013 on the carrying value of assets at Telfer, which significantly reduced Telfer's depreciable asset base in 2014. Partially offsetting this was higher depreciation charges at other assets including the recently commissioned assets at Lihir and Cadia, and the impact on our U.S.-dollar-denominated assets of a weaker average Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the current year.

Turning to slide 17, which illustrates Newcrest's all-in sustaining cost performance over the past 12 months. The chart on the left illustrates the cost trajectory over the course of the last 12 months. It shows that the all-in sustaining cost has trended down over the course of FY 2014, and the all-in sustaining cost for the June 2014 quarter was 29% lower than the FY 2013 average, and 35% lower in U.S. dollar terms.

The chart on the right shows each operations' all-in sustaining cost for FY 2014 compared to the prior year, and shows where each operation sits relative to the average realized gold price for FY 2014 as illustrated by the red line. Each operation achieved an all-in sustaining cost for the year below the average realized gold price of $1,408 per ounce. As mentioned earlier, the all-in sustaining cost margin for FY 2014 was $432 per ounce of gold sold compared to $267 per ounce in the prior year.

Slide 18 depicts the key movements between the previous year's EBITDA $745 million, and the group EBIT for the 2014 financial year of $821 million. I've covered most of these items already, with there being a $335 million negative impact on group EBIT due to lower realized gold and silver prices, partially offset by higher copper prices.

The items in the shaded box highlight the impact that increased sales volumes, net of the cost to produce that additional volume had on EBIT, which was a net increase of $263 million. Depreciation charge is lower due to the Telfer impairments in FY 2013 as explained earlier. And exploration expense was also lower.

Moving on to slide 19, our cash flow from operating activities for the 2014 financial year of just over $1 billion was $110 million or 10% lower than the prior year. The main drivers of the changes in 2014 compared to the prior year, are shown on this slide. Firstly, cash flow increased due to higher receipts from customers, resulting from higher revenue compared to the prior year, and this is primarily due to increased sales volumes. The relative movement in receivables and payables year-on-year includes the unwinding in the current period of the favorable working capital balances as at 30 June 2013 of approximately $200 million.

Interest paid was $64 million as a result of higher average debt levels during the year and the effect of lower average Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rates on our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Income taxes paid includes the effect of the tax payment of approximately $70 million, associated with the company's voluntary amendment of past Australian research and development claims as announced to the market in October 2013. Excluding this payment, income taxes paid were $94 million lower than prior period, reflecting low levels of taxable income in the current period. For the 2014 financial year, Newcrest's effective tax rate on underlying profit was approximately 30%.

Slide 20 shows the main components of free cash flow. Free cash flow constitutes cash flow from operations less cash flow related to investing activities. For the 2014 financial year, free cash flow was at $133 million compared to an outflow of over $1.4 billion in FY 2013.

Cash flow from operating activities of $1,037 million was impacted by the reversal of favorable working capital balances at 30 June of $200 million, and the voluntary tax payment of approximately $70 million related to prior year R&D claims as previously discussed. The bar of $1.3 billion shown here, shows what operating cash flow would have otherwise have been.

Cash flow from investing activities in the current period was an outflow of $900 million, which was $1.66 billion lower than the prior year. The current year expenditure comprise sustaining capital expenditure of $298 million, production stripping of $191 million, major project capital expenditure of $353 million, which is mainly in relation to Cadia East Panel Cave 2, and exploration of $62 million.

Turning to slide 21, and you can see the level of investment expenditure in the 2014 financial year decline significantly from that in FY 2013. This reduction reflected changes in all categories at the capital expenditure, but was primarily driven by substantially lower major project capital expenditures accompanied to commercial production at Cadia East Panel Cave 1 and completed the expansion of the Lihir plant early in the 2013 calendar year.

In FY 2014, major projects capital expenditure of $353 million, predominantly related to the development of Cadia East of $315 million, with ongoing development of the undercut and extraction level to grow the footprint being the key focus.

Other major project expenditure mainly relates to Wafi-Golpu, $27 million, and a flotation plant expansion at Lihir early in the first half of FY 2014 for $7 million. Production stripping was lower in the current year primarily due to reduction in major stripping activities at Telfer, main Dome Stage 4 and Stage 6, and at Bonikro Stage 4, which were largely completed in the prior year. There was a higher level of production stripping at Lihir, Minifie Stage 9.

Sustaining capital expenditure for the year was $298 million, which was almost 50% lower than FY 2013, primarily as a result of Newcrest's focus of cost and capital reduction across the business as well as progressive completion of projects in progress in the prior year.

The refurbishment program at Lihir to improve the reliability of the original plant was essentially completed but there was increased spend at Gosowong due to works at the tailings storage facilities and on the Toguraci refrigeration plant. Exploration expenditure in the 2014 financial year of $62 million was $90 million lower than FY 2013. Of the $62 million, $36 million was expensed resulting in a capitalization rate of 42%. Exploration activity focused on Gosowong, Telfer, Bonikro, Namosi and the Wafi-Golpu project.

Moving to slide 22, which illustrates the company's debt maturity profile, and includes both drawn and undrawn debt as at 30 June 2014. Total drawn debt at 30 June 2014 was $4.1 billion. In the second half of FY 2014, the company completed arrangements to extend the tenor of its existing bilateral bank loan facilities. This slide illustrates the debt maturity profile before and after the extension which also resulted in a smooth maturity profile with no material changes to terms and conditions, no increase in the total level of debt facilities, and no increase in interest costs.

At 30 June 2014, the company had cash and undrawn debt facilities of just over $1.8 billion, and this is $850 million more than at 30 June 2013. In summary, while it was pleasing to achieve an increase in the group's all-in sustaining cost margin and to generate to $133 million of free cash flow for the year, it was disappointing to write down the carrying value of our assets further this year. As Sandeep has said, much remains to be done to lift the company's performance to achieve its potential. And with that, I'll now hand back to Sandeep.

Thanks, Gerard. I'm now on slide 24. I want to take this opportunity to reiterate the key focus areas I've talked about the June quarterly. I believe these are critical to achieving our objective of fully realizing the potential of each of our assets. Operating disciplines by getting back to the basics of operating a mining company and improving our production and maintenance activities to get the most from the assets in which we've invested, we are rigorously and systematically pursuing productivity improvements and efficiencies at every stage of the value chain. Operating discipline is underpinned by a strong safety culture with a strength and focus on major hazards and elimination of serious injuries and fatalities.

Being cash focused means we're directing the assets of the whole organization towards sustainable generation of strong free cash flow. This means increasing the production of low-cost ounces by increasing throughput rates, improving metal recoveries, and reducing operating costs and working capital. It's also about investing in – smartly in smaller but high cash-on-cash return projects at our existing operations. The cash we generate will be directed to reducing debt and returning to paying dividends to shareholders as soon as we feel it's appropriate to do so.

The third focus area is profitable growth. Growth's an important part of Newcrest's future but it must be profitable. We're focused on developing the highest return projects in the most capital efficient way. Underpinning these focus areas is creating the right kind of culture at Newcrest. In order to deliver on our asset's full potential, we need an engaged and capable workforce and the culture of accountability and personal ownership. It's our people who ultimately deliver our operational and financial results.

On slide 25 highlights the priority areas for the improvement program we've initiated. As I mentioned earlier in the presentation, a company-wide improvement program has been initiated. Newly formed improvement teams are embedded at each major site. These teams are instrumental in identifying and executing initiatives that deliver attractive and rapid cash-on-cash returns.

The program is in its relatively early stages and I'm pleased with the level of commitment across the company to the program. It's vital that momentum and intensity continues and increases. This is why it's so important that we change the culture of the organization such that progress we make is sustained and built upon in the future.

This is where personal ownership and accountability come into play. This is why culture change is an integral part of the improvement program. The program applies across all sites and offices, the whole company. Given Lihir's current performance, it is the primary focus for the improvement for the company. The key area of focus for each site is listed on the table on this slide. From a company viewpoint, the most important areas of focus in FY 2015 are on safety, major hazard control and management is where we'll do – direct our key efforts.

At Lihir, our first objective is to increase the plant throughput to an annualized rate of 12 million tonnes per year. The development of Kapit remains a key consideration for Newcrest, and we're focused on progressing the studies to confirm the optimal approach to its development, having regard to the relative value of alternative ore feed, capital cost and timing. Completing the landholder agreement in Lihir was also important.

At Cadia Valley, our focus is on the continued ramp up of Cadia East mine where we expect to achieve commercial production from Panel Cave 2 around the middle of this financial year.

There is a focus on cost reduction and mine life extension at both Telfer and Gosowong. Telfer is also about evaluating earth and pit options. Bonikro and Hidden Valley are focusing on increasing cash returns. We want Hidden Valley to sustain its recent cost reduction progress.

On slide 26, here are some early examples on how these priorities play out in the business. The first one you see on slide 26, you can see that over the course of the past 12 months, the workforce has been reduced by 22%. The reduction has occurred across our entire business, at our sites, corporate office and at the ExCo level. A reduction of more than 950 in Lihir's workforce in the last 12 months made up nearly 30% of the total group's reductions.

Slide 27 has two examples. The top one shows how we've applied operating discipline to increase Ridgeway output by around 15%. It has involved coordinating a number of individual changes, such as increasing the conveyor speed, standardizing the fleet, optimizing the shut schedule and a number of other things to achieve that increase.

The Telfer example is more about culture change. We did achieve a 20% increase in the tonnes mined at Telfer with the haul crew and the open pit getting together in contributing improvements.

Even though the improvement program is just starting, we're beginning to see evidence of the culture change elsewhere in the business also. I'm really encouraged by how our people are embracing the opportunity to contribute.

Slide 28 summarizes our group guidance for the 2015 financial year. In June, we released guidance which was subject to finalization of the 2014 financial results and board approval of the FY 2015 budget. The company expects to again be free cash flow positive in FY 2015, subject to market and operating conditions. Group guidance for gold and copper production and all-in sustaining costs remain unchanged.

Gold production is expected to be in the range of 2.2 million ounces to 2.4 million ounces, with all-in sustaining cost spend of between $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion. Capital expenditure is expected to be significantly lower than FY 2014. The updated capital expenditure guidance range is now $660 million to $740 million, with the major item being the ongoing development of Cadia East Panel Cave 2.

Depreciation guidance has also been updated to take into account the asset impairments discussed earlier. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be $600 million to $670 million. The FY 2015 effective tax rate for the company is expected to be around 30%.

There's no change to exploration expenditure guidance of $60 million to $70 million, or the expected timing of commercial production from Cadia East Panel Cave 2 or the timing of the updated Golpu pre-feasibility study.

So, FY 2015 production guidance is flat year-on-year with a number of drivers at work here as follows. We expect Ridgeway grades to be lower this year compared to last year. Cadia East Panel Cave 2 will achieve commercial production during the 2015 financial year, though this will initially be at a higher all-in sustaining cost per ounce until the cave fully ramps up.

Lihir will continue to be largely reliant on stockpiled ore for processing. So, even as we target achievement of higher processing rates, it will be off stockpiled ore. And we expect the benefits of the improvement program I talked about to start being delivered over the year and contributing not only this year but on into FY 2016. Detailed guidance and site-by-site spend is included in the appendices for those of you who would like to work through the detail.

So, on slide 29 now. In summary, asset value impairments were the main drivers of the statutory loss of $2.2 billion for the year. The most significant component of the impairment was Lihir. We are very focused on addressing Lihir's performance and recognize that results, not intent, are what matter.

While we were able to maintain profit and profit margins despite a lower gold price for the year and that progress was made in delivering production and cost targets in FY 2014, there remains much to be done to improve Newcrest's operating and financial performance. In pursuit of that goal, a company-wide improvement program has been initiated with improvement teams embedded at the major sites.

That completes the presentation. I appreciate it's been a slightly longer call than normal to cover the 2014 financial results. I look forward to talking to as many of you as possible at our Investor Day on 7 October when we'll have more time to discuss our priorities and how we're approaching them. Investor Day will include an overview of each of our major assets, our plans for improvement and some of the longer term development options and choices that we have. The Investor Day will be webcast and will be an opportunity to hear not just from me but also from other Newcrest executives.

Gerard and I would now be pleased to take your questions.

Okay. Your first question comes from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. I've got a couple little questions. First of all, with Lihir guidance, it looks like there's less guidance given this year than last year. Can you help us a little more, material movements, will they be broadly in line with last year, for example?

Yeah. I think that's a fair statement to make, Michael.

Okay. Thank you. And at the time of the October Strategy Day, will you be in a position to give a longer term view of Lihir beyond the 12 months or should we just continue to try and guess beyond the 12-month period?

Look, on Lihir, on the Investor Day, I intend to focus more on what we're doing to improve the performance of Lihir, both in terms of the operating, in terms of costs, in terms of throughputs, and also talk a little bit more about the options that we are looking at in relation to Kapit.

Okay. Thank you. Can I move on to Cadia East then, the CapEx guidance for this year, is there any deferral of CapEx or is the spend rate still in line with what was initially guided? It just looks a little light compared to what [indiscernible] (35:10) previously.

No, there's no deferral, Michael. I mean, we're firmly focused now that we've got the second crusher in and we're going to get the third in to get PC 2 ramped up as soon as we can.

Okay. And then finally, with respect to the Telfer impairment, is that it for Telfer now in terms of what you're expecting in that, I guess? We know what the broad mine plan is. We know what reserves are. Does the write-down effectively preempt any reserve adjustment, or if we see a further reserve adjustment, does that lead to another write-down?

Look, as I said in the quarterly, I mean, we're going to do that evaluation for the 31st of December. And as I pointed out then, the only thing really at risk at this stage, subject to other wild swings in economic assumptions and what have you, is 3 million ounces in the open pit.

Okay. Thanks.

We'll look at that at the end of the year.

Right. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gorenstein from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Sandeep. I've just got a question on Lihir as well. Obviously, you've highlighted a number of times that you're not 100% happy of where the costs are at. And if we look at where your 2015 guidance is in terms of cost and production, it does show obviously a marked increase in costs versus three years ago versus a modest increase in production. I suppose my two questions around that would be, what are the key drivers of that? And given that you're not comfortable at the minute, what cost performance would you have been comfortable with had there been a different outcome?

Still – the three – if you distill Lihir down to the three key issues in terms of focus. First is equipment uptime and availability, which is all about our maintenance regime, shutdown execution, what have you. The second key driver is actual throughput during the time that you're running, which is the tonnes per hour through the process for a proxy for another word. And the third driver is grade. Now, grade, we now explained that we're now focused for cash flow reasons in terms of the stockpile treatment and what have you. But obviously, our Stage 9 South coming in, as we evaluate our other further options, such as Kapit and other cutbacks, that's the other lever that we have going forward.

Sure.

And these are the three areas that are being attacked. Now, even within that, on the stockpile, we're learning more about which particular stockpile ores and their recovery behavior, whether it's in the autoclave or the flotation circuit, there's a fair bit of optimization within that framework as well which we're focused on.

And how long do you think this study and – how long do you think this whole process will take?

Look, I'm not going to put a time limit on it. What it is about, the teams are in place, we've got new management on site, it's now about getting into the fundamentals of those three areas I just talked about, and it's not just about doing a study. We're implementing as we go along as items come up that we can act on.

Yeah, that makes sense. Thanks, Sandeep.

Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. The first question, please, on cost reduction was a common theme through the presentation. Just reconciling that with the all-in sustaining costs reported for fiscal 2014 came in just around $2.3 billion, and yet we're looking at guidance of $2.3 billion or $2.6 billion for fiscal 2015. Am I correct in thinking the main component is the Cadia Valley East going commercial and the cost components there that were being capitalized, now coming through in the all-in sustaining levels?

There is an element of that, clearly, but look, Gerard, why don't you give a more detailed response to that.

Sure, Brendan – thanks, Sandeep. Brendan, you're right. The biggest change does relate to Cadia Valley. You've got more volume coming from it. There are lower copper credits expected, primarily as a result of lower price and a higher level of sustaining capital that applies to Cadia Valley as a result of PC 2 becoming commercial in the year. So, as Sandeep said in his presentation, the Cadia Valley operation next year won't be at full stride and it will still be in ramp-up of Panel Cave 2 and that has the effect of increasing the unit cost at Cadia Valley for the year.

Okay. Thanks. And just one more for me, please. The guidance commentary, free cash flow positive at US$1,250 an ounce, is there an Australian dollar FX rate assumption that goes with that comment?

Brendan, there is. It's $0.93.

All right. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Busuttil from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Just a few things from me. Just again, just with the improvement program. Look, I would imagine that it would be predominantly focused on Lihir, given your comments around that. What exactly is on the agenda? Is it just operational improvements, and you talked about those three key focus points just a little while ago, or is it broader than that? Is it potentially perhaps selling it? Is it changing the mine plan? Is it sort of broader than just checking operational costs? I've got a couple of other questions. I'll come back afterwards.

Look, the core of the activity around Lihir is about examining every dollar we spend, utilization, availability of our equipment, it's going to stick through each part of the production chain, each of the unit operations that constitute it and the interaction between them. It's about process control and optimizing the throughput, metallurgy in terms of recoveries, and obviously cost is a big component of that. It is Lihir's first and only business right now is to get its tonnes up and get its costs down. And that's only when the real value – we can start seeing some real value from that operation.

Okay. And then in a somewhat related question, from what I can see through the accounts today, the net carrying value of that asset's now $5.4 billion. How much of a turnaround is actually factored into that number? And is there a risk that there could be further write-downs of this asset?

Look, we've got a very comprehensive way of reviewing the assets and we've had the fortune this time of looking at some of the analysis coming out of the review. Post the Lihir expansion, we've now had a one year of results so we can have a close look at what we're currently doing and what we hope to achieve. But certainly, it's been a very detailed review. I'm comfortable with the process and I'm comfortable with the outcomes.

Okay. And then just lastly, sustaining capital has gone from $572 million to $298 million in fiscal 2014. Now, clearly you're in cost containment mode through that year. What do you estimate to be steady state sustaining capital today?

I'll take that one, Mark. I mean, I think we're approximating a more steady state. I mean the reduction that we experienced in the year just gone, as I said in my presentation, is as a result of a lot of the more elevated levels of sustaining capital being completed, particularly at Lihir. And we are taking advantage of different market conditions that we're able to get much the same work done for a lower price now and we're much more focused on how we apply that spend.

So it's – I think what you're seeing, particularly as it relates to guidance for FY 2015, is what we estimate to be the best sustaining capital base for us going forward for a year.

Okay. Great. That's all for me. Thank you very much.

And you have a follow-up question from Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. I was curious about the Golpu feasibility that's being reviewed. Is that looking to optimize the original concept of the panel caving and bring down the CapEx on that plan, or are we considering perhaps moving away from a panel cave into another development option and if there's any comment about what's being considered ahead of the release later in the year?

Yeah. Look, first of all, when we're doing a pre-feasibility, not a feasibility – I think you expressed it as feasibility, I just wanted to point out it is a pre-feasibility study. The way I would think about it is looking at how do you stage your way into Golpu. I mean it's a massive ore body with great potential. This is about a lower cost start-up option, as we work our way to the original intent, which is a [indiscernible] (44:26).

Okay. That makes a lot of sense. One other question on the gearing reference, being comfortable with the current gearing for the short to medium term, does that suggest sort of a one- or two-year horizon that you're comfortable over?

Well, look, it all depends where the market is, but currently, I mean the fundamentals are, we put a lot of money into Cadia, and it's ramping up and we expect good cash flow from there. We've got to turn Lihir's performance around, clearly, and we'll get cash from there. And we're driving this improvement at all our other operations as well. So, the cash that we expect to come from that, under current market conditions, we're comfortable we can start pulling that debt level down and move to paying some dividends to shareholders when we think we can manage that.

That's great. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Brenton Saunders from BT Investment Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Sandeep. Just over the opportunity to do this. I thought it'd be useful if you could just give us some broader high level comments about debt levels and repayment schedules and current level of capitalization within the firm. I mean, to Brendan's point, where all we've guided to at the moment is a level of free cash flow being positive at a given set of assumptions next year.

But realistically, if we look at it, the affordability of the debt, long term, is quite questionable without a significant change in the gold price and/or costs. And it seems management previously has taken comfort from the ability to refinance that, which is I guess one way of looking at it. But long term, I guess you got to aspire to be able to pay it back. And I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that capital structure longer term.

Well, I mean, Gerard may give a more detailed answer. But my view, as I look at our numbers and what we have to achieve going forward, is that we absolutely will be in a position under the current market conditions to pay our debt back. There's a good balance here between long-term bonds, and we've got our bilateral facilities in place, good liquidity headroom. And I think subject to the market, I think we're well placed to start drawing that debt balance down over the coming years.

And I'll just extend that, Sandeep. Referring to what Sandeep said earlier, I mean the Cadia Valley profile of production, as announced earlier this year, ramps up quite significantly in FY 2016 and FY 2017. And that really is, together with cost reductions elsewhere and improved Lihir performance, the basis of our belief that the cash flow will be strong and we'll be in a position to reduce that debt level.

As Sandeep said, the maturity profile of our debt is very consistent and accommodating of that cash flow generation profile. We have extended the average maturity out, reshaped the tenor of those maturities, and they are facility maturities. So we're comfortable with the capital structure.

If I may, just as a follow up to that. I mean, I guess the thing that concerns a lot of us is that we're looking at the business, seeing very impressive operational improvements and quite a big turnaround in terms of cash flow, if you look at it on a – within the context of the gold price. But there doesn't appear to be a plan B. So we're all at the mercy of what could happen to the gold price and the exchange rate over the next while. And it looks like the trajectory in the gold price would probably allow you to see some kind of modest debt reduction over the next while, all things being equal.

But what happens if it isn't and you guys are forced to rethink this in an environment where the gold price is lower and it's just a whole lot harder to face these issues in terms of debt refundability and/or repayment? I guess I'm just trying to understand what the plan B is really?

Brenton, we've always said that our company's subject to our expectations of asset performance being realized. We're [indiscernible] (49:04). We don't control markets. If there was a dramatic change in the market, then we'd re-evaluate what we'd do at that time. I think what – and you alluded to it – what the business has shown is that in the context of a reduced price environment, there are levers that the company's been able to pull and improve performance and improve cash flow in that context.

So, at a much lower gold price this year, we've increased our all-in sustaining margin by a considerable amount. I think it's speculative to project too much forward as to what we would do if price went to x because price can go to y as well. But what we will do is manage the business accordingly and prudently in that context as it prevails.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Cathy Moises from Evans & Partners. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning. With the asset write-downs, I mean, we can apportion the lower depreciation to try and reflect that. But can you give us some sort of a range for each operation for the expected depreciation and amortization for 2015?

I might hand that one over to you again.

Yeah, I mean, I'm just looking to what we gave, Cathy, in the actual guidance notes. I don't think we did give the depreciation by asset. So, short answer is no. But you're going to see a lot less depreciation at Telfer, obviously, going forward. I think obviously Telfer and Lihir's depreciation will be lower by some magnitude; Hidden Valley and also Bonikro by a lower amount as well. [Inaudible] (50:51) given depreciation guidance by site.

Okay. I will just do the best guess I can, then. Thank you.

And you have a follow-up question from Michael Slifirski. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Two small follow-ups, if I may, please. First of all, the working capital. I guess first half, you indicated that there was $200 million reversal. And I think you said at the time that you expected it to be more balanced over the year. But the presentation indicates no change. Is that correct?

Michael, that's – no, that's not what the presentation shows. The intent of the presentation was to show that that working capital favorable balance at 30 June 2013, though very much impacted the half year results, was compensated more fully over the course of the year with the performance of the business. And that's what drove us to get into a net cash flow positive position in excess of $100 million. I think at the half year, we said we'd expected that the business performance would reverse about half of that $200 million negative effect, and pretty much you've seen our performance in line with that.

Okay. Thank you. And secondly, corporate overheads, clearly, closure of the Brisbane office, reduction of numbers. Why is that guidance number for corporate not showing the benefit of those cost reductions?

Let me just have a look at the corporate, yeah. No, look, there are a number of things driving that, Michael. I mean there's insurance of legal costs and other things that impact that number. Some of the corporate costs that we experienced at the center are also relating to activities that were previously re-charged at the sites. And so you'll also see the benefit of that lower corporate office in lower site overhead costs as they have been allocated.

Okay. Thank you. And then finally, an operational one, if I may, on Lihir. The flotation capacity, I think, [indiscernible] (52:55) was completion of the flotation expansion. What is the flotation capacity now and where is the bottleneck in that plant in the fiscal 2015 year?

Look, Michael, in terms of the bottleneck, the flotation is not a bottleneck. I think from memory, it's designed within the order of 8 million tonnes per annum or something like that. But it's not the bottleneck. Really, the – well, as you would know, Michael, I mean the real benefit is getting as much a direct feed to the autoclave as you can in order to maximize your recovery and then use the flotation to take on any material that can be upgraded in relation to balancing your sulfur inputs in the autoclave, and obviously upgrading the gold tenor into concentrate and for the lower grade at the tail, but the flotation is not a bottleneck.

Okay. Thanks, Sandeep.

You have a question from the line of Andrew Knuckey from Commonwealth Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good morning. Just two questions which are related specifically on Lihir. The target to try to improve throughput to 12 million tonnes per annum, how much improvement is factored into your guidance for Lihir for this year in terms of that overall throughput?

And then more broadly across all of the operations, the guidance ranges which you've given, do they reflect any of the potential benefits from your company-wide improvement program, which you've emphasized?

Look, broadly speaking, there are some elements that are built into this year across the board. They're not very significant because, as you know, we've just started the program and when you get run-rate items, you'll probably see key things implemented this year that you don't get the full-year's value until 2016. But in Lihir, you'll note that the 12 million tonnes is – what did we put through last year, about 10 point – yeah. [inaudible]

(55:06)

So, it's about a 20% or so improvement.

Right. So, you don't assume any upside on Lihir for throughput in your FY 2015 guidance?

Well, the answer is we do assume it. It's in the order of 8% in relation to throughput, 8% to 10%.

Okay. Thank you.

There appears to be no further questions. I'd like to hand the call back over to Mr. Biswas for any additional and closing remarks.

Well, look, thanks very much for being on the call today, and I expect to look forward to seeing some or most of you at Investor Day in October. So, thanks very much for your time.