corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Ian Smith, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer


Welcome, everyone, to the Newcrest Half Year Result, halfway through 2009/2010 financial year. I


have up before you at the moment now a disclaimer. We have added some other names into the


last section, Competent Persons Statement, and that’s to do with the competent person who’s


covered the O’Callaghans upgrade. So I’ll just draw your attention to that point.


Another solid half. Our underlying profit increased 10%, to 267 million, and our statutory profit


increased 14%, to 176 million. Our profit margins on EBITDA and EBIT both increased, EBITDA to


46% and EBIT to 35%. And importantly, we’ve declared an interim dividend of $0.05.


Now we’ve been flagging for a while that our capital management would be such that every six


months we’d review the situation for the company and declare a dividend or otherwise at that time.


So this is flagging that indeed we are reviewing our position every six months, and this is the first


interim dividend declared by the company.


And we’ve arranged and put in place the bilateral debt facilities. They’re all in place and remain


totally undrawn. So we’ve basically got plenty of debt facilities going forward.


Ridgeway Deeps is substantially complete, including the undercut. So we just have the last of the


extraction drives which will be completed by the end of financial year ‘10. So that is ahead of


schedule. And the project is expected to be completed 40 million under budget, at 505 million. So


we didn’t use any of the contingency that we first outlined when we were talking about that project.


Hidden Valley commissioning will be completed during February 2010. So we’ll be finishing the


capitalization phase of Hidden Valley at that time. And the Gosowong Expansion is expected to be


completed by the end of the financial year. Cadia East is on track for Board approval in early April,


and I’ll be talking at the end of this presentation to some of the exploration results. I won’t be going


back over Wafi-Golpu, which is particularly exciting. We covered that in the quarterly. But I will be


giving an update on what we’ve seen out of the drilling that we said we’d be doing in O’Callaghans,


which is now completed, and also some of the drilling that we’ve been undertaking at Namosi.


So with all of those highlights made, may I now hand over to Greg Robinson who will be going


through the financials in detail.


Greg Robinson, Finance Director


Thanks, Ian. Flip to my page. Right. Our statutory profit, as Ian has mentioned, increased 14%,


underlying profit by 10% over the corresponding period. It’s a bit of a mixture of things in there, but


basically, the bottom line was, we had lower sales revenue of about 8%, and I’ll go through some of


the facts behind that. But we had a bigger reduction in the cost of sales. Cost of sales down 16%.


The two actually resulted in the increase in the profits.


Gold sales were 14% lower for the half, prices were 9% higher, and overall gold revenue was down


about 8%. Copper sales were 7% lower, and prices were 4% lower, and that led to an overall


reduction in copper revenues by about 11%.


Sales revenue was partly influenced during the half on an inventory build. There was a late


shipment out of Telfer with some weather conditions that didn’t find its way out into the market. So


you’ll note, in the inventory in the balance sheet, there’s a build of about $80 million there. Some of


that is really finished inventory, and again associated EBIT profit with some of it that will come out


during this half year.
corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Margins for the company, very pleased with where they’re moving. We had a margin improvement,


EBIT margins to 35%, EBITDA margins at 46%.


Looking at total costs, this is – the overall 16% reduction. Deferred mining reduced half-on-half,


went from about 50 million down to 29 million. That – we’ve still got about $280 million worth of


deferred mining sitting on the balance sheet. A lot of that, 220-odd million is related to Cadia, which


will flow through as the open pit finishes its life in 2012. The main reduction for deferred mining


during the half was due to waste movement at Telfer and lower grades at Cadia. Inventory credit for


the half was 66 million, which I’ve already mentioned, and it really reflected an increase in


concentrate inventories. And again, generally what we saw was production number. Production


numbers, you’ll see, are higher than sales numbers, and that shows you where the concentrate –


finished concentrate went. And then we also had a build of ore inventories at Cadia. So the mining


rates were higher at Cadia than the actual final mill rates.


The other major drivers for us on a cost basis, I mean, we didn’t have a Varanus oil and gas issue.


Last year, we had 34 million bucks coming through the cost line on Varanus. Obviously this half, we


didn’t have it. And then, the overall comment I’ll just make, and I’ll come back to it on guidance, but


in general across all cost guidance including depreciation, we just maintained our guidance. The


only thing that will be slightly lower is in deferred mining, and inventory in combination will be


approximately 20 million lower than the guidance levels we’ve given you. So we talked about a


range of 24 to $35 million I think was the range, we’ll be about $20 million under that in the


guidance range for the full year.


Looking at mine production costs, a pleasing outcome here. We had good control through the half


year. Overall, mine production costs reduced by about 5%. A combination of things here. Generally


fuel and lubes, and you will seen at other mining companies, significantly lower. Most other


commodity input prices were significantly lower, and it was a combination obviously of a slower


economy last year and the higher A dollar. The only exception to that was liners and grinding


media, so sort of the steel-related contracts that we have, and they’ve got a lagging contract


structure, and so what we saw was the reflecting prices from past periods. They will, as we see the


rest of the year roll off, we’ll see those prices actually reduce.


Wages increased, of course people got pay rises last year, so across the group we saw pay


increases, but obviously at a much slower rate than we’ve seen in the industry over the last couple


years. In all, employee salaries went down, and that just shows manning levels and control of


manning levels on site got better. So even though wages increased, manning reductions on site


gave us a reduction there.


Maintenance activities. We’ve talked before about the cycle of maintenance and the way we control


it. We’ve got better at that, so there’s less maintenance activity and maintenance costs coming


down. And same with mining contracts. That was reduced as we move to undermining over


Gosowong. So all in all, pretty good performance on mine production costs, and I think all of our


cost reduction programs going forward continue to bear fruit.


Royalties and realization costs, just quickly, down a little bit. It reflects two things. One, with weaker


markets, obviously shipping costs came down quite dramatically and we saw that. And then you


see the impact from TC/RCs. TC/RCs last year were at higher levels, and obviously it’s just a small


increase there. They always usually counterbalance one another. Royalties just reflect the sales


outcomes.


EBITDA by operation. Again, pleasing here. Every site, regardless of what the EBIT and EBITDA


numbers actually looked like, had an increase in margin, which we’re very pleased with. I think the


second point on this chart, again which we’re very pleased with, is Telfer’s half year result of $191