Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director & MD, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Craig T. Sainsbury — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Australia Pty Ltd.
Ian Preston — Analyst, Goldman Sachs (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Mitch Ryan — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Hayden Bairstow — Analyst, CLSA Australia Pty Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Phillip Chippindale — Analyst, RBS Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Geoff Breen — Analyst, RBC Securities (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Analyst, Commonwealth Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Newcrest Mining Full Year Results Analyst and Investor Presentation. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, CEO and Managing Director of Newcrest Mining, Mr. Greg Robinson. Please go ahead, Mr. Robinson.

Thank you, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for attending the call for our 2012 full year results, the year we had plenty of challenges in production, but we did make very significant headway in our two major projects. And I think we've finished the year with some pretty strong financial results.

So with that, I'll turn to page two and before we begin, I'll draw your attention to our disclaimer on slide two, which is our statements around forward-looking statements, accounting information and reserve and resource estimates.

There's been – I'll just make – mention at this point also, there's been a couple of questions about when the reserve and resource annual update will be provided. We did announce in our last half year that we'll be doing that at the December year-end, so we've moved that to the half-year announcement, not the full-year. So again, it won't be an announcement today on that. You'll have to wait until the half year.

So moving to the agenda on page three, we'll spend the first part of this morning looking back at the financial year 2012 and Gerard will talk through the financial results and then we'll discuss the year ahead and the five-year outlook.

Also as previously advised, we won't be making any substantial comments today in relation to Wafi-Golpu and the pre-feasibility study. Those will be done on the 29 of August of this month when we'll discuss the ore reserve and the plan going forward.

Turning the page to page four, some of the key achievements of the company during 2012. Well, we've got a good strong profit result notwithstanding a very challenging year from a production point of view. Our cash margins remained healthy with strong metal prices. A lot of the effort was invested in 2012 across our assets with a very strong emphasis on cost control and operational reliability. And we would expect those activities to also derive or drive results in 2013.

The two major projects did make significant progress during the year and both Cadia East and Lihir MOPU, the plant expansion are on track to deliver in the December 2012 quarter. The Wafi-Golpu pre-feasibility study, as I've mentioned, is advancing and we will announce that shortly. And then other significant outcomes during the year, we did divest our Queensland assets to the formation of our Evolution Mining and we continue to hold just under 33% of that company. And we also achieved investment grade ratings with S&P and Moody's and successfully accessed the long-term bond markets.

Turning the page to page five, the key financial outcomes. Newcrest delivered a strong statutory profit of A$1.1 billion and the underlying profit was A$1.08 billion for 2012. Operating cash flow was in line with the previous year at A$1.7 billion, and the EPS increased 16% to A$1.46 per share. 2012 was our peak capital expenditure year with capital expenditure of A$2.5 billion, 83% of that was related to major growth projects, predominantly Cadia East and the Lihir MOPU project.

We finished the year with a strong balance sheet and our gearing is 12.5% and we still maintained good strong liquidity and Gerard will talk more about that in the financial section. In line with our increased profit was increase in our ordinary dividend with a final dividend of A$0.23 per share, which makes our full year dividend A$0.35 per share, 17% higher than last year and this year for the first time for 10 years, it will be partially franked at 15%.

Turning the slide to slide six, one of Newcrest's key value drivers is the quality of our asset portfolio and in 2012, the company made significant progress in enhancing this. Cadia Valley is transitioning to low cost bulk underground with the development of the Cadia East underground mine. Ridgeway, the production rates have reached their designed capacity and we are announcing the mining costs coming under A$10 a ton.

The Lihir plant expansion remains on track, as I've mentioned. The upgrade of the dewatering capacity in the Lihir pit has had immediate benefits for us and the plant reliability improvement program is starting to also generate results and we expect both those to be a benefit to us in 2013. An expansion of the Gosowong plant was completed during the year and it resulted in a record plant throughput in the June quarter. The increased throughput capacity will partially offset the declining grade in Gosowong in 2013, as we see that grade move back towards the reserve grade. And finally, the pre-feasibility study at Wafi-Golpu, a lot of effort going into that and again, a new term announcement on that.

Onto slide seven, just talking quickly about exploration success in addition to enhancing the asset portfolio, during the year the company has also had some good results here. At Wafi-Golpu, we'll continue with the regional drilling in that prospective Wafi Transfer corridor. And that obviously will continue into 2013.

At Lihir, we continued to get high grade intercepts outside the existing resource shale, and that would lead towards a resource upgrade later this year. At Telfer, we've had some good high grade intercepts, which should improve the probability of further extensions to the underground mine life.

At Bonikro, we've had some good drill results there too and we'll be looking to the regional program that we've got in action over the next year. And we've also expanded our greenfields portfolio in Indonesia, PNG and Fiji, and there'll be drill testing on those prospects over the year.

That's the initial summary. With that, I'd like to pass it over to Gerard to talk about the 2012 financial results and the 2013 forecast.

Thanks, Greg, and good morning, everybody.

Despite the operational challenges that Greg mentioned in his introduction, 2012 has been a good one for the company financially. It was a year of record profit for Newcrest with statutory profit increasing to A$1.1 billion. The key driver of this increasing profit was a higher realized gold price of A$1,609 per ounce, 17% higher than the prior year.

Underlying profit was also higher than the prior year with the A$46 million gain on the divestment of the Queensland assets in November 2011, the major difference between statutory profit and underlying profit for the year. The chart on the right shows that Newcrest has had steady EPS growth since the 2008 financial year.

Moving to slide 10, the chart on the left shows that total sales revenue continued to grow in 2012 financial year despite the disappointments in production volume. Total revenue increased by 8% to a record A$4.4 billion, largely driven as mentioned earlier by an increasing realized gold price. The mining industry experienced further cost pressures in the 2012 financial year and Newcrest was not immune to this. Newcrest Mining production costs increased to A$2.2 billion in 2012 and the majority of this reflects increased levels of activity and the full year of ownership of Lihir and Bonikro.

However, the chart on the bottom left shows that the 7% of that increase in mine production cost in 2012 financial year was attributable to higher input prices. This follows the 6% increase in input prices in the financial year 2011. Despite experiencing a slight reduction in profit margins in the financial year 2012, Newcrest's EBITDA and EBIT margins remained robust at 49% and 36% respectively.

On slide 11 now, and you can see the continuing rate of price inflation across our key cost areas of labor, energy and fuel. Labor accounts for about half of our cash cost and fuel and energy a further 20%. We're very much price takers in many of these areas. We certainly have a role as management to play in ensuring we achieve good productivity and efficiency in the way we operate and we negotiate in a strong and balanced manner. But ultimately, as these prices for these items go up, you'll continue to see them impacting our overall result.

Turning to slide 12, which shows that we have three operations with very strong margins. Two of these operations, Lihir and Cadia Valley, we're nearing completion of major projects in the next six months that will grow our future production at these higher margin mines. Telfer and Bonikro, both performed at lower margin levels in the year. But Bonikro notably improving in 2012 after the temporary suspension affecting last financial year's results, the 2011 financial year.

The Hidden Valley result is a disappointment. There's work to be done there for us, but the installation of the crusher in the coming financial will certainly help improve material movement, which will flow through to improve production efficiency and cost.

Turning to slide 13, this shows the deployment of the company's operating cash flow in the financial year 2012. The strong cash flow from operations in excess of A$1.7 billion was achieved after funding a very large net increase in deferred stripping and inventory build at Telfer, Bonikro and Lihir. The operating cash flow funded the company's exploration program and sustaining capital requirements, and the balance of A$1.12 billion contributed to funding the company's major projects and increasing the dividends to Newcrest's shareholders.

2012 financial year was a peak year for capital expenditure for Newcrest. The company's gearing ratio is expected to peak during the 2013 financial year, but a low level of future capital expenditure and expanded production from our high margin assets will result in a lower gearing ratio and an increase in capacity to pay dividends thereafter.

Onto slide 14, and as I said, 2012 financial year was a peak year for capital expenditure. This slide shows the breakdown of the capital expenditure in 2012 including exploration. And you can see that we largely focused on expanding our low-cost, long-life mines at Cadia and Lihir. We also have progressed the Wafi-Golpu studies and commenced development after the second panel cave at Cadia East.

We still have a bit more to spend on Cadia East and Lihir MOPU, which I'll get shortly – get to you shortly when I talk to the 2013 guidance. But they are both substantially complete and nearly ready to deliver near-term production growth.

Greg mentioned earlier the efforts going into improving the liability at Lihir and this has driven the increase in sustaining capital to A$445 million in the 2012 financial year. Whilst not capital expenditure in a technical sense, in 2012 as mentioned, we have deployed around A$460 million in waste-stripping activities and building up of ore inventories and that will benefit production in future years.

Slide 15 shows that Newcrest is in a very strong financial position from both a balance sheet and liquidity perspective. Newcrest has maintained a very low level of gearing over recent years. At June 30, 2012, gearing was 12.5% and this is expected to peak around the 15% level during the 2013 financial year as the current major expansion projects are completed, but production is yet to ramp up.

To avoid any market confusion, I reiterate that there is no gearing covenant in any of Newcrest's debt facilities. The chart on the right shows the sources of Newcrest's A$3.2 billion of debt facilities and with A$780 million of these facilities undrawn at June 30, 2012, the company remains in a strong liquidity position. Newcrest is currently in the process of renewing its bilateral bank facilities with this process expected to be completed during the September 2012 quarter.

Of note, that US$1 billion of corporate bonds there in the right-hand side of the graph, they have maturity dates of 2021 and 2041.

Turning to slide 16, the board has determined that the final dividend of A$0.23 per share be paid to shareholders and that this final dividend will be 15% franked. This results in a full-year dividend of A$0.35 per share when combined with the A$0.12 interim dividend declared earlier in the year. Ordinary dividends have been progressively increasing in recent years and have increased by 250% since 2008. In addition to the ordinary dividends shown on this page, we also paid a special dividend of A$0.20 per share in December 2011.

At Newcrest's current share price, the full-year 2012 dividend represents a yield of approximately 1.5%, which remains very competitive with the global gold industry.

Turning our attention now to the year ahead and onto – let's begin with slide 18. That points out that the 2013 financial year is a transition year for Newcrest, where we see the commencement of a shift in the composition of production within the portfolio. At Cadia Valley, we finished mining the open pit and production from the Ridgeway block cave is now at designed capacity. The Cadia East panel cave is expected to achieve first commercial production by the end of 2012 calendar year and progressively ramp up thereafter. The Cadia East ramp up will enable higher levels of production from Cadia Valley at a lower cash cost, although we will not start to see the full effect of this until the financial year 2014.

There are substantial low grade stockpiles at Cadia Valley, which together with the Ridgeway production will keep the mill operating at capacity in the 2013 financial year while Cadia East ramps up to full production.

The Lihir MOPU plant expansion also remains on track for completion in the December 2012 quarter. The increased autoclave capacity will enable processing of more of the large ore stockpiles on the site and lift annual production to around 1 billion ounces. It also provides a platform for further increase in annual production from an upgrade in the floatation capacity on site. The maintenance program to improve the reliability of the existing plant continues throughout 2013 financial year. And the Wafi-Golpu study of course continues.

On to the guidance outcomes now on slide 19. The company has set guidance for gold production in financial year 2013 at 2.3 million to 2.5 million ounces. This represents an increase of up to 9% on 2012 financial year gold production. And that reflects the complexities of integrating new and existing operations. It also reflects the low grade ore at Gosowong and also the transition at Cadia Valley where stockpiles will feed the mill during the Cadia East ramp up.

Gold production in the first quarter will be approximately 5% to 10% lower than the quarter just completed and that will then steadily increase over the year. And the slide details the main drivers behind this. Guidance for financial year 2013 copper production is set at 75,000 to 85,000 tons. This is up 12% on the year just gone and reflects a higher level of full-year production from the Ridgeway block cave. Quarterly production is expected to be reasonably consistent across the year.

As mentioned, capital expenditure peaked in the financial year 2012 as the major expansion projects were significantly advanced. FY 2013 CapEx is expected to be lower with a scheduled completion of these projects in the first half of the financial year. Exploration expenditure is expected to remain steady at 2012 levels.

The 2013 financial year will have around the same level of funds deployed to deferred mining and ore inventory accumulation as occurred in the 2012 financial year of around A$400 million, and as was the case in the last financial year, this build up in deferred mining and ore inventory is not additional capital as such, but it's covered by and reflected in the operating cash flow line.

Slide 20 outlines the production ranges on an asset by asset basis. The guidance range for total company production in FY 2013 is a narrower range than the sum of the individual sites. And that reflects the expectation that sites will not all simultaneously achieve either the high or low end of their range.

The chart on the bottom left provides the FY 2013 production ranges by site and compares this with 2012 financial year actual production. The yellow bar there defines the low end of the range. The gray bar, the upper end, and the blue star, defines where production was achieved in the financial year 2012.

Ranges for Cadia Valley and Lihir were released in 2012 and remain unchanged. So there's nothing new there. In Australia, full year production at Cadia Valley and Telfer is expected to be broadly similar to that achieved in financial year 2012.

Production is expected to increase over 2012 levels at Lihir. And that's associated with the MOPU plant expansion and increased plant reliability. Also increasing at Bonikro, based on high gold grade and associated recoveries and finally, increasing at the Hidden Valley driven by higher mill throughput. Gosowong production will be lower in FY 2013 as mining transitions into lower grade material, which will be more aligned with reserve grade and has been the case in recent years.

Moving to the next slide, slide 21 and the guidance range for FY 2013. Capital expenditure of A$1.8 billion to A$2 billion was advised in April 2012 and remains unchanged. This represents approximately a 30% reduction over the level of capital expenditure in the 2012 financial year, reflecting the expected commencement of commercial production from Cadia East and completion of the MOPU project at Lihir in the first half of the 2013 financial year.

Major projects spend in the 2013 financial year is expected to be approximately A$800 million, which includes completion of the Lihir MOPU project, completion of the Cadia East project and a further A$300 million at Cadia East for Lift 2 development and ongoing drawbell expansions.

There's between A$475 million to A$625 million for other projects as well. This includes a flotation project at Lihir that we'll complete in the following year, capital for ongoing development at our underground mines, the new crusher at Hidden Valley and the usual items like mill optimization.

In addition, A$100 million of capital is included in guidance for advancing the Wafi-Golpu project and this will be confirmed as and when the project proceeds into feasibility. Sustaining capital is expected to be in line with the current year and includes continuation of the reliability improvement program at Lihir.

Moving to exploration, slide 22. Our exploration program spend for this year will be similar to 2012 financial year at around A$150 million to A$160 million. This effort builds on previous work, the high spend will be at Wafi-Golpu reflecting the higher prospectivity and advanced set of drill targets in that region. The program will focus on the Wafi-Golpu project and discovery exploration within the Wafi Transfer Zone.

At Gosowong, the program comprises of continuation with step out drilling around Toguraci and Kencana areas, seeking extensions to the mine life. In Côte d'Ivoire, the program includes ongoing exploration in the Bonikro mine and accelerated regional exploration program, drill testing priority targets.

The Telfer program includes advanced exploration at West Dome while the major folks at Lihir is on resource and reserve drilling. Grassroots exploration continues at Tandai, Manus Island and Mt Andewa.

And for the five-year outlook, I'll turn it over to Greg.

Thanks, Gerard.

Turning to page 24, just want to make a couple of comments before I get into the specifics on the five-year growth. The mining industry is definitely faced with a more challenging environment at the moment. The longer term outlook for most commodity prices is uncertain as our exchange rates, and the capital and operating cost environment continues to – did continue to increase during 2012, although for us there are signs that those cost pressures have peaked and are now starting to decline. I'll say the one exception is the price for gold. The combination of macroeconomic challenges should continue to support or increase the gold price in the near to medium term.

Newcrest is well positioned given these uncertainties as we are predominantly exposed to gold and we are finishing our peak investment commitments on long-life high-quality assets. We also believe we can deliver significant productivity improvements through training our people, benchmarking and delivering better and more reliable operating performance and investing in technology improvement. This focus has the potential to unlock significant value for shareholders in the years ahead.

Turning to page 25, we released most of the gold production growth profile in April this year. So most of this should be just a reconfirmation, the production forecast only represents, as we stated in April, projects in feasibility, execution or production. It doesn't mean that projects below that are stopping. Those studies do continue and I'll talk more about that later.

By financial year 2017, we expect gold production growth to be 35% to 55% higher than 2012 production, and this represents a compound average growth rate of 5% to 10%. The growth is organic and largely from expansions, which will be completed during this financial year. And importantly for Newcrest, it's coming from assets that are lower cost.

Also, copper production growth is projected to be 20% to 30% higher by 2017. Capital expenditure is expected to decline from our peak levels, as Gerard has already mentioned, in 2013, A$1.8 billion to A$2 billion and then steadily decline towards 2017, which should give us very good capacity to fund growth and dividends.

Turning to page 26, looking at the five-year gold and copper production profile. Firstly, looking at gold, you can see production reaching a range of 3.1 million ounces to 3.5 million ounces in 2017. That's growth of over 35% to 50% over 2012, and as I mentioned, it's a compound growth rate of 5% to 10% a year. The growth driver is pretty obvious, it's Cadia East, in which we expect at least a third of our growth to come from and Lihir. And again that should deliver half to three-thirds of the growth forecast by the MOPU plant – MOPU expansion, the plant reliability improvement program we've got in place and then the flotation capacity expansion that we're going to start next year.

Now looking at copper, the growth for copper, I've already talked about a 20% to 30% up to 100,000 to 110,000 tons by 2017. The growth profile is expected to grow at around or copper at about 5% to 7% per annum. Cadia East is the key driver behind that. There are growth projects that were in last year's estimates, not included this year. For example, there is no production in the forecast from Wafi-Golpu, Namosi or O'Callaghans. Studies on these projects and others are continuing. And if they are board-approved, we will disclose them at the appropriate time with capital and production profiles. In the current environment, I'd just make the statement, we will certainly spend within our means, and we are looking to ensure a balance between growth and capital return to shareholders.

Turning the page to page 27, shows you the growth again on five-year gold going from 3.1 to 3 – going to 3.1 million to 3.5 million ounces. And the key project milestones, Cadia East and MOPU, obviously in this financial year. Then we have the Lihir reliability program, which is a key for us over the next two years. We have the Hidden Valley crusher, as Gerard mentioned, to reduce costs and increase efficiency at Hidden Valley of what has been a pretty poor year for that asset.

And then finally, we get into Cadia East Lift 2, which is the larger of our two panel caves and looking to bring that into production by the end of financial year 2014. The last one there is the flotation capacity add on Lihir. We're looking to expand that flotation, which should take us from around 1 million ounce market Lihir to 1.2 million ounces. And then, the actual last one there is the Bonikro expansion. We're looking to take that mill from 2 million tons to 3.5 million tons, and again, looking to deliver that in 2015.

Turning to slide 28. Again, there should be confirmation of what we have announced in April. Production at Cadia Valley is planned to reach 700,000 to 800,000 ounces per year from financial year 2016. That represents a five-year growth of 60% of this year – sorry, of 2012.

Studies to evaluate a further expansion of the Cadia Valley processing plant will continue. At Lihir, MOPU and an expansion of the flotation circuit are expected to increase production to around 1.2 million to 1.3 million ounces per year. Lihir is the biggest driver of the company's five-year gold production growth, and the company is continuing to study options to produce 1.4 million ounces within the five years. The production outlook at Gosowong and Telfer remain unchanged from what was announced in April.

Turning the page to slide 29, at Hidden Valley the focus is on delivering lower cost, consistent and predictable performance, with a view of stabilizing production at around 200,000 to 250,000 ounces per year on a 100% turns. And whilst we are looking at the mill expansions, they are no longer included within the outlook. Again, if we go to make that expansion at Hidden Valley, we will announce that at an appropriate time.

At Bonikro, the updated plan includes a mill expansion to 3.5 million tons by 2015. We are also studying at the moment a 5 million ton plant, and again that is in pre-feasibility.

The production targets at Namosi, the Wafi open pit and O'Callaghans have been removed from the plan. Studies to progress them beyond pre-feasibility are continuing. The other major change from last year is Cracow and Mt Rawdon have been sold to Evolution Mining.

Turning the page to page 30, and this shows the capital expenditure requirements to fund the five-year outlook. And you can see that our requirements decline after financial year 2013. All up, we're forecasting less than A$5.5 billion over the five years to fund our growth and our existing operations.

We've already discussed the 2013 requirements. After 2013, we'll continue to expand the footprint at Cadia East. And you can see that in the gold on the slide. This sets us up for 30 years of production at Cadia Valley at the bottom quartile of costs.

The rest of the capital ensures we look after our existing assets, comply with our license to operate requirements, and deliver constant improvements to our existing operations. The profile also includes about A$300 million to build the flotation and grinding expansion at Lihir. Sustaining capital stays elevated in the first two years while we're improving the reliability at the Lihir operation, but then we'll average around A$350 million a year thereafter.

The development line mainly represents development of our underground mines. Overlaid on this chart is our 2012 operating cash flow of A$1.7 billion, which is after funding our elevated levels of waste stripping and inventory build in the year just gone. As we produce more gold and copper and spend less on these requirements, we expect to see the headroom between operating cash flow and capital requirements increase.

Turning the page to page 31. The chart on the left side of slide 31 shows Newcrest's expected five-year cash profile post byproduct credits. Cash costs are expected to be slightly higher in financial year 2013, reflecting the lower gold grade at Gosowong, the higher strip ratios at Telfer, and the pressures on currency and costs we're seeing across the industry. Our cash costs are exposed to the moves in the copper price also. And this chart has been put together using a copper price of A$3.75.

Group cash costs are then expected to decline over the remainder of the five-year outlook period associated with increased production from lower cost assets. Based on our current industry cash cost curve, Newcrest would shift from just below the industry average in 2013 to somewhere around the top of the first quartile, about 2017. Wafi-Golpu, while not – whilst it's not included here, would significantly enhance Newcrest's cash cost profile beyond that time period.

The chart on the right-hand side shows the industry average cash cost, which has really increased by about 10% per annum over the last four years. And if that trend continues, it will obviously further enhance Newcrest's position in the industry cost curve.

Also, we do believe we can improve productivity and costs further, and that's through the application of technology and innovation, and through our ongoing efforts to increase employee skills within the company.

Turning to page 32 shows a number of other growth options under consideration. These comprise early study phase projects that are at various stages of evaluation. Projects in this category that have the potential to deliver production within the five-year timeframe include expansions of the processing plants at Lihir, Cadia, Bonikro and Hidden Valley and new mine developments at Namosi, O'Callaghans near Telfer.

Given the current economic conditions, we will be very careful on when and if we commit to those projects. We'll continue to fund their exploration and we expect that our exploration group will, as they've done in the past, present other interesting development options to consider within the five-year plan.

Turning to page 33, the current cost pressures in the mining industry are widely acknowledged, although we feel these have peaked this year. At Newcrest, we really do believe we can make a significant improvement in productivity through our focus on our core mining capabilities, improved technology and increasing training for our people.

Newcrest has invested heavily in innovation and technology over recent years and the slide illustrates some of the areas where the company continues to innovate, to increase productivity and shareholder returns. A couple of examples of this would be our focus on block caving productivity. We've got plenty of ideas to go forward on that and again, a new one for us which is the throughput efficiencies at the Lihir autoclaves, and again there's some pretty big goals attached to that.

Turning the page to 34, and this is really the final slide for us. It really has been a challenging 2012. For 2013, it's shaping up as a very important year for Newcrest with the delivery of our two growth engines and the study of another world-class ore body. During 2012, we also focused on asset improvement and team capabilities. During 2013, we expect to see better reliability from all of our operations.

Our technical capability and management systems within the company are continuing to increase and improve rapidly. As mentioned earlier, the Wafi-Golpu pre-feasibility study is nearing completion and we will announce that on the 29 of August of this month. It's very pleasing and exciting for Newcrest to have another long-term, world-class asset to develop after the ramp up of the Cadia East and Lihir, and that will largely be complete by that point.

Naturally, we expect our exploration and business development activities to continue to find value enhancing opportunities for Newcrest in the years ahead. Newcrest will be careful in committing capital to new projects to ensure it does not unwittingly absorb peak cycle costs and also ensure a balance between growth and shareholder returns. And at that point, I've sort of finished my formal comments on the presentation and very happy to open it up to questions. Thank you.

The first question comes from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Look, I've got several questions. First of all, the corporate overheads had a big jump between the second half and first half. Should we be taking the second half and annualize that as guidance going forward, please?

Hi, Gerard here. Yes. It's probably as good as any – an estimate of what will be our run rate going forward.

Thank you.

And a lot that is obviously focused on our improvement areas. So there's a heavy emphasis within those corporate costs around productivity, technology, IT systems attached to our principal mining issues, and opportunities that we see going forward. It really is quite a conscious effort to improve the company.

Second question, the Lihir guidance range being reasonably broad compared to guidance at other operations, is that the risk around the existing part reliability?

Michael, it's not so much the reliability, it's really just the tying together of the old and the new plant and giving ourselves some width in doing that ramp up.

Okay, thank you. And then finally, the discussion around the ultimate scale at Cadia Valley, can you talk a little bit about what defines that? You've got oodles of resource, oodles of reserve, oodles of spaces that have water limitation. Is it tailings dam constraints? What's the thing that ultimately limits the final scale there, please?

It's not going to be water. I mean, tailings is always a restraint within any major operation, but principally, it will be permitting around the plant. So, we're running at 26 million tons. We would think, as we get going, we'll find ways to optimize that and bring that higher. And then it will be permitting and planning with the community and the state government to ultimately what we think could be another expansion in the years ahead.

To what sort of scale, Greg, and what are the...

I think we can certainly tinker and minimize CapEx to just get to 30 million tons. And I think beyond that would require a substantial amount of capital for us to expand it to the 35 million ton type range. I mean, they are early studies and a long way away, Michael. Our focus really is to get these two caves ramped up and get the 26 million ton capacity, and then in the years ahead, we'll look at further expansion.

Great. Thank you, Greg.

The next question comes from Stephen Gorenstein from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. I've got a few questions as well. Firstly, just on the debt facility, are you going to be looking to expand that at all when you renew it?

Let me pass it to Gerard.

Hi, Stephen. It's one of the options that we're considering, Stephen. It's an option available to us and we're looking at it.

Okay, great. Thanks for that. And second question is just on costs, what sort of cost increase assumptions are you including in that five-year plan, are you assuming that industry cost continue to rise?

Stephen, there are lot of variables that underpin the cost projection. You got labor rates, oil prices, copper price assumptions that can have a market reference point, so you can see that over the near term they go up a little bit and then there's assumptions on how they will play out into our cost base having regards to production efficiencies and the like. So without being – obfuscating the answer is, there are many variables that drive our projection as to what cost will be over the period.

Yeah, I mean the – just as a final comment, we don't sort of put a rapid escalation of costs that we've seen over the last four years into that projection and underpinning our production – production and our costs are going to be at two big sites. And the economies of scale on those two are really what drives our relative position lower. If the industry was to increase costs dramatically again, we would expect commodity prices are increasing with it. And we would hold the same sort of competitive profile.

Thanks for that, guys. And just last one on dividends and franking, does this mark the beginning of franking going forward, is that something we should be assuming?

I'll pass to Gerard again.

Stephen, the – as you will appreciate, franking capacity closed from tax payments, so as and when we increase Australian tax payments, that will elevate our capacity to pay dividend. So you can see it increase over time and certainly within a year or two, you can see we expect we'll get to a stage of nearing full franking.

Excellent. Thanks [ph] for that, guys. (40:22).

The next question comes from Craig Sainsbury from Citigroup. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah, thanks a lot. Two questions from me. One is just on Cadia, in terms of the sustainability, the 700,000 to 800,000 ounces, just wondering if you can talk me through this, Greg. Because I look at your reserve statement there and you got what, about 0.6 grams per ton gold and if I run that through 28 million ton per annum mill, I get nowhere near 700,000 to 800,000 ounces sustainable from Cadia East going forward.

And I know you've got a higher grade in the first couple of years if you're talking about Panel 2 coming on in 2014, I presume it all is going to be blended. So, I was wondering if you can talk me through the grade profile, as you said, over the next five or six years at Cadia to deliver that 700,000 to 800,000 ounces of production and what risk is there too, please?

Okay. So the first thing is within the five-year platform, we expect the grades – well, certainly within the 10-year platform, we expect the grades to be higher than the 0.6, so we'll be running for a very long time at above the – well above the 0.6, the long-term reserve and resource grade. Copper holds very consistently across the ore bodies, so it sits in that sort of 0.3% to – 0.35% to 0.4% type copper level.

So, as we expect the over 26 million tons to be moving at above one gram a ton for a substantial period, and then as the grade in the ore body comes down, we'll be looking, as I mentioned earlier, to increase the capacity of the plant. And again, we'll be looking to sustain higher levels of production. So the 700,000 to 800,000 is quite comfortable.

The reality is at certain points, I mean the 700,000 to 800,000 looks like a fairly smooth type projection for the asset for that five years post this five years. In reality, it will have moments where it's above that because it'll be moving at above a gram a ton for some of those years.

Okay. So – and obviously second question is sort of a follow-up to that one. The Cadia Valley, the 700,000 to 800,000 ounce target in sort of 2016 to 2017, does that include any ore coming in from Ridgeway?

Yes, it does. Okay? So, Ridgeway...

[indiscernible] (42:41) Ridgeway plant?

So Ridgeway has got another five years to run. And really, as we're ramping up Cave 2, it replaces Ridgeway.

Okay. So Ridgeway stops at 2016. There's nothing in the 2017 figure or there's a little bit coming through?

There's a little bit coming through in 2017. I mean it's a bit like all these mines. As you go to close them, you always find a way to get another 12 months out of it. So in the current plan, we've got a small amount coming through in 2017. My expectation is we'll probably do a little better than that. We've still got another lift at Ridgeway by the way too. It's a lower grade lift, deeper. That sits in the plan for somewhere down the track and it's possibly 10 years away before we make a decision on that.

Okay, and then sort of last question, would they follow back to last year in terms of your five-year growth, you are pretty much targeting 50% volume growth? I know this has been a horrible year and things have been revised a little bit on the near-term guidance. But you're still talking about 50% effective or 35% to 50% volume growth over the next five years. Was there nothing in the last 12 months that made you concerned about having a 50% growth target over the next five years?

Most of it is really factored into Cadia East and Lihir. And being new projects, we've had them on what we think are very achievable delivery platforms. What we have done is made choices about when we bring in some of the peripheral assets, so the things like the Namosis and O'Callaghans and expanding Hidden Valley and rapidly expanding Bonikro. We'll just be a little more conservative about the way we sort of commit to expansion plans around those. I mentioned during the presentation that one of our objectives is to make sure that we're not building at peak capital and cost cycles. I think they're all good resource and reserves within our portfolio, and the time will come to do them, but we will look at that timing very carefully.

Okay, thanks.

The next question comes from Ian Preston from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Morning, Greg. Two quick ones. Just – I note that you talk about commercial production from Cadia in the first six-month period in the December quarter. But you only talk about the completion of Lihir MOPU in the six months. When do you expect to go to commercial production from MOPU? That's question one.

Can I answer that one before you move on?

Yeah.

In December, so the same thing, end of December. They both convert in our plan at the moment to commercial production at the end of the second quarter for 2013 financial year.

Okay, so we should only be bringing them into the P&L for the second half, but you've included the production in your guidance for the full year?

Right.

Okay and just debt repayments this year and next year, is it just the bilateral?

I'm going to pass that to Gerard.

The bilateral is again – it expires, the existing facilities from December through to March progressively. As I said, we're going to renegotiate those and – by the end of this present quarter, so they will be refinanced in essence. The debt capital markets remained open to us with their credit ratings, so that's an alternative we have there as well. Other repayments are fairly low. I think just around A$100 million or so and the U.S. private placement funds are scheduled for repayment over the coming year.

And are you expecting any significant change in the terms of debt facilities that you can obtain just given where markets are, Gerard?

The markets are very favorable to corporates at the moment and we don't expect there to be substantial changes to our facility documentation at all.

Thanks very much.

The next question is from Mitch Ryan from Macquarie Bank. The line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys, just two quick questions. On slide 15 where you talk about your 15% gearing, what gold price assumption did you use on that?

A$1,600.

When we step to Lihir, what do you think the sort of long-term sustainable production from that asset is, sort of 8 to 10 years out?

Well, it has – I mean, it has some interesting opportunities there. And again, there's two major things that we're looking at. One is getting to the Kapit pit, and that brings grade and probably periods of higher production. And the second is the amount of work we're now doing in the sites around autoclaves and throughput rates, and that actually brings another opportunity with that 6 million ounce stockpile that we've got sitting there.

So I think the 1.2 Moz is obviously the sustainable level or better. And we are really looking at three or four pretty good ideas to get it to 1.4 Moz. And then we're thinking about how we could possibly bring that even higher down the track, but certainly not within this five-year program.

Okay. Do you have some rough numbers around that CapEx to get it to 1.4 Moz or is it too early?

So we're doing A$300 million on the float, and we'll do, over this next couple of years, about another A$400 million on reliability programs. And we'll still be stripping. So all up, I would say, over that five-year program, we're going to be doing somewhere around the 1.5-ish Moz on Lihir.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question comes from Hayden Bairstow from CLSA. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yes, thanks, guys. Greg, just a couple of things on Lihir. I just wanted to get an update on, just going back to Kapit, where you are on moving the stockpile and getting into Kapit and also the Coffer Dam. And is the – does the new flotation circuit really gives you sort of room to push back on Coffer and just push more of the lower-grade tons through the mill?

And also on CapEx, outside of that A$1.5 billion, did I hear you say before that sort of A$350 million is the sustaining number for Lihir longer-term?

No. It's not the sustaining level. We're looking at about A$150 million on the sustaining level for Lihir going forward.

I would – one of the things we are clearly looking at very closely is how do we process the low-grade stockpile quicker. And if we can do that more efficiently, then that will definitely give us more time to delay Kapit.

But you've got to remember, Kapit brings quite a big prize in grade. So it's quite an attractive thing to get to. We're going to work through that over the next couple of years and really think that through.

The Coffer Dam, we haven't made the final – we certainly got very good engineering on that. And this is the – obviously a smaller and lower CapEx solution around Kapit. And we'll be making that decision again in the next couple of years also.

Lots of opportunities at Lihir. I mean, one thing I'd say is the stockpile's probably reached its biggest point at this stage. We've got about 100 million tons in. We'll be processing and adding to it next year, but it will stay about the same level. And then after that, our current plan, even conservatively, is that we'll start to process that stockpile.

And just on the material movements at Lihir, they've always run around 50 tons to 60 tons, but obviously much slower in the last 12 months. Can you just give us a reason behind that and what we should be expecting going forward?

I think if you looked at the material movement, it's really driven by the depth of the pits we're currently in. We're at the bottom of the two pits there. And I think you'd expect a pretty similar sort of material movement.

Okay, cheers. Thanks, guys.

The next question comes from Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks – excuse me. Just to confirm, those low grade stockpiles, as they start to run down, does that mean there's going to be blending of that material from the short-term? Or is it just that we add less material in the interim, and then it's only once the float plan and the other opportunities come through that they actually really get run down in a meaningful manner?

It'll be a blend, as we always do, between stockpile and the pit. And the pit will also add to the stockpile, just to add to the complexity of it. And if I was to go through all of those material movements, I'd be here two hours.

But in general, that is all built into those forecasts you see over that five years. And so we would see the stockpiles have reached about their maximum. And over these next five years, we'd expect to see them decline gradually.

Fantastic. And the other one, Telfer, I've noticed there was that reference to the underground intercepts. Some high-grade numbers coming through. Within that five-year plan or beyond the five-year plan, could you confirm how long underground production is assumed at this point?

It's certainly for the five years. And beyond that, again, we'll be looking at the Vertical Stockwork Corridor and we've got some pretty interesting exploration coming into the West Dome deeps area.

So based on those comments, we could assume that the broad Telfer production range can be maintained will be on the five-year horizon at that 500,000 to 600,000 ounce per annum level?

That's our aim.

Thanks.

The next question comes from Phillip Chippindale from Royal Bank of Scotland. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Two questions from me. I just want to clarify the reasons why you pulled out Wafi, Namosi and O'Callaghans from the five-year discussion. I know that when you were describing it earlier, you tried to emphasize the balance between growth and capital efficiency/capital management for Newcrest. So I'm just trying to understand, is it because of that very fact that you've decided to pull them out? Because you have highlighted that potentially the production could be within a five-year period. Is that right? Or could you just give me a bit more color on that?

If we were to trigger a couple of those, they could certainly come within the five-year profile.

I think as we look at the current cost and capital cycle, we're probably better in a timing sense to slow that. And if I looked at all three – I think they're all terrific projects, by the way. I think they all have tremendous potential for Newcrest in the long-term. [ph] And in an order, (53:55) Wafi-Golpu just remains an absolute world-class ore body and region to do exploration. [ph] On a preference, (53:05) we're certainly going to be doing our pre-feasibility and feasibility, subject to the announcement we're going to make later this month on an ongoing basis.

And on Namosi, part of the slowdown there has really been to work with the government and the community, just to ensure that all the parties are aligned. And at this point, they're not all aligned, so we're still working through that.

In O'Callaghans, still a terrific opportunity for Telfer. It's a very good tungsten ore body. We're just working methodically through the metallurgy with off-takers to work out exactly what we would do with that if we were to develop it.

Okay, great. And just a final question, just an easy one on the Hidden Valley. I just want to understand when you're expecting the throughputs data to increase, sort of what stage of FY 2013? Will it be sort of final quarter or a little bit earlier than that?

Sort of expecting like that third quarter. We'll have the crusher in sometime in January, February. Hopefully, we'd see the lift in the overland conveyor almost immediately. And then in that last quarter, we should start to see a real benefit.

Okay, great. Thanks.

The next question comes from Geoff Breen from Royal Bank of Canada. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hello, Greg. Slide 30, capital expenditure, can you just help me where the A$100 million to A$200 million you're spending on Lihir fits in? Whether that's in sustaining or it's a one-off or whatever?

In sustaining, mate.

Okay. Why does the sustaining go down when your production is going up so much and costs are rising?

We sort of get to a point – Lihir's got a real lift in what we're doing to that plant over that two-year period, this first two-year period. I mean, we talked about that in April, running at nearly over A$200 million a year just to get that improvement program in place.

Once we've got that in place and we've got the new plant ramped up, we expect the sustaining level to fall. And we would expect for the group that to sort of move to about a A$350 million level. I don't know, Gerard, whether you want to add any other comments to that?

I think $350 million per annum on the sustaining. There are other project expenditures – tailings, damn lifts and mill optimizations and debottleneckings – that feature in the other projects line there, as well. [ph] So the sustain-other-projects distinction (56:40) maybe something worth noting there, Geoff.

Okay, and just an observation, Greg. You look at a trend like this – in reality, it doesn't usually happen. I hear your consideration and all those sort of words. But your feeling, if we look at this in two years' time, is it really going to look like this?

Well, Geoff, that's my view.

Today? And this excludes Wafi of course?

Yes, it does. Look, it's got A$100 million in there for Wafi next year or for this financial year.

[indiscernible] (57:02) 50%?

That's right. So Harmony will be putting A$100 million in. We put A$100 million in. And we'll announce what a feasibility through execution capital profile can look like, and what the production and timing will be, later this month.

But you can see that from our projections – I mean again, it depends on you guys, on how you're going to run your price projections, et cetera. But for us, we've really had our peak capital year. We've got our two bigger engines running. We've done A$1.7 billion of cash flow this year, even with higher stripping and inventory build at Lihir. We would expect our margin between cash flow obviously and capital to really expand here in the next three to four years and give us other choice.

And again, if we make choices to go for other projects, you'll see that discussion coming out in our quarterlies and our half-year and full-years in the years ahead. And I'm sure everyone is going to have feedback on those.

Thanks, Greg.

The next question comes from Andrew Knuckey from Commonwealth Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah, thanks, Greg. Can you give us some sizing on what we should assume in terms of dividend payout ratios going forward from this point?

We don't really run on a payout ratio basis. We tend to sort of link our dividend payments, whether it's ordinary and special, to the sort of the financial strength of the group, the cash flow of the group. So as we're looking at gearing and you see us coming under that 15% driving down towards 10%, the expectation can be that our ordinary dividends – providing profits are stable or lifting – will increase. And our consideration of special dividends will come from excess cash flow.

Okay, great. And just one final one on the guidance. Given the weather impacts we've experienced over the last two years, in fact, are you comfortable there's enough – or you've built-in enough contingencies around that, in terms of your guidance?

We've certainly built more contingency in, but we've done it two ways. One is we have got contingency in the plan going forward, but we've also taken a pretty hard look in the open pits where we get stuck at our pumping capacities. And we're tripled and I think we're going to quadruple our capacity out of the Lihir pit. We've looked at it at Hidden Valley, we've looked at it at Telfer, we've looked at it at Bonikro. So we've spent a fair bit of time just looking at the capacity of getting water out of the pits and getting back on the grade zones.

Does that imply if you don't have the similar sort of weather events that we could surprise to the upside, and that these could be low-ball sort of guidance ranges?

I think I'll probably stick with the guidance ranges. I think, Andrew, I think weather always continues to surprise us in unusual ways. And it depends a little bit of where it hits you. But I'll just stick with our guidance ranges.

Sure, thanks.

The next question comes from Hayden Bairstow from CLSA. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yes, thanks, guys. Just one follow-on from me. Just on Gosowong, just to get an idea of where we're sitting, in terms of end of life, on reserves and what your expectations are there? And also, bit of – obviously still operating above the reserve grade. What the profile starts looking like for the next five or six years?

So the mill expands, and the reserve grade comes down, and where we were at 450,000 ounces, we'll be at 400,000 ounces. We would expect to hold that with the current Kencana, Toguraci, and some of the small exploration success we've had around those two, four to five years. And we're going very hard at our exploration program to find the [ph] next ship (01:01:04).

And really it comes down to, over these next three years, making those next high-grade discoveries, as we've done over the last 10 years. So it just continues on its normal path.

I've got some good regions to look. And again, we're following some very prospective ground, north and south of both those ore bodies today. And again, watch this space over the quarterlies.

Well, thanks, Greg.

At this time, there are no further questions on the phone.

Well, great. Thanks, everyone. As I sort of said during the opening part of the call, it's been a challenging year. It's a very important year for us here in 2013 with our projects and our reliability and a real concentration of delivering this growth profile. And also controlling the costs and the capital allocations at a time when the industry is under a fair bit of pressure.

All in all, I think we've got a very exciting plan going forward. And I thank you for your attendance today and looking forward to catching up with you over the next couple of weeks. Thank you. Bye.