Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Craig T. Sainsbury — Analyst, Goldman Sachs (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Mark Busuttil — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Cathy Moises — Analyst, Evans & Partners Pty Ltd.
Paul Hissey — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Analyst, Commonwealth Securities Ltd.
Brett McKay — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Newcrest Mining 2015 Full-Year Results Conference Call. I must advise you that this call is being recorded today, Monday, August 17, 2015.

I will now hand the conference over to Mr. Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. Please go ahead, Mr. Maitland.

Thank you, Rob. Good morning and welcome. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. Both will be speaking today on Newcrest's full-year financial results for the year ended June 30, 2015.

First, please note the company's disclaimers on the first two slides of our presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, ore reserve and resource reporting, the Competent Person's Statement and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in the presentation. Dollar references made in this presentation refer to Australian dollars unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, Gerard and I will take you through our financial results, provide a review of our operations and update you on the progress of projects and studies at some of our key assets. It's a big presentation to get through today with lots of information included. I'll keep things moving as best I can, and I look forward to taking your questions at the end.

Let me start with safety on slide five. Two fatalities during the year and one at the start of the new financial year is simply unacceptable. This year, we focused heavily on our major hazard standards and implementation of effective controls. This work has now been extended to critical risks and continues to be a major area of focus in order to eliminate fatalities from our business.

It's also important to focus on our people and the importance of safety leadership and safety behaviors. That's why we launched our NewSafe program this year to drive a cultural change in safety across the group. The importance of NewSafe is that it's about people, it's about engaging every member of the organization in the challenge to prevent fatalities and serious injury. At each level of the business, we look at what the most important behaviors are to deliver safer work. This includes leaders looking at how they coach, role model and interact with their teams and their frontline workforce taking ownership of their safety commitments.

It's creating a culture within Newcrest that's absolutely focused and targeted towards eliminating fatalities and life-changing injuries. Safety is a core value for us and we're more determined than ever to improve in this area.

At the start of this year, I outlined our focus on safety, operating discipline, cash generation and profitable growth, all underpinned by a culture of accountability and personal ownership. On cash generation and profitable growth, we had a strong year; a lower all-in sustaining cost of $789 per ounce underpinned our strong free cash flow of AUD 1.1 billion. We used this cash to reduce our U.S. dollar-denominated net debt by $819 million. At year end, net debt stood at $2.9 billion. I'm pleased with the operational and financial performance from Cadia, Telfer, Gosowong, and Bonikro, which were the driving force behind the underlying profit of AUD 0.5 billion.

I'm also pleased with the improved grinding rates at Lihir, which is essential for it to achieve its full potential. The Edge improvement program has continued to deliver productivity improvements and cost reductions across the group with cash benefits totaling almost AUD 400 million to-date. We've been working hard on the next steps. Study is ongoing at Lihir and Telfer, and I'll share with you some details on their progress shortly. But briefly, there has been good progress on the Lihir pit optimization study.

Secondly, whilst the review of Telfer is continuing, I'm pleased to announce that we'll be retaining the asset as we believe this provides the most value to shareholders. We have also approved the next open pit cutbacks at Telfer.

At Cadia, there's been a great deal of work since the seismic event in February this year at Panel Cave 2. The development and ramp-up of this cave will be a key driver for our performance over the coming years. Panel Cave 2 returned to production last week. We will also share some more detail on our growth options and exploration today, including the intention behind the appointment of Mike Nossal as Chief Development Officer.

Slide eight shows Newcrest's industry-leading cost position. The two charts [ph] plot (4:56) our all-in sustaining cost plus interest expense per ounce of gold sold relative to our six major gold peers, based on the most recently reported 12 months for each. The horizontal axis of the top chart shows each company's indicative reserve life, and the size of the bubble represents the gold reserves of each company.

The bottom chart shows Newcrest's all-in sustaining cost per ounce plus interest expense per ounce compared to our major peers. We will continue to focus on reducing our all-in sustaining cost through the Edge program, the ramp-up of Cadia East and the turnaround of Lihir.

Now, turning to Edge, our company-wide improvement program. Edge has now been embedded at all sites and is delivering real cash benefits to the group with approximately AUD 390 million of cash benefits delivered since commencement in May 2014.

To me, the real and enduring benefit of Edge is the cultural change it delivers to the company by involving our workforce in our improvement efforts and accelerating the delivery of an owner's mindset to all levels of the organization. One example of the benefits we're seeing from Edge is what's happening at Gosowong. Challenging the status quo is central to the philosophy. These three examples are a snapshot of the hundreds of initiatives which are underway across the business. The initiatives that I like the most are the ones that come from the shop floor, and we're seeing examples of this every week in our Edge review meetings.

At our Investor Day last October, we outlined our key objectives for the years ahead. Let me update you on how we're performing. Guidance is being delivered with the June 2015 quarter representing the ninth consecutive quarter that guidance was met or exceeded. The all-in sustaining cost spend was below the lower end of the guidance range. We have a low position on the industry cost curve driven primarily by the Edge program, the ramp-up of Cadia East, and the lower Australian dollar. Each operation was free cash flow positive with the exception of Hidden Valley. As a result, we're able to apply this free cash flow towards reducing our U.S. dollar-denominated net debt. Operationally, we're making good progress towards our objectives. However, at Lihir, we're not there yet. The team are working hard to improve the performance of the processing plant. The increase in the grinding throughput rate to an annualized 11.6 million tonnes per annum in the June quarter was pleasing. Continued efforts and improvements in plant reliability and cost reduction remain the biggest levers for improving Lihir's performance.

Mike Nossal joined the team in July and has a wealth of industry experience which he will bring to bear in his role as Chief Development Officer. I've consolidated all growth functions under Mike's portfolio. This includes brownfield and greenfield exploration, M&A, projects and studies.

Craig Jones has now taken responsibility for the development of our next-generation of caving operations at Cadia and Golpu. As Golpu is part of the MMJV, Craig has also assumed responsibility for Hidden Valley.

Phil Stephenson has been promoted to Executive General Manager responsible for Telfer and Gosowong.

Craig Jetson, General Manager of Lihir, now reports directly to me, reflecting the importance of the turnaround at Lihir. We have appointed a new General Manager of Safety to replace Phil, who is still heading the safety function at this time.

Let me now turn to the key operational highlights for the year. Gold production was up 1% to 2.4 million ounces, copper production increased 12% due to the ramp-up of PC1 and the outperformance of Ridgeway, the group's all-in sustaining costs in U.S. dollars declined 12% year-on-year, a result driven by our Edge program, Cadia East performance, and the weaker Australian dollar.

At Lihir, it was encouraging to see steady improvement on our key metric of grinding throughput, achieving a record for the financial year. Turning now to each operation, Cadia had another good year, gold and copper production were up 13% and 22%, respectively. This was a result of the ramp up of PC1 partially offset by lower grade from Ridgeway as this mature cave come closer to end of its operating life.

All-in sustaining cost was 31% lower at $206 per ounce. During the year, PC1 successfully propagated through the surface. In February 2015, there was a seismic event in PC2, which I will discuss in more detail later. We're expecting further growth in Cadia production from a continued ramp up of PC1 and PC2. We've also applied for an increase in the processing permit from 27 million tonnes per annum to 32 million tonnes per annum.

At Lihir, gold production was down 5% primarily due to a 9% lower grade. You can see that the second half of the financial year was an improvement on the first half, and for the full year, Lihir achieved a free cash flow of AUD 154 million. Although the plant is not performing to a level I'm satisfied with, the improvements in grinding throughput has been substantial. Our target remains to achieve a sustainable grinding throughput rate of 12 million tonnes per annum by December this year.

As we close in on achieving this rate, I'm now comfortable setting the next target of a sustainable grinding throughput rate of 13 tonnes per annum. Also in view of the relatively low rainfall in PNG at the moment, we're also working hard to reduce our water consumption on site.

Telfer has had a mixed year, the fatality may overshadow the good operational result. The second half performance was softer than the first, affected by restricted underground operations and open pit access issues in the June quarter. While gold production was marginally lower year-on-year, the all-in sustaining cost of $803 per ounce was 13% lower. This grew free cash flow to AUD 270 million, a strong performance. The next open pit cutbacks at Telfer have been approved. It comprises of AUD 46 million spend over the next 24 months to access ore at Main Dome Stages 6 and 7 and West Dome Stage 2. There's more detail on the Telfer study coming up, but in summary the study showed us that the best way to restrict value is by smaller, progressive cutbacks. The results of this study combined with the lower Australian dollar resulted in a revised upwards evaluation of Telfer.

On to our other operations, Bonikro had a good year with gold production up 26%, driven mainly by higher grade from [ph] Lihir (12:14) and higher recoveries. U.S. dollar all-in sustaining cost was down 31% to AUD 752 per ounce. Free cash flow of AUD 53 million from Bonikro is a good result. At Gosowong, gold production was down 4% on FY 2014 as higher gold grade was offset by lower ore availability. U.S. dollar all-in sustaining cost per ounce was down 4% due to lower sustaining capital. The updated reserves at Gosowong as of December 31, 2014 largely replaced the 2014 calendar year depletion.

At Hidden Valley, we had a tough year. Two fatalities in the past eight months have hit the site hard. Following the fatality in July, we suspended operations and extensively reassessed major hazards and improved equity co-controllers on site. A phased resumption of operations commenced last week. Our priorities for Hidden Valley in this lower gold price environment is to ensure safe production while maintaining a cash flow positive operation. We've taken a write down in the value of the asset which is reflective of the lower gold and silver price assumptions. Whilst we continue to assess mining options, we'll be deferring pre-stripping in the short term and restructuring operations reflecting the lower operational activity levels and current gold price environment. We will continue with the deployment of our improvement process that focuses on safety and cash generation. For the financial-year 2016, we've set our gold production guidance range at 2.4 million to 2.6 million ounces. Our guidance shows that we believe Lihir is likely to provide the majority of the increase in production. At Cadia, we just paved the ramp-up of PC2, will offset the decline in output from Ridgeway with Ridgeway expected to cease production during the year.

I'll now hand over to Gerard, who will take you through the financial results.

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the key highlights for the year from a profitability, cash flow and balance sheet perspective. Statutory profit of AUD 546 million was significantly high year-on-year due primarily to the asset impairments in the corresponding period. Underlying profit of AUD 515 million was AUD 83 million higher than the corresponding period, and primarily reflects increased revenues from the ramp-up of Cadia East, along the weakening Australian dollar increasing our realized metal prices. The group all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold of AUD 941 was 4% lower than the corresponding period reflecting lower levels of production stripping and sustaining capital expenditure, higher byproduct revenue associated with higher copper sales volumes and lower corporate expenditure. This was partially offset by the 9% deterioration in the Australia dollar increasing our U.S. dollar-denominated cost and lower sales volumes at Lihir due primarily to 9% lower feed grades.

Free cash flow was an inflow of AUD 1 billion, AUD 953 million higher than the corresponding period. All operations excluding Hidden Valley improved its free cash flow generation in the current year and we are free cash flow positive. This strong free cash flow performance enabled us to reduce our U.S. dollar-denominated net debt by $819 million to $2.9 billion.

The chart on the top left of this slide shows how the group and each operation performed on an all-in sustaining cost margin basis in U.S. dollar terms, the chart shows the Newcrest all-in sustaining cost margin in the period was powered by Cadia, Telfer Gosowong and Bonikro. The chart also shows the potential for an improved contribution from Lihir.

The bottom left graph shows we have been able to improve our EBITDA and EBIT margin and increase our all-in sustaining cost margin compared with the corresponding periods. This improved margin increased our free cash flow and helped to accelerate our debt repayment.

Turning to the next slide, we see the drivers of the change in underlying profit aftertax between the current period and the corresponding period. The improvement of AUD 83 million was largely due to increased gold sales from higher margin production at Cadia, the weakening of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar increase in realized metal prices and lower corporate expenditures. This was offset by the impact of a weaker Australian dollar and U.S. dollar denominated cost, higher unit operating cost partly due to exchange rates and higher income tax expense compared to the corresponding period.

Free cash flow constitutes cash flow from operations less cash flow related to investing activities. Our FY 2015 free cash flow of just under AUD 1.1 billion was AUD 953 million higher than the prior year. The top chart on slide 23 shows free cash flow contribution by site, all operations except for Hidden Valley improved free cash flow generation in the current period and were free cash flow positive.

The bottom chart shows the composition of the increase from FY 2014. The improvement reflects higher operating cash flow, lower capital and stripping expenditure and proceeds of AUD 105 million from the partial sell down of our investments in Evolution. Newcrest will continue to prioritize application of free cash flow due to reduction of debt.

The strong result we've announced today has enabled us to reframe the financial parameters upon which capital management decisions will be based. These parameters are shown on slide 24. This shows that Newcrest is targeting a leverage ratio of less than two times. It was 2.3 times at June 30, 2015. Newcrest is also targeting a gearing ratio of less 25%. It was 29% at June 30, 2015. We want to maintain our investment grade greater rating and we want to maintain cash and committed bank facility cover of at least $1 billion, and we had $2.4 billion of cash and undrawn bank lines at June 30, 2015.

There's no dividend declared in relation to the 2015 financial year as our priority for now remains a stronger balance sheet and achieving these financial policy parameters. I also want to reiterate that the Board has no present intention to raise equity.

The next slide shows our debt maturity profile. And the key points I want to make in this slide out that in the next to three financial years, we only have $100 million of debt scheduled to be repaid and over 60% of the debt is in the form of long-dated corporate bonds.

As you can see, the company's bank debt facilities have good tenure and there's considerable headroom in existing bank debt facilities with a drawn level of debt being much less than the facility size. So, well though our absolute debt level is still elevated relative to where we wanted to be, the structure of that debt is appropriate and the maturity profile is accommodated for both the cash flow generation and the investment profile of the company.

This next slide seeks to make two simple points: the financial covenants in our debt facilities, which are listed here, were comfortably satisfied at June 30, 2015; and Newcrest debt is competitively priced. It's also worth pointing out that the private placement and corporate bonds debt is at fixed rates, and absent Newcrest being taken over by another company with a lower credit rating than Newcrest, a change in Newcrest's credit rating does not of itself alter the cost or availability of any of Newcrest debt.

This slide shows the movement in our gearing ratio and how it is impacted by the weakening of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar. The key points I want to make are that all of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars and that our gearing ratio was reduced by 4.5% year-on-year. Net debt when translation into Australian dollars was reduced by AUD 174 million. On the total equity side of the gearing calculation, the translation of our U.S. dollar denominated assets into Australian dollars had AUD 1.7 billion positive impact from shareholders' equity and a net positive impact on total equity of AUD 806 million after taking into account the FX impact on the debt translation. So you can see that the gearing ratio is impacted not only by the debt number, but also by total equity, and for Newcrest shareholders, the weaker Australian dollar had a greater positive impact on equity than it had on the translation of debt.

As Newcrest sells all of its product by reference to U.S. dollars pays a lot of its cost in capital in U.S. dollars and has all its debt in U.S. dollars, Newcrest is moving to U.S. dollar reporting in FY 2016. Finally, let me step you through the significant items in this year's results. After-tax and non-controlling interests, there was a net benefit of AUD 31 million. This comprised an asset impairment reversal of AUD 376 million at Telfer, primarily reflecting a reduction in the short- and long-term Australian dollar, U.S. dollar exchange rate assumptions as applied by the company and the updated cost production development timing assumptions flowing from the Telfer Future Options Review. We impaired our Hidden Valley asset by AUD 245 million due to a decrease in short- and long-term U.S. dollar gold price assumptions, increased operating cost assumptions and reduced value ascribed to exploration prospectivity.

West Africa's current value is also impacted by the change in U.S. dollar gold prices and the reduced value ascribed to exploration prospectivity with its assets impaired by AUD 76 million. There was a AUD 43 million write-down on the value of inventory at Hidden Valley and Bonikro, primarily reflecting the lower long-term U.S. dollar gold price assumption. Lihir asset base were impacted by the lower near- and long-term gold price assumptions, but this was offset by the favorable impact of lower Australian dollar and Papua New Guinea kina exchange rate assumptions. Included in the $31 million of significant items was a gain of AUD 19 million recognized from the partial sell-down of shares in Evolution during the year.

I'll now hand back to Sandeep, who will take you through the remainder of the presentation.

Thanks, Gerard. Let me share some of the progress we're making on our studies, starting with the Lihir pit optimization pre-feasibility study. It's important to note that this study is ongoing. We expect it to be completed by the end of this calendar year, but this update will help you understand some of the options we are considering. The study seeks to do a number of things. Firstly, to optimize the sequence of the mine plan and secondly to identify the optimal seepage barrier option to best balance cash flow, capital efficiency, and risk mitigation.

This illustration shows an aerial view of the Lihir ore bodies. The main change proposed in the study of mine plan is to move from vertically accessing the Kapit ore body to laterally developing the Lienetz open pit towards Kapit. We've been able to consider this change to the mine plan because of the change in operating strategy at Lihir that we announced in February. This important change in operating strategy largely removes sulphur as a constraint in processing the ore. With this knowledge, we went back to the mine plan. We're able to reclassify ore as plant feed, which otherwise would have been stockpiled due to its sulphur content. This has made the lateral extension more economical.

The advantages of a lateral development, progressive cooling, and depressurization of the ore body ahead of mining and it defers the date that a seepage barrier is required. We've also challenged the thinking on how to construct a cofferdam and have identified two other seepage barrier options for consideration. The ability to utilize waste material in the construction of all three seepage barrier options would help reduce re-handling costs.

This diagram shows one potential scenario for extending into Kapit from the Lienetz open pit. Under this scenario, a cofferdam would be built and mining would extend laterally from the existing pits in the south to Kapit in the north, processing all medium- and high-grade material along the way, irrespective of sulphur content. A cofferdam would potentially not be required until beyond 2030.

The table shows the potential material movements and plant feed for the first five years under this scenario.

If we continued with a feed ratio of around one-third direct mine feed to two-thirds stockpile. The first five years of the mine plan is common to all seepage barrier options. As you'd appreciate, numbers beyond that time become dependent on which option is chosen.

An extensive amount of work has been done investigating seepage barrier options. The estimated cost to construct a cofferdam has been substantially reduced to around USD 625 million. In the previous PFS, we'd planned to decommission then recommission our geothermal wells and infrastructure. Now the construction of the cofferdam has been pushed to a date where there is no need to rebuild this infrastructure.

There were also plans for an additional construction camp, which is also no longer required. A significantly cheaper near shore cut-off wall estimated at USD 75 million is also under consideration. Work continues on the pit design for this option. The first stage in building a near shore cut-off wall would be to fill the inner harbor with clay waste material from the open pit. We would then build low grade stockpile on top of the clay infill, which would help compact the material. Building a seepage barrier on land as opposed to constructing a cofferdam in the sea is significantly cheaper as the engineering is simpler, and there's no need for expensive dredging.

The third option is essentially the same as the second except the possibility that the near shore cut-off wall will be shorter. Work is currently underway to determine if the compacted clay material is able to act as a seepage barrier in its own right. Conceptually, this third option could be the cheapest. Out beyond 2030, another seepage barrier in the form of either a cofferdam or shallower cut-off wall would be required to access the southern resources. As you'd appreciate, this is not an area of current focus.

This next slide includes animation, which illustrates how a lateral extension of the pit would progress if a near shore cut-off wall was selected. As the pit develops, clay waste material would be used to fill the inner harbor. Stockpiles would be relocated to above the filled inner harbor to help compress the clay waste material. Pre-strip of the lateral [ph] advance (28:13) would keep ahead of mining activity, which would actively depressurize and cool the ore body. Once the inner harbor has been compacted, the stockpile material would be available to be drawn upon as plant feed. A new road and associated services such as power and water would be required and a near shore cut-off wall would be constructed.

So, you can see, we have a number of options we're looking at and we expect to complete the PFS by the end of December this year.

Turning now to Cadia and the seismic event that suspended operations at Panel Cave 2 in February. A seismic event is the movement of rock underground, an expected and regular occurrence with block caves. This event caused a rock burst through the roof of a drive, which you can clearly see in the picture on the bottom left. No one was injured in the event. The team at Cadia rehabilitated the damaged area and investigated the underlying causes. A major learning from the investigation was an appreciation of the different rock response under pressure now between the geology of PC2 from that of PC1. Due to the PC2 rock presenting as more brittle and therefore less ductule under stress, the decision was taken to continue the development of PC2, using the advanced undercutting method as opposed to the post undercutting method used to develop PC1.

Let me explain the difference between the two methods. Under the post undercutting approach, the drawbells between the undercut level and the extraction level are created ahead of the undercut level development. During the development phase, this results in stress being transferred to the extraction level. It's a faster development method as larger undercut [ph] burrowing (30:06) of the cave can occur and the material from the blast falls directly into the drawbells.

Under the advanced undercut method, the undercut level development of the cave occurs before the drawbells are created. This results in the stress from the cave being spread over a larger area of the extraction level. However, because the drawbells have yet to be fired, the undercut level work is restricted as the blasted rock needs to be hold out. The switch from post undercut to advanced undercut required the filling in of drill holes already developed for the firing of the PC2 extraction level. Then new drill holes had to be created for the smaller blast pattern required for advanced undercut. That work has progressed well and we're pleased to say that PC2 has returned to production as of last week.

Now to the ongoing Telfer Future Options review. As I mentioned earlier, we've made the decision to retain Telfer, an asset which has been in the Newcrest portfolio for over 35 years. This decision represents the best value for our shareholders. We have achieved good returns from Telfer in the past 12 months and continue to focus on all options to lower cost and improve productivity. The illustration on the left of the next slide shows the cutbacks, which we have approved in West Dome Stage 2 and in Main Dome Stage 6 and 7. This is expected to cost around AUD 46 million and will extend the open pit life through to December 2017.

Future cutbacks will be progressive, so they'll largely be undertaken in the normal course of mining, which is a change from the big pre-script that we did for the last Main Dome cutback. That is, we believe the value of Telfer can be best realized through a series of smaller cutbacks, which reduces the capital at risk at any one time, and keeps the asset free cash flow positive. The illustration on the right shows the CapEx available to us in the future.

A brief update on Golpu. In December, we announced the progression of stage one of the Golpu project to feasibility stage. This is a world class project with first ore targeted for 2020 and the feasibility study is expected to be completed by the end of December this year. The permit for advanced exploration and feasibility support has been granted, and we're in the process of finalizing a suitable framework with the PNG government and in discussions with local land holders for progressing with the development.

Taking a look at exploration now, we maintain a small but highly capable exploration team, and they continue to look in the most highly prospective regions. Our FY 2016 priorities are shown here but the team is actively looking to bring more potential targets and the early entry opportunities towards consideration. Over the last year, the team has restocked their exploration portfolio with several exciting opportunities that leverage our existing operational footprints and technical strengths. For example, we hope to leverage our experience from Gosowong in our search for epithermal vein style mineralization at the Southern Coromandel project in New Zealand. In summary, we're pleased with our financial results and operating progress – operational progress over the year. Our all-in sustaining cost of USD 789 per ounce is a reflection of the hard work we've doing and the positive impact Edge is having on the group. I'm particularly pleased that we've been able to reduce U.S. dollar denominated debt by USD 819 million. We have a plan for the future at our key assets and we have a world class growth option feasibility and an active exploration program.

Moving forward, our key focus areas continue to be safety, operational discipline, cash generation and profitable growth, all underpinned by a culture of accountability and personal ownership.

With that, I'll now hand back to the operator, who'll open up the line for your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question is from the line of Craig Sainsbury from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, Sandeep. Just a great job on getting the debt down, I think it's made as a key takeaway from the results in 2006 and the period where you probably are going to be well within your guidance range in terms of where you want your balance sheet to be. So could you talk us just through how you see your and the board's views of where you will be allocating that surplus cash going forward in a period where there is potential to keep paying debt down, have a really low, strong balance sheet, is it going to be returned back to shareholders and where does the potential for project development and M&A fit into your thinking?

Well, thanks for the question, Craig. Look – and thanks for the recognition of getting our debt in a better position. Look, our priority remains. As you hinted at, at reducing our debt as we go forward. I mean, the board will look at that as it determines what to do in relation to recommencing a dividend at the right time. As I've said before, the development pathway on Golpu is a pretty slow burn over the next few years based on achieving approval to progress. And our focus on growth is pretty much on early phase entry and using our skills as a explorer, developer and builder of projects in order to grow.

That said, if there is bargain basement prices out there for something that we would like, we'll have a look at it but acquisition is not our preferred mode of growth.

Thanks.

Your next question is from the line of Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much and good morning, everyone. I would like to focus on the cost going into fiscal 2016 period if I may. Looks like the absolute cost are going to be rising, particularly at Telfer, Gosowong and curious about if you have any specific drivers there. And then overall, if we just, would have taken the midpoint of the production guidance range in the all-in sustaining cost basis on the dollar millions basis that suggest that the unit cost are rising on a year-on-year basis fiscal 2015 to 2016 and just making sure that that's a reasonable interpretation of what to expect at this point?

Look, I think as you look at FY 2016, there is more development work that's occurring across the group. There's the underground development at Telfer in addition to a tailings dam lift. There's some development at Bonikro, increase in development underpinning its performance over the next – over the coming years. And you've also got a high level of stripping activity at Lihir.

But the other balance to this is to look at it in U.S. dollar terms. The exchange rate, both the kina and the Aussie dollar has gone the right way for us and if you convert everything back to U.S. dollar all-in sustaining cost, I think you'll find that we're pretty competitive. And the reason I always emphasize U.S. dollars is that's the currency of our revenue. It's the currency of our debt and it's a U.S. dollar margin that makes the difference and the last one is on all-in sustaining cost, you will note that we have reduced our copper price for the next year to USD 2.40 or thereabout, which also has an impact on all-in sustaining cost.

Okay. Thanks very much. I will look forward from here.

Your next question is from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yes, thanks. I'd like to start from a – with a question on Lihir and specifically chart 32, where you talk about the first five years, years to five of Lihir and the plan feed 60 million tonnes to 70 million tonnes, so implicit in that, the upper-end is a 14 million tonne throughput rate, is that what's being targeted during that period?

Look, I think, Michael, if you look at that, so, yes. On the [indiscernible] (38:49) numbers, I mean your mathematics is correct. So I think what I'm flagging is we're comfortable that we'll get to our 12 million tonne per annum target. The results that we see in terms of particularly the peak rate through the milling circuits give me confidence to target 13 million tonnes per annum next as we work on our availability and reliability. But the 60 million tonnes to 70 million tonnes is a range and it's – that's how it should be viewed. But look, the bottom line is grinding rate is getting better at Lihir and we have to build on that going forward.

And so that range, the upperend of that range, is capital required to get there? Is that just de-bottlenecking to get that throughput from existing grinding capacity?

Look, you'll see in the guidance for next year, we flagged about AUD 20 million odd for just the minor works around the milling circuit around the autoclaves to help get our milling rates up towards that 13 million tonnes that are flagged as a target and the rest is under a study that we'll have a look at, see where we take it from there.

Okay. Thank you. And at Lihir, specifically the sustaining capital, a big increase in capital in 2016 versus 2015 and that major project capital. Can you sort of talk through what the drivers of those changes?

Okay. Thank you. And at least, specifically the sustaining capital a big increase in capital in 2016 versus 2015 and that major project capital, can you just talk through what the drivers are of those changes?

Well, the key drivers are the production pre-strip as we push forward from Minifie and then up into Lienetz and the other is pioneering work, which is occurring up the back of Lienetz to prepare for the sort of lateral advance in the coming years.

Okay. And then, one last question if I may. The gearing target, historically 10% was talked about and that increased to 15% and now sub-25%, what gives the confidence to say the sub-25% is the right number versus the 15% and the 10% historically?

Look, I think putting a range of effectively 0% to 25%, if you look at the numbers, is just more realistic in my view about the ebb and flow of investment cycles as we built in, as we harvest cash and what have you, I think that's better than the single point number like a 15% target, I think a range provides a more realistic situation. But you got to see that along with the other target, which is the net debt to EBITDA of less than two times. I think these two in combination gives the more holistic approach to debt than single point numbers. You want to expand on that, Gerard?

Michael, just if you go back in time to – that original lower gearing target was done at a time when the company had a large amount of capital expenditure ahead of it and it was also a period of higher gold prices. So at the time, I understand the idea was, as you said yourself, low level of gearing such that you were able to complete that major capital spend and withstand a prior shock, both of those events have happened now, so that's why we're comfortable with a higher level or higher ceiling level of gearing.

That makes sense. Thank you. And look, one very final one, if I may just sneak it in, with the change of development strategy of Cadia [ph] East (42:24) Panel Cave 2, is the ramp-up profile still in line with what was guided – I can't think when it was last guided – but is there any change to that?

Well, it is going to be a little slower because of the – just the change in going from post to advanced undercut. One thing we have done, though, we've made good progress on the production drilling, which is the critical path, which has taken us out of the stress abutment zone. But you see that we've also guided – given our outlook I should say, for FY 2017, which is up from the previous outlook of 700,000 ounces to 750,000 ounces. But in short, the answer is a little bit slower than the previous curve.

Great. Thanks, Sandeep.

Your next question is from the line of Mark Busuttil from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Just a couple of things on Lihir, previously, you've provided a timeframe for that grinding target of 12 million tonnes by the end of the calendar year, is it fair to assume that that 13 million tonnes that you're now providing is [ph] color (43:37) at the end of 2016?

Well, no. I wouldn't say that. But if you think back and look through what I've said in the past, I said a 12 million tonne target. I then said a date for that target. And I will probably do something similar with this. It's just a flag that we have our eyes on 13 million tonnes, not yet fully definitive on when we think we can get there, but when I feel confident that I can put a time out there, I will do so.

Okay. And then sort of broader than that, look, I understand you're still working on the pit optimization work and that won't be complete until the end of the year, but you provided production guidance, which is 10% to 20% higher than what you did in fiscal 2015 at sort of higher sustaining capital and a few other bits and pieces. So just in order to reconcile those sort of metrics, can you give us an indication of what you're looking for to achieve those numbers in terms of mill rates, process grades, proportion of direct mill feed versus stockpiles or those sort of things?

Mark, Gerard here. I think your answer is in that question. There are a lot of variables there that we haven't – the one you didn't – we don't go into that level of specificity in our guidance. There is one other variable as it relates to Lihir that people might want to keep into mind is the exchange rate. Again, Sandeep alluded to it before, but we enter this year at a much lower Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar than we did last year and that has an inflationary impact on our Australian dollar-quoted sustaining capital and the sustaining expenditure for the year ahead.

Okay, well, can I may be then simplify the question as to say how do you expect to get 10% to 20% higher production out of Lihir?

A combination of mill throughput and a higher grade.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. Just [ph] sort of (45:44) come back in and follow up on the question about Telfer. It was pretty clear in the commentary that retaining Telfer and doing the cutback offers more value, but would like to get clarification also if it meets internal hurdle rates and perhaps get a sense of what those hurdle rates were that were determined to proceed with the cutbacks?

Look, the hurdle rates typically that I look for on these sort of things are in the 15% to 20% range. And these progressive cutbacks comfortably exceed that by quite some margins.

Right. Thanks for that.

And your next question is from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Okay. Thanks. Sorry to return. Oil price hedging, last year you're fully hedged, what was the – did you announce what strategy you're going to take for this year?

Michael, Gerard here. We did. We said we would hedge around 50% of our exposures in the year ahead. And you'll see on slide 49 we have listed the quantum and the amount and price at which we've done those hedges, so around 50%. And in broad terms, as you'll appreciate from where we entered our hedges last year, the oil price is significantly lower.

Okay. Thank you. And then Cadia all-in sustaining cost guidance, that number seems reasonably higher than what you did in 2016, yet you're dropping off the high-cost Ridgeway production, can you give us the bridge to that higher number?

Yeah. I think that you'll find, Michael, one of the key drivers there is copper. I think the copper price last year in average terms was about AUD 2.90 a pound. And this year, we've based our guidance on AUD 2.40 a pound.

Okay. Good. Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Cathy Moises from Evans and Partners. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I guess the first question is if you're converting to U.S. dollar reporting in 2016. Why didn't you give us all the guidance in 2016? Because I guess we're going to have to do it all again in a little while. Whilst we're still on the finance side, just wondering if you can give us a feel for what sort of tax rate we should be expecting in 2016? And I know there shouldn't be a lot of tax payable, but I guess some of the non-Australian stuff will be payable.

And then the final question is Bonikro, [ph] I know it's been bit pointed earlier (48:08), all-in sustaining cost around [ph] $1,650 (48:12), presumed there's a major cutback there and we'll get back into profitability the following year?

Cathy, I'll take a couple of those, as it relates to U.S. dollar reporting. There is actually a bit of work involved in doing that. And we want to do it right. It's not a simple Excel spreadsheet that we need to modify. So we're going to do it right and flow through those estimates into a lot of internal and external reporting over the course of this year. So when we've done that, we'll update the market accordingly. To your question on tax rate, 30% effective tax rate is the most appropriate assumption used going forward.

Yeah, on Bonikro, look, you're right in that the investment this year does set up the site for the coming years, but we're just not going to rest on that. There is a strong focus on taking cost out of Bonikro and productivities. And we had to improve its performance better than we currently expect, but that's subject to the Edge program delivering what we hope it will.

Just one final question. So with the Telfer AUD 46 million spend out of 24 months, I presume its skewed towards the 2016 year, can you give us a split?

Yeah.

The bulk of it is probably...

Perhaps AUD 21 million I think this year.

AUD 21 million this year, is it, Gerard?

Something like that, yeah. Maybe this year and then half next year.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Paul Hissey from RBC. Your line is open please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Gerard, a question for you, you mentioned in the back of the report that Lihir asset impairment testing, no revisions required there, although you did cap the gold price assumption by $50 an ounce, which using your sensitivity should have cost you about AUD 600 million I think in current value. And then, it also used a lower currency, which probably adds about a hundred of that back in, can you just sort of reconcile what else you have assumed which has enabled you to carry that value effectively unchanged, except for the CapEx spent through the year?

Yeah. Thanks, Paul. I think you're underestimating the positive impact of the change in exchange rate. So if you see there that the 5% if I go to page 51 in the IFR, you see a $0.05 change in exchange rates adds positively AUD 115 million, which I think you've picked up, but what you also need to pick up is the kina exchange rate assumption in that altered by $0.20, which is two times the AUD 215 million that you see there. So if you aggregate that pretty much all of the gold price effect was offset by the currency effect by the kina and dollar and recognize also that the Lihir asset relative to a year ago also depreciated in line with the noble processes as well.

Okay. So no change in your assumptions around productivity or operating improvements?

No change for the present, the current value it is. No.

Yeah. Yeah, okay. Another question from me, just you underspent compared to your guidance on some of the CapEx items of fiscal 2015, just wondering for the year ahead how you've set guidance for this year and whether there are – or firstly why did you underspend last year? Was it planned or you know you were able to cut cost along the way? I mean, I know that things change as you move through the year. I'm just wondering if you had any comments on what that means for fiscal 2016 guidance you've just given?

Look, let me start there, and then Gerard can pick up. Along that CapEx underspend, look, there is a currency relation there as well, but it's really that the whole point of it is to focus on your maximizing the value from your dollar. So we use that same technique across capital projects. A number of them dropped out because in the end, it was shown that capital wasn't actually the solution. And there's no question that ourselves in the past and the industry was very CapEx solution motivated where the real underlying issues were probably not related to CapEx. So that, together with the exchange rate and just genuine underspend, I think is the best way to look at that. There's not a real one item, although I think at Cadia there was a bit of an underspend on development.

Yeah. Great. So Cadia did underspend really to what it had originally guided. And in part, that was due to something that affected all of our underspending across the company that the markets are very much in our favor. We're procuring smarter, harder, and things are working in our favor as the resources sector in Australia and that region is more favorable to us from a contracting side.

Okay. Guys, two quick questions from me, just for the sake of following on from Cathy's question I mean, what kind of currency assumptions have you assumed in setting that guidance? Gerard, I know you said that's more complicated than that, but is that a number around spot or a number around your longer term averages?

So the guidance that you see is on a $0.74, Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate and a copper price assumption of $2.14 per pound.

Okay, great. And last question just, Sandeep, in terms of the growth pipeline, you've obviously added a few things organically, which I would consider to be very, very early stage. Do you think there is still something missing between perhaps some of those greenfield sort of JV you've started out in Golpu? It feels to me that there is still probably a gap in there. And it will be good to add some additional growth if and when you can find something that's value accretive that fits in between now and sort of 2020 and beyond perhaps. Do you have any sort of comments there, what do you think about that statement?

No, look, I think it's a fair reflection that's something that we're looking at in addition to more early phase stuff. But in the end, it comes down to the opportunities that come before us. So I mean, a great amount of discipline has to go into this phase. But your comment is a fair one. And that's something one of the areas that we're looking at in addition to broader growth opportunities.

All right thanks. [Operator Instructions]

. Your next question is from the line of Andrew Knuckey from Commonwealth Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning everyone. Just a couple of questions, firstly on Golpu. You mentioned that you're still in negotiations around the framework with the PNG Government. Does that propose a risk to the feasibility study timing at the end of the year?

Secondly, with regards to Gosowong, you mentioned that reserve is largely being replaced – sorry, mine volumes this year has largely been replaced with additional reserve, but can you give us a sense of just what's happening with the resource? Is the resource also growing there or are we seeing overall depletion of the resource relative to the reserve?

And then finally, on Cadia the CapEx for FY 2016, does that include anything, any early works for your potential expansion to 32 million tonnes there?

So there are three questions there. The first one I think was on Golpu. Yeah, look, agreement's not agreed until it's there, but I mean what I can say is we are very well advanced on the framework of going with the PNG Government, and we have that in short order. But to answer your specific question, it is in line with our feasibility timing, which is to deliver the feasibility study by the end of this calendar year.

Andrew, as to relate to Gosowong, in both terms, I think results in reserve end much the same. We are – it's a short life asset, and there is not that much difference between the two.

The Gosowong is just one of those ore bodies. I mean this is its history, Andrew, as you'll know that for some years now, we found as much gold along the way as we have mined. And this isn't something you can count on forever, but that seems to be the trend certainly until the end of the 2014 year.

Yeah, I guess my question was driven from I think historically, it's fair to say that there is a lot more resource out in front of the reserve. And therefore, if you like potential for resource to reserve conversion, over the last few years, we have seen once the reserve has been replenished, we have seen the resource actually perhaps not be replenished or even shrink relative to the side of the reserve. And that's therefore perhaps less potential for ongoing conversion.

Well, I think that's one of the reasons you see that we've stepped up significantly our exploration efforts in around Gosowong and also further through our contracted work area. We consider the ground there as still highly perspective. And we've got a bunch of new targets that we've identified through aeromagnetic survey, which we are in the process of assessing firstly through geochemical and then depending on those results, ultimately drilling.

Sure. Okay. And sorry my final question was with Cadia whether it's got any early work for your 32 million tonne proposed expansion, or if not, what sort of timing might we expect with that?

Yeah, all the spend you would see there, primarily relates to lifting the productive capacity of the site to 27 million tonnes, the balance to get it to a 32 million tonnes remains in study, Andrew.

Okay, thank you.

Your next question is from the line of Brett McKay from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning guys. Just wanted to get a bit more clarity on the timeline for Kapit. And I hear that more data will be forthcoming with proceeds, but would you be expecting to move into a full feasibility study on that? And if so, how long would that likely take? And how long have you got sort of doing what you are currently doing on the site there before you actually need to make a decision one way or the other which option that you would need to be pursing?

Yeah, look, thanks for the question. Look, I think the takeaway from the slides and the update is that for the next five years, irrespective of what options we choose on the seepage barrier, the mine plan is pretty much the same. So I would say five years, but by the end of the PFS. And which option we choose, we will then decide the timing of when we enter a full feas or not. But there is plenty of time to get this right and the key takeaway that I want to leave you with is this is substantially different, brought about the metallurgical, mineralogical test work and application of the new operating strategy. That's unleashed this option for us. And we want to take some time to do it properly, understand all the implications, capture all the benefits. And there really is no rush to do so.

Yeah. Okay.

There are no further questions at this time, Mr. Biswas. Please continue.

Well, if there are no more questions, I think thank you very much for all your questions and the time. We've gone on a bit longer than we normally did, but I think it was important given the contents of the pack. So, thank you very much everyone.

And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.