corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Ian Smith, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer


Well, welcome everyone to our Full Year Results for Newcrest. I think everyone would agree that it


was a fairly solid result for the end of the financial year. I’ll be going through the introduction. Greg


will go through the financials and the sensitivities, plus site guidance. Then I’ll be going back over


resources and reserves, exploration and some Group guidance and a bit of a note in an update on


the timetable for the Lihir transaction.


So the summary and introduction of financials, our underlying profit is up 58% to $764 million. Our


statutory profit increased 124% to 557 million. Our cash flow from operations is up 27% to 1.3


billion. We have a strong balance sheet so we have negative gearing and also, we’ve increased the


final dividend to $0.20 so a $0.25 dividend for the full year.


Now in line with the guidance we gave last year, we’re well on track to achieve the 2.3 million


ounces in 2014. As you’d appreciate that is pre-anything to do with Lihir, so I’m just telling you that


we’re still on track to that original guidance point.


But over the next few months, we’ll be giving you an update on the basis of the full integration if and


when it does come to pass. And cash costs to remain well within that first quartile, going forward,


over the next five years.


Reserves and resources, the gold reserves increased to 47.3 million ounces, which was an


increase of 11%. Our copper reserves had an appreciable uplift to 7.88 million tonne, so up 69%.


Resources increased to 83.6 million ounces and 17.25 million tonnes of copper. So, appreciable


uplifts, and when I go through the particulars of that I think it’s an affirmation of what we’ve been


doing strategically in exploration, and that’s diversification through developing a whole cohort of


assets going forward.


On the growth pipeline, Ridgeway Deeps and Hidden Valley are both commissioned. Gosowong


expansion is near completion so that will be finished in the next month or so. Cadia East has


commenced and on track and schedule. Gosowong’s second mining front is progressing well, and


I’ll come back to that later when I’m talking to reserves and resource.


And Wafi-Golpu and O’Callaghans studies are well under way. In fact, with O’Callaghans, we’re


already out there talking to potential partners. So, we’re progressing our future growth pipeline, as


well as affirming our results.


I’d now like to hand over to Greg Robinson, our Finance Director, who’ll be taking you through the


financials.


Greg Robinson, Finance Director


Thanks, Ian, good morning, everyone. In the financials, obviously, Ian’s gone through the


highlights, very solid result, and with sales revenue increasing by about 11% during the year. EBIT,


EBITDA margins very strong, nice increases there, 51% on EBITDA. EBITDA – EBIT margins are


40%. The result of net profit up 58% to $764 million. The statutory profit up 124% and the cash flow


is up 127% – sorry, that would be very nice, but 27% to $1.3 billion.


Looking at the revenue line, our gold production during the year was 8% higher. Our copper


production was about 3% lower. Looking at that, our gold, if you look at our revenue line, gold


makes up about 75% of our revenue, pretty similar to last year.
corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Gold sales increased 7%. Copper sales were down 7%. And if we look at prices, the copper price


more than compensated for the lower gold sales. So, average gold price for the year was up 7%


and the average copper price was up 18% to $3.40.


Gold and copper revenue therefore, increased about 10% each and obviously, the strong copper


price is compensating for that lower copper production and sales. The average exchange rate for


the year, we had $0.88 this year, $0.75 the year before, so obviously much stronger currency, but


stronger commodity prices with it.


Looking at total cost of sales, they reduced so we had a good reduction with increased productivity,


and that led to lower cost per ounce. In fact, our cost per ounce this year was $306 an ounce and


I’ll cover that a bit later.


So obviously, the big drivers for us in lower cost per ounce were productivity and then cost


containment, and that’s what I’ll talk about in these next few slides. So, total cost of sales was down


4.2% and that was driven by a series of cost containment measures and also, the strong A dollar


helped us.


So, looking at mine production costs, very good containment here. We included within this cost,


remember, two months of Hidden Valley, and we came out with a number that was $1 million less


than last year. So, with all those productivity increases, we managed to keep mine production costs


static to last year, including a couple of months of Hidden Valley.


The big activities that benefited the Group, there was lots of good cost initiatives within the Group,


but Gosowong we turned into an owner-miner underground, which was very beneficial, including


looking after our maintenance. But Telfer maintenance scheduling really reduced costs and head


count containment there really improved things.


We had much lower fuel costs, and you’ll see that in the breakdown there, but cost per liter of fuel


declined from about $0.98 a liter, $0.78, so that was very good. A lot of that also driven obviously


by the stronger A dollar. And we saw all of that activity going into other consumables, all the


reagents, et cetera, all with the strong Australian dollar and still quite a low cost profile in those


areas.


Steady employee costs, marginal increase there. Some of that was due to increasing our own head


count on our sites for the owner-mining, et cetera, but again, good containment on the employee


cost side of things. There’s a couple of costs that increased, utilities, power, liners, and grinding


material.


The liners and grinding material came off a very low cost contract and has gone more to market


rates, and that’s what you’re seeing there. And the second was Cadia came off its long-term power


contract and we had a couple of months of the new Cadia price for power, so they’re the reasons


those power increases sort of flowed through. And as I mentioned, the A dollar, the strength of the


A dollar, was good for the Group on the cost side.


Looking at royalties and realization costs, again, a good performance here. We had a lower TC/RC


market for the year, and we had lower shipping costs, and that again, was a mixture of A dollar and


just being able to negotiate lower shipping costs in the market, about 20% down here for the year.


The royalties were higher, as you would expect, with higher prices and higher revenues. The


royalty prices came up about the same amount. So, that was a good strong performance again


from our folk in the marketing division.