Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — Chief Financial Officer & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Hayden Bairstow — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Sophie Spartalis — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Paul Hissey — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Peter O'Connor — Analyst, Shaw and Partners Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to Newcrest Mining's FY 2017 Full Year Results Conference Call. I advise this conference call is being recorded today, Monday, August 14, 2017. This is Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. [Operator Instructions]

First, please note of the company's disclaimers on the first slide of our presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, the competent person's statement, the use of non-IFRS financial information in the presentation, and reliance on third-party information. As you may already be aware, Newcrest is a U.S. dollar reporting entity, and all dollar references made in this presentation refer to U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'll provide a short summary of the FY 2017 results, which we released this morning. I'll then talk about Newcrest's performance over the last three years and the exciting opportunities that remain in our portfolio. Our focus has been and remains on safety, operational discipline, maximizing our cash generation, and pursuing profitable growth.

Financial year 2017 was marked by a significant improvement in our safety performance. There were no fatalities and we decreased our total recordable injury frequency rate. We achieved group production guidance driven by record annual gold production at Lihir, and we also maintained cost discipline, ending the year with an all-in sustaining cost of $787 per ounce. This resulted in free cash flow generation of $739 million, with all operations being cash flow-positive. This free cash flow was used to repay debt and pay dividends to our shareholders.

Finally, in FY 2017, we continue to progress our growth options, including exploring the best way to safely increase production from Cadia, understanding the potential of Lihir, and entering some additional, exciting early-stage entry arrangements.

Quickly turning to the highlights for each asset. At Lihir, we continue to deliver on our commitments as the site achieved its 13 million tonnes per annum mill throughput rate target by December 2016. This, combined with an increase in recoveries, resulted in Lihir achieving record gold production for the year despite trading lower-grade ore.

At Cadia, the site was impacted by a seismic event in the June quarter, which I'll touch on shortly. In FY 2017, Cadia achieved a number of milestones. It generated $502 million in free cash flow before tax. The PC2 footprint was established with the undercut level being completed and all drawbells fired. And during the December quarter, mill throughout exceeded the nameplate capacity of the plant with an achieved run rate of 26.4 million tonnes per annum.

Telfer had a challenging year with the March 2017 quarter being significantly impacted by record rainfall. This impeded access to ore sources, resulting in a greater reliance on stockpiles, which negatively impacted the production. Despite this, Telfer contributed $70 million in free cash flow before tax for FY 2017.

At Gosowong, gold production guidance was exceeded, principally due to a high level of ore being mined and milled. Higher-than-expected ore production underpinned Gosowong's generation of $142 million in free cash flow before tax in FY 2017. Exploration continues both near mine and in the broader Contract of Work area. Bonikro contributed $38 million free cash flow to the group in the current period as it continued to mine the Hiré pits. We've also announced the strategic review for the asset, which is expected to be concluded in the coming months.

In April 2017, Cadia was impacted by a seismic event. No physical injuries were sustained and all personnel working underground were evacuated safely. While the above ground infrastructure was not impacted, all production was suspended on both panel caves at the Cadia East mine while we conducted remediation and upgrade work on the ground support. While this remediation took place, low-grade stockpiles and material from Ridgeway sub-level cave were utilized, enabling the site to remain cash flow-positive for the last quarter. Production from PC2 has recommenced and production from PC1 is expected to recommence in the first quarter of FY 2018. PC1 and PC2 production rates were expected to have fully recovered by the third quarter of FY 2018.

Through Our Edge process, we've identified the potential to increase the processed capacity of the existing Cadia plant to run at a rate of 30 million tonnes per annum, which we're aiming to achieve by the end of June 2018. We intend to implement this through improved operating practices and approximately $10 million in capital. More broadly, we're applying the learnings from the April seismic event to the Mining Prefeasibility Study, which will look at optimal location and design of future block caves and infrastructure. Given this gating of the plant Expansion PFS to Feasibility Study will be aligned to finalization of this Mining PFS study, which is due to be completed by the end of 2018 financial year.

We've today provided a new indicative mine plan for this 30-million-tonne per annum scenario. This is our indicative mine plan without any further substantial plant expansion expenditure. Once we complete the Mining PFS and gate the plant PFS, we'll provide an updated indicative mine plan when appropriate.

Since I joined Newcrest, we've been on a clear improvement journey, and I'm proud of the achievements we've had over that time. These improvements have been based on the application of Our Edge discipline. Safety, operational discipline, cash focus and profitable growth, underpinned by delivering on our commitments, have been the cornerstones of what drives our decision-making and actions.

I'll now take you through our progress on each of these elements over the last three to four years. Our Safety Transformation Plan has underpinned an improvement in our safety record. The plan has three pillars being NewSafe, Critical Control Management and Process Safety. This unrelenting focus on safety has resulted in our first fatality-free financial year since 2005, a TRIFR reduction of about 10% in FY 2017, and we've also made significant progress on instilling a culture where our people make safer choices in everything we do, every time we make a decision, every day, including stopping work when necessary.

This is encouraging, as everyone on this call knows, safety is not something that we can be complacent about, and we'll continue to be focused and vigilant and strive to improve our performance and make sure our people go home safely every day.

On operational discipline, Lihir's improvement and the manner in which it's been achieved is one of the things I'm most proud of. The turnaround at Lihir has seen the site team take mill throughput to approximately 10 million tonnes in FY 2013 to 13 million tonnes in FY 2017. This improvement in milling throughput has come from hard work and operational discipline with focus on improving maintenance and operating practices and applying ingenuity to increase the availability of the mill and increase the intensity or tonnes per hour put through the mill.

Importantly, this improvement was not CapEx-driven. The team achieved a record quarterly mill throughput rate of 14.5 million tonnes per annum in the June 2017 quarter and I remain confident we'll achieve a sustainable 14 million tonnes annualized rate by December 2017 as targeted. In due course, you can also expect that I'll be setting a timeframe for 15 million tonnes per annum target as I still see many improvement opportunities that remained. The key is to do it in a sustainable manner.

Newcrest focus has been and will remain on safety maximizing cash generation. Over each of the last seven halves, Newcrest has generated positive free cash flow totaling $2.8 billion. Importantly, this has not been at the expense of cutting back necessary sustaining capital investment. Capital investment opportunities at Newcrest are assessed by reference to the principal metrics of safety and environmental compliance or payback period and internal rate of return, with the goal of ensuring that capital invested in the business generates an attractive cash return in a relatively short period.

Over the last three years, we've also significantly reduced our all-in sustaining cost of around $1,300 per ounce in FY 2013 to around $900 per ounce in FY 2014 into less than $800 per ounce for each of the last three years.

Sandeep, if I could just make a point that this improvement moved Newcrest significantly down the cost curve even as others have also been approved in their cost, and this low-cost curve position is really important in a world where the gold price can fluctuate.

Exactly right, Gerard. This reduction in all-in sustaining cost has been driven by Lihir, significantly reducing its all-in sustaining cost through increased gold production and the ramp-up of the low operating cost, Cadia East block caves.

Newcrest has a range of stakeholders that it makes commitments to, and it's a key part of our age that we deliver on those commitments. These include commitments to local landholders, communities, governments, our workforce, and investors. The most important commitment we've made is to improve our safety record. We've also significantly improved our delivery on commitment to investors through achieving or exceeding group production guidance for the past four years.

Lihir mill throughput targets have consistently been met. We recommended paying dividends and today, we have announced a new dividend policy, which Gerard will discuss in more detail shortly. It's been the delivery on Our Edge, which has enabled Newcrest to reduce its all-in sustaining cost by 40% and reduce our net debt by $2.3 billion between FY 2013 to FY 2017, a journey which Gerard will take you through.

Thanks, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. The free cash flow generated over the last four years has principally been used to reduce net debt, first, by paying off our [ph] compressible (11:36) debt and then, particularly in the last financial year, by building cash.

As Sandeep said, this graph demonstrates how our net debt has been reduced over the last three years, down to $1.5 billion at 30 June, 2017, and that's after taking into account the almost $500 million of cash on hand at year-end. Our gearing has improved from almost 34% at its peak at the end of FY 2014, down to 16.6% at the end of FY 2017. And our leverage ratio is now sitting at 1.1 times, which is less than half where it was three years ago.

You'll notice that we have now repaid all of our outstanding U.S. private placement debt, and now only have corporate bonds outstanding, the first of which is not due for repayments until FY 2022. You can expect that we will build cash in the short term as we progress toward sustaining our target minimum level of cash on hand. I'm very pleased to say that Newcrest has a great balance sheet and liability structure.

We have a long-dated debt structure with minimal covenants. We have no goodwill on the balance sheet, and relative to our peers, we have a comparatively low level of future closure cost given a small number of assets in our portfolio and the long life of Cadia and Lihir. Our provision for mine rehabilitation was $272 million at 30 June 2017, and this compares favorably with the estimates of future closure rehab costs of some of our major peers. We've worked hard to get ourselves in this position, which is one that provides us a great platform for growth.

In August 2016, our improved balance sheet strength combined with our profitability, market conditions and capital requirements, gave the board the confidence to recommence paying dividends for the first time since 2013. Today, we have announced the final dividend for FY 2017 of $0.075 per share, taking the annual dividend of the year to $0.15 per share.

Our dividend policy continues to balance financial performance and capital commitments with a prudent leverage and gearing label for the company. We look to pay ordinary dividends that are sustainable over time, having regard to our financial policy, profitability, balance sheet strength, and reinvestment options in the business.

Going forward, the board will continue to have regard to those elements and will target a total annual dividend of at least 10% to 30% of free cash flow generated for that year, with the dividend being no less than $0.15 per share.

This policy is designed to give investors confidence that while Newcrest is striving to generate superior results through investing in growth optionality, it also remains focused on paying dividends generated from past investments to shareholders throughout the investment cycle.

Sandeep, back to you.

With the turnaround progressing and the balance sheet strengthened, we're in a position to start pivoting more towards growth. But I'd stress that our focus will remain on profitable growth. Our pipeline of possible growth opportunity covers a broad spectrum of options for profitable growth that range from improving our Tier 1 Cadia asset, transitioning Golpu from a project in study to a Tier 1 operating mine, taking existing assets such as Lihir and improving them through technology change or operational improvements, finding the next deposit through the drill bit, and we have a small M&A team also looking at new opportunities to add to the portfolio.

On exploration, we're targeting ore bodies that fit our skill set. That includes the shallow open pit provinces of West Africa, but we're also looking deeper for gold-copper porphyries in Central and South America and the Asia Pacific area, as well as epithermal ore bodies.

For the next Tier 1 discovery, we believe that our deep exploration capability is a significant competitive advantage compared to our gold major peers. This slide sets out six key features of our approach to exploration: our long-term exploration experience of identifying prospective ground, proprietary exploration models used for target selection, willingness to use new technology to assist target identification, application of big data and real-time analysis to avoid wastage, adherence to the process gives us confidence to drill early and to drill often, and finally, our people are creative thinkers and think outside the box.

Our exploration team is operationally disciplined and have a go about their work and have the potential to deliver great value to the company. We'll continue to focus on exploration, pursue attractive early-stage opportunities, actively explore partnerships to manage risk and access opportunities, and evaluate M&A opportunities. We'll consider growth options where they have the potential to add value to our shareholders, for example, through Newcrest supplying its technical capabilities such as block caving. When Newcrest identifies exploration potential, they could create a new province or an asset that complements and improves our existing portfolio. We'll evaluate and execute any opportunity with value as our primary objective and with the discipline you've seen us exhibit operationally.

I'd like to end on Newcrest six value drivers or what makes Newcrest different. We have a lot of gold, 65 million ounces of ore reserves. We're low cost at $787 per ounce all-in sustaining cost for FY 2017. We have delivered on production guidance for four years. We have organic growth options at Lihir, Cadia and Golpu. We have strong exploration and technical capabilities that give us opportunities for additional growth. And we're financially robust, having reduced our net debt to $1.5 billion, achieved a leverage ratio of 1.1 times, and a gearing ratio of 16.6% as of the 30th of June 2017. Combined, these elements make Newcrest a unique offering to the gold industry.

With that, Gerard and I will take questions.

All right. I think we'll start taking the first one from – which have already been submitted by [indiscernible] (18:05). Mike Slifirski asked a question. Was the magnitude of the seismic event proportionate to the amount of remediations required or was it dictated by the mining inspectorate?

Look, the mining inspectorate at Newcrest are completely aligned in our objective to keep our people safe. So, to that end, the remediation and upgrade works that have been undertaken have been completely determined by the facts as we saw them and the projections of what upgrade work we needed to have done and that's what we're doing now.

Okay. Another one from Michael. What is the greatest driver for the FY 2018 guidance production range? Is it PC1 remediation timeframe, the rate of production out of PC2 or [indiscernible] (18:56)?

Look, all those are considerations that have gone into the guidance. And some of them are very interrelated such as the PC2 draw as well as maintaining [ph] the inner cave shape (19:10). So I wouldn't put any particular emphasis on anyone of those three.

From [indiscernible] (19:16), can you give us an update on lifting of the Prohibition Notice for PC1's crusher chamber?

Yeah. So, we intend as we flagged to restart production from PC1 during this quarter, and part of that process will be the lifting of the Prohibition Notice within that timeframe.

Another one from Michael, what is your rate on PNG politics and its implication of the timeframe of Golpu? Has any progress been made?

Very good question. Well, the election, as you all know, is now over and we have a new government, which is different in its constitution. There's been a swapping out of parties going from opposition into government and government into opposition. Nevertheless, I think on all sides of politics in PNG, there's a real understanding that major projects such as the LNG train, the next LNG train, Wafi-Golpu and Frieda River are key for the PNG economy going forward.

And I think there's also an appreciation that if a company such as us, the physical and investment regime and the stability is very important going forward. So, now that the election's over, we are already engaging and we'll continue to engage, but I expect that engagement to increase now that the election is over.

And a final one from [indiscernible] (20:43). Telfer's FY 2017 average grade was less than the reserve grade. Was this in line with the model, operating model, or is the head grade underperforming versus the model?

Look, I think that's largely driven by the rainfall event that we saw earlier this year. This resulted in us having to treat a lot more of the low-grade stockpile, what we call [ph] ROM C (21:05) than we had anticipated in doing. And was the key driver behind the lower grade.

Okay. Thank you. I'll pass it back to the operator and see if there's any calls on the line.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question on the line comes from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please ask your question.

Yeah. Thanks very much. Just want to clarify the guidance with respect to Cadia that you expect Panel Cave 1 and Panel Cave 2 production rates to have fully recovered by Q3. So, does fully recovered mean better where they were before the event, or does that mean that they're at the rate where they could support a 30-million-tonne per annum feed rate? And in that context, given the fortuitousness of the stockpiles you had on surface, is there any thought towards perhaps over-mining compared to the expanded rate of the mill and building some sort of insurance stockpile?

Look, to answer the first of those, what we mean by back to normal in the third quarter is effectively back to where we were operating prior to the seismic event. And in terms of overproducing, I think the way we view the stockpiles is that it was very important to have them available, as it turns out, during the event. But I don't think we're going to be over-mining to create stockpiles on the surface. It'll be more about how do we match our mining as we progressively debottleneck the mill certainly to the initial target of 30 million tonnes per annum.

Okay. Thanks. And then, particularly, with respect to Ridgeway, the reliance on Ridgeway during that recent period, how did that perform compared to expectation?

Look, I'll tell you. Well, one of the great new stories was how quickly that we manage to get the halo back into production. When I went down there myself, the way we mothballed that facility, testament to when it was done several years ago, was we were able to restart it with relative ease. But I certainly expect that I think the halo will probably take most of that out this time around. We're continuing to draw at the moment from the halo. So, that's about where we're at.

Okay. Thanks, Sandeep.

Our next question today comes from the line of Hayden Bairstow from Macquarie. Please ask your question.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. Just a couple from me, Sandeep. Firstly, just on the Cadia guidance, just the longer-term stuff. Is that just the changing grade there? Is there any sort of alteration to the mine plan or is that just still just rolling forward to sort of the two or three-year windows in that guidance? And also at Telfer, have you sort of had a look at further extending that project yet in terms of underground larger-scale operations or we're still just on the base sort of seven, eight-year plan?

Yeah. So, to answer the first one, you're absolutely right. It's just the rolling nature of the three-year windows compared to the last time we put it up and also establishing the – underpinning it to 30 million tonnes per annum, post the end of this financial year. In relation to Telfer, we're still in the concept phase of the underground study on the block caves. So, we're continuing our drilling of the sort of the nominal design blocks and we'll continue with that and certainly report back on that when we're certainly in a position to say something about it. But right now, it's drilling in evaluation.

Great. Thanks.

Our next question today comes from the line of Sophie Spartalis from Merrill Lynch. Please ask your question.

Good morning, guys. Just coming through on the balance sheet. Obviously, it's in a very strong financial position. At the moment, you have gearing of sort of 16.6%, leverage ratio of just above 1 time. If you were to look at M&A – maybe this is a question for you, Gerry – how stretched or where do you think that the balance sheet – where do you think the board will be prepared to take their balance sheet if they were to consider M&A opportunities?

That's a very speculative question, Sophie. Look, I mean, I'll just point you to our financial policy framework. We target having an investment grade rating and we have target gearing ratio of less than 25% and a target leverage ratio of less than 2 times and then, finally, our liquidity. So, in the absence of anything specific to talk about, I think that would be the framework that we evaluated in the balance sheet in that scenario.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question today comes from the line of Paul Hissey from RBC. Please ask your question.

So, hi. Maybe a question for Gerard as well. Looks like a pretty significant unwind of working capital, Gerard. Can you just perhaps run through the breakdown there, please?

Sure, Paul. I mean, every year, I think there's a slide in the presentation that Sandeep went through. You can see every year for the last three and a bit years, we've had the first half year being less cash-generative than the second half. And, typically, that's because the shutdown activity is more prominent – plant shutdown activity is more prominent in the first half than the second half.

So, the changes that occurred over the year were something, I think, like $56 million of receivables were reduced, so that's $56 million inflow, and I think payables were higher by around $90 million as a consequence. So, that's like $140 million delta there.

Okay. Great. And just maybe to point on Cadia a bit, I just want to be really clear. You're definitely looking to take the plant to 30 million tonnes. That's I'll take it in today's announcement the $10 million of CapEx that's locked in, you're heading there.

And then, simultaneously, there is a prefeasibility study underway on 35-million-tonne plant expansion and locking down, I guess, the next phase of mine planning from a mining side as well. Just a bit unsure as to the sort of the nature of dual feasibility studies that are ongoing. Is that correct, Sandeep?

Almost. You're absolutely right on the 30 million. We are going to get there by the end of this financial year with the $10 million of debottlenecking CapEx is the best way to think about it. But our processing study and mining study isn't necessarily limited to 35 million tonnes. It's about the next logical step. We have started consultation in the region with a view to going to 35 million tonnes more for potential license applications, reminding that our current licenses are 32 million tonnes. But that doesn't limit the scope necessarily of where we're looking at in terms of the combined mining and processing PFS studies.

Okay. So, the discussion late last year at the investor seminars – sort of 35 million, 37 million, 32 million, 40 million – still up in the air as to what the optimal number and therefore, a solution looks like. Just after the seismic event, we came out and then 35 million seem to be kind of the headline number but you're saying that's the number you're sort of started engaging people on. But it's still is a broad potential range of outcomes.

The only thing that's changed is in light of the seismic event, we're going back and making sure that the mining PFS, which was lagging a bit behind the processing, is absolutely now down in parallel with the processing PFS. That's the only real change.

Got it. Okay. Thank you. [indiscernible]

(29:30) Does the dividend guidance capped the dividend at 30% of free cash flow in any given year or can it go higher?

Well, I think if you look at the wording [ph] Andrew have made, (29:44) choose to comment, it's targeting a dividend payout of at least 10% to 30%, and being no less than $0.15. So, I think that gives us the flexibility, should the board decide, to go above that range if it's deemed appropriate.

That's right, Sandeep. Yeah.

Thank you. Back to the operator.

Our next question today comes from the line of Peter O'Connor from Shaw and Partners. Please ask your question.

Hi, Sandeep. Can I just shift gears to SolGold and just understand the pathway to the future there knowing how the recent issue went and the anti-dilution rights you have, et cetera? But how do you get your foot on that asset in a way which is not just a minority stake? What are the steps or the pathway forward here?

Well, the first assumption you're making there is that we do want to get a majority stake and what have you. Look, let me tell you how I think about SolGold and the answer is going to be sometime in the future. We're looking at a major potential initial discovery. I mean, we don't even have a resource stake [indiscernible] (30:57) SolGold. So, this is a problem that we have identified that we want to have exposure to. And the nature of our investment is to gain exposure to that potential exploration find and eventual operation. It's also to be able to add value to that through our technical expertise and we do have a technical arrangement with SolGold, but that's a limit of our interest at this stage. I mean, these projects are very, very long-dated and I think we need to keep perspective on it as we go forward. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. It sounds like we don't actually have any more calls. I'd like to thank everybody for attending today's call. And that's the end. Thank you.